i-C5V6Yci9nHxzFqSNwx72GE	Mr President, I would like to We are in a serious security policy situation. Russia's increasing confrontative rhetoric and military activities, both visible and hidden, are unacceptable. The escalation of Russian military presence at Ukraine's border and the Russian demands for security guarantees threaten the core of the European security regime. The European security regime is non-negotiable. To stand up for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine is necessary for the security of Europe as a whole. Ukraine, like Sweden, has the right to make its own security policy choices. It is not up to Russia to dictate these by threats and violence. The rules of international law on the sovereignty and political independence of states form part of the European security regime. The way forward to reduce tensions is continued dialogue and diplomacy, but at the same time we must prepare for Russia to choose a different path. Mr President, I would like to The right to make your own security policy choices is the key to our security. The government does not intend to apply for NATO membership. The security policy line is solid. Our military freedom of alliance serves us well and has contributed to stability and security in northern Europe. We combine this with a two-legged defence policy: strengthening national capabilities and deepening international defence cooperation. Therein, cooperation with Finland takes on a special position. Since 2014, we have built up a functioning defence policy security network and concluded some thirty agreements and about 20 cooperation agreements, not least with our Nordic and Baltic neighbours. We are building military capabilities both with individual countries and with NATO. And we are building a credible national defence capability through the biggest investment in Swedish defence since the 1950s. Sweden will not remain passive if a disaster or an attack strikes another EU country or a Nordic country. We expect these countries to act in the same way if Sweden is affected. An armed attack on Sweden cannot be ruled out. We should therefore be able to provide and receive support, both civilian and military. But it is we who decide with whom we cooperate and what this cooperation looks like – in peacetime, in crisis and in war. Sweden's foreign and security policy is based on cohesion in the EU and increased cooperation on a broad front – in the Nordic region, in the Baltic Sea region, through the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, the OSSE, and through enhanced partnership with NATO. The UN and international law remain a cornerstone of Swedish foreign policy. A strong transatlantic link is essential for Europe's security. Mr President, I would like to We have several security policy tools to deal with the deteriorating security situation in Europe. The OSSE is an important tool. We have just finished a Swedish Presidency in which Sweden made a mark that will last. We have strengthened the platform for dialogue. The need for dialogue is greater than ever since the end of the Cold War. This was clear at the Stockholm Council of Ministers, where nearly 50 foreign ministers held political talks and took decisions. We have strengthened the platform for conflict resolution. As President, we focused on conflict resolution in Ukraine, Moldova, Georgia and the Southern Caucasus. Meetings with civil society are always a priority and was also a priority under the OSCE Presidency. In Russia, the human rights situation has deteriorated. An increasingly repressive society has made it impossible for human rights defenders to carry out their important work. The shutdown of the Memorial organization is one of many shocking examples. In Belarus, we have seen the regime cynically using migrants for political purposes. Belarus must release all political prisoners and hold democratic elections. As Chairman, Sweden has also worked to ensure that Russian aggression against Ukraine and the Russian illegal annexation of Crimea were held high on the OSCE agenda. It is almost eight years since then, and over 14 000 people have lost their lives. Just because time passes, this illegal behaviour does not become more acceptable. We are now continuing our work as a member of the OSCE Presidency troika. Mr President, I would like to We are living in the midst of an accelerating climate and environmental crisis. Sweden should be the leader in climate change. But the global level of ambition is far from sufficient. Climate change and environmental degradation contribute to increased tensions and conflicts. Climate has a crucial role to play in our security. We must take the climate-related security threats very seriously. During our OSCE Presidency, a decision could be taken on the challenges posed by climate change. Thanks to Sweden's driving role, the OSSE has now been given a mandate to work preventively with the impact of climate change on security in the region. We're going to appoint an ambassador for climate and security. We will build new expertise in our international crisis management efforts, in peace building, in international development cooperation and in climate diplomacy. We will continue to strengthen the Swedish-initiated UN mechanism for climate and security. In just a few years, the mechanism has become a pillar of countries and regions in climate-related conflicts. In June, Sweden will host Stockholm+50, an international UN meeting that contributes to a fair and global green transition. Mr President, I would like to The Covid-19 pandemic has made the implementation of Agenda 2030 difficult. The global progress that has been made in recent years, such as improvements in the health and equality of mothers and children, has been partly blurred. This is the first time in 20 years that hunger and poverty have increased in the world. Agenda 2030 is our roadmap to reverse the trend. Mr President, I would like to The importance of a better global health system and the recognition that the consequences of the pandemic have hit women and children hardest have been painful lessons. The government early pushed the issue of a more equal distribution of vaccines against covid-19. Global vaccine co-operation Covax has now delivered 1 billion doses to 144 countries around the world. Sweden is the world's largest contributor to Covax seen per inhabitant and fifth largest donor in total. Efforts to strengthen global health security, not least in the fight against antibiotic resistance and the development of a powerful new global pandemic treaty, are a priority. The government will therefore appoint an ambassador at the Ministry of Social Affairs to work on global health security. Mr President, I would like to The EU is Sweden's most important foreign and security policy arena. At a time of uncertainty, the Member States are stronger together. We will continue to strengthen our close ties with our partners in the EU, as well as with our Nordic and Baltic neighbours. Work on the vision of the Nordic region as the most sustainable, integrated and digitised region will be strengthened. The government wants to see a strong Europe that can take greater responsibility for its own security, but at the same time we underline that this is not in contradiction with openness in the development of partnerships or a strong transatlantic link. Next year, Sweden will be the EU's presidency for the third time. The EU Minister recently outlined how the work on government priorities should be carried out in the EU. It is an ambitious agenda. The situation of refugees and migrants requires our continued attention. The EU must have a common asylum system that is legally secure, humane and sustainable, with everyone taking their responsibilities. We have continued to work closely with the United Kingdom, not least in security and defence policy, trade and education and research. The United States is back on the global stage as a constructive partner. It is pleasing to continue and deepen cooperation, not least in the areas of climate, democracy and gender equality. Cooperation with the US is central to security and defence policy, trade and technology. Mr President, I would like to Feminist foreign policy continues to grow. Sweden was first. It is gratifying that Germany, too, is now falling behind, as are Canada, France, Luxembourg, Spain and Mexico, which are also in favour of a feminist foreign policy. The work should be sharpened, not least given the counter-reaction to gender equality that we have seen in the wake of the pandemic. Violence against women and girls has increased worldwide. With the pandemic, the climate crisis and the loss of democratic space, we are now risking a global recession for gender equality. A feminist foreign policy is needed more than ever. We will develop a new national action plan for women, peace and security, and we will also develop a new global gender equality strategy for aid in 2022. In the UN Generation Equality Forum, Sweden is leading the work for women's economic empowerment. Mr President, I would like to For the fifth year in a row, we see that the number of countries moving in an authoritarian direction is more than those moving in a democratic direction. Military coups in Myanmar, Sudan, Mali and Burkina Faso, Taliban takeover in Afghanistan, worsening the situation in Belarus and the conflict in Ethiopia are dramatic examples of the decline of democracy. During the democracy summit hosted by US President Joe Biden, Sweden was an active partner in several activities where both the Prime Minister and I participated. The Swedish message was that the emergence of right-wing populist and nationalist forces undermines democracy and that human rights, the principles of the rule of law and women's political and economic participation are central to democracy. The rights of LGBTI persons shall be fully respected internationally. This year Sweden is chairman of the International Alliance for the Remembrance of the Holocaust, where we will continue to promote the remembrance of the Holocaust and fight with all our might against anti-Semitism and anti-Ziganism. More attention needs to be paid to the lack of democracy and human rights in the world of work. Workers are harassed, lost their jobs and even killed for their trade union commitment. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs will work more with these issues, including within the Global Deal. Mr President, I would like to The nuclear threat is a reality and we must continue our efforts in the field of disarmament. The goal is a world free from nuclear weapons. Within the framework of the so-called Stockholm initiative, we have proposed 22 specific steps that represent a constructive and pragmatic approach to nuclear disarmament. More and more countries are now supporting Sweden's proposals. We have actively turned to the five nuclear weapons states. Fortunately, the Stockholm initiative's message about the need for steps forward has been heeded. On 3 January, the five of them confirmed in a joint statement, among other things, that a nuclear war can never be won and must never be fought. Mr President, I would like to Humanitarian needs in the world have increased apace. Inequality is growing. Nearly 275 million people need humanitarian aid to survive. 45 million women, men and children in 43 countries are on the verge of starvation. Sweden's development policy must maintain a high level of ambition in terms of both scope and quality. Swedish aid should continue to correspond to 1 per cent of gross national income. Swedish aid will be used to reduce poverty and injustice in the world. It is about solidarity but also about a conviction that a better world gives a safer Sweden. Sweden will step up efforts to prevent climate change and its effects on food security and the environment and promote sustainable living conditions. In 2022, we will increase climate aid by another SEK 1 billion. When the anti-democratic forces gain ground, Swedish aid should be a counterforce with a continued high level of ambition. More democratic societies make the world better and increase security in Sweden. Mr President, I would like to I was the first Swedish Foreign Minister to visit Israel in ten years. That the government has improved relations is important. At the same time, our recognition of Palestine remains firm. On the basis of international law, Sweden continues to work for a two-state solution. In Mali, terrorist groups have greatly increased their activities. The suspension of the democratic elections and cooperation with Russian mercenaries by the Malian junta is unacceptable. Sweden's military and civilian engagement in Mali aims to promote security, counter terrorism and build sustainable development with respect for human rights. The war in Yemen is about the eighth year. It is one of the world's largest humanitarian disasters. Sweden will continue to pursue the need for peace negotiations through the UN. A prerequisite for lasting peace is the inclusion of women in the peace negotiations. Syria is a deeply damaged country. The conflict is in its twelfth year. Millions of people live in urgent humanitarian need. Sweden is and will continue to be one of the largest humanitarian donors. The conflict and the humanitarian disaster in Ethiopia undermine the stability of the Horn of Africa. Ethiopia is on its way to a famine. Thousands have been killed in the conflict, including 24 UN aid workers. We continue to work through the EU and the UN for an immediate ceasefire. Mr President, I would like to As the Prime Minister has said, we will turn every stone to fight segregation and crack the gangs. The underlying criminal structures are, in principle, always cross-border. With the digitisation of our societies comes increased international cybercrime. Shoots and blasts, often with smuggled weapons, continue to be a significant security challenge. All too often, these young men are tools for heavier criminal actors operating internationally. A year and a half ago, I appointed an envoy against organised crime to work on how the foreign administration can best support the law enforcement authorities. A number of embassies have been assigned special tasks to work against organised crime. At the next stage, several embassies will be equipped to better contribute to crime prevention. Cooperation between law enforcement authorities and embassies will be strengthened. Mr President, I would like to We shall stand up for free trade, especially in times when the winds of protectionism are increasing. The multilateral trading system, based on the World Trade Organisation, is fundamental to growth and prosperity. Threats to the rules-based trading system are a threat to Sweden's economy and our trade relations. While cooperation is important, not least in trade, we act against security-threatening activities directed against Sweden and Swedish companies. Sweden and the EU need to work even closer together to ensure and develop global trade with a focus on the green transformation and a fossil-free society. Our trade policy will contribute to achieving the objectives of the Paris Agreement and Agenda 2030. Through Sweden's participation in the Expo 2020 World Exhibition, we make visible how Swedish solutions enable a transition to a green and sustainable direction. China's international importance also affects Sweden and Swedish interests, not least in trade. We are conducting a straight dialogue with China where human rights and freedom of expression are central. Sweden and the EU see global challenges that we can only deal with together with China, such as climate, health and a fair free trade regime. Mr President, I would like to Last year, Sweden evacuated about 2 000 people from Afghanistan. During August, the situation at Kabul airport was at times chaotic and very difficult. When a bomb exploded next to the airport, Swedish armed forces personnel were only seconds away. On behalf of the government, I would like to thank everyone in the foreign administration, the authorities and the municipalities who worked day and night with the evacuation operation. I am proud of the overall effort made by Sweden. Despite the gloomy global darkness that many certainly feel right now and the need for our joint efforts can feel endless, I would like to conclude by saying: there is hope for change, through hard work and through clear lines. Or as Archbishop Desmond Tutu said: The hope is to be able to see the light after all darkness.
i-WWgfyooZ4Hfi5BkWGWichn	Mr President, I would like to A government should take the lead, make proposals to the Riksdag and seek its approval. In this security crisis, Sweden must have a government that understands to work with both hands. We need to step up defence, both immediately to raise our own preparedness and in the long term because Russia will be a threat to Europe's peace for a long time. We also need to upgrade our security policy. An alliance freedom that has no security policy purpose is only dangerous. The opposition has in various ways pushed the government before it, not least with regard to the issue of a defence preparation. I have a number of questions for the Foreign Minister. The defence committee will resume its work today in the afternoon. Firstly, are the Social Democrats prepared to also contribute to more new money, or do they only intend to redistribute when it comes to Swedish defence? The Minister for Foreign Affairs shares the view that it is important to take action here and now? Secondly, is the government prepared to review the security policy analysis, given the very serious challenge now taking place in Europe against our security regime and given the Russian action? Thirdly, is it prepared to give missions to the relevant defence authorities to investigate whether there is any defence equipment that could be used for Ukraine? Fourthly, is there any intention to enter into serious talks with the five parties that form a majority in the Swedish Parliament behind the idea of a Swedish NATO option? These, Mr President, are some questions that the Minister for Foreign Affairs should answer.
i-752f4Sc1H8F6RGGhXsp1BH	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mr Wallmark for the questions. As far as the Defence Committee is concerned, it is exactly as Hans Wallmark says, namely that they are meeting today. Let them meet, discuss the issues and see what they come up with. With regard to the security policy analysis, I would like to remind you that there is an increase in what is happening now in the total defence bill. It's just to read inside. It says that what is happening now can happen, and it has taken heights for that. When it comes to preparing and giving missions that can be used for the supply of military material to Ukraine, I would like to say a few things. Ukraine can be supported in many different ways. There are many countries that do not provide much aid to Ukraine's resilience and to society. Sweden is the second largest of all. We give a quarter of a billion a year to Ukraine. We have launched a resistance fund for Ukraine together with the United States, the United Kingdom and Switzerland where we give over 50 million just from us. Then the other countries also give money. We also provide humanitarian aid. When it comes to requests for possible Swedish support, you have to take in many things, including what the Swedish Armed Forces itself do. Just look at the countries around us to see that the issue is very complex. It is not the case that we should use Ukraine to hand over material that we do not need ourselves, which has happened in different cases. In the case of arms exports, it must go the normal way via the ISP. There is no ban on having arms exports to Ukraine, but it must go the normal way. I will come back again because it was another question.
i-6GZv6EKHrCUmBuA3yHE2h1	Mr President, I would like to Yes, it was another question, and it is not so small because it is about a Swedish NATO option. We look forward to the answer. Mr President, I would like to I have also chosen blue yellow colors today. It is not only to honour Sweden, it is also to honour Ukraine. Today is a day of unity in Ukraine. It is extremely important that Sweden stands up for Ukraine in many ways. I have nothing against the list by the Foreign Minister, but I think we can complement it. That is why a proposal from my party, among other things, is to investigate whether there is something that can be preserved without risking our own Swedish defence capabilities. I would also like to supplement my question battery. The Russian ambassador spoke threateningly in Aftonbladet a few days ago. He said in practice, from a Russian point of view, that it is not possible for Sweden and Finland to become NATO members. It is extremely important to mark with both Swedish and Cyrillic letters against the kind of threats that are pronounced against our country.
i-9sMQFmeY9jyX6dqu9FujqQ	Mr President, I would like to As far as the NATO option is concerned, we believe that it makes no difference at all. On the contrary! If we were to start changing our security policy line, unlike Finland, for example, which is solid – please note that Finland does not use the word NATO option in written form – we would start a lot of speculation and question marks about where our security policy is going. It would be bad for Sweden's security and for our ability to keep Sweden peaceful in a low-voltage area. That is the main reason why we do not want to change. We want stability, and we don't want a lot of adventure, especially now. When it comes to standing up for Ukraine, I fully share Mr Wallmark's view on this. Unlike many other countries, since the 1990s Sweden has stood up for Ukraine. I myself have visited the contact line three times in a year and a half.
i-6bbmARJioYkC1pwSS3nFTU	Mr President, I would like to Ukraine, as we all know, faces dramatic days in the shadow of the Russian bear, which roars from almost all directions. The will to defend is, what you can judge, great. The ability to resist the Russian war machine is better than before. But it is still a disadvantage for Ukraine. On the question of arms exports, the Minister for Foreign Affairs has argued that there are strong rules against arms exports, which means that exports are out of the question for us. However, the statement also gives the impression that the current regulatory framework does not allow Sweden to export war material to Ukraine. Now it was said just now that it is of course possible but should be done in normal order. At the same time, however, an interpretation of the acquis needs to be clarified. The current regulatory framework emphasises that an overall assessment should be made taking into account several factors when exporting armaments, such as the democratic status of the receiving country and Swedish foreign and security policy interests. Exports to Ukraine should, in principle, only be impossible if there are UN sanctions, and this does not, of course, in relation to Ukraine. Several states have taken a major responsibility in our neighbourhood, not least the United Kingdom. Denmark has announced that it is open to this. The question then arises as to what the Minister has meant by his statements that the rules on arms exports would make such a thing impossible for Ukraine at present. I would like to ask the same question as my colleague Wallmark did, namely whether it is prepared to entrust the Armed Forces and the defence industry with an inventory of which strategic products could be scaled up and exported in this respect. It is political and military aid that Ukraine very much wants, demands and needs.
i-JuqnLSsqnm6MAg1FLxymJ5	Mr President, I would like to I do not know what words to use against the Swedish Democrats and Aron Emilsson. Yesterday, the EU voted in favour of urgent financial support for Ukraine. The money has been earmarked to strengthen the country's resilience to Russia. All Swedish parliamentarians voted in favour of financial support – except for three Swedish democratic parliamentarians. The SD voted against in the European Parliament for the EU Association Agreement with Ukraine. SD has had several connections to Russia. We know SD can't choose between Macron and Putin. To come here and say in Parliament's speaker's chair that you are Ukraine's best friend. There is no word but hypocrisy.
i-4RV23BRT2QqS9PjoJqjSrA	Mr President, I would like to I don't know which end to start. It's so amazing. The Swedish democrats have a stable and credible basis for criticism of Russia and of Russian aggression. I have looked at this more closely because I have seen this type of social democratic and also centre party disinformation in the past. I think it is important to be careful about facts and source criticism in this regard. We have called for the full use of the EU Peace Facility to support Ukraine with rigorous and significant military support. We have supported a large part of the financial appropriations and assistance given to Ukraine for several years. In this case, I understand that parliamentarians may have to abstain when the committee in question has not been able to prepare the matter properly, because there are also difficulties and problems in the Ukrainian economy. But we are in favour of a stop for Nord Stream 2. We believe that Russian aggression should be followed by extremely harsh sanctions, where we think the government could be more active. We have also been early and clear in the Riksdag by opening up questions about Swedish arms exports to Ukraine. This should contradict the Minister's accusations.
i-L2gDw21trTMawL14G9SQvf	Madam President, I would like I am simply stating what happened yesterday in the European Parliament. I think that shows how the Swedish Democrats view this. The support we are giving to Ukraine is very strong. It is great; it is one of the greatest support we give in the world. As regards the regulatory framework for Swedish arms exports, I repeat that there is no ban on arms exports to Ukraine. But it must go through our normal export rules, which are well established in Parliament.
i-L65pSPofMdhEpLWabsizMo	Madam President, I would like There are elements in the foreign declaration that we obviously agree with – free trade, the demands to release political prisoners in Belarus and gender equality, for example. But, Madam President, I read the following in the 2002 Government Declaration: The agreement reached on Sweden's security policy stance is solid. The reform of total defence continues. That's what it sounded like. I read the following in the Government Declaration of 2014:中 Swedish military alliance freedom still serves our country well. It creates a good basis for active responsibility for both our own and others' safety. Sweden shall not seek membership of NATO. ..................................................... Where was the 2002 agreement? And where is the 2002 agreement, or any new government agreement, in the foreign policy declaration that we can now read about the security policy line? I'm curious to hear that from the Secretary of State. Today Russia is threatening an independent country, Ukraine. This is contrary to the European security regime itself, and it should basically lead to sanctions from Sweden. Will there be such sanctions, and will we then also be prepared to support Ukraine with military defence equipment?
i-QvKpDQVoM8Q2oBLevKU3jD	Madam President, I would like I thank Kerstin Lundgren for the questions. With regard to the security policy line over the last 20 years, and also in the past, we have said that the military freedom of alliance remains intact. It serves us well, but it will be combined with a strong defence and with security to be built together with others, with the thirty different collaborations and twenty concrete agreements that we have. It's solid on the government's side. As far as the issue of defence equipment for Ukraine is concerned, as I have said, there are many issues. It's about what we ourselves need to build our own defense right now. It is not a question of looking in the barns to see if we can find any exit material that we can send to Ukraine, as has unfortunately happened on various occasions. What we can do best is to strengthen Ukraine's resilience. We do this best by continuing with aid, which is the second largest of all with a quarter of a billion a year, and by building up resilient training courses. We are now providing support to resist cyber and hybrid attacks and to strengthen reforms and Ukraine's economy, which is also what Ukraine is asking for. I would also like to say that unlike countries such as the United States, the United Kingdom, Canada and so on, Sweden remains in the mission that monitors the contact line despite the fact that it is now a very serious situation and dangerous for the monitors. This weekend we have also had a meeting to see how we can increase the opportunities to contribute to this mission. It's just as important.
i-ENkgKbsCdaqtdW2SW1tQQx	Madam President, I would like I hear the Secretary of State say the line is solid. But, Madam President, I read from the 2002 Government Declaration. It was a Social Democratic government that settled at the time. Anna Lindh wrote in her foreign declaration that it was a deal with the Moderates, the Center Party and the Christian Democrats. It was the one that was referred to in what I read. The new one that came in autumn 2014, what agreement was behind it? Was there a broad agreement? Was there a discussion or dialogue, or was it a new formulation? The Minister for Foreign Affairs must answer that question.
i-L2YjAt38GP9WDcMqCSkuiD	Madam President, I would like No, we do not believe that this is a new line. On the other hand, it is possible to formulate the freedom of military alliance as being firm, that it has served us well, that we have had it for many years. That does not mean that we are changing military alliance freedom. It is solid, linked to a strong defence and collaboration with others. I do not see that we have made any change in that line.
i-LTVmhhMeisJQWcc1Yw28XH	Madam President, I would like One of the things that the Foreign Minister did not mention was that the situation of democracy and the opposition in Turkey has deteriorated for several years in a row under President Erdo中an's rule. Right now, trials are under way against 108 leading representatives of the opposition party HDP. At the same time, the Turkish Prosecutor General has initiated a process of disbanding the party. In addition, thousands of party members are in prison for their political commitment. The criticism of the world – rightful to do so – against the trial of philanthropist and activist Osman Kavala almost led Erdo中an to expel the ambassadors of Sweden and other countries. In addition, a number of Swedes have recently been terror-listed by Turkey, completely contrary to international conventions. Only at the beginning of February this year, the Turkish military carried out air attacks on Kurdish parts of northern Iraq and Syria. Bombs fell on civilians and refugee camps in an already war-torn area where Kurdish groups fought against the IS terror group. This is happening in a situation where social divides are increasing more and more rapidly because Erdo中an has driven the Turkish economy to the bottom in order to benefit a rich and powerful elite at the expense of ordinary Turks. Turkey is a candidate country for the EU, although the negotiations have long been very, very slow. However, both pre-accession aid and the shameful refugee agreement between the EU and Turkey provide Turkey with both political benefits and billions in money from the EU. The Left Party believes that the actions of the Erdo中an regime must have clearer consequences than they are today. That is why, in the Left Party today, we are tightening our position from freezing the membership negotiations with Turkey to suspending them, if Turkey either dissolves HDP or condemns other leading representatives in mass trials. We are prepared, together with other parties, to act in the Riksdag during the spring in order to tighten up Swedish policy. What does the government think? Can Turkey still count as a democracy? Does the Foreign Minister condemn Turkey's bombings in Iraq and Syria?
i-FdhPT9uYDWQuTbt8nWCkhd	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Håkan Svenneling, for the question! This is an issue that we have discussed in Parliament on a number of occasions. We share a common view of the negative developments in Turkey in respect for human rights, democracy and the rule of law. The situation of pro-Kurdian HDP and other opposition politicians is particularly serious, including from the CP, trade union representatives and women activists, as well as from the repression of religious minorities. On the other hand, we do not think that negotiations on EU membership should be completely interrupted. They are frozen now; there has been no negotiations with Turkey for a long time. It is also noted in the recent Council conclusions that negotiations on EU membership are not currently under way. This is also supported by the government. It is also, I think, interesting to see how public opinion has changed in Turkey. Our sister parties are making considerable progress, and they are appealing to us not to completely interrupt and end the opportunities for Turkey to join. It would be ironic if it happened right now. As far as the refugee agreement is concerned, we fully support it. I have also said several times that the 4 million refugees in Turkey are well treated by Turkey. I've spoken to the head of the UNHCR many times myself. They are treated better than in many other places in the world. It is also a common interest. We cannot demand that Turkey take care of them and then not pay.
i-AvMu6CjP3NGES2ZuiwrRai	Madam President, I would like The Left Party has been pushing for a long time to tighten up Sweden's Turkey policy. On our initiative and on the initiative of the Liberals, we stopped arms exports in unity here in Parliament, shortly after Ann Linde took office. The government often acts correctly and correctly against Erdo中an's regime, but there is always too much EU adaptation, which in practice weakens our Swedish position. The Secretary of State is talking about the negotiations being frozen. But the money from the EU is ticking into Turkey's account every month. The possible dissolution of the opposition party HDP or the whole party leadership being judged in mass trials means a new situation. In a new situation, with a serious restriction on the shrinking democracy, Sweden must act. I therefore think it is time to tighten up Sweden's position even more in order to put clear pressure on Erdo中an not to completely shut down democracy. This is what I think can happen as the opposition now moves forward. I therefore wonder when the government intends to tighten up its policy on Turkey.
i-VJTH93J6ZvMMRF2fJH9A8U	Madam President, I would like Our Turkey policy is very strong in terms of our condemnation of military attacks, human rights violations and, for example, the fall of Osman Kavala. With regard to the refugee agreement, I would just like to say, so that there is no misunderstanding, that the money from the European Union does not go to Turkey but to the costs of health, education and work for the 4 million refugees who are there, who would otherwise have come to the European Union. It is reasonable that we pay for them, because they cannot go back to war Syria. Syrian refugees are mainly there. There is much to say about the policy against Turkey. What is important is that we stand up for human rights, democracy and journalists and the right of human rights defenders to continue working in Turkey.
i-9sDVdMVTbHReFQ6d7mkugk	Madam President, I would like The Russian aggression in our neighbourhood raises important questions about the government's security policy line at its head. For the first time in the post-war period, it has been stated from Moscow that Sweden and Finland are regarded as part of what is called a Russian sphere of influence. What this can mean is horrifyingly clear from the interview with Russia's Stockholm Ambassador that Hans Wallmark recently mentioned. According to the ambassador, Sweden cannot become a member of NATO because Russia is calling for an end to new member states in the Western Defence Alliance. Madam President, I would like This is, in substance, preposterous and in form unwitting. If the ambassador does not accept that Sweden's relationship with NATO is determined by Sweden, he should pack his bags and return to Moscow. Madam President, I would like An individual ambassador who does not understand what national independence and sovereignty mean can of course be ignored. In this case, it would be unwise. The bizarre view he expresses is shared by Putin and his loved ones. Shamelessly, they claim that Sweden is part of the Russian sphere of influence. I would like to ask: how does Ann Linde view this? What does it say about the government's policy of security that there is even room for such Russian delusions?
i-EiS29mwsD4EW8SKoC7cZQw	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lars Adaktusson, for the question! Of course, Sweden itself decides its security policy line, as the Russian ambassador is fully aware. There is no other opinion of the government. Then, of course, we talk constantly to the various ambassadors, including those who express views that are not at all correct in relation to the facts, and share with them what applies. In Sweden, we determine our own foreign policy line, and there is no reason for ambassadors to question that.
i-6q5e3C6Gpf5B9QyqqpQV2H	Madam President, I would like If the security policy line is as clear and clear as the Minister for Foreign Affairs says, how can Moscow count Sweden into a Russian sphere of influence? Sweden counts there, but not Norway and not Denmark – they are members of NATO. The fact that there is room for Russia to place Sweden in the sphere of influence increases the uncertainty surrounding the government's security policy line, a line that does not even have support here in Parliament. Through a NATO option, a clear majority wishes to clarify the Swedish line. The government has chosen to ignore this, which is directly irresponsible – especially, Ann Linde, when we are in the most serious security policy crisis in decades.
i-Gnx9ofLtEEs9HcR7Gr5Xfq	Madam President, I would like Directly irresponsible, it would be to change our security policy line right now. Like Finland, we safeguard stability. We safeguard predictability, and we safeguard that everyone should know what we are saying and what we are doing. We agree with the Finnish Government on this. As you know, we work very closely with Finland. They have had their so-called NATO option for over 25 years and intend to retain it. We still have our way of expressing ourselves. It is about stability, predictability and the opportunity for everyone to know what line Sweden, and for that matter Finland, has. That is a responsible security policy line.
i-Lxs3XCDqXMwdMKRkW8FPwb	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for the foreign declaration. I really have two questions. The first question concerns support for Ukraine. On the Liberal side, we believe that Ukraine's cause is also ours. What is happening in Ukraine, the threats to Ukraine and the Russian aggression are aggression against all countries covered by the European security regime. This means that a threat to Ukraine is also a threat to Sweden. As we interpret the legislation, it should also be possible to export arms to Ukraine. It would be a good idea, if Ukraine wants this, simply because Ukraine's business is ours. It is in line with Swedish foreign policy to defend and protect the European security regime. My first question is therefore whether the Minister for Foreign Affairs is prepared to try this. We have heard that, according to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, there is uncertainty as to whether this would be possible, if Ukraine were to request this type of material. But the question is whether the Minister is prepared to try this. My second question concerns Taiwan and China. Taiwan was not mentioned at all in the foreign declaration. China was mentioned with a series, which is very little given that it is the world's most dangerous dictatorship in the sense that it both commits crimes of international law and agitates against the whole world. One thing China does is regularly fly combat flights into Taiwan's airspace. On a regular basis, China carries out provocations against Taiwan in this way. My question is whether the government condemns the provocations that China commits against Taiwan in the form of these flights.
i-5x1zzoZyNCSeCCBGxuGAH1	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Joar Forssell, for the questions! When it comes to requests for possible Swedish support in the form of military equipment, we need to look, among other things, at the strict export control framework that we have. This regulates Swedish arms exports. It is well known to the Riksdag. It has broad political support and is well-mannered in the Riksdag. The task of examining individual export issues lies with the ISP licensing authority. Sweden has not exported any war material to Ukraine in modern times. I note that these are strict rules, but that does not mean that I am in any way establishing that there is an absolute ban on exports in the case of Ukraine. However, Sweden does not apply a system in which the beneficiary countries can or cannot be approved in advance. Provided that there is no ban on exports, for example in the form of an international arms embargo, each export shall be subject to an overall assessment by the ISP. This is what applies to arms exports. Then I would also like to say that the Swedish Armed Forces also have views on this, because we are currently in the process of arming our own defences. That is why I think that the best thing for us is to continue with our exceptionally high level of support for Ukraine. Among other things, we have support for the defence through training. We participate in Operation Unifier, in the SMM and in other ways to strengthen the defence sector, as well as by providing resilience support. It's the best thing for us, rather than getting into this now. That's how we look at it. Now I didn't have time for the Taiwan issue. I'll have to take that in the next line.
i-TitD4sJTBsQXP1ysoYoqrd	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for your answer. I would like to make it clear that the Liberals think, of course, that all the efforts we make to strengthen the defence are positive, but we also think that the defence of Ukraine basically means a defence of Sweden, because it is about defending the European security regime. We therefore believe that it should be possible to export arms to Ukraine. I understand the technical objections that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has, but it would still be good to have a statement that supports this. Then I come to the question of Taiwan. As I tried to say earlier, China regularly operates flights to Taiwan. It acts very aggressively and provocatively and tries to restrict Taiwan's right to determine its own policy and its own territory. I wonder if the government condemns China's aggression against Taiwan.
i-7vAp8TEc6NJvCpEFAEXdpL	Madam President, I would like It is indeed regrettable that China is trying to limit Taiwan's room for manoeuvre. Our starting point for the government is that we should work for the widest possible and comprehensive participation of Taiwan in the interests of both Sweden and the EU. We are working for Taiwan to be able to participate in international organisations and so on. But like the other EU countries, Sweden supports the so-called one-China policy. We therefore see no possibility of recognising Taiwan as a state.
i-PHpYYLi3UEHZRd85wjQe4y	Madam President, I would like Today, of course, much of the debate will be about the serious security policy situation. That, of course, is something that I will also touch on in my speech. But I thought I'd take this opportunity to ask the Foreign Minister another question. That is a question which I also put in writing to the Minister a few weeks ago. It is about the sudden terror classification of six Palestinian civil society organisations, which has been criticised by the UN, Amnesty International, Human Rights Watch and so on. The Minister has said in previous replies that the government will follow up on the information on which this was based. She has also stated that Sweden did not receive any prior information about the decision. I simply wonder, therefore, what kind of follow-up has taken place and how the government is following this. Perhaps the Minister can also say something more about the rapidly shrinking space for Palestinian civil society organisations in Israel.
i-4BuYMo6QrGZvc42sozf9xC	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Maria Ferm, for the question! With regard to the six terrorist-class organisations, of which Sweden and many EU countries are cooperating with two, we have requested information from Israel on the basis of which this is based. We have not received an answer to that. This means that we continue to cooperate with these organisations. This is the same line as other EU countries. If it's supposed to be terror class, we need to know what's at the root of it. We can't just trust what you say if we don't see any evidence. While we are always very careful to emphasise Israel's right to security, we are just as careful to emphasise the right of Palestinians to work in civil society organisations, to have freedom of movement and to oppose the settlement policy pursued. Not least what is currently happening in Jarrah Jarrah in East Jerusalem is unacceptable. There people would be forced to walk from house and home. I also know that in the Israeli Government, for example, the Foreign Minister's party has gone out and strongly condemned the settler violence that is taking place. That line, to hold on to international law at all times, we continue.
i-1EYuQ39EF9VcazEUgLexw	Madam President, I would like I thank the Foreign Minister for his reply. It is worrying to hear that there has been no explanation from Israel yet. But it is important to know that the line that Sweden and others have is to continue the cooperation with these organisations. There are great risks if organisations working for human rights in Palestine and Israel are facing an increasingly difficult situation. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs says, one of several things that has been worrying in the autumn and winter are proposals for more illegal settlements with further evictions as a consequence and that Israel and Palestine are moving further away from a two-state solution. Can the Minister for Foreign Affairs say anything more about how the government works to counteract this action by Israel?
i-8mAfprBXE1rg6DizZv1xw9	Madam President, I would like The aim of our work is, of course, to have a two-state solution based on international law. Since the new government took office, there have been high-level visits between ministers of the Israeli Government and ministers of the Palestinian Government. What we can do is see if there are ways we can continue to support a two-state solution. I hope that through the new relations with Israel we will be able to make the best contribution. But, of course, we continue to oppose the settlement policy and so on. It does not change just because we have a new and good relationship with Israel, which is positive.
i-2rMBFGvxQPFUQjsPvvdyHG	Madam President, I would like Today's debate is, of course, a difficult situation in terms of security policy. But let us never forget that it is always about people, about individuals. The clock is ticking. Now I look at my watch and wait ten seconds. Ten seconds is a painfully long silence here in Parliament. But for 647 million seconds, 20 1⁄2 years, Dawit Isaak has been imprisoned in Eritrea. The Swedish publisher Gui Minhai has been robbed of his freedom. Add to these Aleksej Navalnyj in Russia, Memorial historian Jurij Dimitrijev and those who protest and demand democracy and decency in Belarus and Myanmar. What's ten seconds against all days, weeks and years? Boris Nemtsov was 56 when he was murdered in Moscow. Anna Politkovskaja was 48. Brave men and women. These are dark times with the falsified elections in Belarus, the annexation of Crimea and now the massive Russian troop contraction around Ukraine. The clock is ticking. It has been almost a decade of placard politics. Now that reality is once again being reminded, action and collection are required, and collection is obtained if genuine action is shown. Madam President, I would like We see Russia moving its positions forward and setting ultimatums. It is annexation, talk of recapture, demands for Western Europe, buffer zones and spheres of interest, and threats that countries should not make their own security policy choices, such as membership of NATO. It is a complete break-up from the European peace and security regime. Last year, quite a few seconds ago, I said in the foreign policy debate that Russia, through its actions in the neighbourhood, is a destroyer, that Nord Stream 2 represents a security risk and that sanctions against the project would be part of Sweden's arsenal. The Nord Stream 2 project must therefore be included in the sanctions package the EU is now preparing for Russia. But it's not all about Russia. We also see China as challenging. The twilight over Hong Kong, the Uighurs in Xinjiang and the threat to Taiwan. Coordination takes place between Moscow and Beijing. Can the West be in place at the same time in Europe as well as the South China Sea and the Pacific Ocean? In the Indian Ocean, Iran conducts marine exercises together with China and Russia, with the Revolutionary Guard as a participant. The President of Iran wants to deepen economic cooperation with Russia and China. Iran is seeking new markets to circumvent sanctions and continue to destabilise the situation in the Middle East. The front lines of global security policy are now at Ukraine and at the Formosa Strait near Taiwan, but also at the Israel that Iran hates and threatens. Madam President, I would like In last year's debate, the Minister for Foreign Affairs said that, with our clear security policy line, our solidarity aid, our climate and environmental investments, our feminist foreign policy and a strong trade policy, we are not only securing our own country but contributing to peace, security and development and democracy globally. ..................................................... Does the Minister of Foreign Affairs think that the policies taken have made the world safer? Is Sweden a safer place today than in 2014 – or even in 2021 when the OSCE Presidency was shouldered? Unfortunately, the government's line falters most when it is needed at its best. In our neighbouring countries, Norway and Denmark, social democrats have been the driving force for NATO membership. Let Denmark set an example. There is now a shift in foreign policy, given the deteriorating situation. What Sweden needs is a realistic security policy. It is our offer from the Moderates at a change of government: a policy that does not put a party at the centre but puts Sweden's interests at the centre. When a broad parliamentary majority in December 2020 supported the idea of expressing a Swedish NATO option, the Social Democrats said no. The government has the constitutional opportunity to duck, but with what legitimacy with only 100 mandates? To the Swedish people and all foreign missions who listen: Where the government sees a closed door, we explain to the others that the key lies in our own hands and will remain there. When other parties demand that the Defense Committee be called up, given the deteriorating security situation, the decision will be made for a number of weeks. However, today the preparation must be gathered for the first time. But when requests are expressed for a security policy analysis to be made of how the harsh situation with Russia's actions affects us, the Social Democrats say no. When demands are made for efforts here and now to strengthen Swedish security, the Social Democrats say no to new resources. Instead, it opens up for reprogramming between different financial years. It does, however, happen without the consequences being accounted for by what it actually means by reductions and savings later on. Without new funds, this means that a planned regiment may be withdrawn or that one or more material projects, such as naval vessels, may not be carried out. Action and collection! It is a strength that we in our country can show assembly in difficult times, but it is based on the government being able to show action. Madam President, I would like Let us stop at three areas where the clock is really ticking. With regard to the security situation in Ukraine, clear information must be given. It goes without saying that Sweden should be ready to help when European democracy is threatened by Russian aggression. If Russia attacks Ukraine on a large scale, it is an independent, democratic nation that is being attacked and therefore our whole Europe and the security regime that has been in place for decades. On the Swedish side, we must stand up for Ukraine. The Moderates believe that we must consider the possibility of supporting military equipment, including defensive weapons. The government should therefore commission the defence authorities to carry out a rapid analysis of what Sweden can assist with. However, aid to Ukraine must not jeopardise Swedish defence capabilities. The question of what can be saved and the forms of this call for political will. It is also a question of providing support for large-scale cyber attacks. There is a need for stronger Nordic-Baltic cooperation. It is not only that which separates us that should be emphasised but also that which unites. In his government declaration, Prime Minister Magdalena Andersson said that Nordic-Baltic cooperation should be deepened. That's it. An important basis for Sweden's ability to influence the development of the EU is based on our ability to form alliances with like-minded people. If we in the Nordic countries are siblings, the three Baltic republics are our family's closest cousins. As regards Sweden's place at all relevant meeting tables, we as a country wish to sit at the table at the UN, at the table of the EU Council of Ministers, the Nordic Council and the Nordic Council of Ministers, and at the table at the OSSE and the Arctic Council, the WHO and the WTO. But the Social Democrats do not want to sit at the table that determines Swedish security: NATO. This does not make sense, and it goes against our Swedish identity, to be internationalists. As Swedes, we want to take on responsibilities and not withdraw. Eight years have now been spent promoting the interests of the Social Democrats in foreign policy. We want to put Swedish interests at the centre and gather the country around them. These are times that define us as countries and as citizens. This is where we're judged. Madam President, I would like My speaking time is up, but the time for action is up.
i-9EzEiq9fgig4EYgcwSyJF1	Madam President, I would like Mr Wallmark and I share the view that Russian aggression against Ukraine is unacceptable and that Russian demands are unacceptable. We also share the view that a strong and united EU is important in supporting Ukraine, but where the Swedish Democrats are failing. As I have explained before, only yesterday, through its parliamentarians, has voted against financial support for Ukraine. Perhaps even more serious is the fact that the EU's association agreement with Ukraine has been rejected. There are also several links with Russia, and we know that SD cannot choose between Macron and Putin. Although SD adapts to fit in with the right-wing conservative bloc and has changed its mind and now has a strict right-wing economic policy, including in terms of, for example, welfare gains, it is possible to change one's mind. The fact remains that the NATO option does not mean that everyone in that group wants to be part of NATO. The Swedish Democrats do not want to be part of NATO. These are further signs of confusion and ambiguity. How do you in the Moderates view getting along with SD, which now looks to be the largest or possibly second largest party in the Conservative Right Conservative bloc, within the framework of your continued government cooperation on security and foreign policy, without having serious consequences for Sweden?
i-7mCsvocfPpUbSmuN7URqTs	Madam President, I would like It took 1 hour and 13 minutes before we began to throw havoc in this House about the right-wing conservative bloc, which is deliberately derogatory. I think we should lift up from that debate technique and look at the subject matter. I share the view of the Foreign Minister. I intended to ask questions about what happened yesterday in the European Parliament, which the representative of the Swedish Democrats can prepare for, and I also call on the Minister for Foreign Affairs to do so. Each party has to answer for itself. I can only note that the members of my party and the Foreign Minister's party voted in favour of the package for Ukraine. It's important. But let us hear the Swedish democratic version. We have already heard a change of line between the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Swedish Democrats. The question is relevant and important and should be addressed to the party responsible, just as it is reasonable for me to ask them questions about the Left Party's policy and not to the Foreign Minister. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs says, the Swedish Democrats are one of five parties behind a Swedish NATO option. The Swedish Democrats are one of four parties opposed to a Swedish NATO membership, together with the Social Democrats. If the touch anxiety is to apply to us for the NATO option, what touch anxiety do the Social Democrats for the Swedish Democrats have when it comes to being against a Swedish NATO membership?
i-2cjHoVzKq3RE4PXZc95xgn	Madam President, I would like I think it's kind of funny that Hans Wallmark calls right-wing conservatives a mockery. I think there are many Moderates who think they are right-wing conservatives, but that is not what the question was about. The question was how it affects Sweden's foreign and security policy when building its government base on SD, which feels so different on these issues. This is what I have not received an answer to. I am prepared to ask all kinds of questions to the various parties, but this question, Hans Wallmark, concerns how you will get along with SD, when they will be the largest or second largest party in your government base, so that we have a predictable and secure foreign policy that does not have negative consequences for Sweden. That is what the question was about.
i-PBTrxbGmmP2Jtu6XSLXHi6	Madam President, I would like I am quite convinced that the Minister for Foreign Affairs does not use the term "right-conservative bloc" to flatter the Moderates. I am absolutely convinced that the purpose was something quite different. That is what I am saying: let us avoid this debate also ending up in this rather messy swamp. As far as the substance of the matter is concerned, as I said, I share the Foreign Minister's view on the need for the European Parliament to support yesterday's package to Ukraine. I am convinced that, if there is a change of government, we will be able to rid ourselves of a fully operational and manageable policy in the EU and NATO area. In the same way, I will ask the Left Party questions later in the debate about how their policy is compatible with forming a government basis for the Social Democrats, but I will save that for the Left Party. I'm not going to burden the Secretary of State with that.
i-HdvstQJzuuZ5y7wG1JD8uX	Madam President, I would like It is difficult in the Swedish Parliament to find a warmer NATO supporter than Moderate Hans Wallmark. It feels like he expresses his dream of Swedish NATO membership at least once a day. Wallmark's eagerness to approach NATO has had an impact on Sweden's security policy line. When he 14 months ago received support from the Swedish Democrats for a so-called NATO option, the urge was too great to realise his wet dream. Despite the fact that the Defence Committee, with Wallmark among others, had been sitting for three years and pondering and discussing Sweden's security policy, it took no more than a week for the Moderates and the other bourgeois parties in the right-wing conservative bloc to make Sweden's line unclear and unclear, by announcing a so-called NATO option. This line may have worked fine as long as there was no crisis in sight. Since December, however, the security policy situation has changed in the world around us, and the need for Swedish unity and clarity has become increasingly important. In this, the majority of the parliament of a NATO option shows its weakness. The second largest NATO country is Turkey, a country where democracy is now rapidly shrinking and pruning. The Moderates were under Carl Bildt's leadership a warm supporter of Turkish EU membership, but the ship has turned. Today, the Moderates believe that negotiations with Turkey should be suspended, but the NATO friend will be regardless. NATO has started more wars in the last decade, even after the collapse of the wall and the collapse of the Soviet Union. At the same time, it is not possible to get around the fact that NATO is a nuclear organisation, where nuclear war is the main threat to arms. How do the Moderates view Turkey's NATO membership? Is that a problem for the Moderates? When will the Moderates prioritise Sweden's security before the dream of joining NATO? When we raise these objections, it seems that they have no meaning to you, Hans Wallmark. NATO can cost whatever it wants – and you will.
i-PGbB8sPtS6hCD8psK4bt9d	Madam President, I would like I am quite convinced that Håkan Svenneling, when he points out that I am one of the warmest NATO supporters, wanted to flatter. He did, so thank you for that! I am not so sure, Madam President, that the expression used by the Foreign Minister, the right-wing conservative bloc, was flattery. That's what I'm saying: let's lift up at least one floor. I know Håkan Svenneling has that ability. On the substance of the matter, the NATO option, Parliament has dealt with cooperation with Finland a long time before. Then there were motions and motions for a NATO option. It was supported by four parties. We argued for it. So it is not that it has suddenly come out of a black cylinder hat, as Håkan Svenneling is trying to suggest. What has happened is that the Swedish Democrats have broadened and deepened their line. They are now taking the position that I also explained to the Foreign Minister. They stand firmly on the side of the Left Party, the Social Democrats and the Green Party by being against NATO membership. But they still have the ability to say what other NATO-sceptic parties also say in Finland, namely: we reserve the right to make that decision ourselves. I think that is a very important point. I have no problem with the Swedish Democrats supporting the idea of a Swedish NATO option. Does Håkan Svenneling have a problem with the Swedish Democrats behind the Left Party's call for us not to join NATO? Then it is just as Håkan Svenneling says that Turkey is incredibly multifaceted. There's so much to be critical of. I think the change of line that Håkan Svenneling had with the Foreign Minister confirms that.
i-NP5a2Pu3Tp6Lq5KcnJRGok	Madam President, I would like The Moderates try to profile themselves as caring for democracy as well as contributing to a safer world. But in practice, your ideological blindfolds are harder than ever. It is more important for you to prioritise rapprochement with NATO and more arms purchases over the work of democracy and for greater common security. The problem with this NATO option is that it is unclear to the outside world. It is difficult for the outside world to understand what it is that the Moderates and the parliamentary majority that they have gathered want. I think it is quite obvious to most of us that we can start any cooperation. We do not need to express an option that in future we may want to cooperate with another country or join another organisation. Nor can we say that it will always look like the present. But the problem with this NATO option is that you want NATO membership. That's what you really want. For you, this is just the step on the way there. This creates a lack of clarity in Sweden's security policy line. You have helped to create it.
i-JWNUM9NzY1bJ3usjpmiXqb	Madam President, I would like I heard nothing about the NATO opposition's collective alliance in the form of V, SD, MP and S and how Håkan Svenneling and his party thrive in that community, but it might come later. 14 months ago, five parties here in the Swedish Parliament supported a Swedish NATO option. For 14 months, the government has avoided inviting wide-ranging discussions where a common course could be chiselled based on the various proposals that exist. How do Håkan Svenneling and the Left Party relate to this? That is a rhetorical question, Madam President. But the answer is that if there is anything that five parties behind a Swedish NATO option have said, done and worked for, it is that we should talk about it. It has been rejected by a government with only 100 seats in the Swedish Parliament.
i-WcgGAXbsu4EARhK47EKBeG	Madam President, I would like It is, of course, somewhat flattering to be the centrifugal force of Swedish politics when we also debate foreign affairs in the discharges between the traditional left and right blocs. But it is a troubled time in the field of foreign policy that we are living in. Since 17 December 2021, in the field of foreign policy, we have a new reality to relate to. At that time, the Russian demand list was published, which meant that the country was making demands that would cancel the European security regime, the order that has actually been in force since the 1970s and was consolidated since the fall of the Soviet Union 30 years ago. The Russian demand is far-reaching and means that Russia clearly refuses the states of Europe to choose their own security solutions. On the basis of Russian demands, it is the United States and Russia that will negotiate Europe over Europe's heads. The seriousness of the new situation cannot be stressed enough. Moreover, on the basis of the recent internal political debate on the foreign policy situation, the importance of national cohesion externally cannot be stressed enough. It is therefore also distressing to hear both the government side and representatives of other parties focus their power and energy on an important but still a vote in yesterday's debate in the European Parliament where the Swedish democratic Members abstained. If we take a closer look at the facts, I can only say that if there is one party that has distinguished itself in its Putin-critical and Russia-critical line both in the European Parliament and in the Swedish Parliament, it is the Swedish Democrats, if we look at the harsh fact, so to speak. My colleague Charlie Weimer has written 13 resolutions, 54 amendments and 2 written questions in the spirit of Putin, imposed sanctions and Russian exclusion from the Swift payment system, voted to stop Nord Stream 2 and voted in favour of EU support to Ukraine through the European Peace Facility. I would like to recall that the only Swedish Members who voted in favour of Russian re-entry into the Council of Europe after the annexation of Crimea were the Social Democratic while all the other Swedish Members voted against it. I'm moving on. What has happened to Sweden's freedom of action, Madam President? Well, we cannot freely choose our security political alliances, seek membership of NATO or cooperate with NATO and the United States as we wish, but Russia should be able to veto this. Since the list was presented, letters have also been sent to OSSE states where Russia has expressed its wish for a different security regime. This is combined with a massive rearmament in Russia, as we all know, which has been going on for a long time and with one of the biggest exercises outside Russian territory in Belarus with about 100 000 participants. A comprehensive exercise in the Barents Sea is now being launched as a demonstration of strength to show that one can and has the ability to be active in several parts of Europe at the same time. Russian action also affected Sweden directly a few weeks ago when landing vessels were re-built into the Baltic Sea. These ships were transferred to the Black Sea, where they now form part of the continuing build-up of forces around Ukraine. Madam President, I would like At the same time as this deterioration of the security situation in Europe, it is important to take into account what is happening elsewhere in the world. I am thinking primarily of China's actions. China has, in fact, supported the Russian demand that NATO should not be extended by means of joint statements with Russia. Russia and China have had long-standing cooperation in the military field, and by 2017, these two states conducted exercises in the Baltic Sea. China, like Russia, has been mobilizing for a long time. An extensive shipbuilding programme has been put in place which has resulted in the country now having the largest fleet in terms of the number of vessels. In the field of nuclear weapons, too, China has carried out an armaments process. In Asia, China, like Russia, has territorial ambitions and does not allow its neighbours to choose their security policy solution. This is most clearly the case for Taiwan, to which China claims, which is backed by a military capability concentrated in the area around the country. China has conducted several flights around Taiwan, and there is a threat of military action by China. Madam President, I would like What we are now seeing in the world can almost be likened to a perfect storm in which, in recent years, Russia and China have greatly upgraded and supported each other in terms of the ambitions of power, the ambitions of power that come forth as a hurricane and leave an established security order in ruins. The language of power is clear and denies smaller states the possibility of ruling over their own security policy choices, if they are even to exist as free states under the world order that China and Russia are now advocating. The language of power is, of course, the most obvious in the days against Ukraine, where there is a constant risk that the country will be subjected to a new invasion of Russia. The Ukrainian people, who have since 2014 seen their country in war and received parts of it annexed by Russia, are thus again subjected to tremendous pressure, not only militarily but also psychologically. In this clearly deteriorating world situation, Sweden's voice must be clear. It is now and in the future that the declarations on Sweden's security policy line will be tested. Our vote for freedom, independence and democracy and against Russian aggression must be clear, coherent and resolute. It is therefore very unfortunate that the government has not previously invited wide-ranging talks on security policy since the Parliament issued an announcement on NATO option more than a year ago. It is also unfortunate that the government reacted so late to the Russian demands made in December 2021. The fact that it is Christmas and New Year's leave must not mean that the government takes time off from its responsibility for Sweden's security. In recent times, however, the government has been clearer, and I welcome that. I think you should give that confession. Statements by the Prime Minister have condemned Russian demands, and the importance of not calling Europe's security regime into question has been pointed out. It's wise. It also seems that the government will finally invite to consultations in the Defence Committee, and that too, of course, is positive. As far as the common sense is concerned, I claim, my Northist contract is faithful, that the Nordic collaboration is elementary. We share geographical, cultural and linguistic proximity as well as social systems and a range of cooperation structures, not least in the area of security. The Nordic governments have also declared that the Nordic region will be the most integrated and sustainable region in the world. After a migration crisis in 2015 and years of coronapandemia, where Sweden in both cases adopted its own strategy, we are far from such a reality. It would therefore be interesting to hear the Minister for Foreign Affairs comment on whether it intends to promote the implementation of the crisis preparedness cooperation that we parliamentarians across the Nordic region have called for to be launched in our countries and whether governments are calibrating a concerted approach and approach towards Russia's aggression and intervention in Ukraine. Russia is now launching a comprehensive exercise in the Barents Sea and has issued the largest warning zone ever in the Norwegian part of the Barents Sea. The Arctic is ours, and the Arctic is the security of the Nordic states. This requires Nordic collection.
i-W2WkS7DJ1MYW327QkPkfxU	Madam President, I would like SD has always had a watch love for the current Hungarian government, led by Viktor Orbán. The government, for its part, is very concerned about the negative developments in Hungary in respect of the principles of the rule of law. Today this morning, at 9.30 a.m., there was a very positive judgment that would mean that it would be possible to stop the payment of EU money to those Member States that do not fully respect the principles of the rule of law. It should simply cost to make mistakes. This applies to Hungary and Poland, which are the ones who have tried this. I wonder whether SD will support the pressure on the Commission now to use this tool to stop payments to Hungary.
i-DFqKek1yqPRaodkxaeAKGX	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question, Minister for Foreign Affairs. I am one of those who, for a year, have led a working group within our parliamentary group dealing with freedom of expression and liberal democracy, and there we have listed a number of proposals for action to secure and strengthen this in Europe. I also know that on a number of occasions I myself have commented on developments in both Hungary and Poland when it comes to the media policy area and also the rule of law. I have not had the opportunity to look at this sharp proposal yet, but I am fully confident that my colleagues in the European Parliament will do so and assess it on the basis of what it means to fall within the competence of the European Union – and indeed of the opportunity – to do. In other cases, more bilateral measures of other kinds may be needed. However, if it is something you can say, it is extremely important that we in Sweden, but also our neighbours, stand as a role model for how media principles, rule of law and democracy can develop and thrive. We shall do so in all our discussions and consultations with the other European countries. These are, I suspect, questions we will have to come back to.
i-427SqXFYZv98wrFswvcPW4	Madam President, I would like Representatives of most parliamentary party groups in the European Parliament have been critical of the Commission delaying and failing to act quickly enough against Poland and Hungary. I wonder if the Swedish Democrats share that criticism. We also expect the Commission to now roll up its sleeves and act against these two countries. I cannot really see what more needs to be investigated, because it is a clear ruling that has come from the Court today. I therefore still wonder whether the Swedish Democrats will put pressure on the Commission. Furthermore, I wonder whether the Swedish Democrats will support Orbán in the Hungarian elections on 3 April this year.
i-Em72rvv7RFKEgzjFXZ3Zck	Madam President, I would like Generally speaking, we are friends of workshop, activity and a high pace of reform in the parts we support within the European Parliament. There should not be any lengthy bureaucratic processes unnecessarily, so I cannot imagine that if it is a proposal that we support, we want to put this in the long way. However, as questions should come to the right level, once again, this question should be addressed directly to our MEPs who have this on their table and have all the facts and evidence available on the matter. Because I don't. I think it is better for a correct and full answer to be given than for me to give an ill-considered answer to that question. I believe, however, that there is always reason to review the observance of the principles of the rule of law, and that we need to take every step in the right direction. How other European countries then prepare their elections and bring forward their campaigns is not something in which the Swedish Democrats actively participate. We have no formal, official cooperation.
i-FJ41XcKnTivMVhak9G3N9Z	Madam President, I would like I have already managed to be kind and praiseful to both the Social Democrats and the Left Party, so I will continue along that line and begin by saying something friendly also to the Swedish Democrats. I think what the Swedish Democrats are now saying is good, namely that they also want to see these broad security policy talks. I think it is important that many parties declare this so that the 100-mandate government hears it and comes to an understanding of the value of it. I would also like to say, Madam President, that we in the Moderates are defending the right of all parties to be present when the government is inviting talks with several parties. This applies not only to the Swedish Democrats, but also to the Left Party. I think it belongs to good note in democracy Sweden. I also think it was good that the Swedish Democrats did, namely to highlight how the Social Democrats in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe let Russia in. That was very unfortunate. Now comes the criticism: Can Aron Emilsson still not step out of his comfort zone and regret what the Swedish Democrats did yesterday in the European Parliament? Nevertheless, Russia is now trying in every way to undermine and threaten Ukraine, including economically. We've also seen cyber attacks. Everything is being done to destabilise, and then I think it is reasonable to assist both with Swedish funds, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs pointed out, and now also via the EU. The decision was about EUR 1.2 billion, which is almost SEK 13 billion, and Ukraine needs it. I also think it is a good thing that, for example, defensive weapons and other things can be opened up, but can Aron Emilsson, as a Swedish democrat in the Swedish Parliament, still not regret what the Swedish democrats did in the European Parliament by abstaining in the vote?
i-AW7jqwr2g36avRMwgmG9Fe	Madam President, I would like First of all, I think it is extremely relevant to start by declaring the need for targeted support. Sweden needs to assist and assist Ukraine – if we start there, based on the Swedish foreign policy debate. I personally think, of course, that many of the measures that both the European Parliament and the Swedish Government have taken over the years in terms of financial support, training support, skills provision and other mechanisms to equip both democracy and resilience in Ukraine are extremely positive. On the other hand, I am afraid to comment on whether it was right or wrong to abstain in yesterday's vote on this matter in the European Parliament. It was decided as I said yesterday, and I do not have all the facts on the table. I am also not convinced that everyone in this House has it at this stage. But if there is one thing we know, it is that you cannot just hand out blank cheques; there are problems to repair in the Ukrainian economy.
i-PGEpXs97P13XyWq1CAjVmj	Madam President, I would like I have a little reading instruction for Aron Emilsson when he examines what happened in the European Parliament yesterday. There were 598 Members who voted in favour of the support package for Ukraine. There were 53 Members who voted against and 43 who abstained, including three Swedish democrats. Those who abstained and those who voted against belong to slightly mixed groups, and some are without party groups. But it is quite a lot left – the outer edge left. I have to ask the question: Is it not that you feel a little crawling in the back that this is bad company? Once again, I fully understand that we may have to call back to Brussels and the European Parliament. But I think that the Swedish Democrats, after talking to the European Parliament, do well to regret in the Swedish Parliament that they were not on Ukraine's side in the European Parliament when Parliament voted on a support package.
i-5RnBfcDeYUYqC68T9zehSK	Madam President, I would like Of course, we need a fuller picture of this – I agree, and this is nothing that I am slow to get. However, as I understand it, there were concerns among our fellow Members, among others, that the committees in question had not been given the opportunity to prepare this issue properly. Then I think that the democratic process within the European Parliament should take its course; that is another aspect of this. A number of financial assistance packages have also been targeted in the past and know that the political system and the Ukrainian economy are not always able to deal with financial support alone, but other forms of bilaterally targeted action are also needed, whether it be arms exports, training exports or equipping in other ways. Whether it was the only lying truth to do in this way I dare not speak about, but I can well imagine that we are not in this company, as Mr Wallmark put it, with convenience.
i-6VbrWALGvEY9cCoxignP8G	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask Aron Emilsson if the Swedish Democrats see the EU as Sweden's most important foreign policy arena. I am also curious about the statement by the European Court of Justice. With regard to the resolution calling on the Commission to open infringement proceedings against Poland and Hungary, the Swedish Democrats chose to oppose this request. Of the present Swedish parliamentarians, only the Swedish Democrats were opposed to this. I therefore wonder whether the Swedish Democrats have taken a stand not to use EU money to support violations of the rule of law, freedom of expression and other things when Poland and Hungary are now clearly striking against this very thing. Madam President, I would like I am also a little curious about whether Sweden should respect the balance between the great powers. The 2018 election platform was redesigned – I don't know what democracy looks like in the Swedish Democrats, but obviously it changed quite quickly after the party leader debate. I took note of Mr Emilsson's comment that this was in order to avoid unnecessary misunderstandings. I would like to hear how that change came about, Madam President, and what it really means. What unnecessary misunderstandings were to be avoided?
i-CtwT4hoBhhwSDisE8zYYqb	Madam President, I would like I thank Kerstin Lundgren for the questions – there are a number to answer, so we'll see how many I can do here. I will start with the question of whether we see the EU as Sweden's most important foreign policy arena. Our priority chain in foreign policy is the Nordic region, the Baltic Sea region, the Arctic, Europe and the rest of the world in the descending order. At the highest we put the well-functioning collaborations Sweden has with its Nordic neighbours and Baltic cousins. Furthermore, the European Union is, of course, an important player today; we cannot get away from that. Then, of course, we have criticism – and our party has had it for a long time – regarding the supranationality of the European Union. We believe that the Lisbon Treaty and a number of measures and steps thereafter have brought far too much decision-making competence from the national level to the federal level within the European system. I still find this problematic in principle for a party which upholds the principle of subsidiarity and independence. There are also questions about the EU's strategic compass and its impact on national technological sovereignty and on some other areas. I don't think this is clear. There are opportunities with the EU in terms of trade, action against cross-border crime and organised crime, environmental issues and the like, but there are also problems in taking over decision-making competence on issues where decisions can be taken at municipal, regional or national level in Sweden. With regard to the issue of balance between great powers, I firmly argue that this wording has led to more questions than answers. It's unfortunate. On the other hand, what we often do not have in the reasoning of the other parties is that we are talking in the same spirit and paragraphs about our friendly approach to NATO and to cooperation with NATO and the USA.
i-Je8yWrUE884CUe4gfYv3VJ	Madam President, I would like I heard a no – Europe is not Sweden's most important foreign policy arena. That was a no on the question from Aron Emilsson and the Swedish Democrats. On the website of the Swedish Democrats, it is said that in the field of foreign policy and in the case of the EU, it should primarily be about facilitating the return of individuals who are illegally in Europe. This seems to be the view of Sweden's democrats on the EU's foreign policy mission, and I may find it a strange attitude. I am curious about this with the balance. How do the Swedish Democrats really view the issue of balance? You are saying that it was based on a balance and dialogue between Russia and the United States. Is that so?
i-phDXDVZbHBeyvP5wAadLA	Madam President, I would like My understanding of how this wording came to be is that it entails, and should entail, an enormous cost for great powers to attack each other or smaller states. A large measure of diplomacy and review of other solutions is required before it goes to military conflict or discharge. This is the spirit; there are advantages in having a balance in that regard. Now that we are talking about balance, I would like to turn it around and put a question to Kerstin Lundgren and the Center Party. It is written from the Center Party's side that Sweden should be a driving force to reduce the nuclear threat and contribute to balanced disarmament. Why do we not want Russia, North Korea and other aggressive nuclear powers, which have both knowledge and nuclear weapons, to have greater responsibility in this matter?
i-4eJiUr7ipRuMRc6KDAUDWB	Madam President, I would like In October 2019, a united parliament saw to stop arms exports to Turkey following a joint initiative by the Left Party and the Liberals. The initiative came after Turkey attacked the Kurdish-dominated areas of Rojava and Aphrin in Syria. An important meeting before the decision was taken was a meeting where the Parliament's Kurdistan network met with the Kurdish party PYD, which is currently leading the autonomous area of Rojava in northeastern Syria. At the meeting we received concrete and relevant information about Turkey's attack, and a discussion about stopping arms exports to Turkey was formed. The meeting was also attended by a couple of representatives of the Swedish Democrats. The Kurdish opposition to the IS terror group has been recognised and hailed by the outside world, including in relation to the defence of the border town of Kobane. We were therefore many who raised their eyebrows when, in connection with the Prime Minister's vote in this Chamber on 29 November last autumn, SD's party leader Jimmie Åkesson attacked the Kurds in general and the PYD in particular by calling them terrorists. In the past, many of us have been surprised by SD's previous foreign policy spokesperson's journey to Syria, where he met dictator Bashar al-Asad-Assad, among other things. He has also declared support for the dictator. In addition, everyone knows that the regime in Damascus is being held under the arms of the Russian regime, both militarily and economically. When Civil Rights Defenders in winter 2020 launched a campaign against dictators around the world, including Bashar al-Asad-Assad and Putin, the Swedish Democrats began questioning their state support in debate articles and in written questions in the Swedish Parliament. Aron Emilsson's colleague on the Foreign Affairs Committee Björn Söder was the highest responsible for this. Do the Swedish Democrats believe that the Kurds in Syria who defend themselves against Turkey are terrorists? Is that Erdo an, Putin and Bashar al-Asad-Assad you're rooting for?
i-NMkLf91sNhMzibGtKbX5gF	Madam President, I would like I thank Håkan Svenneling for the questions and the opportunity to develop my reasoning. No, that's the clear answer. The vast majority of those defending and fighting for Kurdish independence are certainly not terrorists. It's the other way around. On the other hand, one of our main arguments for not allowing Turkey into the European Union and not including full NATO membership has been precisely our criticism of Erdo an. It speaks clearly. Part of what Håkan Svenneling refers to is what happened before my arrival as a foreign policy spokesperson and part of the Foreign Affairs Committee, so I can't review all of it. But I myself have had discussions with parts of the Kurdish movement that exists in Sweden. I have been told what needs there are, what problems you see on the ground and what should be done. I am still prepared and interested to listen to those voices to see if we can make a handshake for measures and actions that would strengthen their position, role and ability to defend their territory. That is my answer to that question.
i-SxEAdSxwQHQ8hAvUjU8Fcp	Madam President, I would like It is clear that the Swedish Democrats have a very inconsistent Syria line in their party when the party leader and the foreign policy spokesperson give two different pictures of the policy they pursue. It is difficult to distinguish between those who are fighting to build democracy and those who want dictatorship and terrorism. But it is welcome that the answer is no from Emilsson. Aron Emilsson has a bit of a new sign on his desk today. It is not easy to step into the foreign policy debate. However, it can surely be said that quite a few of us have close dialogue and contact with our MEPs. I would advise Mr Emilsson to establish that contact and to steer a little more what is being done in the European Parliament. Two weeks ago, Turkey carried out bombings against the Kurds in Iraq and Syria. I asked the Foreign Minister if she condemned those bombings. Now I would like to ask the Swedish Democrats the same thing.
i-HUULE8fqxH9BdrmHDNQiNd	Madam President, I would like I am pleased that Håkan Svenneling is keen that we have close relations and contacts between us Swedish democrats in Parliament and our fellow party members in the European Parliament. I can assure you that we have, daily and continuous. As I said, I know what happened during yesterday's vote and so on. However, I think it is important to point out that it is easy to have too much discussion if you take a single vote, lift it out of its context and use it to paint a picture that SD would in some way be a Russian-friendly party. Compared with a number of other parties in the European Parliament, the Swedish Democrats once again have a stable basis. We have addressed 13 resolutions, tabled 54 amendments and put a number of written questions in the spirit of Putin. As I said, we have taken steps towards Russian exclusion from Swift, a halt to Nord Stream 2 and EU support to Ukraine through the peace facility. I know a number of games here that have far worse results in the account. I can tell you that much.
i-MQXrnYFSvLsgYHTNbRYebU	Madam President, I would like I thank Mr Emilsson for his speech. First of all, I think it is positive that the Swedish Democrats are highlighting the issue of China and Taiwan. I'm glad. My first question is whether the Swedish Democrats, like the Liberals, condemn the aggression that China is guilty of against Taiwan. My second question concerns Ukraine. It is clear that the attack and aggression currently being directed at Ukraine are also attacks on Sweden, as they are attacks on the European security regime. In the defence of Sweden, it is of course reasonable to support Ukraine in all the ways that we can only do. It was very regrettable that the Swedish Democrats voted against the financial support package in the European Parliament yesterday. It is clear that this raises the question of how the Swedish democrats would stand in Sweden. Would the Swedish Democrats support a similar proposal if it were put forward in Sweden? It would, I think, be regrettable if you did not. Anyone who is not on Ukraine's side is on the Kremlin's side, quite simply. The third question concerns the principles of the rule of law. The Swedish Democrats tend to criticise the EU because it is believed that the EU decides too much over the countries. It is usually referred to what is called national competence. My question is: do the Swedish Democrats believe that upholding the principles of the rule of law is a matter for each individual country to decide for itself, or is it an issue in which the Swedish Democrats, like the Liberals, believe that the EU and other countries should have a right and duty to interfere, so that the principles of the rule of law are respected?
i-NKR4YsVzPooxb74RvfnrbY	Madam President, I would like I thank Joar Forssell for the questions. On the question of Taiwan and the security policy situation in that region, my answer is yes. I strongly condemn this. So do we as a party. I find the whole escalation of the conflict that is taking place on the part of China incredibly tragic and worrying. I hope that we can make one or two handshake to take further steps and criticise China. When it comes to the question of Ukraine, I have listed a number of steps that we have taken, particularly in the European Parliament. We also have, I feel, a rather coherent voice from the Parliamentary Foreign Affairs Committee in relation to Ukraine and the criticism of Russia. I'm glad to hear that. With regard to the issue decided by the vote yesterday in the European Parliament, there was what I understand a criticism of the process. The issue had not been properly addressed in the relevant committee in Parliament. There were objections to some of the technical elements of the package and the proposal. Unfortunately, it is often the case, not least in a European parliamentary process, that when voting on a whole, it may be enough that one or two parts of a hundred are not supported in favour of abstaining from the whole package. That is regrettable in itself. But there is also another problem. I feel that my colleagues in Brussels and the European Parliament are in favour of a number of aid funds that Parliament has previously sent. There has also been strong support for the EU Peace Facility to strengthen Ukraine militarily and economically. However, it is not unproblematic to send blank cheques when you know that there are problems in the Ukrainian economy and that there have been difficulties in managing large financial resources in the form of aid. We also have strong Swedish aid. If there were to be a proposal here in the Swedish Parliament, I am no stranger to looking at it carefully and reviewing the possibility of supporting it.
i-3k1xUvtJSwtMKJHRAoMWWG	Madam President, I would like I welcome the answer on Taiwan, but I regret the answer on Ukraine. Sometimes in politics, you have to take a stand on what is on the table. You can have criticism of details. You can miss the details. There may be details that you object to. But you have to take a stand on what's on the table. What was at the table of the European Parliament was much-needed financial support for Ukraine. The Swedish Democrats did not agree to that. That is very regrettable. If you're not on Ukraine's side, you're on the Kremlin's side, I mean. Madam President, I would like Nor did I receive an answer to my second question on the principles of the rule of law. Liberals believe that the principles of the rule of law should be upheld throughout the world. It is our duty as individuals to ensure that they are maintained throughout the world. I do not think it is something that should be left to each country. If we do not comply with the rule of law, we must be able to intervene. Do the Swedish Democrats mean that the EU should intervene when the principles of the rule of law are violated or not?
i-GEyKvxkRTw2tJ3hfxzP9o4	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the supplementary question. I am a warm advocate and friend of the principles of the rule of law in any case. This applies globally, in Europe and in the Nordic countries. As I said in a previous replica shift, the Nordic region is an important role model for other regions to follow. It is also something that I tend to emphasise when we discuss these issues within the framework of the Nordic Council and the Nordic cooperation at various levels. I have also done so when, in the past, in my role as responsible for media policy issues, I criticised both Poland and Hungary when it comes to some developments in that area. When it comes to national competence, a problem arises when a constitutional court in an EU country makes an assessment and the European Court of Justice makes a different assessment and it does not agree on what should actually apply. We can emphasise, should affirm and advocate that the principles of the rule of law should apply consistently everywhere. I think we can do that together. However, I am not an expert on whether decisions are best taken at European or national level. At the same time, there is a importance of national sovereignty.
i-PKxfuLhoM3wQUhvzdu81UT	Mr President, I would like to I, too, want to touch on the security situation and the extremely topical situation today. The vote yesterday on Ukraine is, of course, remarkable. You don't have to drag it as far as a general line towards Russia or the like. At this point, there is a strong need in Ukraine for financial support. The Swedish Democrats were the only party that did not support this. It is also a bit remarkable because earlier in the debate, Mr Emilsson said that it wants the EU to implement things quickly and effectively in those areas where it thinks it should do things. At the same time, in the run-up to the vote, which is still about EUR 1.2 billion that is needed for Ukraine right now, reference has been made to the fact that, despite the use of an established fast-track procedure and the urgency of the situation. We may not have time to have lengthy bureaucratic processes. A large majority of the European Parliament considered that, at this stage, it was reasonable and necessary to support the decision. But that's not what I was going to ask you. What I was going to ask is that it has become painfully clear how closely security policy is today linked to energy policy. We know, for example, that a lot of fossil gas and enriched uranium come from Russia and that the EU is very dependent on Russia on these issues. It is a particular problem now that you may not be able to make the decisions that you would like in view of that dependence and that it can be used against the EU. I simply ask: what does Aron Emilsson think about this situation?
i-MDyF736hB8n7YairqMu7Bv	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Maria Ferm, for the question! If we start on the question of Ukraine, I can simply repeat what I said earlier. The information I have received from yesterday's vote, vote and reading in the European Parliament is precisely the fact that, on the one hand, there were technical objections to what parts of the package looked like. That was one reason for abstaining in the vote in that case. However, there were also objections to the reception capacity of financial assistance in Ukraine. It is also in view of the need to assess the type of aid that is most accurate at this stage. I referred, for example, to the fact that we have undoubtedly supported the EU Peace Facility, which can strengthen Ukraine not least militarily with the right kind of political and military muscle. In addition, I am in favour of the large amount of aid that Sweden has bilaterally provided to Ukraine. I think that's a very important part. When it comes to energy dependence, we have been pointing out for some time that not least the early closure of Swedish nuclear power by the government has led to an energy crisis in the country today. We have runaway electricity prices and an unreliable energy supply because we do not have safe and stable energy sources. It also increases our risk, at least for dependence on Russian gas and energy. That is extremely unfortunate. As I have mentioned here before, we have been critical of Nord Stream 2 and that larger parts of Europe are becoming more dependent on Russian gas, which is also a pressure agent for Putin. This applies not least to this time of year of intervention against European countries such as Ukraine and others. Developments are worrying. We need to switch and secure Swedish stable energy to primarily Swedish produced energy in Sweden.
i-63o7cqgZEXtq1GzAcLUpQw	Mr President, I would like to Now it is not just coal, oil and gas where much of the imports come from Russia. It is also about nuclear power and enriched uranium, where a large part of Sweden's imports of enriched uranium come from Russia. The fact that nuclear power is the solution to energy dependence from Russia may not be an easy solution. On the contrary, if Sweden were to invest in renewable energy, it is the most efficient and sustainable security policy. The fact that we are importing such a large proportion of enriched uranium from Russia is a problem. This is particularly true if the only solution put forward in the debate is nuclear power. It is not very sustainable in terms of security policy. It can, as has already been done with gas, be used by Putin as a pawn in the political game. What do the Swedish Democrats think about the sustainability of nuclear safety policy?
i-QWQ9ajduN6D8E5rT1icc9M	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Maria Ferm, for the supplementary question. It is also problematic. Two wrongs don't make a right. It is extremely problematic that Sweden has this type of imported enriched uranium from Russia, I would say, and has such a large measure of what is being used. It also provides security policy dimensions that we do not want. That, of course, is not positive either. That is another reason for developing the fourth generation of nuclear power in Sweden. We will also review new ways to import or retrieve uranium in Sweden, for which there are good conditions. There is also another stability in it, not least in our geology of stable nuclear power, compared with many other parts of the world. On the other hand, we only have a supply of wind when it blows and still do not have the technology to store.
i-Udeg4SYRM5VxsitcTQJRBK	Mr President, I would like to When the Berlin Wall fell and when the Soviet Empire was dissolved 30 years ago, the door was opened to peaceful coexistence in our Europe. Detente became a reality that was interrupted by the Russian-Georgian war in 2008 and the subsequent Russian occupation of 20 percent of Georgian territory – Abkhazia and Tschinvali. These are two Georgian regions that Russia recognised as states and moved its military into. The Kremlin showed that Russia under Putin began a new era of empire building with new conflicts. They were not between East and West as during the Cold War, but between autocracy and democracy. Liberal democracy is emerging in our Europe but also globally. Today, 68% of the world's population live in autocracies. Democracy is disliked by autocrats. They seek to polarize and frighten that free and open societies threaten traditional values, traditional culture and religion. Minorities such as LGBTI persons are not recognised. They and other minorities, as well as women, are being oppressed. Human rights, freedom, free journalists, oppositionists, women's movements, free academies and independent judges are said to threaten traditional values. Sweden must firmly stand up for the voices of democracy in the world, for human rights, which are also women's rights, and against oppression. Sweden will stand up for the courageous belarus opposition to the illegitimate Lukasjenko abuse of constitution and people. Sweden should clearly stand up when China kidnaps citizens like our Gui Minhai and commits grave violations of human rights and crimes against humanity when putting Uighurs in Xinjiang in forced camps to eradicate their identity. Sweden will stand up when China imprisons and shuts down democracy in Hong Kong and threatens Taiwan. Jinping, Putin, Maduro, Lukasjenko, Assad, Erdo The list can also be long for those whom these gentlemen imprison, torture and even murder because power feels threatened and to set warning examples for others. Mr President, I would like to It is high time for a new global wave of democratisation. That should be the guiding principle of Swedish foreign policy. The EU is Sweden's most important foreign and security policy arena. We shall stand up for the values on which Europe is built and work together to strengthen the EU's voice for democracy, human rights and independent justice. We must work to ensure that the EU is able to act when our values are threatened within the Union, but also outside. We welcome the fact that the EU finally managed to agree on a global sanction regime, the Magnitsky sanctions. But, Mr President, it must be made more efficient. Systematic corruption and money laundering, the bloodstream of autocracies, must be included. The EU must extend sanctions against Russia as Ukraine is now exposed to unacceptable aggression and war threats and aim against the oligarchs and Putin, against the power of corruption. The Magnitsky sanctions, both unique Swedish and those within the EU, must be broadened. Mr President, I would like to We cannot rule out a military attack on our country or on another country in our neighbourhood, within the European Union. Military conflicts cannot be seen in our neighbourhood that would affect only one country. Sweden should not be passive if a disaster or an attack should hit another Member State or Nordic country, and we expect these countries to act in the same way if Sweden is affected. The host country agreement and our exercises give credibility to the promise. Our solidarity policy contributes to stability and security in Northern Europe through cooperation with Finland, which has a special status, but also with the other Nordic countries, the EU and NATO. The transatlantic link should be strong. Our security is built in solidarity. Without it, as the ÖB says, our defence policy will be destroyed. Sweden is not neutral, but solidarity in the face of Russian aggression. Of course, each country has the right to choose its collaborations and how to exercise and build its security. The Kremlin cannot and should not have a say in this matter. However, the Swedish parliament can and will be able to do so. It is crucial that NATO's door is open in reality. The Swedish Parliament has stated that Sweden's door to membership should also be open, just as Finland keeps its door open for membership. It is no secret that the Center Party wants a Swedish membership of NATO, preferably together with Finland. If and when, however, is a decision that Sweden itself makes, and we in Sweden should not vote on our security policy. Mr President, I would like to It is not the Russian population that is militarily threatening the European security regime, but it is the Kremlin under Putin's rule. The ongoing aggression must be broken with clarity, deterrence and common force. This requires perseverance and coordinated action between the EU, NATO and the US. Ukraine and Europe are now under military threat directly by the Kremlin empire builders, but also by the full breadth of hybrid warfare to reach Putin's goal. Unfair confessions and annexations of Crimea, Luhansk, Donetsk and Ts c hinvali or an intervention must be met with unanimous and tough sanctions. Ukraine, as well as Georgia and Moldova among others, must have our support to assert their territorial integrity. Ukraine must be supported creatively and with a wide range of efforts – including defence equipment if required. It is today Ukraine, but also Georgia, Moldova and other independent states, that the Kremlin is threatening. But it is everyone's safety that is under threat. The Kremlin door for relaxation is closed. We have to deal with Russian neo-imperialism for the foreseeable future. At the same time, we will keep the door open for dialogue and support to Russian civil society, where many dream and fight for freedom, human rights and democracy. Mr President, I would like to Climate change as a result of earth's warming is a growing threat to our security. It is about the survival of societies, about our children, who have to bear responsibility for what we have not managed, about water, which is our most important food, about economic pressures and about migration. Solidarity and cooperation are needed here to cope with adaptation, but also to meet climate objectives. Global bridge construction is required, because the climate knows no borders. Swedish aid is obviously an important part of Sweden's commitment to achieving a sustainable and inclusive world. The Center Party stands up for 1 percent of BNI – focused and effective aid. Magnus Ek will in a post here later touch on this further, as well as Linda Modig when it comes to our cooperation in the Nordic region.
i-R8yNYgxgCnCzDvHKmgpwpH	Mr President, I would like to One of the government's top priorities is the fight against organised crime, where corruption is an important part of combating it. I have therefore raised the issue, together with my Slovak Foreign Minister colleague and five other EU countries, to the EU's High Representative, Josep Borrell, and to the French EU Presidency, that the EU should be able to introduce additional means of using sanctions against serious corruption abroad. Sweden has raised the issue several times within the EU, and it is good that we now have a joint initiative with six other EU Member States. Organised crime and serious corruption are, in principle, always cross-border, and that is why EU foreign ministers must also work on these issues. The seven signatory countries are Sweden, Slovakia, Estonia, Finland, Lithuania, the Netherlands and the Czech Republic. In her speech, Kerstin Lundgren raised the issue and has been personally involved in it for a long time. I therefore wonder what Kerstin Lundgren has done to get his party friends in other countries to support Sweden on this issue.
i-9orBetYrjRXkQph4WRMQFK	Mr President, I would like to It is an issue that we are constantly discussing and have pushed in our Alde Party at European level. We have clear cooperation, and we have called for Sweden not only to demand this from the European Union in letters, but to join forces. Many of our sibling parties have taken the lead in imposing sanctions in their home countries. This is possible. We have here in Parliament had a special seminar where we raised Magnitsky sanctions and the importance of designing them so that they meet with systematic corruption and money laundering. Reformierakond from Estonia was one of those who participated to tell and demonstrate the power of the example. This is possible. Unfortunately, the government and the Foreign Minister have not been so interested before. But I welcome the fact that letters have now been written and are acting clearly. That's good, because this is something the government hasn't cared about so long. Many of my questions over the years have been about this, as the Foreign Minister knows. But the Minister for Foreign Affairs has always replied that it is not a way forward and that only a small country is driving this. It is therefore good if the Foreign Minister now sees that it is possible to join forces with other countries in order to influence. Let us do so by introducing Swedish sanctions corresponding to the Magnitsky sanctions, which also affect systematic corruption and money laundering.
i-698QU9E3oKFMdZNqoSKYfo	Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, there are far too few countries that come to the same conclusion as us in this. They often want to see the new sanctions for human rights violations, those called Magnitsky legislation, first put into effect. We have now used them and see that they are effective but could perhaps be used in more places. In my speech, I raised the issue of organised crime and the international link with it. I would like to hear whether the Center Party is prepared to work more to use foreign policy to tackle international organised crime.
i-88udNzW3c56TFiKbz5pFGL	Mr President, I would like to There is no reason not to argue that we should try to fight international crime. In this, the EU is, in particular, an important player. However, we must also clearly highlight, for example, the red flag that Interpol has used against many of our democrats. Autocrats take advantage of this opportunity to try to access and imprison them – if you can't kidnap planes, you can use Interpol to get people who you think are displeasing in prison. That's where you have to watch out. This cooperation requires clarity. Aid is another story. We must not go the way that the government in other contexts suggests: if you do not behave, you will get back on aid. It's not the model we want to use.
i-4ee5hjWW6rwmt8y24jYMW6	Mr President, I would like to In my line shifts, I have tried to start with something friendly about the parties I have taken a line on – the Social Democrats, the Left Party and the Swedish Democrats. I'll do the same with the Center Party. I think that, not least, Mr President, the shift in line between the Foreign Minister and Kerstin Lundgren was very enlightening. What Kerstin did, and has consistently done in the Swedish parliament, was to push the demand to broaden the sanction tool. Kerstin Lundgren took a line on me during last year's foreign policy debate and asked that question, in all kindness. I would just like to acknowledge that this kindness has made us look at the issue and set out exactly the same course as Kerstin Lundgren and the Center Party. This, I mean, demonstrates the value and strength of debates in a democratic Parliament. I can also commend the Center Party for opening up now that defensive weapons to Ukraine, if the possibility exists, could be part of assisting from the Swedish side, provided that it does not threaten Swedish defence capabilities, and also the NATO option. Now I would like to ask a specific question. I see that there are also other centre party members in this House, such as Daniel Bäckström, who will represent the Centre in the Defence Committee. Then I wonder whether the Centre Party can also open up, just like the Moderates, in order to push in the Defence Committee to look at the security policy analysis that has been carried out, given the extremely serious threat Russia now poses to European peace and security policy. My second question is whether you could not only help redistribute resources to the defence but also open up new means to strengthen Swedish defence and Swedish security. The latter, I think, was already yesterday in a debate on defence policy, but I thought it would be good to point out in the foreign policy debate that there is similarity between parties in parliament and the 100-mandated government.
i-6qp8jxcGrWXPkJm4aYV3wT	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your kindness, Mr Wallmark, and, above all, for supporting our proposal for a NATO option. After all, it was our motion that you voted in favour of. Thank you, too, for changing your attitude and supporting us with regard to the Magnitsky sanctions and extending them to meet with precisely systematic corruption and money laundering. From the Center Party, we've been clear. We have been pushing the government while we were working together, and we have pushed the government in the Defence Committee when it appeared last time, to reach increased funding for the defence. We've been involved in raising the bar. We are ready – of course our Member, Daniel Bäckström, will also lift – to increase the appropriations for defence during the current period. After all, we have a clear objective towards a 2% level. As far as security policy analysis is concerned, the party leader of the Center Party and the party leader of the Moderates have written a joint article highlighting those very issues. Now the government has given the mandate it has given to the Defence Committee, but from our side we obviously think that there would be room for and important to do a security policy analysis. We also think it is important to have a position in which we get the Riksdag behind the security policy debate in a different way than just a foreign policy declaration. We have a proposal, which the Moderates are happy to support, to do as Finland here too, that is to say, that the Parliament should be given a security policy statement so that we can have one reading every parliamentary term, Mr President.
i-Bd3mfmqKHigVjAA7XxKM9D	Mr President, I would like to To the basket of kindnesses I will also add that Kerstin Lundgren wears a Ukrainian ribon right on the Day of Unity in Ukraine. I think it's very important and worthy of all recognition. I think that what the Moderates are trying to do is fundamentally good, Mr President, namely to be a gathering party here in the Swedish Parliament. I have no problem with the fact that the Moderates can cooperate with all seven other parties in the Riksdag. I therefore also think that what Kerstin Lundgren lists is good: a common approach to NATO option, a common approach to aid to Ukraine, a common line on extended Magnitsky legislation. I also think it is a good thing that more parties can be clear to the government, now that the Swedish Defence Committee is starting its work this afternoon, that more new means will be needed to strengthen Swedish defence and Swedish security. That's good.
i-XNSGwkuC4PesTgNvBaZHGx	Mr President, I would like to That's it. The Center Party has taken precedence over several of the areas that we have just touched upon. For example, we have pushed the government to get increased funding for the defence. What has made a difference is that the Center Party has had the strength not only to talk to everyone but actually also to settle cross-blocks and settle up with the government. There the Moderates have, I have to say – although there is a final negative signal – unfortunately proved that they have not quite been able to cope with. You say you want to talk to everyone, but you don't feel like you want to settle with everyone – that's what it seems to be. That's where the Center has a different attitude. We have made a deal with the government, and we have a clear limit to the outer edges, Mr President.
i-GJ6UJcpFWsHDgG643kW5xa	Mr President, I would like to Recently, the Center Party has been dealing with issues of balance, as you know. I have a question about a writing that is on the website of a man who has dealt with something that we discussed very recently in committee, namely the disarmament of nuclear weapons. The Center Party writes that Sweden should be a driving force to reduce the nuclear threat and contribute to a balanced "disarmament". My question, in the situation we are in, is why it is not formulated specifically that Russia must arm its nuclear weapons, in particular those tactical ones, which, moreover, have a much greater possession than the United States – or for that matter North Korea, whose entire possession of nuclear weapons is in fact contrary to international law. It also states that disarmament is only possible when the countries with nuclear weapons, including Russia and North Korea, agree to get rid of all their nuclear weapons and – perhaps the most important – knowledge of how to produce nuclear weapons. It is very difficult to see how knowledge can be destroyed in today's society, so this is a requirement that may not seem realistic at all. My question to Kerstin Lundgren is simply what is meant by these writings.
i-6aVG66i163y8x5uoTQ1baV	Mr President, I would like to The Center Party stands up for the dream of a nuclear-free world. For a long time, however, we have been extremely clear, including in committee, that it is the way through the NPT that we are going to go. It is strengthening the NPT, i.e. the Non-Proliferation Treaty, that is to be targeted. We should not go through the ban agreement, because that is where the policy is based on unbalanced disarmament, where security cannot be created. We have a world that looks like it does, and then a balanced disarmament of nuclear weapons must take place. We do not want to end up in a situation where Russia, North Korea or other states with authoritarian regimes remain with nuclear weapons while we arm ourselves down to the West. It is completely unthinkable on our part. A balanced disarmament of nuclear weapons within the NPT framework is something we want to see. I hope that in the future, not in the near future but a little later, we can see that happening.
i-NzB4k4BwTKpq5Z5B78JQ5a	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Kerstin Lundgren, for your answer! It was an answer, but at the same time it should be important for all the parties in this House in the Swedish Parliament that we have a particularly sharp criticism of unbalanced disarmament at least when it comes to those non-democrats and dictatorships who have holdings that are contrary to international conventions and agreements. Enough about that! In terms of security and security at all levels, there are many dimensions. We have been talking about cyber warfare recently, and I have a question about the former center party top name from Gothenburg, Mikail Yüksel, which is now party leader in the Islamist party Nyans. He has been excluded from the Center Party, as I understand it, after dealing with the organisation Grey Wolves, but they are also from this party and run an extensive disinformation campaign that, among other things, the Swedish Agency for Psychological Defense has warned against. And it is still the case that center party representatives have met this party and have links to this party which is obviously Islamist. My question is how Kerstin Lundgren comments on this.
i-NF78FjkmSS24tqhbutAJnr	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats have had an official employed in the Riksdag who is now banned from the Riksdag because he is perceived as a security risk. I mention the name Putilov. One can only think about how such contacts are handled. I also noted that former defence-political spokesperson Richthoff has made statements and participated in the media that really goes through Russia's affairs. It is clear among members and employees of the Swedish Democrats. We have disfellowshipped this person, and we clearly distance ourselves from that party.
i-LZhN8hJ5iJjUHM5UPiWu9y	Mr President, I would like to When I listen to Kerstin Lundgren, I think about the television program Bachelorette. In the rose ceremony Lundgren does not really know which partner she will give the last rose to. But the question is whether there is a party that really wants the rose from the Center Party – not even the Social Democrats. No party other than the confused Center Party so often changes partners and politics. Lundgren does not really know what she wants and who she wants, but as many partners, or yes, parties, as possible, is the goal. One day it is the Social Democrats who the next day are betrayed by the Moderates. The Center Party, yes, it's the Reichlorette of Parliament! One day you are pursuing regional policy in the defence policy as to where there should be regiments and forcing the government to do as you wish, and the next day you are making announcements to the government about NATO option. Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist does not have it easy! Today, you are taking a line on the Social Democrats, but when the Moderates come up in the speaker's chair, they won't have to speak. The great losers are of course the Swedish people. Not only are they allowed to live with an SD-negotiated budget thanks to the Center Party, but the actions of the Center Party also create uncertainty with regard to our environment as to what Sweden's security policy line is. Now we stand here, Kerstin Lundgren. It's time for the last rose ceremony. Which party do you give your rose to when it comes to taking responsibility for Sweden's security?
i-HnuZqD4pJ88yeSWG5SZxdw	Mr President, I would like to It is interesting that the House will have to take note of Håkan Svenneling's television viewing and his preferences in this regard. Let me say that I have not seen the programme to which he refers, but perhaps Håkan Svenneling can overlook it. I understand that Håkan Svenneling is talking about roses. We mention clover ourselves, because that is our symbol of the party. Mr President, I would like to The Left Party has an exciting history. I don't know what flowers they're handing out or who. We are clear that we do not want to cooperate with the Left Party, which has clearly taken a step further left from its election congress. We are clear that we do not want to cooperate with the Swedish Democrats. On the other hand, we have seen, Mr President, that the Left Party has no problem interacting with the Swedish Democrats. They're making politics. They dismiss governments because they disapprove of liberal reforms. We, Mr President, like liberal reforms and will be prepared to work intensively to succeed in implementing more such reforms with parties standing up for liberal reforms. I do not think I have seen any proposals from the Left Party going in that direction. They usually go in a completely different direction.
i-HfHkRRwsBYGKs2azxSYGvY	Mr President, I would like to It is sad that Kerstin Lundgren does not take part in the TV offering that most people in Sweden take part in, although it may sometimes be ironically referred to as junk television. It is clear in Kerstin Lundgren's reply here that the ambiguity of the Center Party persists in terms of who you want to cooperate with, how you view Swedish security policy and how you want to make it clearer. I don't do roses, but for me carnations apply. But above all, this is about my wanting Sweden's security policy line to be clear. For 200 years Sweden has had peace, but Kerstin Lundgren wants to run over the Swedish people and not have a referendum but put them under a nuclear umbrella in NATO. The problem with the policy of the Center Party is, I think, that there is a conflict of objectives in goal conflict and that you do not know where you are going. This is what lays the foundation for the uncertainty that you are now creating in Swedish security policy. That's your responsibility.
i-Chs2JXn2yMAciqF9nCPWvJ	Mr President, I would like to The Left Party may think that they are sad and sour, and they may stick to their victims' jacket because the Center Party has been clear about saying that we are not making liberal reforms along with a party that basically sees this as the worst thing they can imagine. The Left Party and the Swedish Democrats have this position. They both dislike liberal reforms. That is why we have been clear about saying: No, we are not cooperating – we are not building politics with the two parties. There's clarity in that. The Left Party is prepared to settle with everyone in principle. The Left Party has shown that. Mr President, I would like to When the government was formed in 2014, it was the Social Democrats and the Green Party that agreed, and the Left Party was also on a corner. Perhaps that was the reason why the security policy line was suddenly changed and that NATO membership should not be implemented. That's brand-new.
i-46BTfNrBS2TXKfm38LsLBR	Mr President, I would like to The Russian aggression against Ukraine raises a number of security policy issues. As we have heard in the debate, one of them is about nuclear weapons and the importance of disarmament. Central to this work is since the end of the 1960s the NPT, which has helped to reduce the world's nuclear arsenals. However, instead of protecting the NPT, intensive efforts have been underway since 2017 to enforce a UN Convention on Nuclear Weapons. The Center Party, like the Christian Democrats, has a strong commitment to disarmament issues. However, contrary to the government and the political left, my party and the party of Kerstin Lundgren see that the ban is counterproductive unless all nuclear weapons states plus countries such as North Korea and Iran join. And we're not there, I'm afraid. Mr President, I would like to The Christian Democrats have recently put forward a proposal for a committee initiative on the prohibition convention and the action of the government. We believe that the Swedish position must be clarified. We want to prevent the government from signing, ratifying and becoming an observer to the Convention on its own. For this position there is a parliamentary majority. The Centre Party is part of that majority, but now chooses to reject, together with the other government support parties, the proposal for a committee initiative. Why don't you stand by your opinions, Kerstin Lundgren?
i-MkYXDqFzDd8wqhtJex5TtP	Mr President, I would like to It is exciting; in committee we are currently preparing a report. The Foreign Affairs Committee will have this discussion tomorrow and will then be able to deepen that discussion. The Christian Democrats have tabled a proposal for an initiative in committee. That's it. We fully agree that Sweden should not sign the Convention on Prohibition, and I assume that Parliament will be able to debate it when the report is put on Parliament's table. However, we have said that we can accept that Sweden participates in and listens to the first conference on this. It may be important to have listening ears in that environment. We do not want the ban agreement to become some kind of trampoline to leave the NPT. The NPT is central, and it is therefore important to try to hold on to and resist so that the baners do not make the ban into a defector convention from the NPT, so that they do not mess it up and interfere with the NPT. In this security policy situation, however, it will be extremely difficult to reach a consensus, to reach a concrete agreement. It was hard the last time. It will be even more difficult in this security policy situation. That is why we are extremely much the same when it comes to not extorting or disrupting the NPT review that is to come. Mr President, I would like to I heard what Lars Adaktusson said. Remember that Iran, like Sweden, voted in favour of this ban agreement. So it's an exciting collection.
i-4vwediAXQbbLavQffJfQjp	Mr President, I would like to Kerstin Lundgren is trying to explain, but it doesn't seem to be easy. She says that Sweden should not sign and not ratify the Convention. Yet it is in order that the government, moreover without a parliamentary mandate, should become an observer at the conference. It is indeed a strange attitude, Kerstin Lundgren, especially given that the Social Democratic Party Congress has clearly stated what an observership is about; it is about Sweden joining the Convention of Prohibition. Kerstin Lundgren should realise this and show that the Center dares to stand up for the party's opinion.
i-EwNjpHe7KYAMT4wQi1oZD9	Mr President, I would like to With all due respect, Lars Adaktusson, but it gets a little strange. Tomorrow, the Committee on Foreign Affairs will formulate its views on a number of motions. It also concerns the issue raised by the Christian Democrats in their own proposal for an initiative. We expect it to be a clear position in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and a clear position in the Riksdag that clarifies Parliament's position. It is not about the Congress decisions of the Social Democrats, but about the attitude of the Riksdag. That is what we are aiming for, Mr President. And I expect a clear position in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, at least if we are to support it.
i-DkmVi2BURE6oRdhUYEt8EV	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Kerstin Lundgren, for the overall very good speech! I have two questions. The first concerns Taiwan. The honourable Member raised Taiwan in her speech, albeit a little less than last year's speech. Lundgren then developed more how the Center Party wants relations with Taiwan to deepen and develop. Mr President, I would like to Today is Lithuania's Independence Day. Lithuania is a country that takes the lead in the world with its foreign policy. In her speech, Kerstin Lundgren said that the Center Party wanted to see an increased focus on democracy in foreign policy. That view shares the Liberals. We would also like Sweden to follow the Lithuanian example and introduce a value-based foreign policy. In the case of Lithuania, this has involved, among other things, deepening relations with Taiwan, despite the fact that China has been upset. My first question is whether Kerstin Lundgren also wants Sweden to follow Lithuania's example and introduce a value-based foreign policy. My second question concerns the joint and several responsibility with regard to energy policy which Sweden committed itself to the Baltic States when they became members of the European Union. If you read how it happened then you see that Sweden undertook to ensure that those countries would not become dependent on Russian energy for their electricity supply but could use Swedish electricity generation. Today, Swedish electricity production is not even enough for our own needs. I believe that we will need more nuclear power in order to deliver on the promise to the Baltic States. I wonder if Kerstin Lundgren has another plan for how we will manage to accept the joint responsibility.
i-Bx8Swue2GEYmMuBCeAzxsm	Mr President, I would like to As far as Taiwan is concerned, we stand by the position we presented last year. We have also made demands in sports, where we highlight Taiwan, among other things, to upgrade Business Sweden to the House of Sweden, precisely to clarify our close relationship with Taiwan. We have also been positive about and want to run free trade agreements with Taiwan. So there is no doubt that we stand up for it. I also hope to visit Taiwan later this spring. It's Lithuania's Independence Day. I will also celebrate it a little later. There are several independences. Lithuania is making an important contribution. From the Swedish side, we should be clear about supporting and strengthening cooperation with Lithuania and not separating Lithuania as a small country that makes its own journey. It is important that we hook arms for democratic votes and for the democracy offensive that Lithuania actually does. It's basically value-based. It is about human rights and freedom – the liberal fundamental values that should be captured by the offensive on democracy. On the energy issue, the cable from Sweden to the Baltic States has been an important part of solidarity. Of course we can do it. We have a surplus of electricity. We also export electricity. That, of course, is the case. We must also make it forward, whether it is nuclear, hydroelectric or wind power. I hope that the Liberals will not take over the hugging of nuclear power, which makes it impossible to see any other force.
i-D4tLj9xkm625BH7LdWtByi	Mr President, I would like to We in the Liberals also want to see a mix of all fossil-free forms of energy – wind power, nuclear power and hydropower. There's no strangeness there. On the other hand, it is perhaps a slight exaggeration in terms of the fact that we should have a surplus. It is like saying that we have a surplus of housing in Sweden, but it happens that one cannot find a dwelling here in Stockholm. The electricity must be there and then you need it, and we do not always have enough of it. This makes it possible to worry about the solidarity of responsibility towards the Baltic States. I wonder whether the honourable Member, like several other Members here today, would like to condemn the aggression that China is engaged in against Taiwan. Perhaps I am thinking, above all, of the flights that China is making towards Taiwan.
i-8jbR42mdXMUSaZVHyWjUoW	Mr President, I would like to It is, of course, about the power having to reach, and there the cable to the Baltic States was important. We are among those who think that a cable against the continent is also important. We want an energy market that works. Of course, it is also important that we have transmission capacity in the country. There are the major shortcomings, and that is where we need to expand. Mr President, I would like to We do not just have examples of hydropower. In fact, there are also major plans for the expansion of wind power, the renewable power. Many people want to invest in this. And it is possible to transfer that kind of power to others. Mr President, I would like to Then there is condemnation of China's overflights or entry into Taiwan. Of course, we think that we should secure Taiwan's territory and sphere.
i-AwhUiCt2TXhvUYtn7Jb5SP	Mr President, I would like to Under the rule of Erdo中an, developments in Turkey have taken a clear step in the wrong direction. Since the failed coup attempt in summer 2016, restrictions on democratic rights and freedoms have increased apace. Mass arrests and restrictions on freedom of expression have been recurrent. Turkey has left the Istanbul Convention on the Prohibition of Violence against Women. President Erdo中an has expressed an increasingly reactionary view of women's rights. More and more, women are supposed to stay at home and have many children. Of course, Mr Erdo中an has also said that there are no LGBT people in Turkey. The political opposition has been put under severe oppression. In particular, the Procurdian opposition party HDP is attacked on a daily basis. HDP is the third largest party in Turkey's parliament. Nevertheless, the Turkish State Prosecutor is currently trying to ban HDP from existing as a political party – totally against democratic principles. In addition, arrests of political representatives of HDP have reached breathtaking heights – it is about thousands. Parliamentarians are given their immunity so that they can be prosecuted and sentenced to be silenced. In another legal process, called Kobane case, 108 people are charged with urging people to demonstrate against Turkey's involvement in the IS terrorist group's attack on the city of Kobane in 2014. They're about to fall. Time and again, the European Court of Human Rights has ruled that Turkey is in breach of the European Convention. Two weeks ago, the Court found it wrong to waive the immunity of elected parliamentarians. This is contrary to Article 10 of the ECHR. Nevertheless, the regime of Erdo中an continues to violate it and other conventions. Even in foreign policy, Turkey has been very active in creating and interfering in various conflicts. Only last week, the Foreign Minister argued that Greek islands should belong to Turkey. Recently, reports were also presented that chemical weapons have been used in northern Iraq by the Turkish military. These are reports that need to be confirmed by independent international bodies, such as the OPCW. Two weeks ago Turkey bombed Kurdish areas in both Iraq and Syria. Among other things, refugee camps met. Unfortunately, this may be the beginning of another Turkish invasion. In October 2019, the Left Party gained an important strengthening of Sweden's Turkey policy when all parties in the Riksdag voted for the Left Party's and Liberals' proposal to stop arms exports to Turkey. As a result of the decision, two business decisions had already been stopped and an unknown number of proceedings had to be closed. Turkey was very annoyed by Sweden's new stance, and the decision probably led Sweden to tighten up its rhetoric even in relation to Turkey's violations of human rights. Turkey applied for EU membership back in 1987 and is thus the state that has waited by far the longest to become a member. Turkey was granted candidate status in 1999, but negotiations did not begin until 2005. Sweden was previously the driving force for Turkey to negotiate. Today, Sweden is one of the most vocal critics in the EU to the development of the country. As part of the membership negotiations, Turkey receives EUR billion of pre-accession aid. In addition, the refugee agreement has given Turkey EUR 6 billion so far. The European Investment Bank has been investing heavily in the country since 1965. The Left Party has long criticised developments in Turkey and called on Sweden and the EU to act more strongly. The EU has not dared to act against Turkey for fear that Erdo中an would denounce the shameful agreement and prevent refugees from moving from Turkey to Europe. The Left Party therefore believes today that Sweden's policy towards Turkey must be further tightened and that the negotiations and the money must be frozen completely. And if it does not change the dwindling democratic space, it should be completely interrupted. Mr President, I would like to Turkey is also the second largest member of the NATO military alliance, but it is hardly a very reliable member. Recently, they chose to buy Russian weapons systems. It is this Turkey that the Swedish right is screaming in the sky. It is said that we would be safer if we were in the same NATO bed as them. Speaking of dependence, Europe's need for Russian gas has increased alarmingly. This applies not only to countries such as Germany and Poland, but also to Sweden. Government Vattenfall imports Russian uranium into our nuclear power plants from Putin's company Rosatom. The government wants Swedish electricity prices to be determined by the price of Russian gas when we join the so-called European gas and energy market. And neither bourgeois nor social-democratic governments have done enough to stop the construction of Nord Stream in our economic zone. Sweden is not dependent on Russian gas supplies, but the government has still made our electricity market totally price dependent on Russian gas. This has been done without any debate on security policy at all. In practice, it is as powerful a Russian weapon as being able to close the gas taps. If we are to safeguard our sovereignty, state power over essential infrastructure is crucial. It's crucial to our total defense. Some now call for Sweden to send more weapons to the right and left. It will never make us or our world safer. There are already far too many Swedish weapons used in wars and conflicts around the world, especially in Yemen where thousands of children suffer both violence and hunger. Setting up Reuterswärd's well-known peace statue – a tied gun – at the world exhibition in Dubai does not work when the United Arab Emirates is at the same time the largest recipient of Swedish arms exports. Perhaps that is why feminist foreign policy does not qualify for Prime Minister Magdalena Andersson's declaration of government. It is precisely the preservation of our military alliance freedom that creates security for both us and our world around us. We have good military cooperation with Finland. We will protect and deepen that. Some call out to the United States and think that the so - called transatlantic link is the solution. Then think of the United States' own dependence on energy from Russia and the United States' solution to Europe's energy challenge is more dependent on unsustainable gas from countries such as Qatar and the United States, not on climate change! Besides, the first year as president has gone like that for Joe Biden. It was weak leadership when Israel bombed Gaza again. It was a chaotic exodus from Afghanistan, which put Swedes in danger and cost many Afghans their lives. And at the Glasgow climate summit, there was a wave of watered down writings from climate deniers. Mr President, I would like to It is through climate change that we can do something good, both to stop the civilian threats from climate change and to create a better and fairer world. If we stop our oil and gas dependence, we do not fertilise Gulf dictatorships that buy sporting events as weapons or great powers with military ambitions both in the South China Sea and in our immediate vicinity. Mr President, I would like to The richest people in the world are still doing very well. While the pandemic has hit the economy hard for 99 percent of the world's population, Jeff Bezos and his ten richest old friends have doubled their wealth, according to the aid organization Oxfam. Our problem is obviously not our riches but how they are distributed. It is time we changed our world if we really want to stop the global pandemic and global climate change.
i-45svUQonVr5V794BkFnK7T	Mr President, I would like to The Venezuelan regime has caused a severe humanitarian and economic crisis that has forced 6 million Venezuelans to flee the country. Together with the international contact group for Venezuela, the EU and the UN, Sweden continues its commitment to a political negotiated solution in Venezuela and a return to democratic order, including free and fair presidential and parliamentary elections. The resumption of negotiations between the opposition and the regime in Mexico City is of paramount importance. We are appalled by the repression of opposition representatives, independent media and civil society organisations by the regime. In all multilateral fora where Venezuela is on the agenda, Sweden is working to strengthen human rights. Sweden continues to support Guaidó as well as other actors in Venezuela who are working towards a return to democratic order, including free and fair presidential and parliamentary elections. My question to the Left Party is why the Left Party cannot stand up for this work.
i-WGAntFxNeL15GbMNJbAdPq	Mr President, I would like to The political crisis in Venezuela has been going on for over three years. I am very concerned that it has lasted so long and hit the Venezuelan people so hard. The person responsible for this crisis is President Maduro, who, through his actions, has created divisions in his country, which has also led to economic problems that have hit the population hard. However, I have not supported the government's line in the work it has done when it went and acknowledged Mr Guan Guaidó, who has appointed himself President on his own, despite the fact that he did not have popular support or had in any way won an election. The problem with government policy is that sanctions have hit the Venezuelan people hard. As recently as a week and a half ago, a report from the UN on how sanctions hit women, children, health professionals and people with disabilities and how indigenous people and those living in poverty have been severely affected. It is the Venezuelan people who are suffering under the sanctions and during the pandemic, and that is why we must show them our solidarity and support. In fact, there are positive signs at the moment in Venezuela. The negotiations have taken off to some extent, but above all Maduro managed to follow democracy in local and regional elections. Even in the region where Hugo Chávez had his votes, the opposition was now allowed to take power. I think that's good. I think there must be a line between choosing between Guaidó and Maduro, and it would have been better if the Social Democratic Government had chosen that line. Unfortunately, recognition has only led to prolonging the political crisis. We are in the fourth year, and the Venezuelan people have suffered badly both under their own rule and as a result of the sanctions imposed by the outside world.
i-JBsrd5SEDAvpiWRQ9oKJSg	Mr President, I would like to Håkan Svenneling questions Juan Guaidó's legitimacy. Let me say then that the National Assembly elected in 2015 was democratically elected. Unlike Nicolá Maduro, Juan Guaidó was declared interim president by means of a democratic procedure, thereby giving him democratic legitimacy in that role. On 5 January 2022, the opposition in the National Assembly extended Guaidó's mandate for another year. Sweden continues to support Guaidó as well as other actors in Venezuela who are working towards a return to democratic order, including free and fair presidential and parliamentary elections, and I myself have a conversation scheduled with Guaidó next week. I had hoped that the Left Party would take a different view of this.
i-PL7qLAXe4KzZ1Z7nymv5Ud	Mr President, I would like to We have never questioned the election of the National Assembly. We have questioned the presidential election in 2018, which led to Maduro receiving another term of office. On the other hand, which the Right often forgets, Maduro was correctly elected in the 2014 elections. What I wonder is whether the Secretary of State thinks things have gone well in Venezuela. Here we are, and there is still a political crisis in Venezuela. Sweden has been in the international contact group, and it has been said that it should care about Venezuela and the people of Venezuela. In practice, however, it has only been a matter of following the pointers of the United States and being part of the hegemony of the recognition of Guaidó. Who's Guaidó? He was elected with fewer votes than the Liberals to the Swedish Parliament! This shows that there is no popular support for him. He was president of the National Assembly, but that does not make him president. The opposition has moved on. They've left Guaidó behind. It's the West that's holding on to her boyfriend. I think Ann Linde should stop doing that.
i-Q8JGqydT8cP3ef4fiw9n3G	Mr President, I would like to It was an excellent change of line and a brilliant and adequate question that the Foreign Minister put to the Left Party. I say to the Left Party, as I said to the Swedish Democrats earlier: I think we should regret some positions taken, and I also think that Svenneling's response to Venezuela gives reason to go home and revise some positions. However, I did not intend to dwell much on Venezuela, nor on the view of Ukraine. Because if Ukraine is now subjected to a large-scale armed attack, in addition to the war Russia is already engaged in in in eastern Ukraine and the illegal annexation of Crimea, I think that the outside world will do well to think about how we can support Ukraine in every way. The Left Party called on the Swedish Democrats to talk to their MEPs. I call on the Left Party, Mr President, to talk to its group in the European Parliament. Malin Björk usually ends up right. But the party group of which the Left Party is part, with Communists and other loose peoples, abstained or voted against the package yesterday. The truth is, Mr President, that the Left Party is on the same side as the Swedish Democrats in the European Parliament in terms of support for Ukraine. There is a clear potential for improvement, Mr President.
i-MHgJrecaKVxW73dfMnWVZM	Mr President, I would like to I agree with Hans Wallmark. I am certainly not proud of many of the left-wing representatives in foreign policy. It has gone so far that the Left Party, together with our Nordic sister parties – the Left Alliance and the Danish Unity List – have taken hold of this and appointed their own replacement in the European Parliament's Foreign Affairs Committee, namely our MEP Malin Björk, precisely because she ends up right. I think that the European Parliament is a very bad institution when it comes to conducting foreign policy. They often end up strange and wrong and raise wrong questions. But now it is what it is, and now that we are redeploying in the European Parliament, we have simply chosen to put a representative there, and we are doing so because we do not want to be represented by half-crazed Irish people with an independent mandate. I will still correct Wallmark when it comes to the vote. In fact, there were far more representatives from the ECR Group, to whom the Swedish Democrats belong, and the ID Group, as it were, voted in favour of the Putin regime by voting against or abstaining on the resolution on Ukraine. I have had good contact with Malin Björk and noted that this is a resolution dealing with financial support for Ukraine. I believe that financial support for Ukraine is incredibly important at this stage. The war has been going on since 2014. That is a long time, and it can last for as many years. Then an economically and democratically stable and secure Ukraine is much stronger for a great will and resilience than if these hybrid attacks from Russia take hold. That is why we need to support Ukraine financially. I do not believe in the military lines that we should look in surplus for an old uniform to send down to Ukraine. I do not think it will help the Ukrainian people very much.
i-L18cmH46647kjcoEK7gbZY	Mr President, I would like to The difference between the Left Party and the Moderates is that we see the existential threat to Ukraine. That's why I think you need the whole palette. I think it is excellent that Håkan Svenneling still rejects where the Left Party's group in the European Parliament ended up in the vote yesterday. It's... it's... it's... it's... it's... I can also continue to commend Håkan Svenneling and the Left Party. Svenneling himself was the one who then initiated an extended hand for a number of foreign policy debates that we should set up a Commission with regard to Gui Minhai and Dawit Isaak. We have implemented this in the Swedish Parliament, with the support of a variety of other parties. It shows that there is also a value in being a gathering party. Finally, let me ask you a few questions. You want to become part of a government with the Social Democrats. How does this work with your view of host country agreements, that is, no, no cooperation with NATO, not having a NATO ambassador in Brussels? What will the Left Party demand to become a government-supporting party together with the Social Democrats and the Green Party?
i-cScubim8rfVkry9YK9ovj	Mr President, I would like to Those were exciting questions. It is fun if the Moderates believe that on the left side we will win the election on September 11th and thereby form a government together. I hope so, but it is a little surprising that Wallmark supports this. Of course, we will have to come back to what we are going to demand, but it is quite clear that there are differences in the foreign policy of the Left Party and the Social Democrats. We will try to bridge them, with good experiences from our other Nordic neighbours where we have had good cooperation. But it will be clear that the Left Party will also have demands in the field of foreign policy to put us in a government. I would not be surprised if one of those demands is that Sweden should work actively for nuclear disarmament around the world.
i-FCagiB7sbTy9YgtWKmfZSj	Mr President, I would like to I'm a little curious. Is the Left Party behind the solidarity policy, the unique Swedish solidarity statement that if an EU country, a Nordic country, is attacked by Russia, Sweden is not neutral? How does the Left Party view this? I would also like to hear whether the Left Party believes that the EU is Sweden's most important foreign policy arena. We have discussed the freedom of military alliance in previous debates. Of course, I am also interested in hearing who, in addition to the Left Party, the Social Democrats and the Green Party, thinks that military alliance freedom contributes to peace and stability? On 17 December, a clarification came from the Kremlin where I heard Putin say that NATO would roll back to where it was in 1997. That was their line, and that's what the Kremlin wants to achieve. Is it also something that the Left Party wants to push for peace and stability because NATO is a threat and military freedom of alliance provides security, stability and peace in our part of the world?
i-LfyNAwkmXoFQxZbWzKmUFK	Mr President, I would like to That's a lot of questions. Let's see if I have time for all of them. The Declaration of Solidarity referred to by Kerstin Lundgren is contained, inter alia, in Article 42(7) of the Treaty of Lisbon. The Left Party was opposed to the introduction of the Lisbon Treaty because it contributed to the EU's increased supranationality. On the other hand, the Left Party believes that we should be solidarity with the Nordic countries in the first place and assist each other if Sweden or any of the countries end up in conflict or war, suffer from a natural disaster or similar. We also think that we have a responsibility towards the rest of Europe, but it is not that we have expressed it exactly. It is also unclear what the Treaty of Lisbon article means. No, the EU is not Sweden's most important foreign policy arena; it is the United Nations, the UN, that should be. That is where we should focus more on getting along with other countries precisely because the whole world is involved. I think it is obvious that there is too much focus on the EU, and it has created a foreign policy in Sweden that does not care enough about Africa, about Latin America and about developments in large parts of Asia. There has been too much Europe in Swedish foreign policy. I believe that the military freedom of alliance has served Sweden well. It has also meant that Sweden has had 200 years without war. I think the Swedish people are satisfied with this. With regard to NATO and Russia's now renewed interest in the Warsaw Pact, it is about the failure of the 1990s and the early 2000s in actual real disarmament. The Warsaw Pact was dissolved, and it should have happened with NATO whenever possible.
i-SBGKLoBySDq1gaDE5LttbD	Mr President, I would like to This is gonna be interesting. I hear that the Left Party does not see the EU as Sweden's most important foreign policy arena. It's worth noting for many. I asked about the unique Swedish solidarity clause. Actually, I didn't hear an answer there. I heard a reference to Article 42(7) of the Treaty of Lisbon, against which the Left Party was opposed. However, I did not hear the common view expressed by Parliament in connection with the 2009 defence decision, which is part of the solidarity policy. It states that if a conflict, crisis or war occurs in one of our Nordic neighbours or in the EU, Sweden will not be passive. How's the Left Party standing there?
i-98cLZxSq4wob72wZvEMs8Z	Mr President, I would like to I thought I answered the question clearly. As demonstrated by our follow-up motion in connection with the total defence decision, we support the line that Sweden should help. But I think it is dangerous to do as some bourgeois politicians do, namely draw a parallel between NATO's Article 4 – 5, thank you, you always become unsure whether it is 4, 5 or 6 – and the Treaty of Lisbon's Article 42(7). It's one thing if it's a crisis, and it's another thing if it's a war. This means that Sweden's military alliance freedom has served us well because no one can perceive it as not wanting to be non-aligned. As I said in my speech, we think that defence cooperation with Finland is good. We want to continue to protect it, deepen it and develop it together with our Finnish counterparts.
i-Dv3kQ9me8QTzP1mfNY2z2	Mr President, I would like to In the wake of an increasingly authoritarian Russia, there is basically a political agreement that Swedish defence will be strengthened while cooperation with other democracies and NATO will be deepened. The Left Party deviates as we have just heard from this view. The party's view seems to be that the UN and Finland will assist Sweden in a possible military attack. Mr President, I would like to This is de facto and naive, but not just that. To suspend all cooperation with NATO, as the Left Party wishes, would be directly irresponsible. It would undermine military capabilities, and it would demolish the possibilities to defend Sweden in the long term. I am not saying, Mr President, that the Left Party wants to play Moscow in this way. Yet that's what the party does, Håkan Svenneling. It will be just as bad when Håkan Svenneling writes in a debate article in the GP that cooperation with NATO is increasing tensions in our neighbourhood. The wording could be taken from the Russian troll factories and shows that the Left Party cannot distinguish between fundamental right and error. The responsibility, Håkan Svenneling, for Europe's most serious security policy crisis in decades does not lie with the independent states that choose to cooperate with the Western Defence Alliance. The responsibility lies 100% in Moscow. Say it loud and clear, Håkan Svenneling!
i-NuommoPWK55xiea3BH5YFw	Mr President, I would like to I want to start by correcting Lars Adaktusson. The Left Party wants to increase defence spending and has been pushing it for a long time. We changed our defence policy as early as 2012. Then I think it is clear that Lars Adaktusson does not listen to the commander-in-chief of Sweden when he says that a military attack on Sweden is unlikely. That is what has been the Left Party line and what the Supreme Commander has repeated time and again during this crisis. A military attack on Sweden is still unlikely. Yes, Lars Adaktusson, you are right – it is Putin and the Kremlin regime that are responsible for the deteriorating security situation and the political situation we find ourselves in. I think it's important to have two things in your head when you talk about the Kremlin. Russia always wants us to be in a state of uncertainty. There will be no magic solution to this crisis as if waving a wand or having a magic formula will all work out. Russia likes it when it's insecure and gray. We will be in this grey area for a long time to come, as long as Putin is in power in Russia. That is why we must support the democratic opposition in Russia, the real opposition. It is not in any parties, for them Putin only closes down, but it is activists who are fighting for another Russia. It would make our neighbourhood safer if Russia became more democratic. That is the problem with NATO. Lars Adaktusson refers exemplaryly to our debate article, which is shaped by the policy of the Left Party for a long time. NATO is helping to increase tensions. When you increase your troops' contributions in Norway or want more American soldiers in Denmark, it helps to worsen the security situation in Sweden's immediate area, and I am deeply concerned about that. That is why I am against Swedish NATO membership, and that is why I am against Sweden approaching NATO as we do.
i-Wi2SyfZF6YEfEh8KA4wLA4	Mr President, I would like to An authoritarian and threatening regime in Moscow and a military armament that Europe has not seen for decades – it demands realistic political assessments, and it demands accountability. What Håkan Svenneling is now delivering is an exposé of devious reasoning and unthinking hopes. The security political confidence capital of the Left Party has been very low since the Communist years, and it will be even lower in the light of recent action by the party. That is not only regrettable, Mr President. It's really bad.
i-H1Myiw2jbXWSC9Z6TtYKYS	Mr President, I would like to The left-wing security policy line has long been clear. We say that Russia is a security policy threat – but first and foremost to everyone in Russia who opposes the regime and does not fit in with the society that Putin wants to build. For LGBTQ people, feminists, indigenous representatives, environmental movements and leftist activists, their own regime is a daily security threat. Last year, the MR organisation Memorial was dissolved. There have been falsified elections to the State Duma, and Navalnyj has been both poisoned and sent to labour camps. In addition, Russia has an imperialist policy that poses a direct threat to the population of several neighbouring countries, notably Ukraine, Georgia, Moldova and the countries of Central Asia. We have seen many tests of this in the last year, which I can list. Thirdly, Russia poses a security policy threat to us, but it is still unlikely.
i-Kghx5Ch6r9rsBkk9UHGMDx	Mr President, I would like to I have three questions for Mr Svenneling. I would like to start with the question of Ukraine. The Left Party as a party and your Members supported the economic package voted on yesterday in the European Parliament. That's a good thing. At the same time, Svenneling here in the speaker's chair says that the Left Party is against helping Ukraine in the way Ukraine might need, for example with weapons. It is, in fact, arms exports that the Left Party is opposed to. I see a way forward. Should it turn out that Swedish legislation does not allow us to help Ukraine with weapons, I see as a way forward that we are instead helping Ukraine with financial means to buy weapons. It could be a way to get around this and help Ukraine. I wonder if the Left Party in the Swedish Parliament could support a proposal for financial support for Ukraine that can be used to buy weapons. The Left Party is happy to talk about poverty in the world. It is a commitment that we share. I also want to lift people out of poverty, and the most effective way of doing so is through universal and equal property rights and through trade, free trade. The Left Party is usually opposed to various free trade agreements being debated, but I wonder what new free trade agreements the Left Party would like to see because trade lifts people out of poverty. That's my second question. My third question relates to what Mr Svenneling said at the shift in line with the Center Party. He said NATO should have been dissolved just like the Warsaw Pact. It is a hair-traveling comparison in many ways, but I wonder which other organizations the Left Party is against and which Svenneling wants to dissolve. Is it the EU? Is it the WTO? Is it the Nordic Council or any other organisation that the Left Party is or has been against? Who does Svenneling want to dissolve?
i-3rRrw9dfbWQQrjGoGwAAEd	Mr President, I would like to Here we have a really big question battery from Joar Forssell. As far as Ukraine is concerned, I believe that it serves us well to have strict arms exports. In the long run, we want a world free of weapons. It is a very idealistic and fine goal, and it is a long journey before we are there. But that starting point is still very different from the Liberals' starting point, which is often that as soon as there is a crisis, you want to send a Japlan there. Surely that is what makes me defend the strict export legislation and do not see in front of me that we should try to round it in any way. It must instead be examined against the legislation in force. Then it is true that if states are at war, as Ukraine and Russia have been doing since 2014, it is an obstacle that is difficult to pass. As far as poverty is concerned, trade is important to counter it. What has been the problem is the injustice of many of the trade agreements that exist, such as opportunities for companies to sue states, which have had very negative effects on a lot of developing countries. There are good free trade agreements. I think that within the African Free Trade Agreement is an excellent agreement in terms of creating development on the African continent. The problem has been that it is a certain form of neo-colonialism in the trade agreements in which the EU has been involved. As far as NATO is concerned, of course, it is a rather special position that we think it should be dissolved. I find it difficult to see how the Left Party's party programme could have the effect of dissolving NATO by itself because we are writing it. But what I can think of is the only organization that we believe should be dissolved. I think that this wording of our current programme should be seen as a clear hint to the 1990s when the Warsaw Pact was dissolved and there were disarmament agreements on the table. Unfortunately, it does not quite do so now, but we need to get back to a situation in foreign policy where there is talk of disarmament and military security together.
i-8mvv6LL3Chq91RWqcejCSV	Mr President, I would like to Say that it turns out, as it now seems, that the battle over the European security regime and the right of each country to determine its own foreign and security policy is in Ukraine and Ukraine needs weapons in order to defend itself and, by extension, to defend us as well. Then it is strange if the Left Party has the objection that we cannot even give money, financial support, if it could be used to buy weapons. Yesterday, the Left Party voted to provide financial support to Ukraine. If it turns out that Ukraine is using that money to purchase weapons, among other things, I hope that the Left Party will not back down and will suddenly be against the EU supporting Ukraine at this very difficult moment. It is also a question of supporting the European security regime. Whoever is not on Ukraine's side is on the Kremlin's side. I note that we disagree about NATO, but I did not get an answer to what new free trade agreements Håkan Svenneling wants to see between Sweden and the rest of the world.
i-TmcaRcdKdC8pAbUepT2qcy	Mr President, I would like to I don't think I have time to answer the last question, I can say right away. The most important thing is to have a stable Ukraine in order for Ukraine to have a good resilience. We know that since Zelenskyj went out and said that there is a threat of a Russian invasion, the Ukrainian economy has had a huge blow. Foreign investment has disappeared, and a lot of countries have withdrawn from it. Sweden has not been one of those countries; rather, we have contributed increased support. We are voting in favour of this in the European Parliament, as Mr Joar mentions. I think this is incredibly important in order to create a resilient and stable Ukraine. We also see democratic reforms, counter-corruption and so on as important. The problem with Swedish weapons is that they show up here and there. We have seen them in the hands of IS, and we have seen them in countries that have been subject to the UN arms embargo – not to mention Libya, where we bombed a country to pieces and then suddenly discover that to this day, ten years later, it is a crisis. This is the problem when Swedish weapons are used abroad in the way the Liberals want.
i-thpCd8EaWzr2KoMTgNiaH	Mr President, I would like to Alongside China and Iran, Russia is today the most serious threat to international peace and security. There is no doubt about what Vladimir Putin and his regime are capable of. We see it with frightening clarity these days, and we have seen it before. The attack on Georgia in 2008, the murder in eastern Ukraine and the annexation of Crimea in 2014, launched the shameless policy of conquest, the continuation of which we are now witnessing. With the military build-up and threats to Ukraine, the Russian regime intends to demolish the European security regime and set an example. An independent state shall be hijacked. The right of nations to decide on their own belonging and future will be subordinated to the Russian sphere of influence. Putin does not hide his intentions: to weaken the EU and NATO, to put an end to more countries joining the cooperation, to pursue their Russian empire building. Mr President, I would like to Military armaments and troop contractions formed in bundles around Ukraine are not a limited threat. Russia is threatening Europe as a whole. Therefore, it is essential that responsibility for this is placed where it belongs – with the criminals in the Kremlin. It is equally important that the Member States of the European Union, as well as NATO, remain united in condemning Russia and in supporting Ukraine – with defence equipment, with defensive weapons if possible and with economic and humanitarian aid. If it is at some point that the EU Member States should speak with one voice in foreign policy, it is now. If at some point words have to be followed by action, it is when our common security is threatened. The Christian Democrats have on several occasions welcomed Sweden's bilateral defence cooperation with, for example, Finland, the United States and the United Kingdom. At the same time, we have stressed that guarantees of external assistance in the event of a military attack can only be obtained through full membership of NATO. For this and other reasons, Sweden should long ago have been a member of the Western Defence Alliance. However, social democratic incapacity and fragmentation have blocked the issue. According to the government, NATO membership would create uncertainty and change the doctrine of security policy. In fact, the opposite is true. Membership would clarify Sweden's line and provide treaty guarantees for external assistance. The fact that the government prioritises house peace in its own party over Sweden's national security is a daring and far from necessary risk-taking. Mr President, I would like to Alongside Russia, developments in the People's Republic of China are deeply worrying. As a result of political decisions, the power of the Communist Party is strengthened at the expense of human dignity, democracy and economic reform. In recent years, religious persecution has intensified, against Christians and against Muslims. In Xinjiang province, a million Uighurs are tortured and brainwashed. In Hong Kong oppositionists are persecuted and imprisoned by China's notorious security laws. In independent Taiwan, freedom and democracy are threatened by the military displays and threats of war by the Beijing regime. In parallel, the regime's global appetite is growing. In high technology and infrastructure, huge investments are being made to strengthen the power of the Communist Party. Mr President, I would like to In the Middle East, Iran is a destructive and destabilising factor. We see it in Yemen and Syria, and we see it in Lebanon and Iraq. We see this in the never-ending support of the dictatorship regime for jihadists and terrorists. We see it in the constant threats of annihilating Israel and the Jewish people. For this reason, Israel, in particular, needs our support. The Christian Democrats welcome the improved bilateral relations between Sweden and Israel. At the same time, we stress the importance of seven lost years in Swedish – Israeli relations now having to be followed by action. This can be done through an active Swedish commitment to Abraham's agreements, and this can be done by moving the Embassy of Sweden from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem, which is the capital of Israel. Mr President, I would like to Recently, the Open Doors organization published this year's compilation of the countries where it is most difficult to live as a Christian today. Of the world's 2.3 billion Christians today, over 300 million are denied the freedom to practice their faith. From being a distinct problem, the persecution of Christians has become a serious global problem. From Mexico in the west to Indonesia and India in the east, the abuse is now taking place. The government's reaction to this is lack of interest and indifference. The foreign declaration does not mention religious persecution. Commitment and political proposals are reflected in their absence, just as they have been for two full terms of office. In addition, a continued refusal to recognise the Armenian genocide in 1915 and the genocide of Assyrians, Syrians and Chaldeans in 2014. Ann Linde, which betrayed this is against Christian indigenous peoples. What a mistake it is to remain silent. Silence encourages the tormentor, never the tormented one, writes the Peace Prize winner Elie Wiesel. From that insight, I call on the Foreign Minister and the government to take on board.
i-Stff9biFea51HbULqWweTd	Mr President, I would like to A generous aid is needed in a world characterised by the covid-19 pandemic, democracy in decline and climate change that is hitting the people who are most vulnerable. The UN's objective is not a ceiling, but a level that all countries should strive to achieve. For example, in 2020 our neighbouring country, Norway, also provided more than 1% of its GDP as aid. Our international solidarity gives us respect and influence. Several international organisations highlight Sweden's contribution as central to their activities. How can the KD ensure that the 1% target remains in cooperation within the right-hand conservative bloc, with M and SD who want to cut aid substantially?
i-4z1MWYPJNCQEF8eK33ubLP	Mr President, I would like to As the Minister for Foreign Affairs knows, the Christian Democrats are a committed and involved party in terms of international aid. It has been one of the most important issues of Christian Democracy and Democrats throughout our existence. We stand for international solidarity with the poor and vulnerable in the poor part of the world. We stand for solidarity with those who, for various reasons, need a helping hand. There are no proposals whatsoever in our party to change this. On the contrary, I believe that support for the Christian Democrats' aid policy within the party is stronger than it may have been in the past. We have no intention whatsoever of abandoning that position. With regard to what will happen in any future negotiations, it is, of course, impossible to speak today. What we know is that there has been an understanding of the views of the Christian Democrats in the contacts that have so far been pre-emptive between the Swedish Democrats, the Moderates and the Christian Democrats, and we have also succeeded in asserting the 1% target in those talks.
i-UtcbQpU6phdRNN8KvFsZD6	Mr President, I would like to That is precisely why I am raising the issue, because I know how committed the KD and not least the members of the KD around the country are to the issues of aid. KD and KD members will have all respect for that. I wonder if Lars Adaktusson can promise that the KD will not vote in favour of a budget that abandons the 1% target.
i-G2YHVdttbBmKe3zvrMjf2N	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Foreign Minister for her confidence in me being able to issue ultimatums on behalf of my own party. I do not really have that position, and it would be foolish for some Christian Democrat representative to guarantee something for any future government negotiations. But what the voters know, and what the Social Democrats and others know, is where we stand on this issue. You also know that we in this Parliament are prepared to fight for the 1% target. We have demonstrated this clearly, not least during this parliamentary term.
i-Cp7DdSt4taXXEN5ezVd73B	Mr President, I would like to If you are going to do what Hans Wallmark wants, you should start by commending Lars Adaktusson, Gudrun Brunegård and Jakob Forssmed for standing up for the 1% target in the budget that unfortunately won the support of the Riksdag. At least it was good for the aid. Now to topics where we do not agree with each other. Most of us want to achieve a world free from nuclear threats. Even the five nuclear weapons states, the P5, stated at the beginning of January that a nuclear war can never be won but only lead to earth's destruction. But this does not seem to apply to the Christian Democrats. On the contrary, you are angry that the government intends to go as an observer to the UN Nuclear Weapons Convention, signed by 59 countries worldwide. Sweden is far from alone in going as an observer, although unfortunately we have not yet signed the Convention. So do Norway, Finland, Germany and Switzerland. But the Christian Democrats have put forward a committee initiative to try to stop Sweden's participation. It is likely, however, that tomorrow's committee meeting will be beaten up. But the so-called P5 is not the only countries that have nuclear weapons. Lars Adaktusson is often rightly heard worrying about North Korea's possession and Iran's attempts to acquire nuclear weapons. At the same time, he is happy to forget about a country that has for a long time opposed the implementation of a nuclear-free zone in the Middle East. The country is Israel, or, as Lars Adaktusson says, the only democracy in the Middle East. However, Israel's policy is not that democratic, at least not against Palestinians. Now another human rights organisation, Amnesty, has established that Israel divides people according to apartheid principles. This applies both to Palestinians in occupied Palestine and Palestinians with Israeli citizenship. Amnesty demands that the International Criminal Court investigate the crimes and call those responsible to account. I wonder why Lars Adaktusson is defending Israel's nuclear weapons.
i-53WELQjzKh8zY6hXRTuZZC	Mr President, I would like to Israel is not a perfect country in every respect. Just as there is reason to criticise Sweden's actions, there may be reason to criticise Israel. But as a basis for serious criticism, the Amnesty report to which Håkan Svenneling refers is not good enough. It's incomplete. It is unbalanced, and it is almost a party submission for the BDS movement and the forces that black out Israel. How can a serious human rights organisation in such a report completely ignore Israel's legitimate security needs? Israel is literally surrounded by international terrorist organisations and dictatorship regimes that want nothing more than to wipe out both Israel and its people. How can Amnesty ignore the fact that post-study investigation shows that the Arab minority does not want to leave Israel, since their existence there is far better than anywhere else in the Middle East? There are many who, with Håkan Svenneling and Amnesty, attack Israel because it is a Jewish state. Yet this was just one of the main objectives of the UN's division plan in 1947. Israel said yes to that plan, although it also included a Palestinian state, but the leaders of the Arab world said no. Anyone who speaks of apartheid and Israel in the same sense disqualifies himself from serious debate and relativises the severe suffering of the black population in South Africa.
i-VwzEDgPxb7Uq8PxpTwS8MY	Mr President, I would like to That's how the Israeli huggers argue: Since there is a security threat to Israel as a state – which is absolutely true and right and something that all of us agree with – Israel has the right to commit any violation of human rights within Israel or in the areas of Palestine that Israel occupies. But that's not the case. This must be criticised. When I went to Israel for the first time many years ago, we began by visiting the Arab and Palestinian minority in Israel. I was already appalled at how they do not receive building permits and are continuously discriminated against in the Israeli state administration. Then I went to occupied Palestine and saw the violence that Palestinian children and boys are subjected to daily at checkpoints, in harassment, in raids and so on. This is MR crime, Lars, and you must also dare stand up for it! By not seeing this, but rather by pulling down Amnesty, a credible organization, you are trying to conceal Israel's shortcomings.
i-2UK9VgYa5RU4jvDUuFMeps	Mr President, I would like to The other day, The Economist published a democracy index, where the world's countries rank in terms of democracy and human rights. Each year, all countries are evaluated in the same way according to strict criteria. A v 20 countries in the Middle East rank 17 as dictatorships. At the same time Israel gets the best rating so far and ranks on place 23 of all 167 countries. This means that Israel receives higher ratings than, for example, Spain, the Baltic States, Portugal, Italy, Belgium and the United States. Doesn't that say everything, Håkan Svenneling? Israel is a stable democracy, not an apartheid state.
i-CGACojgqqWMoXVXPZgKS7J	Mr President, I would like to Thank you to everyone for a very good debate! We in Sweden have a lot to be proud of. We are, of course, far from being clear, but we are a model in terms of climate, democracy and gender equality. But there are also things that we should be ashamed of. Sweden's history of neutrality in times when evil stood against good is an example of this. The old Swedish neutrality line must be replaced by a value-based policy in which we never fold in the defence of the values of liberal democracy. Mr President, I would like to In our absolute vicinity is Lithuania. It is a small country that is economically dependent on openness to the outside world, a well-developed democracy and an example in foreign policy. Despite their relative smallness, a value-based foreign policy has been chosen. In their case, this is due, inter alia, to Lithuania's failure to submit to the bullies of the Chinese dictatorship. As an example, they have opened a de facto embassy in Taiwan. That should really be a matter of course. Mr President, I would like to This is a pen, this is a piece of paper and Andreas Norlén – and Taiwan is a country of its own. You can like it or you can't like it, but in political science, it's true. Taiwan has a people, there is a territory and there is a functioning state. You can't get around no matter what you think about it. In addition, Taiwan is the world's eighth best functioning democracy. In the same study, Sweden is ranked fourth. Countries such as Australia, Switzerland, the Netherlands and Canada are located shortly after Taiwan. If we had conducted a value-based foreign policy, we would have followed Lithuania's path in relation to Taiwan. Relations between our countries, peoples and companies should be deepened. All countries have the right to decide on their own foreign policy, including Sweden and Lithuania. Third country opinion, in this case China, is irrelevant. As a liberal, it is constantly being questioned by leftists who believe that there are no free elections. I usually admit that there are no completely free or unfree choices. All the choices are influenced by something. But there are more or less free choices, and I think we have to fight for all people to be more free. In the case of Taiwan, I am quite sure that the people of the country would be doubtful if the question of independence were asked today. The military threat from China makes their choice unfree. If, instead, the question were to be, would you, if there were no risk of a military attack by China, want Taiwan to declare independence? I am quite convinced that the answer would be yes. The people of Taiwan have the right to choose their own future in free and democratic elections. Our duty as democrats is to support this and to counter what makes the elections less free, such as China's influence and military threats. Having said this, which is really a matter of course, I am not surprised if the Chinese Embassy sends an upset email. They usually do. They're trying to get us elected politicians to dance after their pipe. I am not going to dance after their pipe, and I do not think that any other democrat should do it either. Mr President, I would like to I pay attention to the kind of letters sent by the Chinese Embassy and Ambassador Cui Aimin. Don't send me a more threatening letter, because it's still beneath my dignity to answer. China has nothing to do with our relations with other democracies. We are a democracy, and here we all say and think what they want. We will continue to condemn China's continuing violations of human rights. The angry letters are getting a little embarrassing and actually make the whole dictatorship look pretty ridiculous. I feel sorry for those who work at the Chinese Embassy and must live under the oppression of dictator Xi Jinping and the Communist Party. I will fight for them to live in freedom and democracy in the future. Mr President, I would like to In addition, China's dictator should be brought to justice for the terrible crimes that the dictatorship has committed against, among other things, the Uighurs. Mr President, I would like to All this – Taiwan, Lithuania and China – is a good example of what a value-based foreign policy could mean. Of course, putting human rights, freedom of expression, self-ownership, the rule of law and all other elements of liberal democracy first does not stop there. Aid policy must promote democracy at all times. Free trade must increase so that more people gain ownership and are lifted from poverty. The feminist struggle for equal rights and opportunities for men and women must be spread throughout the world. The government should not, as a matter of principle, participate in major sporting events or other jippos in non-democrats. The climate issue must be resolved together with others, EU cooperation should be deepened and Sweden should of course join NATO. We cannot and should not remain neutral between democracy and dictatorship and the issue of freedom and freedom. We must have a value-based foreign policy. Mr President, I would like to Right now, Russia's aggression against Ukraine threatens the European security regime. Responsibility rests entirely with the Kremlin, Putin and Russia. Ukraine has the right to decide on its own foreign and security policy. Much has already been said about this in today's debate, but I would still like to make a few points. First of all, I would like to say that Sweden should join NATO as soon as possible. We were the first party in the Swedish Parliament to make this demand, and I am pleased that more people have joined. A value-based foreign policy does not hide any means to defend our liberal democracy and our security regime. If Ukraine asks for support, Sweden must support us in every way we can. Yesterday, the European Parliament voted on financial support, and SD was the only Swedish party to vote against it. Sweden should, of course, be in favour of the EU's support. If Ukraine requests other forms of assistance from Sweden, such as logistical support, medical assistance or military equipment including weapons, we shall also be available. If it turns out that Swedish legislation stands in the way, we should instead contribute with financial means to enable arms purchases. The fact that the UK and not we ourselves have sent Carl Gustaf from Sweden is quite embarrassing. Mr President, I would like to There is already a war going on in Ukraine, and the Russian aggression that has already been shown is sufficient to justify very tough sanctions. Anyone who is not on Ukraine's side is on the side of Moscow, the Kremlin and Putin. Mr President, I would like to Russia's action against Ukraine is not an isolated incident. On the contrary, it is based on revengeism and is part of their long-term strategy of destabilising the outside world and expanding Russia's territory. You can't just talk to the Kremlin. In their world, it is a zero-sum game where both parties cannot win. That is why all the measures must be on the table. A value-based foreign policy backs neither to send weapons to Ukraine nor to shut Russia out of the Swift digital payment system if necessary. In principle, Sweden should support any sanction proposed. Mr. Old President! Sweden should change its foreign policy doctrine to a value-based one, where we never turn to bullies and anti-democrats and always defend liberal values everywhere.
i-2sf2tFEM7Cvxmk8Tdpk7Hf	Mr. Old President! The fact that the EU is Sweden's most important foreign and security policy arena is a position shared by the Social Democrats and the Liberals. We heard this in today's debate that the Swedish Democrats are not up for it. The threats to democracy, human rights and the rule of law have increased in our region and globally. That is why a strong Europe is needed more than ever. Next year, Sweden will also chair the EU for the third time. We will raise the issue of the principles of the rule of law and human rights. How do the Liberals view being part of a right-wing conservative government cooperation where the anti-EU SD is the largest or second-largest party and will have a proportional influence on foreign and security policy?
i-74BfbyHVjYnSxfgzLfUvmz	Mr. Old President! I thank the Foreign Minister for a good question. It is true that the Liberals want to see much deeper EU cooperation. Our vision for the future is even to have a European federation. It can be said that most major problems in foreign policy cannot be solved by Sweden alone but must be resolved jointly with other like-minded people. There, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs states, the European Union is our most important tool in foreign policy. On the question of government, I can begin by saying that whether it is a right-wing constellation or a left-wing constellation that governs after the elections, it will depend either on the Left Party or on the Swedish Democrats, both of whom are critical of EU cooperation. None of these parties want to be included. Me and the Liberals want to see a bourgeois government leaning liberally, Mr. Old President. We do not just want to see a right-wing government or a bourgeois government that defends property rights, that wants to increase free trade and that believes in man's own drive and so on. The reason why we not only want a bourgeois government but also want it to lean liberally is that we are concerned that if the Liberals are not involved in such cooperation, the government risks lining the other way. We want to see a bourgeois government carrying out liberal reforms, but this cannot be done if we have a bourgeois government supported only by the Swedish Democrats, the Christian Democrats and the Moderates. The Swedish Democrats are not a bourgeois party but, in many cases, pursue a left-wing economic policy, and they also have their well-known past and EU criticisms. Liberals are needed so that a bourgeois government does not run in the wrong direction.
i-HN8vMfvUqtD51UawNWiGV3	Mr. Old President! I wonder how far the Liberals want to go to support a right-wing conservative bloc, especially given that SD can become the largest party in that constellation. Will the Liberals be able to be part of such a bloc unless it is established that the EU is our most important foreign and security policy arena?
i-WS9LCKNPkV3d1C9bnvyJ1a	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Minister, for the question. As in all contexts and all political collaborations, there will of course be red lines. I don't see it like you're supposed to get influence by size. That is not how political cooperation works, as the Minister of Foreign Affairs is well aware. That's not how the January deal worked. It was a rewarding and take-up, in which the Social Democrats may have received much but not quite as much as the size of the Social Democrats should have given. In the same way, alliance cooperation worked earlier, with a rewarding and taking. It is often or really always the case that the smaller the parties are, the greater the influence they have because it is the voice of the margin that counts. That is the 175th mandate. In the case of the Social Democrats, it is Amineh Kakabaveh's vote that counts. That Member's influence may be disproportionate from the point of view of the individual position she holds, but she is needed for the Social Democrats to be able to sit in power.
i-MgTzF8PVSsaQf5skV1hNfa	Mr. Old President! Joar Forssell highlighted Lithuania as a good example, and he rightly does so. Lithuania has been successful in many areas of foreign policy. But there is one area where Lithuania is known not to be so prominent, and that is LGBTQ people's rights. That's where you're really at the bottom. It was even the case that a Member of the European Parliament from Joar Forssell's own group stated that LGBT people are perverted. I simply wonder: how does Joar Forssell, who wants to combat bullies and anti-democrats, view this part of Lithuania's foreign policy and his own MEPs?
i-UdPQzawNNu9rQHVequsShE	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Håkan Svenneling, for the question! Of course it's terrible. That is not how you should express yourself, and that is not the kind of policy you should conduct. For me, a value-based foreign policy is about protecting human rights, all of which are based on liberal theory – man's right to his own body and man's self-ownership. With it comes the right to love who you want, the right to say what you want, the right to own, the right to write what you want and the right not to have your personal or economic sphere restricted by the state. All this results from man's owning himself. It doesn't matter what person it is. Every person has and should have the right to decide over himself, and no one has the right to decide over anyone else in essence. It goes without saying that liberals stand for these principles. When I talk about a value-based foreign policy, these are the principles I mean we should defend. I believe that we must defend them in all countries, everywhere and always, and I condemn those who do not. It is clear that I can find examples of left-wing people who have said reprehensible things or examples of left-wing governments and left-wing regimes in the world who do very reprehensible things. Of course, Mr Svenneling knows this. We have debated it before. It doesn't make me think Håkan Svenneling stands for such things. In the same way, I hope that we can keep this debate at a fairly high level. I believe, Mr President, that the honourable Member is well aware of the long history of the Liberals in standing up for LGBTI people's rights, both in Sweden and abroad.
i-9RhvuuBFtDEinjTzjdNmLu	Mr. Old President! I am pleased with Joar Forssell's great commitment, and I think it is good that the Liberal Group has thrown out Viktor Uspaski ch after the statement that LGBT people are perverted. I think that is a natural consequence of such statements. This shows, however, that even good liberals can suddenly be present in the group in the European Parliament and make such statements. Although Lithuania's merits are highlighted, I think it is a good thing to sometimes nuance and see where countries are lacking. We had an interesting and good discussion with the Lithuanian Foreign Affairs Committee, but it was clear that there were clear nationalist forces in their committees and in some other committees that we have met. I therefore hope that it is with the glasses that Joar Forssell analyses Lithuania's foreign policy, when he sees them as a good example.
i-5LGcafc8KrVgRRQLMowY16	Mr. Old President! Of course it is. What I have tried to say and which I think I said is that Lithuania is an example of having chosen to have a value-based foreign policy in which values are put above other interests and that they dare to stand up for values even if it gets a bit tough and difficult, as in the case of China. That is why it is a good example, and it is this example that I want Sweden to follow. I have a lot of criticism of a lot of policies being conducted in Lithuania, just as I have against all countries, including Sweden. I suspect that if you meet with the Swedish Foreign Affairs Committee you will find that there are certain forces that are opponents of the European Union, other forces that are more nationalistic and some that have made dubious statements about one or the other. The values I stand for are the liberal values, and there I and all the real liberals will always defend everyone's right to be exactly who they want to be.
i-MYxvYXUrJ3eQZSG4KJKRNi	Mr. Old President! In an election year, we tend to look inward and focus on domestic policy issues, and that is good and necessary. But then it is valuable for a day like this to stop and be reminded that we are a small part of a larger world, that our challenges are common and that we are interdependent. Let me begin with the extremely serious situation between Russia and Ukraine. Russia's aggression against Ukraine is contrary to international law and constitutes a serious violation of the state sovereignty of Ukraine and a challenge to the European security regime. It is important that the EU now continues to show unity, and Sweden, together with the EU, needs to be prepared to impose strong and effective sanctions on Russia with the aim of descaling the conflict and supporting Ukraine. The situation is serious, and we need to show solidarity with those people whose lives and everyday lives are enormously affected by this geopolitical power game. The EU recently announced a crisis package to Ukraine. That's a good thing. The EU should continue to assist Ukraine with, inter alia, humanitarian aid. And Sweden should continue to assist Ukraine through Sida's reform efforts aimed at strengthening respect for human rights, reducing the country's environmental impact and promoting democracy and sustainable development. This serious security situation has also made it clear how important it is to invest in renewables in Sweden and in the EU in order not to depend on states such as Russia for the energy supply. Today, a quarter of the oil, almost half of the coal and almost half of the fossil gas used in the EU come from Russia. During January to November 2021 51 per cent of Sweden's imports of enriched uranium from Russia came according to SCB. It is Vattenfall that buys nuclear fuel for Ringhals from a subsidiary of Russian Rosatom, which also develops nuclear weapons. They've been involved in the poison murder of a Russian ex-agency, and they're run by Putin. Only 10 per cent of the Swedish people think it is positive to import enriched uranium from Russia. This is not surprising given that Russia has already used fossil gas for political pressure today. And we have no guarantee that uranium will not be used as a similar pawn in the security policy game. For us greens, the analysis is clear. The most strategic and also the most sustainable way forward in terms of environment and climate is to expand renewable energy in Sweden and the EU. The Green Party wants Sweden to stick to its security policy line and thus continue to be non-aligned. It is important to cooperate with other states, but it is quite another matter to be part of a military alliance with common defence obligations. Being free from military alliances increases our ability to engage in dialogue and to contribute to relaxation not least in our neighbourhood. The long-term objective of foreign and defence policy is for us global disarmament, not to be part of a nuclear umbrella. In many ways, Sweden has taken the lead and shown the way, for example, in the field of feminist foreign and development policy and effective and sustainable aid. We'll continue to do that. Taking responsibility in foreign policy means being able to take climate change seriously and to push for a rapid green transformation of our societies while facing a security policy situation where the border between war and peace is beginning to become increasingly unclear. It requires that we become better at seeing the whole, taking attacks on our democracy seriously and doing everything we can to reduce emissions. We are already seeing that climate change is both exacerbating existing conflicts and driving forward new ones. Starvation, destruction of water supplies and the struggle for decaying natural resources are just a few examples. In a world where climate crises lead to more wars, disasters, people living with food shortages and people forced to flee, global solidarity is crucial. The war in Yemen, repression in Palestine, persecution in Myanmar and the Taliban's seizure of power in Afghanistan are examples where Sweden can and should act. Humanitarian needs are increasing. Never before have so many people been on the run as today. We Greens want Sweden to be a humanitarian example that will actively contribute to saving lives and alleviating distress. The Green Party is actively working to ensure that aid is not eroded. Aid should go to people living in poverty. It shall never be used to finance military operations or be conditional on expulsion. Sweden's aid will be sustainable, strengthen democracy and equip communities to reduce poverty and vulnerability, meet the climate challenge, counter corruption and drive for peace and stability in the world in line with the global sustainability goals of Agenda 2030. Sweden must stand by the 1% target for Swedish aid. During our time in the government, we also decided to double the Swedish climate aid to 15 billion by 2025 compared to 2019. The world's poorest bear the least debt but are hardest hit by climate change. Solidarity with all the people of the world is a cornerstone of green ideology. And we want Sweden to continue to be a pioneer country by supporting developing countries in their development and their implementation of the Paris Agreement. The violations of democratic and human rights have increased during the pandemic, and governments in several countries are using the pandemic as an opportunity to oppress and silence dissidents. Sweden should be a voice for democracy, for freedom of expression and for respect for the rights and freedoms of all people. Free speech is under threat in more and more countries. Palestinian journalists are being imprisoned, environmentalists in the Amazon are being threatened, imprisoned and murdered, and in Poland it is becoming more difficult for women to have an abortion. The availability of nuclear weapons constitutes one of the most serious security threats today with the potential to completely wipe out mankind and other life on earth. That is why we strongly urge Sweden to accede to the UN Convention on a Global Nuclear Ban. Sweden will contribute to military disarmament in the world and should stop arms exports to dictatorships. Today's scope for exemption for such exports must be abolished or severely restricted. We also want to tighten up the rules for consequential delivery, and we want to see an international ban on the development, manufacture and use of deadly autonomous weapons systems. Mr. Old President! Now, more than ever, the world needs to join forces to meet our global challenges together. It requires courage, a well-thought-out and effective policy and confidence in the future. We can face these challenges together. Sweden needs the outside world, and the outside world needs Sweden.
i-HW8zFp5LntYRTmU3HYbGAM	Mr. Old President! One of the three key priorities of the government is to accelerate the pace of climate change. The climate and environmental crisis is acute. We must drastically reduce emissions and promote global green change and enable the necessary adaptation measures. One of my priorities in foreign policy will be climate and security. Sweden is already pushing internationally within the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, in the UN and in the EU to jointly better understand, manage and slow down the effects of climate change. During our Presidency of the OSSE, a decision could be taken on the challenges posed by climate change. Thanks to Sweden's driving role, the OSSE has now been given a mandate to work to prevent the impact of climate change on security in the region. How does the Green Party want to integrate climate and security into development cooperation in conflict environments?
i-EWJEWgc3Xij5dAjNm3m3X7	Mr. Old President! I thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for this question. This is an incredibly important aspect and a very central part of climate change as well. If we do nothing to stem the climate crisis, we will live in a more brutal and uncertain world. These things follow each other very closely. It is therefore incredibly important to link them. This leads me to say that what the Minister for Foreign Affairs mentioned in the foreign declaration on climate and security and that Sweden takes an active part in it in various ways was positive. We are already seeing that a great many of the major conflicts that we see around the world are the result of a lack of natural resources. In the past, it may have been a prolonged drought or similar that also affects safety and the ability to cooperate. That is why one of the most important issues, arising from security challenges and climates, is the fact that we need more of global solidarity. So, when we see the challenges or conflicts that will become more common as climate change spreads, even if we manage to stop them as much as we can, we also need to help each other to a greater extent, of course through aid and by speeding up climate change but also through other security policy aspects that will become more common. And that is where joint action is needed in the world.
i-PEiiC1wHmLWUn5UVGou4Xs	Mr. Old President! In the work we did to enable the OSSE to take this decision, a report was produced with the help of Mr Sipri, among others. The report showed that in the OSCE area there are 42 so-called hot spots where climate change can lead to direct conflicts. This is an issue that I hope will be addressed in different ways at the UN conference that will be held in Stockholm on 2 – 3 June and which is called Stockholm+50. Former environmental-partisan ministers, among other things, have been the driving force for the conference, and I hope that we can get help and support from the Green Party and the contacts they have in civil society and the environmental movement to make it a success for Sweden and for the environment.
i-TfKdJ4aPzJgUtEmioXtFjR	Mr. Old President! Yes, of course Stockholm+50 will be incredibly important in this work. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs points out, it is the Green Party that has worked out and prepared this conference during its time in the government, so we definitely look forward to being able to cooperate and get the conference to become concrete and lead to something.
i-CLthngVf5iWMPG1Dj5aM4K	Mr. Old President! I have a few questions for Maria Ferm, who is new to the foreign debate. Now that the Green Party is no longer part of the government, it is interesting to hear whether the Green Party has a position on the issue of Hong Kong. Hong Kong is one of the vulnerable areas where China is moving hard to shut down, imprison and break up the democratic movement. They want to close Hong Kong as a window of democracy in China. On the part of Parliament, we have stated that the legal aid agreement that Sweden has signed should be terminated as a result of the fact that the legal order that currently exists in Hong Kong is not the same as when we signed the agreement. Does the Green Party want to support our demand for the legal aid agreement to be terminated, or does the Green Party stand by its previous position? I am also curious about and want to hear about the Green Party now, as a party free from the government, is prepared to stand behind the demand to change the Business Sweden office we have in Taipei to a House of Sweden in Taipei. It would be interesting to know, Mr. Old President. Finally, I wonder whether solidarity policy is not a reasonable approach if we talk about solidarity. Surely a solidarity policy must mean something. Is the Green Party prepared to intervene militarily in the event of a conflict in our neighbourhood in the EU?
i-Vjq6GeJ5FtpfGAJhK6NHqo	Mr. Old President! Thank you for welcoming us into the committee and in the debate, Kerstin Lundgren! As far as I know, we in the party have not decided to change any line since we left the government, either around Hong Kong or around Taipei and the specific decisions. That does not mean that we cannot do that, but there is nothing I can do during the debate itself. Rather, it is something we will go through. As far as solidarity policy is concerned, as I said in my speech, we are very clear about our position: we do not want Sweden to be part of NATO or for Sweden to be part of the nuclear alliance. At the same time, we believe that the EU is an incredibly important arena for cooperation, and in terms of defence cooperation Sweden, for example, has cooperation with NATO. Sweden also cooperates very closely and carries out exercises with Finland, which we think should be done. It is not the case that we exclude other forms of cooperation internationally, and we have often participated in and made decisions on such.
i-CiG44W3WHjeFE5RXtKH4c6	Mr. Old President! I hope, then, that the Green Party has a development potential in terms of its approach to legal aid agreements in Hong Kong and to support the democrats in Hong Kong, as well as in the case of a House of Sweden in Taipei. Taiwan needs our support. However, I am a little perplexed about the question I raised about the solidarity policy on security. We have a unique Swedish, pronounced solidarity clause: If something happens in the Nordic countries or in the EU, Sweden will stand up. That solidarity clause is, of course, important, because it is a signal to the outside world that we are prepared to act also militarily. If one of our neighbouring countries is attacked, the Swedish military will operate. Is the Green Party prepared to act there?
i-B76agRv6ZokNTWdhLHNQPb	Mr. Old President! It is a decision that has been made and simply a fact. The Green Party has for many years been involved in influencing and developing the defence policy, in good cooperation with many other parties. Total defense decisions are, of course, part of that. The same applies to the fact that we are in the European Union, and I think it is an important arena. Both the total defence decision and EU cooperation are therefore simply a fact.
i-YayiNy4hPPjTyb6JgVc6tG	Mr. Old President! Let me also welcome Maria Ferm to the committee! I also welcome the fact that in her speech she talks about the importance of showing solidarity with Ukraine. At the same time, I note that there is a scenario that the Green Party is not talking about, namely what the security situation in Europe would have been like today if Ukraine had been a member of NATO. NATO's stabilising role cannot be overestimated, and it would be good if the Green Party could drop its old notions of NATO and see the reality as it actually looks. The fact that the Green Party has deep-rooted ideas also regarding nuclear power was demonstrated by the debate article in Aftonbladet the other day that Maria Ferm was one of the signatories of. Russia accounts for more than half of Sweden's imports of enriched uranium. Maria Ferm writes that the Christian Democrats are turning a blind eye to this fact. Mr. Old President! We Christian Democrats stand up for Swedish security. That is precisely why we want to include nuclear energy in the European taxonomy. In this way, we create the conditions for green conversion and reduced greenhouse gas emissions. In this way, we are reducing dependence not only on Russian gas but also on Russian uranium. In fact, a 'no' to nuclear energy means a 'yes' to Russian gas. A 'no' to NATO means that the Russian threat remains. When will the Green Party release its ideological locks and see the reality as it looks, Maria Ferm?
i-F582cPsLgzBhxUEbCQn6Q4	Mr. Old President! I also thank Mr Lars for his welcome to the committee – and for the question. I think it is very important that we discuss energy policy and security policy and take it seriously. On the other hand, I cannot agree that the inclusion of nuclear energy or gas in taxonomy would in any way advance safety. This means an even longer dependence on Russian enriched uranium, with its consequences. We are now painfully aware of what can happen quite quickly if Russia chooses to use its power over Europe's energy supply in that way. It is quite clear that renewables are the most sustainable in terms of security. This also happens to be the best thing for the climate and the environment and what is currently the cheapest thing to go forward with. I may think it's a bigger problem that, for example, the Moderates have said no to half of Sweden's investments in wind turbines – otherwise we would have had a much better energy situation in Sweden this winter. This is something that does not lead the way at all, but goes out over ordinary people's wallets and our common environment and future.
i-NfY8s6GpQeM6T4wT4b6XkS	Mr. Old President! We have seen the policy of the Green Party for seven years in government. We have seen how the Party's campaign against nuclear power has actually contributed to increasing Sweden's dependence on gas, oil and coal. That's what it looks like this winter. The bill has been sent by the Green Party to the Swedish people. Instead of working constructively, the Environmental Party with its ideological locks has made Sweden more vulnerable in the uncertain situation that prevails. The question remains: when will the Green Party realise that the more we facilitate European nuclear power, the faster we reduce our dependence on Russia?
i-8rQagVkN2gYAXUZEE33cJb	Mr. Old President! Actually, what Lars Adaktusson says is not true. The energy policy that has been running in Sweden for quite a number of years is, of course, about a broad agreement. The Green Party was part of it, but we were seven parties that got along, right? The idea of this has always been to have stable and long-term rules of play. During this period, two reactors have been shut down, but this was because they were not profitable. Today we have a situation where it is even less profitable to consider building a new nuclear power plant. For example, Finland is painfully aware of this; they are helped by Russia to build these new nuclear power plants. At the same time, we have a wind power revolution, which in some way we should not jump on, which can lead to a much more cost-effective and environmentally much better energy supply. It will be sustainable over time, and we will be able to export to other countries. This is definitely the way forward, both safety and environmental.
i-4dpAVpDTt8K358ghAE22Ep	Mr. Old President! At the same time as we begin the second half of the debate, the work of the Defence Committee is resumed in the serious situation that exists. One of those who participate there is he who should be standing here now, namely Kenneth G Forslund, our chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. He is therefore not taking part here, but he has asked me to send a message to the Members and hope for a lively debate. Mr. Old President! The whole world stands nervously on its toes waiting for the next move. Will Russian troops extend the invasion of Ukraine, and will they extend it to the whole country or parts of it? How will Belarus be involved? Will Putin dare to risk the extremely high price that it could entail if Russia continues its aggression? Will the EU, NATO and the other international community continue to stand united? What can solve the situation? Not for decades has the security situation been this serious in Europe. Children in Sweden come home from school worried and ask their parents: Will there be war now? There are many questions, and no one has all the answers. Neither have I, but I know a few things. Russia is the aggressive party. It is Russia that is threatening other countries with violence. It is Russia that is questioning not only the European security regime but the whole world order that has been built up since the world wars and during the Cold War. It is Russia that has already occupied parts of its neighbours Georgia and Ukraine. I know that it is Russia that is suppressing opposition internally and imprisoning both journalists and politicians who displease them. Russia is responsible for poisoning, murder and attempted murder of Russian oppositionists in other countries. I know that NATO is not the aggressive party here. The propaganda that Russia is spreading is that Mother Russia is the poor victim surrounded by enemies and that the United States and their obedient European lackeys constitute an existential threat to a Russia that only defends itself and mistreated Russian-speaking minorities in surrounding countries. I know that these claims are misinformation – part of officially supported Russian hybrid warfare. I really wish the common people of Sweden would understand that what we are now looking at is an information and propaganda war in which the struggle for the picture of reality can determine whether or not Europe is getting involved in a war. I know a few more things. I know that international law and international law apply in all countries. Human rights apply to all people in all countries, without exception. I know that countries have the right to decide for themselves what alliances they form and what security arrangements they take. The size and strength of countries do not give them the power to decide over countries that are smaller and less strong. It is not the law of the jungle and the right of the strong. Sweden, the EU, the NATO countries and the democratic world need to remain united. National special interests must not divide us. What Russia wants most of all is a fragmented response to their actions. They will use this; we have seen how they have done it before in the case of Georgia and the annexation of the Crimean Peninsula. I also know that there are no long-term solutions where violence and war exist. I know that it is diplomacy, compromises and looking your opponents in the eye and trying to understand how they think that is the only way forward. In fact, through long, difficult and what may at first appear to be completely impossible negotiations, one can find a way forward. I am convinced that people in different countries are, after all, quite similar. We want peace. We want our children to grow up in a world without war and oppression. We want to have respect for the choices we make as people and as countries. We wish no other calamity, and we wish that no one else will harm us. This applies equally to Swedes, Russians, Ukrainians, Belaris, Germans, Americans and Koreans. We're more alike than different. We have so much more in common as humans than what divides us. Let us remember this when war rhetoric echoes louder and louder. Let us remember that when demagogues, populists, nationalists and doomsday prophets try to scare us into division. We are all parts of the global village. We have a responsibility to take care of each other. War is no solution — ever.
i-RdGcbB8BsZWKZMUD3WsGik	Mr. Old President! I do not think anyone here in this House has any disagreement whatsoever with what Olle Thorell said about the situation surrounding Ukraine and Russia's aggression. But there are more aggressions in the world. It's not just in that region that it's rumbling. In the air over the Chinese lake daily, aggressive military aircraft from the superpower of China fly towards Taiwan. Taiwan is not recognised by Sweden. But there are other countries that are recognised by Sweden and that would need Sweden's support. Taiwan needs that, too. Sweden and the Social Democratic Government have recognised Palestine. What is it that prevents Sweden and the Swedish government from recognising Taiwan as well?
i-SyehCcN5w4AGvJMkceXyG4	Mr. Old President! I thank Mr Rothenberg for the question. It is clear that there are other concerns in the world than the Ukrainian conflict. China's increasingly aggressive stance and increasingly expansive foreign policy, with carrots and whips on every other side, where the whips have become bigger and meaner and the carrots even bigger – building their new silk road, and threatening Swedish parliamentarians through vicious emails from the ambassador – is obviously a cloud of concern, not least for the Taiwanese people. Like the Foreign Minister, I say that we want to help Taiwan to be able to participate in international organisations and the like. But we have no plan to recognise Taiwan because, like the rest of Europe, we have a one-China policy. It can also be noted that neither did the Alliance Government take such steps in 2006–2014.
i-9gGU8XWGsgaMG3xgkXeUGA	Mr. Old President! There are rumbles in Ukraine, but the same scenario could take place after the end of the Olympic Games in the far East. There's not much difference between these conflicts. It is about aggressive superpowers wanting to go on smaller nations and exercise a power that is unjust and violates international law. That is why Sweden's support to Ukraine, which is so clearly large and committed, stands in stark contrast to Sweden's lack of support to Taiwan. It is in this context that it becomes so paradoxical that the Swedish Social Democratic Government has recognised a non-functioning state formation as Palestine but at this point is not prepared to either recognise Taiwan or give as much support as it gives to Ukraine.
i-J5ugjPXBe8ZETDXKxTuXRS	Mr. Old President! I can only repeat that we support the democratic progress that has been made in Taiwan. It is a fantastic example of how a poor and small developing country can rise up through people's initiative and democratic reforms and create a democratically prosperous society surrounded by non-democrats and dictatorships of every other. It is clear that we support the development of democracy in Taiwan. However, we do not believe that it is appropriate to recognise Taiwan as a country, because we believe in implementing a 'China' policy, as all EU countries have formulated. I am sorry to disappoint Mr Rothenberg, but I can promise Mr Rothenberg that we will continue to support democratic development in Taiwan and elsewhere in the world where it is needed.
i-JeuZxtwtfXANDiDfYRAWDp	Mr. Old President! Olle Thorell says it's not the law of the jungle. I agree with that. But sometimes words are not enough. Sometimes the discussion is not enough. Sometimes the agreements are not enough. That is not always enough international cooperation either. Then something more is needed, such as sanctions – it is in itself international cooperation as well. It also requires a defence. Let me mention a few issues which have not been in the debate today but which I regard as extremely important. I am thinking of the democratic situation in Russia. Boris Nemtsov, a prominent opposition politician, was murdered outside the Kremlin. There's no evidence. There has been no transparency in the trial that is said to have taken place. Navalnyj's in prison. No one knows exactly when, where and how the process takes place.
i-NFb9LSEpPyx7sAm8nLg6Nz	Mr. Old President! I thank Margareta Cederfelt for her reply and for her constant commitment to human rights issues, not least in Eastern Europe and Russia. It is of course the case that Sweden must also act bilaterally, in addition to all the steps we take in international organisations. We step forward in international organisations. We have been Chairman of the OSSE, where Margareta Cederfelt is President of the Parliamentary Assembly. We then did exactly everything we could to prevent future conflicts and find successful ways of communicating with Russia. Nemtsov, Anna Politkovskaja, Navalnyj – we must be understood in bilateral contacts with Russia and in all contexts we can ensure that we demand release, condemn, ensure that those who murdered Anna Politkovskaja are brought to justice and so on.
i-LB6wCmrVK8vH3tkmYQAfBL	Mr. Old President! I am pleased to hear what Olle Thorell says. But there must also be something more here, namely Magnitsky sanctions. That's what I suggested in my investigation into the murder of Boris Nemtsov. This is where it has to be, because it's the only thing that counts. It is a question of silence and not of abuse. The development that is actually taking place at the bottom does not come to light. Let me mention Central Asia, which is not much debated in the Swedish Parliament or in the European Union. But when I read the media – Russian media and media from a large number of other countries – I can see that there are a lot of activities going on. It all comes from Russia, which increases its influence. Here the world must start to act in a completely different way. Otherwise, we will have an even greater oppression than today.
i-rPnKJsxRHgqZvbqYCKAhY	Mr. Old President! It is just to agree with Margareta Cederfelt on the pressure that needs to be put and the level of activity that must exist in the European Union, but also in the Swedish Government and the Swedish Parliament. It is about pushing human rights, international law and international law to apply to all the peoples of the world. The dismantling of democracy that we see in Russia and many countries to the east is sad and dangerous. We have now come up with Magnitsky sanctions at European level. We didn't think that would be possible. I remember when Mats Johansson, blessed in remembrance, raised these issues in the Riksdag. We invited Bill Browder to a seminar here. I am pleased that we have been able to get to the point where the EU can now introduce Magnitsky sanctions. First of all, we want to see what happens to them before we move on nationally, but we are not closing the door.
i-5BUNoqJAqNC57Z3GxtgoSa	Mr. Old President! As Mr Rothenberg said earlier, most people in here – everyone, I think – can agree with what Olle Thorell said about Russia, not least in view of the situation we see with the aggression against Ukraine. For this reason, I find it a little interesting to hear how Olle Thorell views his social democratic party colleagues in the Council of Europe. In 2019 it was voted for the re-entry of Russia into the Council of Europe, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, despite the fact that no improvements have been made. Russia had ignored the resolutions against it and had also ignored paying its membership fee. Mr. Old President! Given this last piece, the membership fee, was it that Russian money was what the Social Democrats cared about most?
i-oGgN3im6MrYysqrewDvTL	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Markus Wiechel! No, it wasn't Russian money that decided. A counter-question could be put to Markus Wiechel about the need to deal with Russia in the past. Four years ago before the 2018 elections, we sat in the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee together with a lot of SD members who were later poached from parliamentary lists. It was Mikael Jansson, Jeff Ahl, Pavel Gamov and others who have been involved in important secret security meetings. They drop out when they're poked off the Riksdag list. They go directly into the very Russian-friendly AFS. Mikael Jansson goes to Moscow and sits on Putin's lap at conferences arranged by his power party. I think it's pretty powerful that Markus Wiechel, with his track record and his party, should accuse us of being apologists for Russia in the Council of Europe.
i-RQ6iHVq25VdohUunnhTDFq	Mr. Old President! Now it's true that we've got it in our hands. It was the Social Democrats who contributed to Russia being released back into the heat of the Council of Europe and not the Swedish Democrats. We fought until early tomorrow in debates to prevent Russia from returning to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe with the right to vote. As an example of what we have voted for, Olle Thorell highlights people who were rightly poached from the list of Swedish democrats and who were far from the policy that we want to pursue. For this reason, we have not pursued this policy either. We have consistently been very critical of Russia and acted in that way. It is very obvious if you read documents in both the European Parliament and the Swedish Parliament and in particular the Council of Europe. But again it was Olle Thorell's party friends who sat and voted Russia again in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. He can't get away from that. What I'm asking is, why?
i-AGwUQ9dkrbQHXfpSFkGN43	Mr. Old President! I still think it's a bit strong that Markus Wiechel ducks by saying: "We've kicked and excluded those people." They didn't stand for our politics. You said that just before they were disfellowshipped. At the time, there were no Russian-friendly Swedish-democratic members of this Parliament. What will happen now that you put your parliamentary lists? Will other candidates or members show their true selves when they are no longer allowed to be involved in parliamentary work? I'd be worried if I were a voter. As far as the Council of Europe is concerned, I was not in those negotiations. I can't refer to them. We have a general view in international fora that we think it is better for people to be involved in, discuss and violate opinions against each other than to kick out countries and organisations.
i-4s6rfbwwQbDfnHaqumyqBw	Mr. Old President! The security of the world begins with trust. For obvious reasons, the Western world has become aware that it is a matter of joining forces in a world situation more serious than it has been for a long time. Paradoxically, 91 countries are now gathering in Beijing for the peaceful Olympic Games. In Norway, the Olympic Games are called Olympic Games. But soon the game will be over, just like when the Russian army captured Crimea after the Winter Olympics in Sochi in 2014. Today, the rest of Ukraine is facing a Russian invasion, and in the shadow of that situation lies an equally great threat further east where Taiwan lives daily before the risk of being annexed by China. It is a China that is ten times larger than Russia and one hundred times stronger to the population. The world is not crazy, but too many of its leaders are deliberately orienting themselves away from the humanist and democratic order at a high price that others pay. What has historically begun to strangle freedom of expression has rapidly turned into fertilizing totalitarian degeneratives which, in the name of communism and fascism, have killed around 100 million people worldwide. These two ghosts are unfortunately not gone. They live on in discreet form and under other flags. Controlling people's right to express themselves is the key to success for those who are unable to gain power in a democratic way. That is why freedom of expression and media is so essential for democracy. Mr. Old President! The world lacks a great deal of trust, which results in growth losing momentum when tariffs and trade barriers disrupt. This insight expressed the former Director-General of the OECD, Angel Gurría, at a parliamentary meeting the other year. Lack of trust leads to unstable government formations, which in turn lead to fewer investments and lower growth. The lack of trust is one of the world's major challenges. Free trade, like democracy, cannot be taken for granted why it is important for Sweden to cooperate more with those countries that are now waging about free trade. Trust between people, we can only build ourselves. Globalisation has no face or body, nor any neck to hang it in. Nevertheless, it is blamed for most of the bad things. That is why inclusive growth must be included in all forward-looking decisions. Only then can trust be built stable. But what we are seeing now is the consequence of the reduction of democracy and freedom of expression, when trust and respect are replaced by insecurity and fear between people and countries. A frightened person can be as dangerous as an aggressive one, and so can countries. The person who waves the violence card is usually the one who is insecure and afraid. Trust cannot be decided either. It must be built deliberately on the basis of mutual respect. Therefore, the world's good countries need to gather in new and trusting constellations based on common humanistic and democratic values. The OECD, the EU and Nordic cooperation are excellent examples to gather around. This is particularly true when several of the world's organisations have lost power as totalitarian Member States have increased their influence and have been able to drive the development in an undesirable direction. More similar constellations built on the basis of trust are welcome. Mr. Old President! What can build trust? Above all, it is trade which, through the universal language of the world, works best when it is based on sound agreements based on trust. The rule-based trade regime on which WTO cooperation is based is a good example. Another example is our own Union of Europe. But none of these bodies are cut into stone. Even within them, the relaxation of the principles of the rule of law and minor restrictions on freedom of expression can undermine the stability we have all taken for granted. It was not long ago that we saw Russia moving towards greater transparency and more and more democratic development. Today's reality is quite different, where the many small steps of restrictions have shaped a state that has completely lost respect for its own citizens and the borders of other states. In Svante Nordin's book Winston: Churchill and the end of the British world order you can read about how Churchill stood almost alone against Nazi extremism throughout the 1930s and finally as Prime Minister got to take the bull by the horns and defeat it. The fight against intolerance must be taken in both large and small. It is about everything from conscious and well-planned attacks on the symbols of freedom of expression to attitudes between people in everyday life. Mr. Old President! Democratic countries with a functioning market economy and respect for human rights must also be able, through their common values, to show joint action together. In these days, it is so obviously important. It is now up to us in the free world to ensure, with democracy, a market economy and respect for the inviolable value of man, that the dark side of history is not repeated. Trust has a lot to get, but the best must be in front of us.
i-37z6p62EGXPrBohDiy5Grg	Mr. Old President! This may be somewhat unconventional, but here I am. I agree with Mr Rothenberg's analysis that democracy and freedom of expression are curtailed when trust and respect are replaced by insecurity and fear between people and countries. Mr Rothenberg talks about the world's good countries. The fact that these are based on common humanist and democratic values seems reasonable and good to me. But my question to Mrs Rothenberg is: which countries does he think belong to this group today? Is it not true that certain countries within the institutions mentioned are also being drawn in the undemocratic way?
i-DkupCZXFGAAMyU8WJug8Xm	Mr. Old President! Thank you for this very special line – from a party friend! But with party friends you can speak openly in this House too. We have seen international organisations, particularly the World Health Organisation, which has been hijacked by China. The World Health Organisation has also proved to be less potent when it would have to be at its strongest, under the coronapndemine. We have seen other organisations, such as the World Trade Organisation, the WTO, which have also become paralysed when some of these countries are simply obstinate. I would like to go to the Economist's democracy index on the world's good democracies. I can mention countries such as South Korea, Australia, New Zealand, Switzerland, Chile, Uruguay, Canada, the United States, Germany, the Netherlands and others. We who are stable democracies with common values – we will work together.
i-KApf6ef21WyepgGMLxb7xJ	Mr. Old President! Thank you very much for your answer, Mr Rothenberg. Mrs Rothenberg's speech was generally very comprehensive about the world situation today and about the importance of even the more diffuse values that build security and stability. Fake news and misinformation have become a growing problem with the emergence of the Internet and have led people and countries around the world to question freedom of expression in favour of the right and accurate information. It is a big and complex issue and a discussion that I think needs to be taken. It is also an issue in which I think it is very easy to go wrong. Therefore, my second question to the honourable Member is: how does Mr Rothenberg view freedom of expression and trust in relation to this?
i-DuZeVKMQw8tkUwBPfDb5CM	Mr. Old President! The more opportunities technology has offered – that we can communicate more and that we can retrieve more and more information – the more questioned the information has become, and the more difficult it has become to orientate. Over time, the concept of fake news has become synonymous with the fact that the person who disagrees is wrong and that we should restrict the right to be wrong. But it is permitted, and it must be allowed, to actually get the wrong idea. Defining what is the right opinion—that's the first step towards starting to restrict freedom of expression. When you say that the wrong opinion is to have the wrong opinion, then we are in swamps that we do not want to trample in. Therefore, it is just as important to be right as to be wrong. But thank you for the right question!
i-4p8RKncsTiuVFuJheFaWnN	Mr. Old President! Back to a perhaps slightly more conventional line. It will not be long, because I think Mr Rothenberg and I broadly agree on this. It is about the importance of trust but also about the importance of trade, economic exchange and greater economic freedom in the world. This is something that both the Moderates and the Center Party can sign up to and I hope that more parties could sign up to. What I would like to ask the honourable Member is how he views how we are developing Swedish and European trade policy. For the Center Party, it goes without saying that we should sign new free trade agreements and that we should increase economic exchanges with the outside world, both with richer and with poorer countries. But we also need to use these free trade agreements to promote other interests, not least in terms of the climate. We should be able to make demands when we sign free trade agreements and trade agreements with other countries that they take climate action and measures for greater sustainability. This is not a question of criticism of trade, but rather of a liberal way of using trade policy for other purposes as well. How do the Moderates view this?
i-WWATvtPQdNYKoVQXnJdSiy	Mr. Old President! Thank you for asking, Magnus Ek! One problem with the free trade agreements that have been written in recent years is that they should cover so much – often much more than just trade. Nowadays it is called trade and investment agreements. A few years ago we had a debate on something we called TTIP. It was an EU-US trade agreement. There were demonstrations on the streets, and the professional protesters from the 68 generation breathed new air to be able to go out and demonstrate against the United States. But it was not really free trade that was the problem, but the problem was everything else that was added to the agreement, such as investment and the like. Some of the things that we from the Moderates think are important to get into free trade agreements are respect for democracy, human rights and freedom of expression. If you have respect for human rights, you also have respect for the climate challenge, because the climate challenge is a threat to human rights.
i-GeJJNmv8JjvMaj6f77mgXa	Mr. Old President! I dare guess that some of the demonstrators actually had problems with trade itself – unfortunately. Hans Rothenberg is on something important at the end of his line. Much of the power we project into the world from Sweden and Europe is about so-called soft power. It is not that we want to try to control someone else improperly, and it is not that we want to sit over someone else. It is a question of recognising that the interest in acting with Sweden and Europe relates precisely to economic exchange and access to our internal market. Although we should not expect this market to grow as rapidly as other markets internationally, it is still a large and desirable market to have access to. I think it is absolutely right to make demands on democracy and human rights. However, can Mr Rothenberg not also see that at this very moment, especially when it comes to integrating economic systems in which we have high environmental and climate requirements in our own European internal market, we should also be able to include these aspects in trade agreements?
i-BCyckMYaA4HoucCTZrxApi	Mr. Old President! That is a very wise entry into this. Linked to human rights, which means being able to make demands for products and services to be carried out on the basis of respect for people, is also that we should be able to take advantage of the physical products that are grown and that they should be able to arrive in a sensible way. We are not going to import poisons, and we are not going to import anything that is bad from other countries. It is absolutely excellent to include it in the free trade agreements. But let it become a logical hygiene factor when the agreements are signed. Don't let it get to the top! In many of the free trade agreements that have been in place recently, not least with Canada, there were so many other issues that in principle left a shadow over what is really at stake: the civilised exchange of goods and services with each other. It's a trust-filled trade.
i-XVea6yexFR2vJi1raYZ3J9	Mr. Old President! Just as many people have been up here and said before, we are now in a time of great concern for security policy. It is a world of instability, unrest and conflict. Bad states are taking on more and more, and we see muscle tension. Russia, which has repeatedly acted in a threatening manner, has shown for a long time that it does not hesitate to act in violation of international law. Russia has shown that it does not share fundamental values of both peace and national sovereignty, as well as respect for human rights, domestic democracy and the rule of law. None of this is new. The Swedish democrats have talked about this and warned against a deterioration in development for many, many years – often for deaf ears. Not least when we see a development like that in Ukraine, it is more important than ever that Sweden has a strong foreign policy voice. We need a foreign minister who takes command and does not go down and clearly declares which foreign policy line is in place. We need a strong foreign minister who also has the ability to act quickly when necessary. Sadly, we don't have it today. The Foreign Minister dares hardly to reveal anything without a cautious statement coming first from Brussels. Again, we see how to wait for the EU circle, or at best the Nordic countries, before being willing to take urgent decisions. The result of the government's paralysis is in many cases what has come to characterize Swedish foreign policy, namely slowness – sometimes with devastating consequences. Mr. Old President! It may be little wonder that our government cannot do better or that it does not have a sharper tone when Russia acts as it does in our vicinity. This seems to be in the Social Democratic DNA. I could line up a whole series of examples of that. To take a rather recent example, we could highlight what happened in 2014 in the Council of Europe, when a majority of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe chose, as a sanction against Russia, to deprive them of the right to vote in the Assembly. A united Swedish delegation supported this. The Assembly believed that Russia would not be released until substantial improvements were seen in Russian action. They would show this. Yet five years later we saw how they were voted in again. A Swedish party contributed to this: The Social Democrats – without a single sign of any kind of improvement. Why, one might ask. Again, I wonder if it had anything to do with economics. Was it because Russia refused to pay its membership fee? Once again, we have seen that their actions have not improved, on the contrary. Mr. Old President! Furthermore, we see time and again that the Social Democrats show a complete inability to learn from their many mistakes. We saw how the government acted in Afghanistan when it hardly lifted a finger when country after country chose to evacuate its staff from the embassy and when country after country evacuated its inhabitants. The result was that we had to rely on emergency aid from the United States through an air bridge that was established only after the barbarians took power in Afghanistan. Furthermore, the so-called evacuation was marked by chaos. Local employees who risked their lives for Sweden were left in the lurch, while they evacuated people who had nothing to do in Sweden at all. It was a security breach without its like. Now we see that nothing has been learned. As country after country now evacuates from Ukraine, the government is again sitting still in the boat. And believe me, Mr. Old President, this time we can't be saved by the United States. That's not gonna happen. Mr. Old President! Of course, we cannot talk about real political foreign policy without mentioning China. The police state of China is a country that has consistently moved in an increasingly destructive direction. The dictatorship has come to be known for monitoring and for its repressive policy towards dissidents in its own country. People belonging to different minorities and dissidents are placed in concentration camps. They are subjected to systematic torture, often with elements of sexual violence, and indoctrination. Innocent people are slaughtered only because the Chinese authorities see a value in selling their organs. The victims are murdered shortly before or die during the actual organ theft. However, it is not only the appalling reality in China that makes criticism of the country and possible measures to be taken. China, alongside Iran and Russia, is one of the countries designated for extensive espionage in Sweden. The increasing Chinese influence is de facto to be seen as a security threat, both to exiles and Swedish companies as well as to the whole free world. Mr. Old President! On a military level, we also see concerns from China. Following China's takeover of democratic Hong Kong, we see with all the clarity that they are totally ignoring international law and agreements reached. We have also seen how the recurring provokes the world and not least the eighth most democratic country in the world, Taiwan. Taiwan deserves our full support, and the whole West should work to increase their opportunities for diplomatic dialogue with the outside world.
i-79S8DbW8prDfGKP81gG81E	Mr. Old President! I agree that on many foreign policy issues the government can act more forcefully and demonstrate what a clear Swedish line is when we enter into the joint talks in the Nordic countries and in Europe. However, speaking of waiting for signals or sending signals between Stockholm and Brussels, I must get back to what has already been mentioned in this debate when this kind of criticism is directed by the Swedish Democrats. It has already been pointed out that, in the vote that took place yesterday in the European Parliament, the Swedish Democrats abstained on support for Ukraine. It is not possible to have a clear line in Brussels that is the same as the one in Stockholm, where it is very clearly stated that it stands up for Ukraine. Similarly, in today's debate, the Swedish Democrats have said that they always stand up for the principles of the rule of law, but in Brussels they vote against Member States that violate these principles being unable to obtain EU funds. My question to Mr Wiechel is therefore: how clear can you be as a party when you run two completely different political lines? How confident is it with the voters and the Swedish people when the same party pursues one line in Stockholm and another in Brussels?
i-7wUhfCJJUp6mQHNGGVfco8	Mr. Old President! Thank you for asking, Magnus Ek! That is exactly what we are doing: pursuing a clear line. We have consistently opposed special budget support to various countries in Brussels, so also yesterday. This does not mean that we do not want to support Ukraine, because we have certainly made that clear both in Brussels and here in the Swedish Parliament. We have proposed various forms of assistance – you can go back and look at exactly what we have done in Brussels; the honourable Member will be happy to do so. However, when it comes to budget support, we have consistently opposed it. It is not that we do not want to help Ukraine. On the contrary, we see a great need, but this is not the best way because there are different problems linked to that type of budget support. If you look at the documents that are available, really anyone, it is very clear that both we in the European Parliament and here in the Swedish Parliament are one of the most active forces when it comes to criticising Russia's actions.
i-6Z5i3Z44mfKqfowsRJQf7Q	Mr. Old President! I have been amused to actually look at some of the track records of the Swedish Democrats in Brussels. What emerges, I can say, is not that there is a clear line to pursue the rule of law, to drive democracy and to stand up to the Putin regime. On the contrary, sanctions against the Putin regime have been voted against in the past. Yesterday's support for Ukraine was abandoned. It votes against mechanisms to ensure the rule of law within the Union. That is not a clear line. I would say that is a very clearly divided line. I find it remarkable that it is standing in this House and saying that it is one of the clearest forces for democracy, for the rule of law, for the rights of small states and for the European security regime when, at the same time, people are being sent to Brussels who are voting against. On this we have the problem of Swedish democrats, most recently a member of the Committee on Defence, who is out in pro-Russian Swedish media and supports them. How will the Swedish people be able to trust the Swedish Democrats on these issues, Markus Wiechel?
i-Y1rYiqGiXx3DjDXAc6gUDF	Mr. Old President! Just look at the documents and official policies we have. We have a Russian movement here in the Swedish Parliament, which I am convinced Magnus Ek has read, in which we advocate sharp sanctions against Russia. The fact that we do not vote for some ineffective measures from the European Union may have different reasons, but that does not necessarily mean that we would in any way stand for a Putin-friendly policy. On the contrary, as I said, we have repeatedly criticised that regime and campaigned for sharper sanctions. I remember yesterday when we here in the Swedish Parliament tried to co-write the introduction of Magnitsky sanctions with, among other things, the Center Party. Then they didn't want to co-write with us, for some strange reason. We suggested practically the same thing. There was a vote, there was a tie and we had a lot of money on which draft sanctions were to be adopted. These were two practically identical proposals.
i-BmQ3zWgMtcJx3qGFNSKA8f	Mr. Old President! At least now it was Markus Wiechel who will answer my question. Kurdish women in YPJ and YPG and the Kurds and other minorities have played a significant role in the fight against Daish, which we know holds 12 000 IS terrorists, and among them there are about ten Swedes. The Kurds have long cried for help from the outside world, but they have been denied it. When I and the Social Democrats tried to raise this issue, I and the Social Democrats were discredited. I wonder, where does SD stand on that question? Are you on the side of Erdo中an and Daish, or are you on the side of the Kurds against the Islamic State and Turkey? That's my question.
i-8cJMyGU1LZTxmQgmDgHbFy	Mr. Old President! As Amineh Kakabaveh knows, the Swedish Democrats in the Riksdag have consistently, not least during the time that I have been on the Foreign Affairs Committee working on these issues, been on the side of the Kurds in the fight against Daish and on the side of the Kurds in the fight against Erdo中a n and Turkey's widespread repression. We have been consistent when it comes to criticism of this type of authoritarianism. I don't see any ambiguity there. Then I understand that Amineh Kakabaveh would like to raise this to perhaps become a more personal question. It'll have to stand for her. Our line on this issue seems to me to have been quite clear.
i-9Qz6ftUiGLgTou9o2WUo3p	Mr. Old President! I know your position as a person, Markus Wiechel, but you are a crucial vote for the Swedish Democrats on this issue, and your party leader has actually strongly criticised supporting the Kurds. You just have to be clear here. Where are you standing? Do you want the Kurds to be supported in bringing these terrorists to justice by an international court? Do you want the Kurds and other minorities to be protected and a protection zone in Rojava because they have fought for democracy and have protected many and have protected the world from terror and Islamism? Now you really need to clarify where you stand on these issues – not your personal position, but your party's position. Do you want your party leader to apologize, or are you going to stand for it?
i-U9w2uVhYJ12J4yVX5yZJr2	Mr. Old President! Firstly, as I said, we have been very clear as a party when it comes to supporting not least the Syrian democratic groupings in north-east Syria, in Rojava. There's a lot of evidence to show that. The same thing when it comes to bringing the terrorists to account in an international court – it is something that we have expressed both in the EU Board and in the Foreign Affairs Committee. With regard to the criticism that has been made in the past, it is about having an agreement between a particular political force and the Swedish Government. I can agree that it is a pity if you are to lock yourself in such things. In addition, it is important to be careful not to cooperate with the wrong operator. But as I said, when it comes to the sacrifice of the Kurds in the fight against various extremists, whether it be Erdo中an or IS, we have always been on their side.
i-BR5GFwx9y5xLRCN1WohcZZ	Mr. Old President! Today's debate has largely concerned Russia's threats to Ukraine, and rightly so. The authoritarian regime of Putin threatens not only the people of Ukraine and the freedom of Ukraine, but the entire European security regime and the freedom of smaller countries to choose their own free and democratic development and to choose their way as a country. Unfortunately, this is not the only example of how democracy is threatened by the disgust of authoritarian leaders for free and democratic development. Russia, for example, is acting in Belarus, Kazakhstan and Syria to stifle democratic development. China acts to support other authoritarian leaders and to strengthen its influence over other countries' policies and natural resources. Together, these and other authoritarian leaders are acting to undermine the UN's ability to protect human rights, rule of law and democratic development. In short, democracy and human freedom are under threat worldwide, and unfortunately progress is going in the wrong direction. Mr. Old President! It is our responsibility to do what we can to reverse the trend and support those who are fighting for freedom and popular influence worldwide. Perhaps our most important tool for this is Swedish aid. It is one of the most effective aid efforts in the world, but it needs to be tightened up and focused in order to make more use of it and achieve the maximum possible benefit. We need to arm civil society in order to promote the development of democratic systems and the functioning of the rule of law. We need to link our trade and economic freedom policy with aid in order to create economic growth and reduce poverty. We need to hook arms with Swedish companies and researchers to reduce emissions and build sustainable societies instead of poor and fossil-dependent ones. Mr. Old President! At this point, with a crisis of democracy, a crisis of the climate and a pandemic that risks throwing hundreds of millions of people back into poverty, Moderates and Swedish Democrats in this House want to cut the Swedish contribution to development policy, the Swedish aid budget. Let me say that not only do I think it is extremely unsolidaric, but I also think it is extremely unwise at this point. It is not just about supporting the poor and oppressed in solidarity, it is about what world Sweden wants to see. Let me take Africa as an example: do we want sub-Saharan countries to develop into democratic allies or do we want them to be ruled by corrupt autocrats? Do we want to help build sustainable communities that can feed their population, or do we want to see millions upon millions driven by climate change? Do we want the hundreds of millions of young Africans who are currently dreaming of a better future and want to build a better future to become a productive part of the world economy, or do we want to accept that they get stuck in poverty? I know what I and the Center Party are choosing, and I know that aid and development policy are one of our most important tools for us as a small but rich country to help shape a better world. Mr. Old President! The Swedish Government must decide what aid policy they want. It is not good enough that the Minister for Development and in today's debate also the Minister for Foreign Affairs say that aid should focus on combating poverty while at the same time the Minister for Migration and the Minister for the Interior say that we should use it as a tool to force countries to take back migrants. It is using aid as a bat rather than a lever for development. Let me be clear: the Center Party is against this, and we are not going to contribute to it. Neither should the Social Democrats. Gather the line, let the aid be aid and put the power into getting more out of each crown that we put on a better development in the world! As I said, sustainable development policy does not stop at aid policy. I have mentioned the work on climate change, and it is absolutely crucial that we change ourselves, strengthen the EU's development policy and contribute through the aid budget to reducing emissions and contributing to climate change adaptation. Similarly, we need to pursue a policy of increased prosperity, increased trade and economic exchange, including the world's poor, if we are to eradicate poverty in the world. Not only can we contribute through aid, but we must also link trade policy and a policy that increases economic freedom in the world. The post-pandemic reconstruction must provide direct support to those affected, not only directly by the pandemic, but also by restrictions, closed borders and hijacked trade routes. It must include direct support for them, but also a policy that increases economic exchange, ties them back to the world economy and reduces poverty. Mr. Old President! I have said this before in this House, but we must not forget that, although Swedish aid is extremely important, Sweden's aid budget or the world's overall aid budgets are not enough to achieve the objectives of Agenda 2030. We must broaden the contribution to sustainable development, link civil society and the great commitment that is there, link the business community with the capital and innovation power that is there and ensure that we all pull in the same direction to build sustainable development. Mr. Old President! If some political forces can choose, it is nationalism, isolation and reduced solidarity that will govern Sweden's actions in the world. The Centre Party's choice is freedom, democracy, gender equality, sustainability and the reduction of poverty, which are the key words of Swedish foreign policy.
i-JfshfJRK4yrrcSPgUmTM7L	Mr. Old President! I have a question for Magnus Ek. It may not really affect what Magnus Ek has talked about but perhaps in a way. I sat and read the e-mails and saw that there has been a positive news about Ukraine. They have initiated a conference that has been held and have now signed an agreement on a platform to combat illicit trafficking in weapons, ammunition and explosives. But when I look at who is behind and helping Ukraine with this, I note that the Swedish Government is not present. On the other hand, the governments of France, Germany, the Netherlands, Norway, Slovakia, the United States, Lithuania and Poland are holding the Presidency of the OSSE. The European Union is also present. I think this is a shining example of how we can work to support peace. What does Magnus Ek think?
i-8UpXaijS7G5hLSRcSrQubc	Mr. Old President! As Mr Cederfelt knows, I welcome all forms of debate, including lines in this House, regardless of what they are about. This is going to be a bit of a broadening from my speech. And I'll admit I'm not familiar with the background to the deal. But now I have a great reason to get into it more. With that in mind, I can say that it sounds like a pretty good, even very good, example of how one can contribute to both increasing stability in our neighbourhood and in Europe and backing governments in how they work for sustainability and to reduce the level of violence. We can only look at the proposals that we have dealt with in this House during our term of office. We know that there have been initiatives at European level to reduce the trade in small arms. That's what goes under the radar. We usually debate nuclear weapons – we also debate some nuclear energy – and the really big weapons and agreements around them. However, anything that can help reduce the escalation of violence and the access of illegal organisations to weapons, I welcome in principle.
i-FaRvvjGHWz4zgPDZ8UZvtP	Mr. Old President! That sounds excellent. This agreement has the OSCE mission in Ukraine as a partner, as a platform. Those who have been involved are, of course, the Ukrainian government, but they are also think tanks, think tanks, civil society and partners. It shows that there is a broad consensus. This is precisely the kind of initiative that is needed, as well as strong defence and sanctions. There is also a need for national responsibility with the support of the outside world. This is exactly what there is. However, I am sad to see that the Swedish Government is not present. The Swedish government is part of the OSCE troika but has not signed the agreement. Poland has done so, as the country holding the Presidency. France, Germany, the Netherlands, Norway and Slovakia – that is, several EU countries – have also done so. But Sweden has not been there.
i-KZr3WsuHmjaYg43NFEjMDQ	Mr. Old President! There are many things that are wonderful about sitting in this Chamber. But a bad thing is that, just as in many other workplaces, you get a little work injury. I'm waiting for a hook to come here, for what the wise Margareta Cederfelt has been thinking and how she's gonna trick me into a little trap. But it wasn't like that at all. It simply seems that Margareta wants to highlight a good initiative and, I believe, send a pass to the Swedish Government. So we'll pass that pass on. And I thank you for the line shift.
i-7VbxervkurjnDNf48hgXsm	Mr. Old President! There are plenty of examples of the importance of strong and good aid. It has been trained midwives, which has led not only to more people having qualified jobs but mainly to fewer women and children dying during pregnancy and childbirth. Schools have been built and teachers trained, which has led to more children receiving education and avoiding child labour. It has been trained in sustainable agriculture, which has led to reduced hunger, stable incomes and not least that many women, who are often the users of the land, have gained more power over their lives. Support has been given for sexual and reproductive health and rights, which has meant that women have had to make safe abortions and that girls have avoided circumcision and child marriage. Support has been given to local civil society organisations, which has led to increased knowledge of human rights and democracy and to more people being able to make their voices heard. The list can go on and on and on, and that would probably be necessary given that there are parties that want to both reduce and conditional aid. But time is short, and more is needed to achieve a just and equal world free from poverty, oppression and armed conflict. What needs to be done, we have agreed and written into Agenda 2030 internationally. Unfortunately, however, we are moving towards an increasingly unequal world where poverty and hunger are increasing while the already filthy rich through our unequal economic system are becoming even richer. Poverty is not combated by making rich even richer or by allowing multinational companies to easily evade paying taxes on their profits. Poverty is not combated by avoiding demands for decent wages and working conditions, over-exploiting natural resources and producing at the expense of the climate. Poverty is not combated as long as men are allowed to use violence against women and girls or because people are deprived of human and democratic rights. Poverty is definitely not combated by increasing the amount of weapons in the world. All of this is highlighted in Agenda 2030, yet governments continue to counter what is needed to combat poverty. So does the Swedish government, which claims to pursue a feminist foreign policy. It is not only in Agenda 2030 that the importance of reducing inequality is lifted. The International Monetary Fund also highlights the importance of progressive taxation and increased social spending in order to combat inequality. Tax evasion, however, must also be combated. Today, tax evasion is much greater than the world's total aid. One way to make it easier for countries to overcome tax evasion is to ensure that everyone signs country-by-country reporting. This will make it much more difficult for multinational companies to evade taxes, and all countries will have increased income that can be spent on strengthening public welfare. Then more schools and hospitals can be built. Then more women and girls can have their rights met. Then more people can work to fight corruption. Then surveyors can have better resources to register land ownership, and then better environmental and climate laws can be established and enforced. People get better health and education and can engage more in organising and also demand more of their human rights. That's what we need, Mr. Old President. Even before the pandemic, more and more countries entered a patriarchal, authoritarian, conservative and often even nationalistic direction. Of course, this affects most people in one country but mainly those who do not fit in with the male norm. Women, girls, indigenous peoples, those with disabilities, LGBTI people, religious minorities, human rights activists and climate and environmentalists are most exposed to violence. It is not only physical and psychological violence, but also economic and political violence. Women and girls are also subjected to increased sexual violence. Circumcision, child marriage and rape have increased even more during the pandemic, while those working to overcome this have received reduced resources. This is precisely why it is important that Swedish aid is at least 1% of GDP and that it is given to large, competent multilateral actors who have access to many countries and areas. It will also be given to civil society organisations that have solid knowledge in their fields and can also more easily understand and collaborate with corresponding organisations in all the countries of the world. At the same time, multilateralism is needed so that we can hold the talks and draw up the necessary agreements. We must act together to ensure that human and democratic rights are respected for all. There are shortcomings in these large multilateral organisations. For example, Israel's repression of Palestine is increasing every year, despite the fact that the UN has already issued resolutions over 50 years ago on what needs to be done. Yet it is precisely within the UN that we can work together for a better world for all. Mr. Old President! For the Left Party, solidarity outside Sweden is enough. What we want to achieve here, we want to apply to the whole world, so that all the people of the world can avoid poverty and oppression. We protect everyone's freedom to choose for themselves how to live their lives in harmony with other people, earth's resources and future generations – simply a society for everyone, not just the richest.
i-53EApSJHmgCfLp6nXuwKae	Mr. Old President! The 1% target is problematic for several reasons. The fact that we have this budgeting principle at all, which means that we first set the sum and then decide what to do, is deeply problematic. One example is that the guarantee instrument is removed because it is too cost-effective. When we see that developments are going in the wrong direction in the world, we must be able to use the whole toolbox. Mr. Old President! I would like to ask the honourable Member if she thinks this is okay. Is this worthy of Sweden's development policy? Would it not be better first to set our priorities and then the budget, as we do in other areas, for better and more effective aid?
i-SEv5mTk8uKJEzFHYrqg9pP	Mr. Old President! It's interesting, Helena Storckenfeldt, that you ask that question. It is usually the opposite: we are criticising you because you want to reduce aid and we will therefore not be able to achieve the objectives we have with aid. I can't swear on how the government does when they set their targets in their budget. But I can promise you that you set the targets first, and then you set up what is needed. And we have come to the conclusion that this is the minimum amount that we would like to pay. That's what I think the Moderates need to learn to understand. It is not the case that one has sat down and said that 1% of the bni is the only thing that applies. Then we'll see what we do with it. There is an endless need for Sweden's support to tackle poverty and oppression. 1% of bni is the least we can pay.
i-5XtwUvYEGmPekMwE3cuFKg	Mr. Old President! Expensive aid is not better aid. There are many different parts to deal with here. There are, as I said, several examples of tools that are removed. So not all the tools we could use to achieve the goals we want to see in the world are being used. I feel that the honourable Member is trying to play away my commitment and that of the Moderates to the development of the world. The Moderates think that aid is incredibly important. That is precisely why we are willing to question old truths. The fact that the 1% target has been left untouched since the 1960s, as a sacred cow in Swedish politics, is frustrating when the goal should be effective and good aid. Let us keep a high level of debate and together make a move for better and more effective aid that is taking the lead in trade and growth. We can do better.
i-Hgw5zx4qnNiVw5eJZwvjND	Mr. Old President! Once again, Helena Storckenfeldt is trying with the thought that we will be able to use even more tools and make even better aid by cutting it down by at least 30 percent. That doesn't make any sense. This is gonna be a little ridiculous, because it's gonna be like I'm representing the government, which I don't. This can therefore be addressed with social democrats. But we in the Left Party want to use many more tools that go beyond aid. I'm thinking of h uman rights and environmental due diligence. You're welcome to work for it too. I'm thinking of country-by-country reporting. Would it not be amazing if companies could no longer evade their taxes in the countries where they have made their profits and if the countries could actually use their own ability to build themselves up? But no, you don't work for this. Instead, aid should also be reduced. I am holding this debate at a high level. The question is, do the Moderates do that?
i-4xDzoPcsv7Z8JMYMzi66cf	Mr. Old President! I have listened to Yasmine Posios's speech and I have a question. I hear a lot about central control. I hear a lot about the economy to be run. It's supposed to be taxes. Tax evasion must be prevented. But I hear very little about entrepreneurship. I hear very little about the possibility of livelihood and about being able to influence one's own life and about being able to grow as a human being. I think of women, especially women who can start and run a business. In this way they can lift their own finances, their children and their lives and contribute to their family's finances. Where is this perspective in Yasmine Posios's speech?
i-BkHacV6Mz1ZCg86ijHr2rc	Mr. Old President! It is a pity that Margareta Cederfelt has missed that part of my speech in which I actually lifted what is needed to empower women. In our development policy exercise we highlight this particular issue of female entrepreneurship and land ownership, but we do not see it as the foundation of a society. Instead, much more is needed. The International Monetary Fund also highlights the importance of an equal distribution of resources through progressive taxation and increased social expenditure. Indeed, most of them, various civil society organisations and the large aid organisations, raise tax evasion as a major problem. And because we have good public activities, people have better opportunities to live their lives. Then the women who run farms and businesses have the opportunity to charge a better price for their goods, and they don't have to work around the clock.
i-TH66dvazoHgiJg8nVt3Rjo	Mr. Old President! I can see that we do not see the issue of tax evasion differently, but we have different views on the issue of the market economy. It is about the ability to start and run a business and to grow. Let me give you an example, Mr. Old President. In Tanzania, I visited a village where there were women running businesses. A woman was very happy because she had started a café. As a result, she could have invested in a TV and had been able to throw out her husband, who drank and abused her. Is this what Yasmine Posio wants to stop? I don't hear a single word about how women can grow and how women's entrepreneurship can grow. I'd like to see more of that, because that's how women can have their own power.
i-Cu8At4KcRouhxtEdHEjizg	Mr. Old President! It is not only through entrepreneurship that women can grow, and I have talked a great deal about that in my previous speech. The Sweden that the outside world looked up to was not only built by rich people. Nor was it built solely thanks to industrialisation and small businesses. You turn a blind eye to the emergence of the labour movement and the women's movement. They didn't just get universal and equal suffrage. They improved working conditions and wages in their workplaces, and politically they created a strong public welfare. They made sure that resources were redistributed more fairly. In this way the whole of Sweden grew and became incredibly strong. To close your eyes to that part and just believe that small businesses – that women can start their small businesses – will save the whole world is to be naive.
i-HSe15mbRsxYYwJVbVCFfLo	Mr. Old President! We are in serious and fateful times. I would like to highlight some aspects related to the security situation from an aid perspective. We need to see the whole picture. Wars and conflicts bring civilian victims. Since the war in Ukraine broke out in 2014, 14 000 people have been killed, not by covid-19, but by war injuries. This corresponds to the population of a medium-sized Swedish municipality. 2.4 million people have been forced to leave their homes. 800 000 people's l in v around Donetsk and Luhansk are in danger. There are 200 000 more than people living in Gothenburg. Organizations like UNHCR help them stay away from the most dangerous areas. They provide cash and emergency aid so that they can survive, helping to build bombed schools and destroyed homes. On the basis of this concrete example, I would like to move on to a more general plan. In war and conflict situations, women and children are the most vulnerable, and they are hardest hit. For children deprived of their schooling, their entire future is at stake. We know in Sweden that the strongest protection factor against exclusion is to graduate from school with approved grades. However, children growing up in conflict are not only at risk of having their education interrupted. In many countries, boys are in danger of being recruited as child soldiers. At best, girls risk being married off to relieve the family of a mouth to feed or so, worse, she may be abducted as a sex slave. In both cases, the girl is objectified and deprived of self-worth and self-determination. Worst case, she is expelled by her people and condemned to a life of humiliation. This has also affected hundreds of thousands of girls as a result of the pandemic. Sweden and the rest of the world must make a greater contribution to helping people escape. In many cases, the temporary refugee camps turn into long-term housing with great humanitarian needs. Sweden must contribute to new ways of meeting people's distress and vulnerability. Water, food and education must not be lacking when the international community assumes responsibility for vulnerable people. People should not be trapped in refugee camps for generations, but should be given a chance to integrate into the local community. Sweden is regarded as a major humanitarian power, not least through the generous assistance we provide both to multilateral organisations such as the UNCHR and through civil society organisations. We need to be even better at taking advantage of that position in order to make aid even more effective and accurate. Press so that countries allow refugee children to go to school as much as the country's own children! Make sure that even young girls who have given birth get back to school and complete their studies! Every year a girl has time to go to school, her chances of survival and, in time, to give birth to healthy children are improved, both because her body is able to develop and mature, and because the knowledge she receives at school helps her to cope better in life. Being able to read, write and count provides the opportunity to make wise choices of food and other purchases and knowledge to conduct gainful activities that help her and her family out of poverty. Sweden holds human rights high. One such is freedom of religion: the right to choose faith, to exercise it, and the right to abstain. This right is violated in many countries where Sweden has interests. For a long time, the situation has been worse in North Korea, but in 2021 Afghanistan changed. There are evidences of how Taliban have come up with lists of Christians and killed them. China is another country where Christians are subjected to persecution, as are the Uighurs who are traditionally Muslims. Perhaps the worst is the situation of two - sided Christian Uighurs. It is remarkable that the government does not address the situation of persecuted Christians and other religious minorities. You don't even mention the word freedom of religion. India has long been known as the world's largest democracy. It's not like that anymore. In recent years the situation in India has deteriorated radically through the Hindu-nationalist regime and the like-minded state governments. They see Muslims and Christians as foreign elements, among other things accused of covid-19 pandemic. Nationalist bullies can burn churches and attack and kill peaceful churchgoers without police intervention, as has been shown by Act Swedish Church and Open Doors World Watch. I had hoped that in the foreign policy declaration Sweden would have highlighted the unacceptable fact that a prominent trading partner is thus not protecting its citizens. Mr. Old President! Overall, I would like to stress the importance of prevention. Through generous, effective and well-targeted aid, poverty can be reduced as well as conflicts and domestic tensions. Where democracy and human rights are respected and people have the opportunity to support themselves and their families are fertilised and developed the country, and the urge to try to go somewhere else to seek their happiness diminishes. We want to continue with this through generous aid.
i-3QGauJBB3DQhYF9J8kx3i1	Mr. Old President! I am not only a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Social Democrats; I am also a S-woman and chair of the Intergroup on Sexual and Reproductive Health and Rights in Parliament. My speech today will focus on women and girls in war and conflict and what repercussions it has around the world. Their situation touches me deeply. Mr. Old President! Women and girls are hit harder by wars and conflicts than men because their rights in large parts of the world even before the horrors of war are systematically violated. During armed conflicts, their vulnerability increases, and precisely because they have a lower status and less power over their own lives, their vulnerability becomes greater. In armed conflicts, men and boys go into battle while women and girls often remain at home to care for the family. Often they are subjected to violence and sexual violence as a systematic tool in conflicts to put fear in the population, drive people to flight and create division and polarisation. Sexual violence is used to humiliate entire communities and weaken the enemy – like 25-year-old Vera who was attacked and raped so badly that her entire genital area was torn apart. She was left to die. The local hospital has tried to operate on her three times but failed. Vera's not alone. Millions are the stories of women and girls all over the world who have survived this and of those who have not survived – 17-year-old Jolie who is unable to touch her son, because it reminds her of what she was subjected to, Lokadiya who was raped by soldiers on the floor next to the body by his slain man and who still smells his blood. Another voice is Dr Denis Mukwege at Panzi Hospital in Congo, who dedicated her life to helping these women and often asks himself how he as a doctor can explain to a 13-year-old that she no longer has a vagina and can never have more children. Mr. Old President! For women and children forced to flee, the situation is very difficult. Escape from the home leads to even worse access to health care, clean water, shelter and food. Nor do refugee camps or facilities offer sufficient protection for women and children, as they are often overcrowded and the shortage of relief staff is extensive. The lack of sanitary facilities affects girls particularly hard, and the risk of diseases and complications increases and thus also problems with girls' and women's reproductive health and rights. Incontinence and sexually transmitted diseases following rape also affect these women severely. Women and girls are also more at risk than men of trafficking, prostitution or forced marriage during armed conflicts. Pregnant women are at risk of miscarriage and premature birth due to perceived trauma and malnutrition and risk severe complications during childbirth in unsafe conditions without the possibility of medical treatment. Mr. Old President! Women are an important key in helping to solve wars and conflicts and should have an obvious place at the table when it comes to conflict resolution, peace negotiations and peace agreements, for example. Having a female perspective and a female understanding for resolving conflicts and in any diplomatic solution is extremely important. Women know how women are affected, and they can thus provide solutions that men may not always see. Women make up half of the world's population and should have half of the power and influence. We must therefore continue to promote equality and women's rights at all levels, not only in Sweden but throughout the world. Mr. Old President! Given how women and girls suffer particularly badly in war and conflict, I am proud that our Social Democratic Government is pursuing a feminist foreign policy with clear objectives. These are objectives that include contributing to the full enjoyment of human rights by all women and girls, the freedom of women and girls from physical, mental and sexual violence. In addition, the participation of girls and women in preventing and resolving conflicts and building peace after conflict shall be promoted, as well as the political participation and influence of women and girls in all areas of society. The approach and essence of feminist foreign policy can be summed up in three "R"s, namely rights, representation and resources. In short, this means that we should work to ensure that all women and girls enjoy human rights in full and combat all forms of violence and discrimination that limit their room for manoeuvre. Women should participate and exert influence in decision-making processes in all areas, and we should work towards allocating resources so that equality and women's rights can be achieved. Work on women, peace and security is a central part of feminist foreign policy. In order to ensure the influence of women and girls, efforts to achieve the objectives of UN Security Council Resolution 1325 on women, peace and security and subsequent resolutions need to be intensified. The influence and meaningful participation of women and young people in peace processes and peace and state building is a matter of rights and a prerequisite for sustainable peace and development.
i-CcgvUk4e5Xq4ywos9bTeY5	Mr. Old President! Today's debate has largely been marked by what the Minister for Foreign Affairs said in his opening speech, namely that armed attacks on Sweden cannot be excluded. I will not focus on this in my speech, but I will talk, above all, about human rights. Human rights are not something that can be taken for granted, either yesterday, today or tomorrow. The fact that the scope for human rights is dwindling, especially in our eastern neighbour Russia, can be illustrated by the closure of Memorial, the civil organisation. Memorial was founded in 1992 during perestroika n to conduct research and publish material on the totalitarian history of the Soviet Union and monitor how human rights are being observed today. An important human rights organisation is now closed. There is no longer active work on documentation, and there is no library available. I would also like to mention the importance of journalism. This applies to us in Sweden since 2001 to the imprisoned journalist Dawit Isaak. But I would also like to mention Gui Minhai, who is imprisoned in China. This shows how people who work for the free word are no longer free, and this has an impact on other journalists, on who dares to write, on who publishes a newspaper. This is something that we must all combat. I would also like to mention freedom of religion as an important issue for us to fight for. I am thinking here of Tibetan Buddhism, Judaism and in some parts of the world where Christianity is also subject to oppression. No religion should be oppressed. It must be up to the individual to be able to practice his own religion and not to risk discrimination for this. I would also like to mention national minorities, who are subject to repression in many places. I'm thinking of Uighurs and Kurds. Attacks against many national minorities are escalating and, of course, we must counter this. It cannot be that a national minority should be a collective term for terrorism, be considered to be a wrong lifestyle or be subjected to anything else, whatever it may be, that conceals an abuse. Every individual must be respected on the basis of his or her right as a human being. I would also like to mention democracy. Here I come to the work of the OSCE. For democracy to be carried out, fundamental rights must also be taken into account – one voice, one individual. It shall also be possible to conduct policy, campaign, vote or stand as a candidate. These are important issues for the European security regime. Let me also mention a few concepts that I think deserve to be mentioned in the Swedish Parliament. It is about the fact that if the OSSE is to continue its activities, different concepts need to be strengthened. Decisions are needed; I am thinking here of the economy. The OSCE budget for 2022 is still undecided, Mr President-in-Office. There is no indication that it will be decided in the coming months, and this is a handicap for the organisation. I have one more question. The independent observer force, the SMM, also needs a budget. If the budget is not decided by 31 March, the observer force will be allowed to go home. A decision needs to be made. Here Sweden can push ahead, and here Sweden can have an important function to perform. The issue is important. Parts of the observer force on the border between Ukraine and Russia are closed. It doesn't exist anymore. It is easy to end an observer force, and then the eyes that are in place will disappear that see what is happening and that can report to the outside world. I would also like to mention some additional criteria that are important within the OSSE, namely to continue to ensure that the organisation can conduct its election observation, as it has been doing for a long time. During the autumn parliamentary elections in Russia, the OSSE was prevented from carrying out observations. The OSSE was not in place, but there were no preconditions either because Russia wanted to dictate the conditions by limiting the number of observers from the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly to ten and also limiting the way in which the Odihr would deploy its observers. That is totally unacceptable. All of us who are in international organisations, but also here in Sweden, not only parliamentarians but also civil society, must act for human rights in support of the inviolability of the individual and for democracy and peace to be respected.
i-U1VwFq2eyJYm3HHfX6QcHf	Mr. Old President! I thank Margareta Cederfelt for her speech, especially much of what she has said about international engagement, Mrs Dawit Isaak and Mr Gui Minhai. Margareta Cederfelt represents the Moderates and Sweden in many international contexts. Couldn't you start a campaign for the release of Dawit Isaak and Gui Minhai? It is not only about Sweden but also within the EU. Many countries could join forces to demand, for example, the release of Dawit Isaak or the release of Ahmadreza Djalali and Habib Chaab from Iran. This also applies to Gui Minhai and many others with dual citizenship who are imprisoned in different parts of the world. It's good that a lot of people talk about them, but demanding their release is important.
i-D4EjwcBow3ty5U4pZCmMVY	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Amineh Kakabaveh, for the good suggestion! I can say that this is already being done in many places. I myself raised the issue at the UN. I have raised the issue within the OSSE. But it is not just me, but it has also been done by various members of the Swedish delegation from several different parties. I know it is done within the Council of Europe. But I think much more can be done. I believe that if we join forces across party boundaries when we can and drive these issues, success can be achieved. But we have to do it with others. I think that is also important, because we as parliamentarians and those of us who are elected in free, democratic elections should, of course, use the platforms we have.
i-Ej9YJKkAT3BsEX9LUMreH3	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Margareta, for your answer! There are several parties who, with the same annual motion, have forced a Commission of Inquiry, which is very good and important. But there's been some kind of quiet diplomacy all along. We must not hear anything about this if it is the precautionary principle or the culture of silence. It may be when other countries help out that there will be pressure on the dictatorships that imprison freedom fighters or journalists such as Dawit Isaak, Gui Minhai, who is a writer and Ahmadreza Djalali, who is a KI researcher and doctor in disaster medicine. It would be time to demand their release both in the UN and in the EU. That is why I wanted to highlight them here as important aspects.
i-U1ZEQHUqwSJxt1kP2NEHvj	Mr. Old President! Quiet diplomacy, I think, is necessary as well. I know that this is something that many governments around the world are engaged in. But when it is not enough, I think it is important to raise your voice and that it is not just one vote but several votes. The fact that people have been imprisoned since 2001 or since 2015 shows that quiet diplomacy is not enough. More action is needed, and I am firmly convinced that we can all contribute and increase pressure. The worst thing is the silence. We're not gonna shut up. We, as parliamentarians, do not silence other forces either, and then things can start to happen.
i-4R6JWGNAMZHor2Gb6eL5Rp	Mr. Old President! It is now, after almost eight years of Social Democratic foreign policy, time to take stock of foreign policy. It is not exactly a result that the government should be proud of – quite the contrary. On the contrary, the last two terms of Social Democratic foreign policy have been characterised by anxiety, awkwardness and a constant crouch behind the European Union, to the extent that one can legitimately question whether we need a foreign minister of our own with his own department when everything seems to be left to Brussels. Even when human rights, as the government otherwise claims to protect and prioritise, are not violated, one dares to take a few higher notes. We see that Christians today are the world's most vulnerable group, but the government makes hardly any mark against this. We see that authoritarian and communist China, among other things, exposes the Muslim group of Uighurs to abuse. But instead of strongly protesting, the government is hiding behind the EU. Nor does the way China acts in Hong Kong or against Taiwan give rise to any stronger protests by the Minister for Foreign Affairs or any particular action by the government. This compares with, for example, Lithuania, which has acted exemplaryly in many foreign policy contexts and has stood up for Taiwan, for example. The background is that we decided when the government took office that our foreign policy would be value-based, said Lithuania's Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs. There are obviously Lithuanian values, and so there are the values of the Swedish Government. For a government that calls itself the world's first feminist government, it is perhaps directly embarrassing how one has approached a country like Iran. When the Minister of Foreign Affairs, then as Minister of Trade, visited Iran in 2017, we could see the female government representatives standing in rows wearing veils. At the same time, Iranian women are being killed in the struggle to avoid wearing these garments to please the men. They wanted to take the custom where they came, it was called. But when Iran's Foreign Minister visited Sweden, he was allowed to take his custom here by not taking women in hand. Sweden's then Foreign Minister did not protest against this anti-women way either. So much for being a feminist government and standing up for its values. Even when it comes to symbolic issues – albeit important – one does not dare to stand up for one's so-called feminist policy. "A feminist foreign policy is needed more than ever," said the Foreign Minister in his declaration. Earlier today, the Foreign Minister used the word hypocrisy in another context. What is this if not hypocrisy? Mr President, I would like to The security policy situation in our immediate vicinity is very serious. The developments we have seen in recent years were something that we in the Swedish Democrats warned of when we first entered this House twelve years ago. Then we were met by the other parties' lack of ability to understand. As early as 2007, the Defence Committee wrote in its report that, in the field of foreign policy, Russian action against countries previously part of the Soviet Union will be a litmus test on which way Russia chooses. Nevertheless, Russia did not react when it attacked and occupied Georgia in 2008. Even then, you should have woken up. But it seemed to have forgotten what was written in the report a year earlier. Only after the Russian annexation of Crimea in 2014 did they wake up. However, for the present government, the situation in Georgia seems to be somewhat forgotten. Only three times in these eight years have there been references to Georgia in their foreign policy declarations, and then only hastily in passing. This is despite the fact that Russia's aggression against Georgia was the start of the attacks on the European security regime and in line with the Caucasian litmus test. It is also in accordance with this Russia now acting with full force, which, of course, should be condemned most strongly by the whole world. Mr President, I would like to Another conflict worth highlighting in this context, in which the government's actions leave much to be desired, is the conflict between Armenia and Azerbaijan. When Azerbaijan, backed by Turkey, attacked Armenia violently in the autumn of 2020, it was surprisingly quiet from the Foreign Minister. At first I had some sympathy for this silence because the Swedish Presidency of the OSSE was at hand and perhaps it did not want to burn any diplomatic bridges as future OSCE Presidents. But there should of course be a limit to how long you can duck and be quiet. However, when Azerbaijan beheaded captured Armenian soldiers, demolished thousands of years of churches and destroyed Christian cultural treasures, the Foreign Minister continued to remain silent. After a year as Chairman of the OSSE, one might wonder what the government actually achieved. If anything, there was nothing of great importance that I noted. In his declaration, the Minister for Foreign Affairs claims that, Sweden has made a mark that will last. What impressions are there, I wonder. What I did note, however, was the irritation that some fifteen ambassadors witnessed after the Foreign Minister's meeting in Stockholm at the beginning of December last year, which marked the culmination of the OSCE Presidency. It wasn't a good grade. When I brought this up with the Foreign Minister in the past, she, like a child, has kept to her ears and shouted about how wrong I am. But it's not really me who made up how bad it was. And the lack of ability to organise large meetings at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs does not bode well before Sweden's Presidency in the EU in spring 2023. Thankfully, there will now be a choice before then so that this can be addressed. Mr President, I would like to All I can see is that in some kind of positive direction the relationship with Israel seems to have improved somewhat after the former Social Democratic Minister for Foreign Affairs was declared persona non grata. The fact that the relationship now seems to have improved somewhat can have its explanation in that Israel currently has a motley government coalition that includes Islamists among other things. The Swedish Social Democratic Party seems to have a particular weakness for these. Now we are moving towards a new election in Sweden. I hope that this will mean a change of government in which the Social Democratic era will finally end and a foreign policy that is both real and clear in its values.
i-TtkSTd3J5RoENk8yhcDFgV	Mr President, I would like to This year it is 70 years since the Nordic Council was founded. The 70th anniversary is a good opportunity to reflect on Nordic cooperation and, above all, its future. The cooperation conducted within the Nordic Council and the Nordic Council of Ministers is important for the Nordic countries and the Nordic region. The cooperation gives the Nordic countries a stronger voice in the world. That makes us more competitive. It gives us more tools to deal with challenges and crises. But cooperation is also of central importance for the citizens of the Nordic countries. Through the cooperation, the links between the Nordic countries have become strong. Opinion polls have shown that Nordic citizens have strong confidence and confidence in Nordic cooperation. If that trust is to be maintained and earned, cooperation must be developed. The Nordic countries and the Nordic Council cannot be content to be proud of what has been achieved or of the cooperation we have today. We must work together actively for stronger, better and more effective cooperation tomorrow. The Coronapendemy has exposed enormous shortcomings in the Nordic countries' ability to work together in the event of serious crises and events. For the future, there is therefore a very strong need to renew and develop Nordic cooperation. The weakness that has become most evident during the pandemic is the inability to protect one of the cornerstones of cooperation, namely free movement and passport freedom in the Nordic countries. For thousands of cross-border commuters, the situation during the pandemic has been unsustainable. And unfortunately it was not the first time that borders in the Nordic countries were closed in recent years. This is precisely the fact that, in recent years, borders between our countries have been repeatedly closed, is a sign of weakness and must be avoided in the future. This requires much closer cooperation if the goal of free movement in the Nordic countries is to survive in the long term. So we need more, not less, Nordic cooperation. Mr President, I would like to The different management of the pandemic by the Nordic countries, through unilateral rather than common and coordinated rules and restrictions, caused new disruptions to free movement. The divided families, put border commuters in quarantine hotels without income and shook the entire Nordic labour market in its foundations. It has also taken the focus and strength of the ongoing work to remove border barriers that existed before the pandemic, and it complicated and, in many cases, increased the lives of border commuters and the conditions for living in one country but working or studying in another. Over the past year commuters have risked double taxation or missed benefits in social security schemes when living and working on different sides of a border. We in the Center Party therefore believe that we need to ensure that the core of Nordic cooperation works. We need to take a closer look at the issues surrounding the tax and social security agreements between Sweden and the other Nordic countries that exist and ensure freedom of movement. Cross-border information services are of great importance for communicating information and knowledge to the people of the Nordic countries, not least for the Swedes and northerners who use the freedom of movement and the common labour market. The importance of information services has been clarified in recent years, and Sweden should be the driving force to ensure that these important institutions can best serve citizens and thereby strengthen Nordic cooperation. In order for people to benefit fully from free movement within the Nordic region, it is essential that transport and communications function satisfactorily. We want to see increased cooperation on the development of public transport in various forms, as well as coherent railway routes. The Nordic countries should strive to facilitate the co-planning of infrastructure projects that are important for border regions and that facilitate mobility within the Nordic region. There is a need for closer cooperation between national infrastructure authorities, as well as between municipalities and regions across national borders. All of this also underlines the need to set up a Nordic Council of Ministers for Transport, which the Nordic Council has long asked for. The Center Party wants to see enhanced and developed cooperation in more areas: civil justice and security, welfare, culture and education. We want a living cooperation between civil society and society, which is absolutely fundamental for Nordic integration. We want to see further strengthened and enhanced cooperation in the field of foreign and security policy. We are in the Nordic region in a geopolitical situation in which strong interests assert themselves. In recent years we have witnessed a great power rivalry around the Arctic and growing claims on how this area, for many of us our homeland, will be managed and developed. The Arctic region is in some places one of the world's few remaining untouched areas. The effects of climate change can be seen more quickly in the Arctic than in many other places. The region is home to a wide range of species and a wide variety of sensitive ecosystems. The Center Party believes that the Arctic and its untouched, vulnerable areas should be protected through conservation and that future exploitation and development take into account the impact on the environment and the people who live and have their livelihoods in the Arctic, not least the indigenous population of the region. Sweden should be a strong voice in the Arctic region and be active in bringing together Nordic cooperation for sustainable development in the Arctic.
i-4u26ZKn9sbQyZY6kcpn7zQ	Mr President, I would like to The world faces great challenges. We see how the climate crisis continues, while the democratic space is being reduced and women's rights are being held back. Europe is in a serious state of security policy. Then it is important to maintain calm, balance and stability. We must make every effort to avoid the outbreak of a new armed conflict. 40 years ago, the Palme Commission's report which established the concept of common security, while thousands of people demonstrated for peace and disarmament and against nuclear weapons worldwide – I was one of them. Sweden should once again put on the leadership shirt for a more active peace effort. Domestic policy developments in Russia are, of course, deeply worrying. Russia can no longer be called a democracy. The opposition is being subjected to increasingly harsh persecution. Human rights organisations are being closed down and independent journalists are becoming increasingly difficult to operate. This, of course, must be strongly condemned. Mr Putin's claim to control countries close to Russia and the military escalation at Ukraine's border also needs to be met consistently. If Russia were to attack Ukraine, it would obviously have serious consequences. At the same time, however, we must step up efforts for dialogue and peaceful solutions. War is never a solution to conflict; in war there are only losers. Nor is it possible for Sweden to join NATO, an alliance with nuclear weapons as a supporting doctrine, which has Member States such as Turkey and Hungary – countries that can no longer be called democracies. We must realise that NATO and the United States also have a responsibility for military armaments globally. A Swedish NATO membership would increase the tension in our neighbourhood. Sweden should instead strengthen its military alliance freedom. Sweden has escaped war for 200 years, and this is the result of wise diplomacy and military alliance freedom. Let us stick to the successful line, and let us instead intensify the work for peace, dialogue and disarmament. And let us also sign the UN Declaration on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons. Mr President, I would like to At the moment, the Olympic Games are taking place in China. Of course, we cheer on our Swedish sportswomen and athletes and rejoice in their success. But let us not forget that China is a fierce dictatorship. Fundamental human rights are systematically violated. Sweden should have more clearly declared its dissatisfaction with the violations of human rights in China through a diplomatic boycott of the Olympic Games. The abuses and violations of the Chinese regime affect all parts of Chinese society, but ethnic and religious minorities and falungong activists are particularly vulnerable. For example, thousands of Uighurs have been displaced. Torture is used systematically. Taiwan is under threat, and in Hong Kong democracy is largely abolished. Condemnation is not enough, but it is high time to impose sanctions on China for the abuse of its Uighurs and other minority peoples. Sweden must act more forcefully for sanctions in the EU. Companies investing in China, for example, must also take responsibility for human rights. There is therefore a need for binding legislation on corporate responsibility for the environment and human rights at international and EU level. Sweden must contribute to speeding up this process. Mr President, I would like to The occupied Western Sahara worsens the human rights situation on a daily basis, following the break of the ceasefire in November 2020. The ceasefire came about after the parties had agreed to hold a referendum on the independence of Western Sahara under the leadership of the UN – a referendum that 30 years later still did not take place. A fundamental reason for the occupation is the rich supply of natural resources by Western Sahara, and the looting and raw materials of the occupied country can continue, including through the EU's trade agreements with Morocco, despite the fact that the EU's own court has failed the agreements on several occasions. It is good that Sweden has voted against the fisheries agreement, but Sweden must also act even more forcefully in order for the agreements to be stopped in their current form. The European Union must simply stand up for international law. Since the ceasefire was broken, 160 violations of civil and political rights have been reported in the occupied Western Sahara, violations that can continue without the world's knowledge. Journalists and independent observers are simply not allowed in, and the UN Force Minurso lacks a mandate to monitor human rights. A clear case of these crimes is the case of the leading human rights activist Sultana Khaya. Since November 2020, she and several women in her family have been under house arrest without the authorities having prosecuted. They are not allowed to receive visits and are physically assaulted with kicks and punches if they try to leave the family home. The UN has a great responsibility for the continuation of the illegal occupation. It is excellent that the experienced diplomat Staffan de Mistura has been appointed as the new UN envoy for Western Sahara. It is good that he has visited the Sahrawi refugee camps. However, Mr de Mistura must have a clearer mandate from the UN. There is only one solution to the conflict, and that is that the promised referendum is carried out and that a plan is drawn up for it. Sweden must also recognise the Sahrawi State in accordance with the majority decision taken in the Parliament in 2012. This would give the Sahrawi people new hope and improve their negotiating position, and more countries could follow if Sweden leads the way.
i-Vo9KsbNceWvcyiaeSqurhP	Mr President, I would like to When I was listening to Lotta Johnsson Fornarve's speech, I was very curious about a question. Lotta Johnsson said that we cannot be in NATO because there are countries such as Turkey and Hungary. What does Lotta Johnsson Fornarve think we should do with membership of organisations such as the Council of Europe, the OSSE and the UN? There are members of these countries. Lotta Johnsson Fornarve himself mentioned the UN as an example of how important it was to make agreements. But that's where these countries belong. How can we be there if we cannot be in another organisation precisely because of the accession of the countries mentioned?
i-2bezYAVobomYUwejodNNsU	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Margareta Cederfelt, for the question! I think there is a huge difference between being in the Council of Europe or the United Nations and being in a military alliance that cooperates on military and security issues. I mean, how can one rely on a partner such as Turkey, who has recently attacked its neighbours militarily? Now in February, Kurdish fortifications were bombed in Syria and Iraq, killing civilians in refugee camps and so on. How can one feel confident in cooperating with such countries in a military alliance – an alliance that also has nuclear weapons as one of its supporting doctrines?
i-YBZpT5CfvRWreDum6DqmbC	Mr President, I would like to It was precisely this cooperation that Lotta Johnsson Fornarve mentioned when it came to the UN. She mentioned it positively. The OSSE is a security organisation. The OSSE is working on security issues, although not directly with weapons, but with agreements on how weapons should be handled and principles. Diplomacy, dialogue and agreements are important issues for peace and security. I agree that it is extremely important, but I also see a need for sanctions. I see a need for a functioning defence, and NATO is also a security organisation, although it largely operates differently from the other organisations I mentioned. NATO also participates in election observations with the Council of Europe and the OSSE.
i-2QE3Jya8rKc4WpPBfz9zTF	Mr President, I would like to I think there is a huge difference between working together and conducting a dialogue in the UN and in the OSSE and other types of organisations that are being discussed on completely different terms. But being in a military alliance is working militarily with others. Then one must be able to have confidence that one can trust those organisations. We do not want Sweden to be in any military alliance at all. We want Sweden to stand up for military alliance freedom and for us to stand independently from all major powers, because that is how we can secure peace and disarmament and become reliable precisely when it comes to taking initiatives for peace and disarmament. The fact that we are independent of great powers is what we think is the way forward.
i-FEKKndd2sYDRohEZE7SAbm	Mr President, I would like to While the great powers play their game with world peace as an effort, there is a constant struggle to save the climate, the environment, women's rights and democratic freedoms and rights. Unfortunately, those who are fighting for human and democratic rights today receive little attention in the media and in the political debate. They often disappear in the darkness of prisons. Human rights violations are becoming increasingly widespread in many countries. We know that prisoners in prisons in countries like Turkey are tens of thousands of freedom fighters. Among them are 4,000 members, elected members, councillors and MPs from HDP, such as Gülten, former leaders, Selahattin Demirtaş, Figen and others, who have been in prison for over seven years. The European Court of Human Rights has stated that all Members and leaders like Demirtaş and Figen are to be released, but Erdo中an refuses to release them. In Iran, ordinary people are imprisoned on a daily basis. It is so crowded that many have suffered from covid. In Iranian prison, author Baktash Abtin recently died when he was refused treatment against covid. The fellow prisoners then went on hunger strike in several prisons around the country. In Iran, Zahra Mohammadi has been sentenced to five years in prison for teaching Kurdish children. Over the past few weeks, mass arrests have begun again, and many Kurdish activists and trade union activists are imprisoned. Mr President, I would like to Negar Mohammadi, who was the recipient of the Government's Per Anger Prize in 2011, is in prison for his fight for human rights and against the death penalty. Recently, we received reports that she had received another eight years in prison and 70 lashes. Minorities such as Kurds, Bahai, Arabs, Balucher and half the population, who are women, are systematically discriminated against in Iran and oppressed under the gender apartheid regime. The famous trade union activist Ismail Abdi has served six years in prison because he has been active in the teachers' union. Recently, he has been given another ten years in prison. He's a trade union activist, which is forbidden in Iran. Recently, two homosexual men, Farid and Mehrdad, were executed by hanging in Iran. It is time that Sweden, as an individual country and through the UN and the EU, demanded an international delegation that could visit the prisoners and investigate the conditions in prisons in both Iran and Turkey and not least in Eritrea, where Dawit Isaak sits. In Iran there are also Ahmadreza and Chaab, who are Swedish citizens. We must dare to call for the release of political prisoners and prisoners of conscience. Nasrin Sotoudeh, Negar, Zeynab Jalalian and many other famous women's rights fighters are in prison in Iran, also because they are fighting for the abolition of the death penalty in Iran. Women and girls live under Islamic gender apartheid in Afghanistan, Saudi Arabia and Qatar. There, women are underage by law. They cannot move freely but must have a male guardian and family member in company. Honorary culture and violence are widespread. Women and girls in Afghanistan live under terror. Violations of gender apartheid laws and rules designed to limit and suppress women are severely punished by rod punishment, stoning, prison and death. The Taliban terrorist group should not be allowed to negotiate with the EU and Sweden, but the West must condemn it. Murderers and terrorists are going to jail. Unfortunately, the situation of women in countries such as India, Pakistan, Somalia, Myanmar, Iraq and Syria is similar but rarely rewritten in the West. In large parts of Africa and Asia, women and girls are subjected to genital mutilation, which in many cases destroys their lives forever. It is an almost ancient method of oppressing women and controlling their sexuality. Girls are married away as children and become parents when they themselves are children. They are deprived of the right to education, work and a life of their own. Sweden must take the lead in the fight against honour oppression, genital mutilation, child labour and child marriage. It is time for more than half of our aid to go directly to women's health, education and prosperity. In many Latin American countries, such as El Salvador and Colombia, women are fighting for their rights, including the right to abortion, and we hear daily about women's rights fighters who are murdered or executed.
i-BvyJS49zmVK8Ye1KjXWjfZ	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank Amineh Kakabaverh for his speech. I think it is extremely important to work for women's rights and security. However, I did not have a part of the speech, and I would like to have a comment from Amineh Kakabaverh on that. In a large number of countries, women cannot own, and they have no income. A woman who becomes a widow does not own her house, but the oldest son inherits it. The woman has no financial resources and becomes dependent on her children. If the kids say no, the woman can move out on the street. What does Amineh Kakabaveh think should be done about this? For me, it is important that women should also have economic self-determination.
i-QVynpP55dWbEFVPjDVULQh	Mr President, I would like to I thank Margareta for a good question. I attack all regimes with gender apartheid and laws that systematically oppress women and deprive them of their right as individuals, the right to their sexuality and reproductive health and their financial resources. In many lands the woman loses the right to her children after she has stopped breast - feeding them. The court then turns to the man and his family. Of course, not having a right to yourself or to property goes hand in hand. Sweden must therefore fight against dictatorial regimes. Aid is good, but we must demand equality, equality and justice in other ways. Otherwise, the laws of Saudi Arabia, Iran, India, Pakistan and many other countries cannot be circumvented.
i-PNuZT9LWCTu67oQMuUaULY	Mr President, I would like to Yes, unfortunately this is the case in a large number of countries, so it is about both demanding laws and providing opportunities and conditions for women to be able to engage on the same terms as men. As I highlighted in previous posts, it is also about being able to own companies, be able to make money and be active in all parts of society. Otherwise, women do not have the same rights as men.
i-M9NXCsNZPEiqEcht78TD93	Mr President, I would like to This is important, and so I am fighting hard for the government and Sweden to support, for example, the Kurds in Rojava. Here women participate both in politics and in ownership. Our assistance to Palestine and many other countries, and if it resumes in Afghanistan, is to be conditional, for women should have the right to their body and children and have the right to own their house and their agriculture. It should not belong to the man or his relatives or the father and brothers if the woman is not married. In many Sharia Muslim countries, two women have the same right as a man. I fought then, and I'm fighting now. Therefore, it is so important that Sweden supports but also conditionals its assistance to these countries for investments in women and children, human rights and the right to own their body and economy.
i-FA3NpB9LvvH3ea4oXZhBhN	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start today's speech on cross-roads in Europe at the end of the Second World War. In columns went people who looked like walking skeletons. They marched the so-called death marches. In one of these columns went Emerich Roth. He went there with his father. When his father couldn't go any further, he collapsed. Emerich didn't have the power to carry him. An SS soldier shot his father. Emerich survived the war, but it was barely. He was five and a half inches tall and weighed 200 pounds [34 kg]. Through a letter he got in touch with his cousin and ended up in Sweden. Sweden received international refugees during and after the end of the war, not least Jews. The hatred of the Jews did not begin with camps. It started with words. That is still the case today with wars and conflicts. It starts with words that first insinuate and then fill with threats and hatred. Emerich Roth was one of the exterminators who came to convey the message of every man's goodness and that one should never give up on anyone. What a struggle he waged to bring people together! We will never forget the work that Emerich and his wife Kerstin have done to get people on the right track and that you can start this work at any time during life. I would particularly like to say hello to Kerstin, who is sitting up in the gallery. Welcome to your first parliamentary debate and a big thank you for the work you have done for Sweden and the world! Mr President, I would like to Suppression and persecution are not just a matter of history. It is also very much present today. I am thinking, for example, of the religious group Bahai and its vulnerability in various parts of the world. Bahaier is a group that not many have heard of. They do not engage in party politics, which means that their voice is not often heard in political debates. That is why we, as elected representatives, must take responsibility and highlight their vote when they cannot do so themselves. Many Bahaians live in Iran. Of course, I know that many are suffering from repression in Iran, but there is a particular systematic persecution of Bahais. Bahaier has been vulnerable ever since religion was born in the mid 1800s. But vulnerability and persecution have increased significantly since the Islamist revolution in 1979. Iran's Supreme Revolutionary Council has a document that they have named the Bahai issue, and there are specific guidelines on how authorities should act against Bahai. The guidelines state how to prevent the development of the Bahai and take measures to prevent their opportunities for education, economic development and cultural development. These guidelines are implemented and affect every part of a bahai's life. It is not only in these guidelines that Bahais are discriminated against, but also in Iran's constitution. In Iran, Islam is the official religion, according to Article 12. Article 13 recognises Christianity, Judaism and Zoroastrianism as minority religions. Only the practitioners of these three religions have the right to exercise their faith, even though they are also discriminated against in Iran. Those who have religions that are not recognised by Iran's Constitution, such as Bahais or converts to Christianity, lack legal protection and suffer discrimination, arrests, interrogations, financial and educational restrictions. They are considered najis, i.e. unclean, and lack the necessary protection. This means that the person who commits a crime against a Bahai is not always punished. There are hate campaigns and harassment in Iran against Bahais. I am thinking in particular of an elderly woman who lives in a poor mountain village in Iran. She was interviewed and told about when the military came to her home. She told the TV team, the military came to my house screaming that I was an Israeli spy. But I don't even know where Israel is. Where is it? This is an example of how the group is discriminated against and how raids are made against them solely because they belong to that faith. Another example is that Bahai are sometimes denied higher education. A third example is that bahaier is blacklisted from working in the public sector – from education, health care and care to other government works. This means that Bahaier has to work in the private sector, but there is also supervision of them. Not only is the persecution going on in life, but it also goes on into death. Bahaier's burial sites have been destroyed in several cities in Iran, and the result is the destruction of the Bahai's cultural identity and history. It is now possible to find traces of Iran's policy even in Qatar, as they copy much of that policy. There are some things you can do. We, too, as parliamentarians, can do things, and I will mention three. You can do a lot of work. Emerich Roth has already given us clues to find the answer in the power of dialogue and long-term commitment. I thank those who have listened. I am glad that I live in a country where I can express this without being punished.
i-ANQE7u7TACeFcgns38XhXv	Mr President, I would like to The question of the agreement with Rosatoms Tvel has been raised several times in Parliament starting in 2012, when Mr Hultqvist put the question to the Alliance Government. Peter Hultqvist wrote, among other things, "The question is whether it is a Swedish national interest to contribute to this in the light of the fact that the EU is now trying to reduce its dependence on Russian energy." He also wondered what security policy considerations the then government had taken. The answer given then is the same as heard today, despite the fact that the security situation has been brought to a head. Even then, we were in an uncertain position, but that is nothing compared to the Russian aggression we are seeing today. Russia is not like any neighbouring country, and Rosatom is not like any other supplier. Rosatom has sometimes been referred to as a state with 250 000 employees, a management directly appointed by Putin and the goal of expanding globally and becoming an important player in all areas related to nuclear power. They are also deeply involved in Russia's nuclear programme. The subsidiary Tvel struggled for a long time to enter the European market with fuel for pressurised water reactors. Western operators did not want to open up to the company, which meant that the market was closed. Since then, the EU has also adopted a resolution on reducing its dependence on Russian energy. But when it comes to Sweden we have no problem opening up and helping as best we can. The Minister for Foreign Affairs said in an interpellation debate two weeks ago that the government is constantly analysing the security policy situation, including its consequences for Sweden's critical infrastructure and energy supply. She also noted that Russia was using energy as a political means of power and that the government had expressed concern that the EU was making itself too dependent on Russian energy supplies. I therefore wonder: where is the analysis of Sweden's behaviour on this issue? The EU mentions Rosatom by name and warns against the company. What does the government know that the EU does not know? Or why is the walkover left on this issue? Russia is in a conflict with the West today and is not in the least shy about using the whole toolbox to achieve its political goals. Rosatom, led by Putin, is currently cheering over this agreement, and press releases state that Vattenfall has played a key role in Russia's plans. It doesn't feel good. While Russia mobilizes, Sweden rearranges and the Minister for Foreign Affairs receives threatening letters from Lavrov, we have an agreement on nuclear fuel supplies from a company that is considered an extension of the Russian state. Peter Hultqvist said during Question Time a few weeks ago that it was important for the issue to be raised, and Ann Linde demonstrated in an interpellation debate a few weeks ago an understanding of the problem of Russian nuclear fuel. But in a reply from the Minister for Economic Affairs, who came today, you can read the same answer as we have heard since 2012, when Peter Hultqvist first asked the question: It is the Board that is responsible for how the company is organized and managed according to the company's best interests. Mr President, I would like to I fully understand that this is a matter for Vattenfall's management and that it follows all the laws and regulations that apply in Sweden and the EU. I also understand that it is not the task of the state to identify the suppliers of individual companies. That is not the question. The question is about the reasonableness that we, Sweden, are opening up to Russia's ambitions of power in a way that other countries in the West have said no to for security reasons. Let me further clarify: Sweden is currently acting as a door opener for Putin. The only reasonable thing would be to carry out an analysis so that we can get it black and white what this means for the security of Sweden and Europe. In the case of Huawei, there was no problem with shutting out the company's products from Swedish 5G networks. Security reasons were given at the time. The link between Huawei and the Chinese state could have consequences and cause harm to Sweden's security, they said. Last night we were told that a company linked to the Chinese military and the ruling Communist Party is taking over security control at Arlanda. We do not yet know how the issue will be dealt with further, but I was probably not alone in putting the coffee in the trachea when the news came. It cannot be positive for Sweden's safety, I think anyway. Mr President, I would like to I do not question the actions of Swedish companies. They make decisions based on what's best for the company. There's nothing weird about that. Companies, both state and private, operate on market terms and should therefore operate under the same conditions and enjoy the same opportunities as other companies on the market. But right now it is about Russia's increased influence, transparency in our infrastructure and advances in power positions globally. Vattenfall has made its assessment, but ultimately it is the government that is responsible for Sweden's safety, not Vattenfall.
i-6VdSwq2xUAK6gCZush7xM5	Mr President, I would like to In today's foreign policy debate, I intend to make a impact in reality in Ukraine. I do so because I have my heart in Ukraine, which I count as my second country. I'm from Gammalsvenskby. My grandmother and grandfather were named Knutas and came from there in 1929. I think it might be appropriate to show how Russian aggression really affects. Old Swedish village is called Zmijivka today. It is a village with more than 2 000 inhabitants, of which 25 still speak Swedish. Around 1,000 people are Swedish descendants today, and 25 are Swedish-speaking. The war that is now going on is in the eighth year. This means that only in small Gammalsvenskby have four mothers brought their sons home in body bags. 20 families have brought home their sons, who have been in battle, with extreme posttraumatic stress. And I can tell you that there is no programme for that. I have met these people, and it is very unpleasant to see these effects in the eyes of people. What really upsets me is what has happened this week. I talked to my friend Sven on Sunday. He sounded very worried about his voice. Two hours later, the State Department orders them to leave the country. He had to pack his bags, get in the car with John-John-Börje and leave the country over Poland and is today in southern Sweden. When he packed the bags, he didn't know whether to pack for two days, two weeks, two months or forever. He has no idea if he can come back. No one can have it at this point. Considerable for both these two gentlemen who are married in the country is that their wives remain. So they don't know whether they pack and leave the family for good or whether this is temporary. It is quite appalling that this should happen in 2022 because Russia is taking the right to act as it does. I am also thinking of the Malma family, our best friends in Gammalsvenskby, whom we talked to yesterday. They say they can't leave the country in one day. They have their parents to take care of. They have their whole lives there, and they can't leave the country. I can't. At the same time, we get questions from them. If the worst happens, is Sweden prepared to accept them? I don't have an answer for that right now. I also think of marin Buskas, who is 18 years old and is still in the village and speaks perfectly Swedish. She wants nothing but a good and developing life and preferably in the village of Ukraine. That's where she was born and alive. She is extremely concerned about the development that we are seeing right now and the extremely great threat of war that everyone is experiencing in Ukraine. I am making this intervention to show that war is totally reprehensible in all its aspects. It affects directly at the level of the person, family and village. It's never something anyone can recommend. But Sweden, the Swedish Government and the Swedish Parliament must be prepared to support one of the few Swedish outposts in the world. If the worst should happen, we must be prepared to receive these descendants in Sweden and welcome them to Sweden. If there is a long-term conflict, which it has great potential to become, we must instead be prepared to help them on the ground and provide support via Sida. This is something I have been exercising about. My call is that it is now really time for Sweden to take responsibility for its descendants in Ukraine.
i-9K94TbyYNWZhQUAu2g9J7U	Mr President, I would like to I just want to thank Lars Thomsson for his long-standing and deep commitment to the Swedes in Gammalsvenskby and also for the preservation of the memory of many of their descendants who remain in Roma on Gotland. I myself have raised the question here in the Riksdag that I think there is a lack of knowledge about the Swedes in Gammalsvenskby in the Swedish public consciousness and that it should be improved. It is part of our Swedish identity to know their history, not least how they were treated when many of them came to Sweden almost a hundred years ago. If there is an interest, I will gladly cooperate with Lars Thomsson on this issue in the future.
i-DH49ukudwcK8vpBwhoQjH6	Mr President, I would like to I am very pleased that Anders Österberg is asking this question. Especially on Gotland we have been very committed. And that's because it was to Gotland that most from Gammalsvenskby came for a long time and from 1991 when it opened up until now. I've been to the village 20 times myself. What happened when they came here in 1929 has great parallels to what is happening now. At the time, there was quite a lot of xenophobia and a derogatory attitude. I see that we have contributed with many democratic projects and other things in the village and in Ukraine. We will be able to continue on that line.
i-NZMTjw7NtVUTUKmeAZBD5J	Mr President, I would like to We're in complete agreement. Therefore, I do not need to say anything more, but just thank you again.
i-KdakTwgEu41msSMH3rR4z7	Mr President, I would like to I say that we actually have a responsibility to take on this outpost. It is one of the few small Swedish outposts that exist. We have historically been very hostile to it. It was a small period during the Bildt government when we released them back. And should the worst happen, we actually have to rethink these issues. And I would very much like to cooperate with the honourable Member on this issue.
i-BvcQX6uyEKSC6nmWJf8TnW	Mr President, I would like to I would also like to thank Lars Thomsson for his speech. That is exactly what Lars Thomsson mentioned, namely people. It's a war and an aggression. There are agreements, and there are agreements. But there are people most of all who are affected. It's easy to forget and lose. There is much we can do as a nation. But there is also much that we have to do with others. Because no one can do everything on their own. When I have been in contact with Ukrainian colleagues, they usually tell me that what they need is that their question is raised to debate and that the situation in Ukraine does not fall into silence. But they also say that in the long term they may need help with consumption, help to get ammunition and help to cope. What does Lars Thomsson think is needed?
i-5FpiwvswwC1zgAhg8XV1fh	Mr President, I would like to We need to help with almost everything today. What we have done historically from Sweden, especially in the last ten years, is a democracy project. In fact, we have given quite extensive support to build up the reform agenda in Ukraine. You've been very grateful for that. We act together in the OSSE. It's a very important platform. As Chairman of the Ukrainian-Swedish parliamentary network, I am acting together with Ukraine. We had a large delegation there just before Christmas, and we had a meeting with the ambassador a few weeks ago. If this means doing something military, I'll actually let others try. But I see we're gonna have to do all the work.
i-PafHjKdCiA1iG7sS3KqHFi	Mr President, I would like to We have a very good cooperation within the Swedish delegation, and the Swedish delegation also has a very good cooperation with other delegations when it comes to, among other things, peace. I would like to highlight some issues here that are important and about which there has not been much talk today, and that is the Eastern Partnership within the framework of the European Union, where Ukraine is a part, as an important part for Ukraine to continue to build itself up as a state. But I would also like to mention the OSCE missions as another important instrument, and then, of course, that we continue to stand united against Russia's aggression. Because there is nothing else about the Russian annexation of Crimea and the activities of Donetsk and Luhansk. That's not something we're supposed to support.
i-K3Z38dtBhrJnbvgeghmsay	Mr President, I would like to I think the most important thing that the honourable Member has just said is that we must agree that it is Russia that bears 100% of the responsibility for this aggression. We must be united in our action on it and really give all the support we can to Ukraine, in all the various forms that may be needed. I am also very concerned that the OSCE budget is not in place and that there is no decision on the OSCE mission in the observation force in the border country. But you can also see the pattern: this is Russia's way of spreading into the democratic development that Ukraine wants. I will just conclude by saying that Ukraine's fight for freedom is our fight for freedom. It's as simple as it's connected. We must understand that democracy is at stake, nothing else.
i-8AvbHKugEjMGso3372uJuT	Mr President, I would like to No one can deny that we need to demand that our companies take more responsibility for the environment and human rights when operating abroad. The examples are many, and I thought I'd lift some. In December Aftonbladet revealed that Ikea, which should be sustainable at all stages of the process, uses illegally harvested trees from the prime forests between Ukraine and Romania. By corruption and by pointing out that large parts of the forest are affected by pests and fungi, the forest can be harvested – or, rather, scrapped – illegally. The financial interests of selling timber or semi-finished products to IKEA and other companies maintain corruption and even strengthen it. As in other parts of the world, those who want to counteract this are subject to threats and persecution. In 2018, the activist Kateryna Handziuk is attacked with acid. Three months later, she dies of the suites. Kateryna is being attacked because she is trying to stop the corruption around the illegally harvested forests. In the same year, Ukrainian civil organisations report that at least 55 unsolved attacks on activists have taken place during the year. Another example is Lundin Oil. Chairman Ian Lundin and board member Alex Schneiter were prosecuted in November 2021 for aiding in serious crimes against international law. They were prosecuted because they agreed with the Government of Sudan that Sudan would be responsible for security in the area where Lundin Oil would investigate and exploit oil deposits. Lundin Oil concluded the agreement despite the fact that it was known that the Sudanese military committed human rights violations, including murder, forced recruitment of child soldiers and forced displacements. Securing oil deposits to generate profits was more important than the South Sudanese people. It took 18 years before the prosecution was initiated, and to this day the exact extent of the crimes is not known. People simply do not know what has happened to their loved ones, and many have still not been able to move back to their homes. Mr President, I would like to Sweden is a country dependent on international trade. How our companies work and what we import plays a major role globally, both for the climate and the environmental footprint and for how we use trade as a way to strengthen the ties between countries – and sometimes also strengthen democracy. Usually when we talk about trade, it is described in fine words that it means so much more than transactions of goods and capital. It is bridge-building, and it is a way of lifting countries out of poverty. It is strengthening democracies or even creating them. But that's not really the case. We could do so much better, and we need to demand that companies do the right thing. Those who are already doing so do not have problems with those requirements, but will even benefit from them. On the Left side, we have long been calling for human rights and environmental due diligence to be a legal requirement, i.e. it must be mandatory for companies to carry out continuous risk analyses and impact assessments and prevent any part of their activities leading to environmental problems and violations of human rights. The measures should cover the entire value chain of the company, as the worst violations usually occur further back in the production chain. Today, there are no binding rules on the environment and human rights, but responsibility is based on voluntary commitments and guidelines. It's not enough to get to the real problems. Therefore, the European Commission's legislative proposal is welcome, as it can potentially have a major positive impact on people and the environment. However, the bill has been postponed in time, and civil society flags that it may be watered down. Sweden needs to take more responsibility here. The law must not be watered down, and it must be implemented as soon as possible. Sweden has had the opportunity, like other countries, to start work on the introduction but has chosen to take a less active role. It does not make sense, given that during his speech the Minister for Foreign Affairs pointed to the importance of trade for human rights. In order to achieve a fair democratic trade policy, we believe that priority must be given to human rights and environmental due diligence. Sweden should actively participate in the creation of a binding apartment so that individuals and local communities can have access to justice when crimes are committed. Sweden should also work to ensure that companies themselves take responsibility for their investments, rather than using investment protection, as it is today, to force countries to change democratic decisions. Let Sweden put on the leadership shirt and show that trade policy can really be a way to build bridges and create democratic spaces! Unfortunately, today we are far from it.
i-GMQ7JbCrfUy4hSotvyV88N	Mr President, I would like to Today's foreign policy debate, which has now been going on for a while, takes place at a time that, for us, is very special. This is not only the week when the Riksdag returns to its usual routines and working methods, but it is also a particularly dramatic time from a security policy and foreign policy perspective. Several speakers before me here today have pointed out the risks that exist with the development that we are now seeing and that are literally redrawing the map properly. The European security regime, with safe and recognised borders and the right of every state to make its own security policy considerations, is now at stake. During this parliamentary term, we often talk about the fact that democracy must be won every day and not taken for granted. It is the same with our common global security. Democracy and common security are clearly linked, and often they are also each other's reflections. They are also, by extension, the guarantor of human rights for all of us. Mr President, I would like to As chairman of the Swedish parliamentary OSCE delegation and rapporteur of the Committee on Democracy and Human Rights, I can quickly conclude that there are no challenges in these areas. We see the Russian aggression against Ukraine, which has been going on for several years and which is at a very critical stage. It challenges not only the European security regime, but also the security of our country and our neighbourhood. We see how authoritarian states generally, in several areas, strengthen their influence, challenge international practices and violate it and also oppress their own population. If there is a war of a more full-scale nature, we do not know at present, but it can be seriously considered how we secure our security both here and now and in a few years' time. Where will we be in a decade? It is not so long ago, a little over ten years, that there was a broad consensus in the Swedish parliament that the threats were somewhere far away from Sweden's neighbourhood, but that picture – and reality – has now changed. Mr President, I would like to As I said, we see worrying developments in many states when it comes to human rights. Journalists and oppositionists are imprisoned, disappearing and even murdered. LGBTI people and religious minorities are being oppressed, and you are not allowed to be who you are or what you believe in. The right to abortion is being restricted, and women are at risk of being particularly affected in areas of conflict. The climate challenge is greatly underestimated. A few weeks ago, I visited Poland in my mission as rapporteur for democracy and human rights within the OSSE. Since the turn of the year, Poland has taken over the OSSE Presidency after Sweden. On the ground in the Polish Parliament we had a meeting with representatives of the largest party, the Conservative Law and Justice. It is true that we were able to agree in our concerns about the European security regime and the fear of what is happening now with Russia and Ukraine, but when I then met civil organisations working on human rights outside the Polish Parliament, I was given a different picture, namely that there are also major human rights challenges in Poland. We must take this seriously. Mr President, I would like to Securing security is the same as defending democracy every day, as I said earlier in my speech. In many of the countries that we have the habit of calling fully developed democracies, we are seeing tendencies towards the curtailment of democracy, which is contributing to increased concern that is challenging democracy. This is true in my example of Poland, but it also applies in many other places. A flow of fake news with parallel social structures has become an increasingly common phenomenon in the countries we call democratic. This manifests itself in the form of everything from vaccine resistance to the latest discussion of LVU dealings with false rumors in circulation. This is about trust in the common and democratic political institutions. It narrows in many places, while economic, social and cultural gaps tend to increase. These gaps are a crucial issue to deal with for every politician in every democratic country. Mr President, I would like to Every time people go to elections, it is important that the elections are conducted correctly. In Sweden we will later this year go to elections. Two other countries are Serbia and Hungary. It is important for the sake of democracy for election observers to be present on the OSCE side, and I look forward to the Swedish OSCE delegation being able to send a number of Members of Parliament who can contribute constructively to these observations. Although much is now happening in our neighbourhood and the focus and priorities must, of course, be here, we must not forget the commitment to international solidarity that many of us Members have and have had for many years. For example, I am concerned about the human rights situation in Israel and Palestine, with settlements and increased violence. The idea of a two-state solution there feels very remote. It is also frustrating that the last colony of Africa, Western Sahara, has been allowed for so many years to be occupied by Morocco. Here the Swedish position on the right of the Sahrawi people to their own country is clear. There are many more examples, which have also been mentioned in today's debate. To conclude, Mr President, I look forward to avoiding the restrictions and hopefully living in peace and freedom in our own country. I look forward to soon taking a new first-May train with placards that says, "All peoples' freedom, the peace of the whole world."
i-U7JjPcKwTKAnVnftwbaDqL	Mr President, I would like to The current extremely serious security policy situation has rightly dominated this foreign policy debate. Both Ukraine's sovereignty and the entire European security regime are challenged by Russia's aggressive actions. Against this background, it is understandable that Nordic cooperation has not had a particularly dominant place in this debate, but it is nevertheless regrettable. In addition to a few words about defence policy cooperation between the Nordic countries, the Nordic countries were largely absent from the foreign policy declaration. The Minister for Foreign Affairs certainly said that the work on the vision of the Nordic region as the most sustainable, integrated and digitised region should be strengthened, but unfortunately the Minister did not say a word about how. Nor did the Minister say a word about how badly Nordic cooperation has actually worked now that it has been put to the test during the pandemic. The truth is, Mr President, that we are now further away from realising the vision of the Nordic region as the most sustainable and integrated region than we have been for a very long time. The pandemic has been a major setback for Nordic cooperation and integration. For this, a heavy responsibility rests on the shoulders of the Swedish Government. Border restrictions and the lack of coordination have hit people and businesses hard, especially in border areas. The consequences have been great in both human and economic terms. At home in my constituency, in northern Västra Götaland, many companies have struggled for their survival when the so important Norwegian guests and visitors failed. Let me just make a few strikes to describe the situa tion. The ferry line between Sandefjord and Strömstad had 1.4 million passengers in 2019. Since the pandemic struck, the two shipping companies in general have left the ferries at berth or have just maintained a very reduced traffic. Nordby Shopping Centre, which before the pandemic was Sweden's biggest sales center, has gaped wasteful plot. The turnover of the stores has almost been completely wiped out. A lot of people have been laid off or completely lost their jobs. The many border commutes in Bohuslän, Dalsland, Öresund and Tornedalen have had difficulties or even been completely prevented from travelling to their jobs. Mr President, I would like to Now the border restrictions between the Nordic countries have finally been eased. Not everything is as usual, but now it is possible to travel quite unhinderedly across the national borders that we have been working for for decades not to be noticed, but as the pandemic has once again made brutally clear. What concerns me now are the long-term consequences that the pandemic will have for Nordic cooperation and the ambition of Nordic integration. In the border areas, people and companies have made a workshop of the political vision. They have built their lives and operations across the Nordic borders, but their belief in Nordic integration has been affected by the problems they have experienced during the pandemic. People and businesses are now asking themselves: What happens in the next crisis? Will people and businesses in border areas then again have to pay the price for sudden border obstacles or poorly functioning coordination between the Nordic countries? My colleague, Mr Rothenberg, spoke earlier about the importance of trust. Trust and confidence in the Nordic countries must now be restored and strengthened. Mr President, I would like to I want to see a rebirth of Nordic cooperation. A good start would have been a Nordic Corona Commission. The problems that have been encountered and that have been exposed during the pandemic must not result in a deterioration in relations and a reduction in exchanges. On the contrary – we must learn from the pandemic in order to ensure that mistakes and problems are not repeated in the next crisis and with the ambition to increase the exchange between our countries. My answer and that of the Moderates to the problems that have existed is more – no less – cooperation. Not least, more cooperation is needed to jointly build greater resilience to future crises and to build a better coordination and management capability within the Nordic region. We also need to link the Nordic countries better with cross-border infrastructure. Both the Öresund Bridge and the Svinesund Bridge are examples of how extremely profitable investments in Nordic infrastructure can be. What the government should also do is to take the initiative for an increased ambition to remove and prevent border barriers. The Border Barriers Council should be strengthened and the objective of removing eight to twelve border barriers per calendar year should be increased. This would be a good and important signal to the people and companies in the Nordic countries. The vision of the Nordic region as the world's most sustainable and integrated region in 2030 now needs to be translated and credible in practical action. Mr President, I would like to I want to live, I want to die in the North. Tear up obstacles! Build bridges! Increase the exchange between our countries! Give Nordic cooperation a new birth!
i-L1HF3vnBT9hQ1pDW9uGewg	Mr President, I would like to Very important issues have been highlighted in the debate. The world faces major global challenges. These are issues relating to Russia, Turkey, the climate crisis, the erosion of democracy in Hungary and Poland, Dawit Isaak, the fight against poverty, racism and so on. Many of these issues have been highlighted here today. But let me use this time in the speaker's chair to talk about an important issue that has not been highlighted very much today, namely Israel's brutal occupation of Palestine. A new comprehensive report by the human rights organisation Amnesty International makes a very sharp criticism of Israel's treatment of the Palestinians. The report shows the true extent of Israel's apartheid regime. Whether they live in Gaza, East Jerusalem or Israel, the Palestinians are treated as inferior. Their country and property are seized, and extrajudicial executions and forced displacements are carried out," says Amnesty's Secretary General. Palestinians in Israel with Israeli citizenship face many forms of institutionalised discrimination, according to the report. Palestinian refugees are denied the right to return. Over 5.6 million Palestinians are refugees around the world. They must not return to their own country. When they get to Lebanon, they have no rights. When they flee to Sweden, we do not grant them a residence permit. We make them stateless. I know, because I've met a lot of them. Last May we all saw Palestinian families in Jarrah Jarrah, a residential area in occupied East Jerusalem, demonstrating against Israel's plans to evict them to make way for Jewish settlers. Many of the families in Sheikh Jarrah are refugees who settled there after being exiled in connection with the founding of the State of Israel in 1948. The UN calls on Israel to stop the evictions immediately in East Jerusalem, in violation of international humanitarian law. An occupying power may not seize property within the territory they occupy, according to the UN. But Israel does as they always do. They refused to comply with international law, and no one does anything. Mr President, I would like to No one has missed how Israel's brutal policy of segregation, expulsion and exclusion is clearly about apartheid. The Palestinian people have long been divided, banished and subjected to segregation, racism, violence and brutal repression. Today, Palestinians are the only people born under oppression, growing up and living under oppression and dying under oppression. We must act here, Mr President. The concept of apartheid is strongly associated with South Africa, which may make it uncomfortable for some to use it in other contexts. However, it is important to remember that apartheid is defined as a crime against humanity under international law. In other words, there is a legal use that can be dealt with by the International Criminal Court, the ICC. The same court is currently investigating suspected war crimes in the occupied West Bank and Gaza. Human Rights Watch came in April last year with a report describing Israel's occupation of Palestine as an apartheid crime. Mr President, I would like to Recently, we have seen Israeli military attacks on Palestinian Muslims at the al-Aqsa mosque in Jerusalem during the Muslim festival Ramadan in the midst of prayer. We watched live on social media how older women were beaten inside the mosque during the Ramadan era. But we're not doing anything. Hundreds were injured by aggressive Israeli police who stormed the congregation at the mosque. We watched and did nothing. On the border with the Gaza Strip, Palestinians have been subjected to violence by Israeli police in demonstrations showing support for Palestinians in Jerusalem. Ambulance personnel have been attacked. Children have been detained and interrogated in a military court without their parents present. We know about this. Let's watch. We're not doing anything. Mr President, I would like to The conflict between Israel and Palestine is not a conflict between equals. Israel is one of the world's largest military powers, whose military apparatus is supported by the United States and other Western countries. Under international law, the country has a greater responsibility as an occupying power. Over 4 000 Palestinian political prisoners are currently in prison by Israel. In addition, trials in Israeli military courts do not meet international standards for fair trials. The risk that unjust imprisonment of Palestinians will continue is obvious. Mr President, I would like to I do not understand why the whole world is watching and letting Israel get away with this for so long. At the same time, we see that governments with power and responsibility to do something about it have refused to act and hold Israel accountable. Let's watch. We're not doing anything. Where's the conscience gone? Where has the moral compass gone? The principles of the rule of law must be upheld throughout the world without exception. Israel should not be an exception. The starting point of the Left Party is international law and respect for human rights. Therefore, both inside and outside the Riksdag, we have drawn attention to and condemned Israel's gross and extensive violations of human rights. At the same time, we have not hesitated to distance ourselves from the violations of international law and human rights committed by Palestinian groups. For the Left Party, it is only one thing: to stand up for international law and human rights.
i-JkicspfozzXtaih6ZsqAUV	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by saying that I am the first to admit that Israel, as a democracy, sometimes acts wrong. Nevertheless, I must ask a certain question, because I think it is never asked in this House. It is a fact that there are three major wars – 1948, 1956 and 1967 – when Israel is established as an independent state. Israel approves the UN's draft division, but all Arab countries around it choose to attack. On this occasion, large flows of refugees are taking place for two reasons. Historically, it is documented that some fled because Israel expelled them. But it is also historically documented that some fled because they were urged to do so because the Arab world was about to return. What is it that makes Jordan and Syria have not included these people in their country?
i-35RvVCjeW1JmqF6pA48hsT	Mr President, I would like to I stood here talking about the terrible and brutal occupation of a people that has been going on for years. I was standing here talking about children being imprisoned. I was standing here talking about women being attacked in the mosque. Then it is important for me that we do not move the discussion to other countries. Let us talk about the fact that we have only watched the Palestinians, year after year, brutally oppressed and fleeing. 5.6 million people cannot return to their own country. The only reason is that it is occupied by a brutal country with apartheid rules and legislation that systematically discriminates against people and prevents them from living a dignified life. I would like to continue that discussion, because no one else in this House has had that discussion today. Please ask questions about it!
i-NgGbtHYZi7eQ8hnhsVcWYs	Mr President, I would like to I understand that the honourable Member does not want to answer my question. But the great apartheid and the great oppression take place precisely in Syria and Jordan, which allowed people to be born into refugeehood, even though they had passports in 1948, 1956 and 1967. The West Bank Arabs were Jordanian citizens. They fled their own country to their own country and were placed in refugee camps. It is almost as if Finland had allowed Karelian Finns to flee Karelia, to be placed in Finland and then to be declared refugees in generation after generation. What causes the Left not to care about all the Arab refugees of 1948, 1956, and 1967?
i-3C2mKMnG65bPYoZfBrmPXb	Mr President, I would like to As a left-wing party, I am a person who believes in human rights. I care about all the people who are under oppression, whether they come from the Arab countries, Sweden or anything else. All the oppressed people I will do anything for. As a left-wing party, I will fight for their rights to be respected. But today, in this very debate, I want to focus on a people who have suffered far too long. We've closed our eyes and we never want to talk about them. That's exactly how it is right here and now. Every time you talk about Palestinians, someone must somehow try to move the discussion to another group. We don't make those comparisons. You don't compare suffering. All suffering is bad, and all oppression is bad. As a left-wing partyist, I stand here and will always fight for people who are oppressed. In this case, it is the Palestinians. This House and the Swedish Government must act more. We must act to protect Palestine's rights, just like everyone else's. Israel must stop the apartheid system and start treating Palestinians as people with equal rights and dignity.
i-UbhDFJvppNZsjkfeUbHaip	Mr President, I would like to This year's debate has been very marked by Eastern Europe. It's perfectly understandable. I myself have just returned from Ukraine. I've been there on a field trip from Thursday to Sunday. I'm taken by the various visits I've made. During my trip to Ukraine, among other things, I met a whole new young liberal party. I don't think anyone on its national board was older than 30, 32 years. Those kids really dreamt of one thing. It was peace and freedom. Several of them had arrived at the front and fought but had come back and were now politically active. I had the privilege of meeting veterans and Home Guards. Even in talks with these groups, emphasis was placed on the right to peace and freedom, the right to defend their country, but also the desire to do something else. Eight years of war has cost so much time and energy and opportunity to develop the country. I had the privilege of meeting a former minister at the time, and I had the privilege of meeting politicians who were active today. The interesting thing about all the people I met was that what they talked about least was the risk of war. What they talked about most was the desire for peace, secure borders, stronger support from both the US and the EU, both the EU and NATO. It was a longing to be part of the Western community and a longing for Russia to end the hybrid war that is going on. When you were in the hotel room, it was very exciting. It was a surreal feeling when you listened to Ukrainian television and could see that they were talking about more common questions, everyday life. You hit the BBC and CNN, you almost wanted to open the window and see if the Russians weren't really standing outside the hotel. There were two completely different media images. One was really about even more war here and now. The second picture was about everyday life. That is why I personally am so pleased with the decision taken yesterday in the European Union on financial support. I got a description of an entrepreneur who said this: Before Russia rolled up the 140,000 - 150,000 men and began their sea exercises in the Black Sea, goods could be ordered from China if you needed to go to your factory. Ten percent was paid when it was ordered, 40 percent when it was loaded on a boat in China and the rest when it arrived in Ukraine. Today you have to pay 100%, and then Russia has not fired a single extra shot in addition to what is happening in Luhansk and Donbass. It is a pure economic warfare that is going on. It's a psychosocial attack on a people who've been trying to stay free for eight years. I think it is important that we in Sweden have had the debate we have had today. I'm very happy when I've listened to different parties. Sometimes we don't agree. But on this issue, we have lifted it together. It is important to continue to provide the military support it provides. What will be even more important, however, is to provide economic and social support. It is important that we continue to travel to Ukraine, that we go there as tourists and that we are involved in helping to build the economy over time. Mr President, I would like to I am very grateful that I had to make this trip on this occasion. I am grateful that Sweden is a country with freedom and democracy in which it fights for the rights of others to freedom and democracy.
i-MApGdujWr57kGHS7jTjiun	Mr President, I would like to Today we have to deal with the report 'Easyness' in the authorisation requirement for silencers. We have two reservations on this matter. But for the benefit of time, we intend to ask only for reservation 2 on refusal of motions 4306 by Johan Pehrson and others and 4308 by Tobias Andersson and others. As I am the first to enter into the debate, I shall also briefly present the proposal on the substance. The government proposes that silencers should no longer be treated as firearms, but should be regulated in principle in the same way as ammunition. Briefly, the reasons for this are as follows. We note that, unlike other so-called vital parts such as drums, pipes or end pieces, silencers are not part of the parts of a weapon that are necessary for a weapon to be usable. Unlike other arms parts treated as firearms, silencers do not constitute an essential part of the EU weapons directive. It is, as you know, a directive that we need to relate to. It is quite painfully clear, given that we are being dragged before the shrift because we have not complied with the arms directive. But it is another story, although there is some connection to this case. We simply believe that silencers should be removed from the list in Chapter 1. Section 3 of the Arms Act. There is also, as usual, a history in this House. Among other things, there is a 2019 announcement that possession as a silencer should be regulated in the same way as ammunition. In my speeches, I tend to highlight the announcements made by the opposition. It should be done out of respect for the parliamentary majority. I really feel that the government is doing its utmost to meet the announcements that exist. It is a strong parliamentary tool that we have and which should be handled with care, although what you know will be very many to deal with. Now we have an election year ahead of us. Weapons issues have been the subject of a great deal of polemics. It has even been said that there is polarisation in this context. I believe that there is a great need for us to sit down together when the election fever has been slightly reduced and to think about broad solutions so that we come up with a good implementation of the arms directive so that the EU is content. It should also not mean increased charges for hunters and shooters in the community. That is the balance that we want. As far as the history of the case is concerned, we introduced authorisation requirements for silencers already in the early 70s. Perhaps the reasons then were a little different from today. It was above all a question of making poaching and illegal hunting more difficult. Today, not least the Swedish Prosecution Authority's assessment is that we need to have regulation and registration of silencers to meet new challenges. The main challenge is quite obvious: we have increased deadly gun violence, which we have to face by any means we have at all. We feel that this is a small but necessary part of this. Both the prosecutor's office and the police share that view. One looks with some concern at a situation where the possession of silencers would be completely unregulated. This is a part which, unfortunately, is used both in criminal circles in connection with gang shootings and in connection with terrorist attacks and the like. We therefore see it as completely out of the question to leave this part completely unregulated. But we are not going to make it over-implemented and administratively heavy. We're going to make it simple, and that's exactly what the bill is about. This means that you do not need to have special permission for a weapon that you already own in the case of silencers. But it also means applying for permission if you have a single silencer and no weapon, if you have sold only the weapon. It's simply because we need order in these things. It is also important to point out when it comes to the scale of penalties that the new situation is not meant to hit those who have accidentally or carelessly put themselves in a precarious situation. This is supposed to meet those of the criminal gangs. This means, for example, that small cases of unlawful possession should not render prison sentences or similar. Such is the ambition of the proposal. With this, I support our reservation number 2.
i-7SbSJqnV5Wqhxcc7ciSjdn	Mr President, I would like to That the government consistently chooses to attack and make life miserable for legal gun owners is known for a long time. But for years there has been a majority in this House that has supported relief for hunters and sportsmen. It is a majority who have understood the value of the culture of the hunting and shooting community. It is a majority who understand that strong shooting skills among the population contribute to the Swedish defence force. It is a majority that simply stands behind and supports the legal arms owners in Sweden who today are burdened with bureaucracy and are attacked by government politicians. One issue which this year has raised and made visible the dividing line between the Social Democrats and others and the strong opposition is the question of five-year licences. There it has gone so far that on three separate occasions the Riksdag has had to address announcements to the government in order to abolish the unnecessary administrative order that currently prevails. Today, law-abiding owners of certain types of weapons have to renew their licence every five years, with the length of proceedings involved – this even though they are checked every day by the fact that the smallest dot in the register could jeopardise their weapons license. Few others in Swedish society are as law-abiding as arms owners, precisely because they know that they risk getting rid of their perhaps main hobby or their main interest if they in any way fail – although the lack of any way is to relate to the actual possession of arms. This group of people with weapons and shooting as commitment and interest chose Morgan Johansson to resemble terrorists. Their weapons were called terror weapons, and they were stained with Breivik and his weapons. It was a horrible move by the minister responsible that he made in the light of the fact that I confronted him about how the government had actively ignored the wishes expressed by the main representatives of the Riksdag, the Swedish people. Mr President, I would like to Now we're not talking about five-year licenses today. We're talking about the license requirement for silencers. But all weapons and hunting-related issues should be put in their context, and that context is that the Social Democrats do not want the best interests of hunters and sportsmen. It will also be clear in this case. The government certainly makes proposals in the bill for certain reliefs in the permit requirement for silencers. The relief is that silencers are treated as ammunition rather than firearms, as is currently the case under arms law. Unlike previous proposals in this area, the proposals provide a relief for law-abiding hunters and sportsmen. On the other hand, the chosen design is not the ideal one, as the same problems surrounding ammunition will now apply to silencers. In other words, the government is not ready to go as far as is necessary, as is clear from the reservations expressed by the government side in the report. The problem is that people who are licensed and who sell the weapon in order to acquire a new one must also get rid of any silencers that fit both the previous and the future weapon while waiting for the new weapon's license. The leak theory has long been refuted, and a number of announcements on arms issues lie with the government for resolution. These issues will again be dealt with in the annual report on arms issues, and they should be dealt with right there. However, in the context of this dossier, we believe that the problems I have outlined should form the basis for further action. That is why, Mr President, I am pleased that this is the case. We have demonstrated in committee how constructive opposition should act. Through discussions, discussions and cooperation, the Swedish Democrats, the Moderates, the Center Party and the Christian Democrats and the Liberals have managed to get a common understanding of parts of the report. This leads to a change in the explanatory text itself, which means that there will be an immediate improvement for the arms owners concerned. As a result, not only do they see silencers treated as ammunition, but they also see that the holder of a silencer capable of using multiple weapons authorised or authorised by the holder of the silencer for firing may use the silencer for all these weapons. Good, but the Swedish Democrats wanted to go further. We heard this in part because of the announcement that an arms owner who disposes of a weapon should have the right to retain the associated silencer and that the person who has or has had an arms license that has not been revoked should have the right to retain his or her previously acquired silencers. This would really have led us away from the current regime for ammunition, which is a great scourge for many arms owners. It is a question of selling a weapon in a certain calibre while perhaps looking for a new weapon in the same calibre, but then, pending the long permit process, being forced to dispose of the ammunition you own in the relevant calibre. Otherwise, you commit a serious weapon offence. It is an unsustainable regime for ammunition today, and when the government wanted to equate silencers with ammunition in the Arms Act, the unsustainable regime would also affect silencers when the bill came into force. Against this background, we are pleased that the Riksdag is announcing a change and hope that the Government will act swiftly. However, the problem of ammunition is not dealt with at all in the bill, which is a pity given the problem I have just described. That is why the Swedish Democrats chose to have their own request on the subject, as we believe that the right to hold ammunition without a special authorisation should apply as long as a person has the right to apply to hold a weapon intended for the same purpose as the ammunition. We would therefore like to see an investigation to consider a regime whereby the right to hold ammunition is derived from the right to obtain a licence for weapons for which the ammunition is intended. Our entrance was the same for silencers as for ammo. Parts have been heard for, other parts not. On the whole, however, the Parliament will decide tomorrow on reliefs for gun owners. I am pleased, although much more needs to be done. Having said that, Madam President, I would like to endorse our reservation 3.
i-SZM4hTwkgAhf4dLjPgPhJG	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating silencers and removing the permit requirement in that part. It is a large majority that has now forced this proposal for a decision. The committee proposes two announcements on this point. At last there was a bill, although there were a lot of errors and questionable things that we have tried to correct in committee. Despite the fact that there is a large and broad parliamentary majority in this area, the S-government has ignored a number of announcements that have been decided by the Riksdag on behalf of the Committee on Justice. The government has still not removed the five-year licenses, despite several announcements. In spite of a decision taken already in 2015 and subsequent announcements, a game authority has not been established. You haven't moved your license management to the Wildlife Agency. It has not been possible to reduce the processing times for weapons licences. They are still unreasonably long. The arms directive has not been implemented at a minimum level, but has instead been over-implemented. The government's ignorance, awkwardness and unwillingness in this matter is quite embarrassing. Now the government's unwillingness and ignorance may also cause Sweden to incur costs for this. My message to the government, Madam President, is: Redo and do the right thing, and stop trying to over-implement the arms directive! Nor has the government made a complete review of the arms legislation, on which we have several announcements. The arms legislation has not been taken away from particular reasons, on which we also have an announcement. It has not facilitated the licensing of arms transfers directly from the arms dealer, i.e. that you can bring in a weapon and trade it directly with the arms dealer, take the other home with you and it is treated as a notification matter. This is not done either, Madam President. Nor has there been an extension of the arms closet, on which we also have an announcement. Trade for arms dealers in Sweden has not been facilitated. Nor has the control of shooting tracks been transferred from the police to the Wildlife Agency. Still, our policemen go out and measure grain size in gravel pits, when we have such problems on city streets and squares with shooting and criminal gangs. The EU Arms Passport has not been introduced, despite announcements. The arms legislation has not been divided into two parts, for which we have a broad majority in the Committee on Justice. It is only the Green Party and the Social Democrats who say no to dividing arms legislation into part for legal hunters and shooters and part for serious criminals. Madam President, I would like These are some of the more than 20 announcements that the Riksdag has given to the government to make it easier for the country's hunters, shooters and collectors. It is with great disregard and in a totally unacceptable way that the Social Democratic Government treats the announcements of the Riksdag, when it so clearly ignores the decisions made by the Riksdag. What the government does, of course, is a serious and, of course, also a threat to our democracy. It is our decisions here in Parliament that apply, and they apply both to the government and to the people who live and live in this country. Madam President, I would like After several announcements on the abolition of the permit requirement for silencers, a bill has now finally come to Parliament. Even if, as has been said, the majority is not met, as in the last announcement was the complete abolition of the license requirement in the case of silencers, the bill is still close to this and can be adjusted. Madam President, I would like A large majority in the Committee on Justice has now done what can be done to try to correct a flawed bill. The reason is that we are trying to make it easier for the country's hunters and shooters to buy silencers for their weapons without bureaucratic and unnecessarily complicated rules. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Centre Party, the Liberals, the KD and the Swedish Democrats for their very good cooperation in committee. Madam President, I would like One issue that we can often have in these contexts is how criminals can assimilate such legislation. That is the big problem. If you don't understand that question, you think criminals go to a gun store and try to buy a silencer. That's not how it works. The whole of Europe sells silencers. Many countries in Europe have no permit requirements whatsoever. It is easy to order them over mail order and pick them up in Sweden or pick them up by car in any store down in Europe. There's no shortage of silencers. The ones you push with hard legislation are legal hunters and shooters, who find it harder to get their silencers. The criminals don't go to the arms trade. They cross the net and pick up their silencers in places where it is already completely free when it comes to silencer purchases. So do not think that silencers are difficult to obtain for those who want to use them in a criminal way. To burden the country's legal hunters and shooters with complicated rules for that reason lacks entirely reasonable factual basis. Madam President, I would like What, then, is a silencer? The main advantages of the silencer are that it reduces the volume of sound and also the recoil when shooting, which reduces the risk of hearing damage in hunters and shooters. Silencers also make shooting ranges less disturbing for residents. The fact that more hunters and shooters are now getting easier to buy and use silencers will reduce the sound levels of shooting and, above all, reduce the risk of hearing damage to the country's hunters and shooters. Madam President, I would like Today, there are authorisation requirements for silencers, which means that the police have had to deal with 10 000 – 15 000 silencers per year. Perhaps policemen have had to deal with silencer states instead of being out in the streets and squares and taking the people who are actually criminals. Instead of doing this, they sit inside and control legal hunters and shooters when they order their silencers. We are now taking this work away from the police so that they have the opportunity to reduce their case handling by 10 000 – 15 000 silencers per year. This will give better resources to the police to work on what is really important. The removal of permit and licence requirements for silencers will therefore facilitate both for the country's hunters, shooters and arms dealers – and especially for the police. Madam President, I would like A large majority in the Committee on Justice corrected some of the shortcomings in the Government's proposal. When someone is now buying a silencer that is possible to use for several of the gun owners' weapons, it is okay to do so too, to remove the requirement to have to buy a specific silencer for each weapon. We also propose a new announcement to the government to adjust so that if someone sells their weapon which today has silencers to a buyer who does not want to buy the silencer, only the weapon gets the old gun owner still retains the silencer without seeking permission. Government policy means that the hunter who sells his weapon and keeps the silencer ends up in a criminal zone, which is completely unreasonable. This hunter may have four or five other weapons as well, but he still has a silencer from a weapon he sold. We want the government to correct this urgently. Madam President, I would like We are also firmly convinced that the rules for silencers may need to be reviewed in the large arms legislation that a majority of the parliamentary parties want. We have made announcements on this a number of times. I am convinced that we need to review silencer legislation once it starts. We may need to review the application of the law on silencers, how it will be interpreted and whether the police and the judicial system really interpret the rules that the majority of Parliament has now demanded here in the report. If, however, this is misinterpreted by the police or the judicial system, we in government will immediately review this and correct any shortcomings in legislation and thereby eliminate any misinterpretations. Madam President, I would like We have made more than 20 announcements to the government during this term of office. Only one of them, on silencers, has been able to resolve half of it during the term of office. This is, of course, far from acceptable. But it shows that the S-government does not listen to the country's hunters and shooters or do as a majority in parliament has actually decided and requested. Now, do not allow yourselves in the coming election movement to go on these new promises, but realize that we want better rules for the country's hunters, shooters and collectors, this government must be replaced on Sunday, September 11, this year. We have that opportunity. Let's take care of it.
i-3xHHJSgV87AHFAe5JohPvS	Madam President, I would like There were a lot of superlatives there, Sten Bergheden! No one understands anything, everything is bad and it is even a threat to democracy with the conditions under which we live. Sometimes it may feel like rationing with some superlatives in the world. In addition, Sten Bergheden spent almost four minutes of his speech talking about everything other than the bill that is on the table here today, which solves a great deal of the administrative and legal problems that a possible over-implementing of the arms directive has brought. Here the government corrects an error, and we now see that we are doing something to the benefit of hunters and sportsmen. I think it is very welcome. What led me to ask for a reply was a sentence in Mrs Bergheden's speech, namely that it is the government's fault that we are being dragged before the European shard. Then I would like to ask the honourable Member the following question: does Sten Bergheden think that we have over-implemented or under-implemented the EU arms directive? And what is the reason why we are being brought to justice – over or under-implementing?
i-9zCASs6SMUAuxa5A39oS6W	Madam President, I would like I can start with a comment about superlatives. I think it is serious that we have made over 20 announcements here and that the Minister has clearly stated, both in debate papers and here in Parliament, that he is ignoring some of those announcements. I think it's serious. I do not think that we can stress enough that the parliament and democracy in the country will work, both the government and the people living in the country will have to comply with the decisions made and the laws and regulations that prevail. The government is not exempt from obeying the Riksdag. That was the first part. You have had four, almost five, years to prepare and implement the Weapons Directive. There have been two proposals with over-implementations. We have been clear and said that we do not agree to any over-implementment without agreeing to a minimum implementation. There is a broad majority in the Committee on Justice which has expressed it. Yet the government returns with an over-implementment. You even add that you're going to start regulating weapons warehouses. That does not require the arms directive anywhere. And then it starts to argue that we want to regulate this in order to get to the criminals. It had nothing to do with the weapons directive, but you tried to sneak into a licence management and a permit examination at the warehouses in Sweden. I think that if the government has a poor knowledge of the political ranks inside the department, it is probably good if you listen to actual expertise in terms of both weapons directives and how to implement this at a minimum level. Because the knowledge that exists today is poor, and what you have delivered so far has been so poor that we have put it in the trash. Whose fault is that? Redo and do the right thing, and listen to the Riksdag!
i-8D6dd6yVdMKKWH9PhCc6Tr	Madam President, I would like I note that Sten Bergheden, of course, does not answer the question of whether the EU has brought us to justice because of over- or under-implementation. It is a central issue. It will cost us an incredible number of millions if we are unable to resolve this situation. I would like to say with emphas that it is not the government's fault. When it comes to respect for Parliament's decisions, the government has received numerous announcements. We try, as a social democrat and as a government, to deal with those announcements with respect. I also said them here earlier in my speech. If you think that the government has not been able to face up to those announcements, you can use the KU instrument and other things. But to suggest that the government does not respect the law is a little too strong. I can also note, when using this type of expression, that both the Police Authority and the Prosecutor's Office – our most operational law enforcement bodies – look with some concern at the lack of regulation and registration of silencers in themselves. It is clear that these consultation bodies are vital in the design of ensuring that we have sharp tools against both crime and terrorism, which the arms directive was actually about from the beginning. We must try to remember the causes of the very harsh and drastic directives and subsequent directives that have come at European level, namely the terrible terrorist attacks that shook Europe with hundreds of dead and maimed people. We must have this in the second balance when we talk about administration and bureaucracy.
i-8ngrGSspeJ4WzDe2NVaomX	Madam President, I would like When it comes to whether it is over-implemented or under-implemented, the arms directive is not implemented at all by the Government and the Riksdag as a result of the delivery of two substandard proposals that the Riksdag has not approved. Then you have to sit down and resolve the issues and discuss how to get through a bill on the arms directive in Parliament. You can't think you can ignore it or skip it. I cannot understand why the government last, Madam President, meant to go in and mark all our historical weapons in Sweden. The Weapons Directive provides a clear exception in this regard. Yet Petter Löberg and the government representatives come here to Parliament with a bill that you need to mark all the old historical weapons. It would be like writing on the paintings in the museums. You don't. There were exceptions for this, but you did not take advantage of it. There are a number of examples, and you are well aware of that. But you have tried time and again to blame Europe. Time and again, you have done so to try to get this through with weapons warehouses and the marking of historical weapons. There's a whole list, and you should know what it's about. We could use all of Parliament's instruments, that is clear, but is it not some reasonable reason that the government should not ignore whether we make a decision here in Parliament and give a mission to the government to do a certain job and also set a deadline? It cannot be much clearer from the Riksdag. It is worth very serious criticism that you skip what Parliament decides on.
i-KAyDGdNzsPfzbxFAL12sBw	Madam President, I would like I am not sure whether anyone has called for the committee's proposal for a decision in the report to be approved. That's why I want to do it, for the sake of form. Madam President, I would like So we were here again. I do not know for which time we are debating arms issues, but I know that it has taken far too long to get some order on this croft and that the political leadership required to resolve this issue for many Swedes has shone dazzlingly with their absence. We are debating today the proposal for the regulation of silencers. However, the problem is not a separate issue in arms legislation, but a systemic failure in the regulation of firearms in Sweden. It was not perfect in the past, but the problems began to pile up when the EU system got a feeling and wanted to show momentum after the cowardly and nefarious acts of terror in Paris in 2015. Madam President, I would like This is something of a political disease that we must do everything to prevent. Instead of doing what has a lasting and real effect, and which we have the right to believe through research, and which, at the same time, does not create problems or complicate things unnecessarily, some people are more concerned about the headlines and the short-term gains in opinion. You launch policy proposals that you have to understand push well next to the target, but you expect not to be called. In the short term, it usually works, unfortunately. The simplified picture is gaining momentum, and the result rarely gets seen before the debate has moved on to any other bracing proposal that sounds good but at best is ineffective but sometimes also harmful. We can do better than that. We need to be better able to address the social problems that weigh on us in Sweden and in Europe. Madam President, I would like The responsibility for getting their legislative proposals passed in Parliament rests with the government. There is no other way to describe the handling of arms legislation than as a failure. But as usual, it's someone else's fault. Of course, it seems to me that it is up to the parties who voted in favour of the directive in the European Parliament to agree on exactly what they wanted. These parties are – if anyone has forgotten – the Social Democrats, the Moderates, the Environmental Party and the Left Party. Those parties have a majority in the Swedish parliament and can theoretically do what they want with this issue. But apparently there's not enough leadership to get there. Again – it is primarily the one who claims to rule the country who is responsible for bringing such communication about. Then it is not good enough to complain that the others did not come to the negotiating table. If so, it is the government that has failed to get them to the negotiating table. Madam President, I would like The Center Party has been clear from the beginning. The weapons directive was misconceived, misplaced and disproportionate from a Swedish perspective. It created problems for law-abiding hunters and sportsmen without significantly increasing safety in comparison with current law in Sweden. That is why we also voted against. The Commission states that it intends to bring Sweden into a so-called infringement case because the Directive has not yet been implemented. But despite the fact that the situation that Sweden has now ended up in is hardly to any extent our responsibility, we have stretched out our hand and, among other things, met the friends of the Moderates by supporting the proposal for an announcement of a minimum level of implementation. A stable parliamentary majority will is the implementation of the directive at a minimum level, Madam President. In addition, there are a wide range of other announcements, for example concerning the five-year licences for certain weapons. For those who do not know exactly what an infringement case means, I can tell you that there may be a fine of hundreds of millions. There are great, enormous resources needed in the fight against organised crime, against violence in close relations, against fraud against the elderly, against travelling theft leagues in rural areas and more. If the government cannot get the Moderates to come to the negotiating table, we must simply try to create a vessel for that to happen. It's not unusual. We do this all the time in parliamentary reference groups. It is my view that this must be involved in the preparation of new arms legislation. I'm done talking. It's time for action. I therefore intend to propose, in connection with our committee meeting tomorrow, a committee initiative to implement once and for all Parliament's desire to take a coherent approach to arms issues. It should be a timely announcement with the aim of having robust legislation at next year's turn. In this way, the Commission will hopefully also be able to withdraw the infringement case. We would avoid fines and get a really not perfect arms legislation in place, but still an arms law that is as good as it can be given the preconditions of European law. I hope to gather broad support for this initiative. I have noted that the Swedish Democrats intend to present a proposal in committee for an initiative on sharp legislation for the so-called five-year licences. During its term of office, the committee has tried to legislate sharply a few times. All the times this has led to poor results. We simply get a lot of criticism from the Law Council when we do that. Tomorrow you can choose to support the Swedish Democrats' proposal for initiative and hopefully, perhaps, get the change in the five-year licenses in place. You'll get that by the end of the six months. My proposal and that of the Center Party can also be supported. We are taking the holistic approach to the arms issues that we have long been calling for, setting up a proper investigation and preparing the issue as required by the Constitution. At the same time, a great deal of important legislation must now be in place to solve major security problems in Sweden. This requires our full attention and, above all, our committee's capacity to work. That is why it would be unfortunate to put all that aside in order perhaps to serve six months on this extremely important issue.
i-V3jEPTwuXswPsyRicLXL9e	Madam President, I would like I was apostrophated at the end, but I think that the debate that will take place within the framework of the Committee on Justice can wait something. I wanted to highlight something else when I asked for the floor before the apostrophation. This is not a line of conflict in the report, but the other way around. The Swedish Democrats and the Center Party agreed on two out of three parts, if you say so, of the report. I am grateful for the cooperation that took place between the Swedish Democrats and the Center Party during the committee committee. We were able, despite different dividing lines, to unite, to hold talks and to move this forward. It is good that the Swedish Democrats and the Center Party can also at times agree, when we agree with each other. I am grateful for the cooperation that has taken place in committee. However, at the end of the follow-up period, I noted that the Center Party had not presented its own follow-up motion. I have not had the opportunity to ask Johan Hedin how this came about. Was it forgotten? Or did you feel when you saw the arguments of the Swedish Democrats that there was something that the Center Party could support? You might have forgotten it during the exercise, but when you saw Tobias Andersson's and the others' words in writing, you might have felt that it was something you wanted to join. I do not know whether that was the case, Madam President. But I would like to ask Johan Hedin that question. There was no centre-party follow-up motion. The arguments put forward by the Swedish Democrats and other parties and followed this up in committee then convinced, or so on. I'm glad. I am grateful for the cooperation that has taken place. But I would like to know if it was our motion that convinced the Center Party or whether they just forgot about their own.
i-2E1tzY5iipz1GqkVNPaugE	Madam President, I would like I don't know how to express this diplomatically. But I have been engaged in politics and full-time legislation since 2012, in the Riksdag and in the Alliance Government. I have probably never seen such a strange proposal as what the Swedish Democrats presented in their accompanying motion. It is thus written that someone who is able to apply for a license for silencers should be able to have silencers. But what does that mean in practice, Madam President? Is it that there should still be a trial? Who will decide who has the right to apply for a silencer? Is it that you don't want to require permission for silencers? Why make a mess of it at all? It's a tremendous strangeness that I scratched my hair quite a bit over and maybe smudged a little bit. Madam President, I would like The truth is, we were working on a proposal that didn't last all the way. My starting point was to support the Liberals, because they had a very wise and well formulated proposal in their motion. If you stayed awake at committee meetings, you know that we initially agreed with the Liberals' proposals. Then there was a shift in work t, and we and the Liberals joined the M- and KD-line. It is nice that Tobias Andersson praises the cooperation, but I do not really know what Tobias Andersson defines as cooperation. Not on one occasion have Tobias Andersson and I discussed this product during this process. It's nice that he thinks it's good atmosphere and a spirit of cooperation, but I find it difficult to see it the same way.
i-R7woP1gwucFvcVLqqxhvG4	Madam President, I would like I thank Johan Hedin for his answer. The sportsmen, arms dealers and other experts whom I presented to our proposal did not scratch his head in the way Johan Hedin describes that he did when he saw it. Part of our follow-up motion has Johan Hedin himself chosen to support, both through the version we developed together with additions to the motif text and through the proposal for an announcement that was largely based on the Swedish Democrats' one demand from the follow-up motion. I don't think Johan Hedin's opposition or confusion about our proposal was so great given that he has supported parts of the proposal we presented – although in this case he is not ready to support it all. I do not feel that I received an adequate answer as to whether or not it was forgotten in the exercise period itself, but the Liberal proposal that was initially supported was then chosen not to support it. There is no party to vote tomorrow behind the Liberals' follow-up motion. Instead, it is a variant of the Swedish Democrats' and others' follow-up movements that the Center Party and others have supported. Madam President, I would like I am very much in favour of this, and it is good when we can agree on things. I hope that we can agree on more issues and perhaps have a more intense dialogue even if Johan Hedin rejects that cooperation or talks should have taken place. Perhaps, however, there is a premise in the future that the Center Party has now shown that there is no problem with backing and tomorrow voting on partly Swedish-democratic proposals.
i-4gVoBL1vxJAwQphBFdKwzN	Madam President, I would like Sometimes there are misunderstandings out in the cabins that we neither talk nor cooperate with SD. But we talk to the SD at each committee meeting, in the regular work in committee that the voters put us here to do. What we do not do with the Swedish Democrats is political development, because they want fundamentally different things than we want. Let us dive into this particular issue of weapons. What matters is that the Moderates and the Social Democrats have not been able to talk about what they want with the directive they voted for in the European Parliament. It is a failure and a lack of political leadership. The Center Party is doing what it can to promote the spirit of cooperation. But the fundamental political business concept of the Swedish Democrats is to create conflict and division. They are not interested in achieving results, for then they would try to invite the Social Democrats to reason. Instead, they seek confrontation and conflict. That's not how you get results. The only way is to get along and sit down and discuss these issues properly so that we find the smallest common denominators to get a sensible arms legislation in place in Sweden – a weapons legislation that is proportionate and legally secure and does not affect law-abiding sportsmen and hunters unnecessarily and that may strengthen security at some point, but not through the marking of historical weapons or other devices. We can do better, Madam President. We need to be able to do better.
i-RUdkmTL2encTGGLhScrYcc	Madam President, I would like As several before me have said, it is a pleasure that we have finally reached this point. It has been a sequel during my almost four years in Parliament. As we have heard, the Riksdag has made two announcements, one in 2019 and one in 2021, and it has taken quite a long time to finish. As colleagues have mentioned, we have an incredible number of announcements on the hunting, sporting and weapons area that we are waiting for, but I will not bring them up here and now. However, it is quite clear that the government does not trust law-abiding hunters and sportsmen, for if they did, many of these announcements had already been made. It is clear that the government has been fighting against it for a long time. Why? I can understand that all the shootings in our society make you doubtful, but these shootings have nothing to do with silencers. As many people know, I live near the Norwegian border and therefore have quite good knowledge of Norway. There has long been the legislation that we are about to introduce. What about shootings on the open street in Norway? Well, not like here in Sweden anyway. Clearly, it is not the silencer's fault that we are where we are today. The silencer is not a vital part either; the weapon works equally well with or without silencers. That is why I cannot understand why this has been so cautious. Why, then, is this so important? There are quite a few reasons, but to sum up it is about simplifying for law-abiding hunters and sportsmen. It is therefore a good thing that the opposition's criticism has been listened to. Hunting and shooting are important, not least for those of us who live in the countryside. And this is an important part of making us even better hunters and shooters. In this case, you have to be able to have several thoughts in your head at the same time, because it is about law-abiding hunters and sportsmen, not the heavy thug who is out there shooting. Of course it should be tough and preventive in that part, but it is not about this. The silencer itself is not dangerous, unless you hit it in the head of someone of course. There are 1.2 legal weapons per year used in serious crime. Otherwise, it is weapons that come from the underworld. It's not the guns of hunters and sportsmen. Only in January have we had 29 shootings in Sweden. We have a huge problem with this. Let's focus on that and not make it more difficult for our law-abiding hunters and sportsmen. Officials of the police want exactly what we are about to decide: that the authorisation requirement for silencers be removed. They have more than enough to do in their job anyway. In Stockholm, there are 22 - 23 weeks of waiting time for a gun license. It shows the police can't handle their work. By removing the permit requirement, we will at least make it easier for them to obtain licences on time. But it is still far too long waiting time. This afternoon I talked to my local hunting and gun shop at home in Årjängs municipality, and the guy I talked to said that with every bouncer a silencer is sold. Everyone is buying it now, so it is certainly right that we take this step. Madam President, I would like Many have talked about the EU's weapons directive, and we have discussed it here more than once. As we heard Petter Löberg mention, Sweden will be dragged before the top. That's right, but why should we be dragged in front of the shriek? Well, as we heard earlier, it is because the government is unable to come up with a proposal that is at a minimum level. That's the reason for the whole thing. During one of the Prime Minister's Question Time a few years ago, I asked Stefan Löfven a question about the implementation of the Weapons Directive. Then Stefan Löfven said that it was not the hunters' and sportsmen's fault but that something had to be done, and thus it would be more difficult for law-abiding hunters and sportsmen. That was a very strange comment. You can't get fines until you're possibly convicted. Being pulled in front of the shriek is in itself no danger. The fines will then come if we do not comply with the EU. But it's very simple. If the government comes up with a proposal that involves minimum implementation, it will go through. It's no harder than that. Why, then, should these silencers be worn? As we have heard before, it lowers the sound level, making it easier for the shooter but also for those who live near the shooting ranges, where it is pushed frequently during the summer and autumn. It provides a smaller muzzle flamma, which makes it easier for the shooter to stay focused. It reduces recoil, which makes it more comfortable to shoot and makes you a better shot. It provides improved precision, i.e. better shooting, and the weight of the damper makes the weapon more stable. In the end, Madam President, this is about becoming a better shot, thereby reducing the risk of bad shots or damage. The benefits of silencers are so many that there is no doubt that it is quite right from many perspectives. As I said, it is gratifying that we have come where we have come. Then there are so many announcements that we are waiting for. We hope for delivery soon, although hope may not be so great. With this, I would like to call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-T9HaVnoPhEdPCGgkJgedTr	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the Social Affairs Committee's report number 10. It is a report which brings together all the motions submitted by Members of Parliament during last year's general period of exercise, all of which relate to issues relating to alcohol, drugs, tobacco and doping, which we tend to shorten ANDT. The report deals with some 120 claims. When such reports with many different motions and motions from the general period of exercise are debated in this House, it is of course very broad and little, as we say in Skåne, sprawling. I have had debates on these very issues in this House a few times now in my years in Parliament, and I have often begun to talk about what I think is most important when we talk about the ANDTS issues, namely the children and their right not to be exposed to these products and their negative effects. Madam President, I would like 15% of all children in Sweden have been adversely affected by the alcohol consumption of a parent or guardian. There are 320,000 children — children who grow up with and suffer from adult drinking. There are 320 000 children who, instead of enjoying that the weekend is finally here, that it is allowed or that Christmas is approaching, feel a great worry, fear and anxiety because they know that it means that the mother, father or guardian will be affected. It does something about children, Madam President, that worry, fear and anxiety that security is no longer there – the security that we parents should be able to give our children. It disappears or changes when the bottle arrives. Growing up in an environment of risk or abuse puts great strain on a child. In addition to constant stress, studies show that these children fare much worse in school, that they suffer from both mental and somatic diseases to a greater extent than other children, and that they develop poorer relationships with other people. In addition, it appears that support from society for these children is often lacking. Although we are well aware that children who grow up with parents who drink too much are a particularly vulnerable group, few of them are offered support. So being a child of someone who drinks too much has major consequences, directly and in the long term. Many of the children, for example, are at risk of having different addictions and addictions later in life. That is precisely why, Madam President, it is important that we adults, parents and children take our responsibility. 320 000 children are far too high. No child should grow up with a parent who drinks and is adversely affected by it. Apart from great human suffering and a violation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, it is in itself also a major social problem. That is why social responsibility is needed. It requires change and that we are many who pay attention to the problems and contribute to solutions that put children's safe and safe growing up, free from the consequences of adults' use of ANDT products, in front of adults' conveniences such as more open hours at Systembolaget, more sales outlets, strawberry tasting products and an unregulated market. Solutions and policies are needed that focus on as few children and young people as possible starting with ANDT products and thus becoming trapped in harmful use. A policy is needed to develop new legislation to regulate the new products launched by the industry, which attract young people in particular, with added flavors of bubble gum or chocolate or so-called white snuff. It requires politicians who dare to stand up for the restrictive Swedish alcohol policy, which serves us well and who are both well established and appreciated by the Swedes, politicians who know that at least half of all violent crimes in Sweden are alcohol-related and that increased accessibility leads to more alcohol damage, more cases of violence in close relationships and more violent crimes. We need solutions and a policy that regulates a market with products that we know are harmful to the individual, to society and to the environment. Madam President, I would like The objective of government alcohol, drugs, doping, tobacco and gambling policies is a society free from drugs and doping, reduced medical and social harm caused by alcohol, reduced tobacco use and reduced harm caused by excessive gambling. I am both pleased and proud that we have a government that has put these issues high on the agenda ever since it took office, which has made a number of legislative changes in this area, which has given various missions to authorities with a view to strengthening the work on the targets and which is now increasing the tax on tobacco and alcohol. But more needs to be done, and the government will come back with, among other things, proposals in the field of nicotine and tobacco and a new ANDT letter. The Government will also review the Swedish drug legislation in order to combine a continued restrictive drug policy with effective drug prevention work. Madam President, I would like Despite the fact that it is difficult to compare statistics between different countries in Europe, the drug-related mortality rate in Sweden is far too high. It is therefore a good thing that a united committee has agreed that the investigation should also make an international look. What measures have other countries taken, and what are the positive or negative consequences? Madam President, I would like I support the proposal in the report and our reservation 3.
i-7dg1ta2gmH2CnbXNTfJyR9	Madam President, I would like If you can be a little funny, what's better than starting an ANDTS debate with a little booze? Madam President, I would like A year ago, the Government put its proposal for a new ANDTS strategy on the table of the Riksdag. That was a strategy that this House said no to, and indeed emphatically so. The statement of an overwhelming parliamentary majority was clear: the strategy is not good enough. Do it again, and do it right! The government was given the task of rapidly developing a new strategy with, among other things, a new overall goal. As with alcohol and gambling, the overall objective and policy of tobacco and nicotine products needs to be focused on reducing harm. Translated into practical action, this means that the government needs to stop chasing snus and instead prioritise work to reduce tobacco smoking. But the government, like a defiant teenager, seems to have neglected to do its homework. As early as last year when the government presented its draft strategy, it was delayed. The previous strategy expired in 2020, and now another year has passed. However, a new proposal is not in sight. At the same time, the government seems to act almost as if the strategy that the Riksdag rejected was to apply. This is remarkable to say the least. I do not know, Madam President, whether negligence, meekness or disrespect is what best describes the actions of the government. In any case, the government's actions are remarkable. Sweden has an electric crisis, and Sweden has a security crisis that requires a new government. It is obvious that a new government is also clearly required for Sweden to have a new and sensible ANDTS strategy. Fortunately, however, the day approaches when it may be possible. In 207 days, it'll be a choice. I can't wait! Madam President, I would like For many years, the Riksdag has been pushing the government forward in terms of ANDTS work. For example, Parliament has called for better access to the overdose antagonist Naloxon, a collective headship for people with co-morbidity and a tobacco policy based on facts. Another important request made last year by Parliament was that we need a national competence centre for prevention. In today's debate we disagree on a great deal. But I am convinced that we agree precisely on the importance of strong preventive work. Since before, Parliament has called for an evaluation of drug policy. It can be said that in this report we propose an additional announcement to the government that the evaluation that Parliament has previously called for and is still waiting for also needs to include an analysis of measures taken in other countries to reduce drug-related mortality. Since Sweden has the highest drug-related mortality in Europe, Swedish policy needs to be evaluated and developed. And we must, Madam President, raise our eyes and learn from other countries. Now, following proposals from us Moderates, Parliament also wants to carry out a broad evaluation of alcohol policy. As we in committee write in the report that we are now debating, a broad and thorough evaluation is needed to find answers to the effectiveness and overall functioning of the instruments we have in the field of alcohol policy. We Moderates believe that today's alcohol policy is largely based on yesterday's conditions and therefore needs to be developed. A broad and robust evaluation is important for the success of, and hopefully in broad political agreement, the development of policies from both a public health and a nutritional perspective. But the reform of alcohol policy must not just be postponed. Reforms are also needed here and now. Farm sales urgently need to be in place to create better conditions for Swedish tourism and for Sweden's increasing number of microbreweries, distilleries and other small-scale producers of alcoholic beverages. Now there is a proposal for farm sales that was sent for a referral the other week. We Moderates want to see a much more permissive system than the latest investigation has proposed. The study's proposals contain such strict limitations that the proposal risks becoming a blow to the air. We Moderates want to see a system of farm sales that does not contain tougher requirements than what is absolutely justified by EU law. We Moderates also believe that here and now we need to modernise the provisions of the Alcohol Act on the state of serving. That is why I would like to support reservation 7 – approval of the Moderates' proposal to make it easier for serious operators to obtain a permit to serve. In concrete terms, we want, among other things, to abolish the so-called food requirement. We want to enable a wine bar to open or the hairdresser to serve a glass of bubble in connection with a hair set for the wedding. Having your own kitchen and serving a varied range of prepared food do not think we should be needed to get an alcohol permit. Contrary to what many critics claim, more liberal rules need not mean increased alcohol consumption. This shows our own Swedish experiences. The number of permits has more than doubled since the 1990s, while overall alcohol consumption has decreased. During the same time Systembolaget has also started again with Saturday opening. We have also seen that the controversial distance selling of alcohol online has emerged. The availability of alcohol has increased, consumption has decreased. Particularly gratifying is the fact that fewer young people drink and that the young people who do, after all, drink less. The Swedish alcohol policy is changing, from intoxication drinking to a greater focus on quality, origin and craftsmanship. Madam President, I would like The policy of alcohol, drugs, tobacco, doping and gambling needs to be developed based on society's changes and based on facts with a clear harm-reducing focus. Preventive work needs to be strengthened, addiction care needs to be made more accessible and legislation needs to keep pace with time. ANDTS policy needs a fresh start, and Sweden needs a moderate government that also takes on this task.
i-T8TZjTdVukpFCQTm3eyQVU	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats have for a long time been pushing the question that health care should take over responsibility for substance abuse care. The majority of those with substance abuse problems have underlying mental or physical illnesses. Therefore, drug treatment also needs to be made much more accessible so that more people can be free of their addiction. Since 2010, Sweden has had a comprehensive strategy for alcohol, drugs, doping and tobacco policy, a strategy that has now come to an end. It was a strategy that contained both shortcomings and problems and therefore needed to be addressed. A long-term strategy is still needed. The Government's proposal for a new ANDTS strategy and an overall goal was rejected by the Riksdag in June 2021. In this connection, the government received a number of announcements on its table. In particular, the government was invited to come back promptly with proposals for a revised and improved strategy and a new overall target that takes into account the different levels of damage caused by nicotine and tobacco products. No new, revised and improved strategy has been presented, Madam President. It therefore seems relevant to me to point out that our view is that the fight against drugs must be a priority in the forthcoming strategy. The aim must, of course, be to work vigorously to alleviate the burden of all forms of addiction and addiction. Madam President, I would like I would also like to take this opportunity to highlight the issue of the life-long consequences of alcohol consumption during pregnancy. Drinking alcohol during pregnancy always carries an increased risk to the foetus. It can cause serious health problems, and it carries the risk of premature birth. It can cause malformations in the heart, kidneys, liver and so on. Of course, it can also cause major damage to the brain, which in turn can lead to cognitive problems, behavioural problems and hyperactivity later in life. We need to investigate how extensive the incidence of birth defects that may be caused by mother's alcohol consumption during pregnancy is, and more studies are needed to increase knowledge. We need to focus heavily on preventing alcohol-related birth defects while at the same time working to ensure that the affected children are properly diagnosed and helped. They should receive the necessary treatment, and they should receive it as early as possible. We believe that a national competence centre can contribute to better reaching out prevention to the public. It can also ensure that healthcare professionals receive adequate training in this area, which of course provides significantly better conditions for successful preventive work. Madam President, I would like I would also like to raise the issue of increased gambling abuse. In many cases gambling addiction is also clearly linked to other problems. These can be health problems, economic problems and social problems. It is not difficult to understand that there has been an increase not least now during the pandemic. Several support associations report that many relapses in gambling addiction, and the Swedish Public Health Agency believes that there is a risk that the pandemic has had negative effects on gambling addiction as many have had the opportunity to sit at home and play online. It must be said, to be honest, that much is being done in this area and that a number of measures have already been taken. However, we believe that the government should give the appropriate authority the task of verifying and ensuring that municipalities and regions have implemented and continue to pursue the work of supporting and gambling prevention measures according to the amendments made to the Health Care Act and the Social Services Act regarding gambling abuse. This is how we think it is particularly important to do this before the consequences are far too great, and I therefore support our reservation 13. Something else that has been affected by the pandemic is the Swedish restaurant industry, which has had a difficult time. There have been state-regulated opening hours, restrictions on the number of visitors, demands for distance and a lot of other measures that we unfortunately all have fresh in mind. Now that the restrictions have been removed, this would be an excellent opportunity to modernise Swedish alcohol legislation. Our view is that the issue of the state of serving in the Alcohol Act should be reviewed and made simpler and less arbitrary. Among other things, consideration should be given to abolishing today's requirement that a restaurant, simplistically speaking, must have its own kitchen. Madam President, I would like The current requirement of the Alcohol Act that serving facilities must always provide food or have their own kitchen in connection with the serving room is, to say the least, outdated. A better and less arbitrary regulatory framework is just what Sweden's restaurant life needs, and that is exactly what Sweden's restaurant life deserves. I see my speaking time is running out, so I'll stay there. I couldn't have talked any faster, because you wouldn't have understood my Scanian.
i-MGpCDCTKPYLtyz7qQvfU7Y	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the issues of alcohol, drugs, doping, tobacco and gambling. In my speech, I will talk, above all, about the issue of alcohol and drugs. This is an issue in which it is very important to move forward, particularly in relation to our public health and to our children and young people. The fact that people end up in addiction, whether it be gambling, drugs or alcohol, is something we must counteract and counteract in every way we can. Preventive work in the area, which is largely carried out in our municipalities, is incredibly important. It is therefore worrying that we are currently in limbo with regard to the ANDTS strategy. Since last year's debate, when the government put forward a proposal for a precisely ANDTS strategy which was then rejected in Parliament because it was not good enough, it has been worryingly quiet. Especially quiet has it been around the drug-related mortality rate. Although a majority in Parliament wants an evaluation of the current drugs policy and a focus on injury prevention, the government has not delivered. Time and again, the Riksdag has pointed out to the Government that this is not good enough. We want to see more prevention, and we want to see a focus in the ANDTS strategy based on harm minimisation – harm reduction. We want a drugs policy based on science, research and proven experience. But the government refuses to listen, and one can really ask why. On other issues, the government is talking about turning every stone around, but on this particular issue it certainly does not want to turn any stone at all. This report, too, proposes two announcements stating once again that a majority in Parliament wants to see a broad evaluation of both alcohol policy and drugs policy. Madam President, I would like Drug-related mortality is an issue that the government absolutely must take very seriously. In fact, in the statistics for the EU, Sweden is really bad: we are the worst in the class. This is something that we in the Center Party have pointed out on a number of occasions over the years, yet nothing is happening. Waiting for the government to act and take a new direction for drug policy based on research, science and proven experience, people die. It is clear that we need to do more and that we need to do it faster. Another effort I miss in the questions linked to ANDTS is the discussion of what we can actually do here and now, to save lives today. One such operation, which has also been obscured, is the LARO treatment – drug-assisted treatment against opioid dependence. Had we had a better expanded and more accessible LARO care, we could have saved more lives. Both national targets and a quality register are needed in order for us to continue to develop care for opioid-dependent people throughout the country. Madam President, I would like There are many and too many tragedies in which people have died because of their drug abuse and addiction. These are stories that touch in depth. Linked to all these tragedies, there is often evidence of drug treatment and a drug policy that does not work at all. If it had been like this with some other group of patients – if we had had the worst results in terms of treating cancer or cardiovascular diseases or in terms of getting premature babies to survive – there would have been outcry in Sweden and among Swedish politicians. But precisely because mortality affects a group of people who are regarded as standing at the bottom of the social ladder and who are more vulnerable than any other group, it is very quiet in the debate. Madam President, I would like Dependent disease is a disease, and diseases should be treated according to science and proven experience. Research should form the basis for what we do and for our positions. That is why the Center Party is calling for it to be evaluated if drugs policy is based on research, science and proven experience. I don't think we can say that enough times. Madam President, I would like Even in the area of alcohol policy and tobacco policy, there is a lack of sharp proposals. As I mentioned at the outset, this report proposes an announcement that a majority in Parliament wants an evaluation of alcohol policy, which we in the Center Party are very much in favour of. Our availability and independence of statistics and a regular and independent evaluation of alcohol consumption is an important basis for us in Parliament to be able to make informed decisions. It is therefore a little problematic that there is no external, independent evaluation and analysis of alcohol policy, but that even this is actually done by Systembolaget at present. Today, it is primarily Systembolaget and the non-profit organisation CAN that collects and provides alcohol statistics. Systembolaget is therefore not only selling alcohol but also responsible for information and research funding. The statistics provided by Systembolaget are also limited, as it is up to the company itself to decide which statistics should be published. For example, Systembolaget has not reported statistics on sales for six years, broken down by municipality level. This makes political transparency difficult, for example, in border trade, which is a major problem in Skåne, among others. The SCB, which is the authority otherwise responsible for official statistics and other government statistics, provides hardly any statistics whatsoever on alcohol sales and consumption. That is why I would like to support Amendment No 4, which deals specifically with statistics on alcohol. Madam President, I would like There is also more to be desired with regard to tobacco. I am of the opinion that snuff is definitely not a health product, and it is clear that we should do everything we can to avoid young people starting to snuff. But comparing snuff with cigarette smoking, which is one of the biggest public health threats we have and which causes sickness and death to an extent that few other things do, leads the thought completely wrong. Instead, we should focus on tightening the penalties for those who sell tobacco products to minors so that our children and young people are not led into snusping or smoking. This government must realise that it is time to start listening to parliamentary parties and to all the announcements that have been decided in this House time and again in recent years. There we are trying to create a majority behind ANDTS issues that would really change the situation in Sweden.
i-FRvXQzUjTyfJVxkCc9ZPPZ	Madam President, I would like We are waiting for an ANDT strategy that we will not have. Instead, we will receive a letter from the government. We are also waiting for an investigation to be set up to look at the whole drugs policy. When's it coming? No one knows. Madam President, I would like In the ANDT version that a unanimous committee rejected, there is a zero vision of drug mortality but no answer to how it should be done. Sweden, as many here have already said, has Europe's highest drug-related death rate. Sweden has had this for a long time, despite relatively low drug use compared to the rest of Europe. Two years ago, the Swedish Parliament asked the government to begin an evaluation of drug policy, but we have not yet seen this. There has been a pandemic and a lot to do, but death rates should have led to something happening on this front. Madam President, I would like Between 2006 and 2019, drug and drug poisoning mortality increased by 79 per cent. Of course, the victims are the mothers, the fathers, the sisters, the brothers, the friends, and the dead one himself. A life has been lost. There is extreme stigmatisation and vulnerability, which has also increased. We believe that drugs policy does not stick together anymore, but very little is happening on this front – far too little. People who are dependent are stigmatised and treated as criminals instead of receiving the care they need. That is why drug policy needs to be changed. Why not turn over every stone instead of just doing so when you already know what is under the stone? We also want to look, as you know, at the criminalisation. Has it worked in practice? There is a lack of knowledge about it. It is not only we who want this anymore, but it is also the entire Swedish Health Agency, the Swedish Health Agency, researchers, the profession and so on. Let us see what it will be, Madam President. Alcohol is not just any product; it is not crackers. Alcohol is not an issue to be left entirely to the market. It is public health aspects that should govern the alcohol policy – not the alcohol lobby or the alcohol industry. I am not surprised that the Moderates are driving the thesis that we need to evaluate Sweden's alcohol policy. Anyone who reads the Moderates' movements – those who have the time and desire to do so – can see that there are very many cranes that are opened. The fact that the Center is along may not be surprising either, but I'm a little surprised by the KD. An evaluation of Swedish alcohol policy – that is interesting. What should such an evaluation look at? There are a lot of measurements going on in this area. The Public Health Agency does these things. I can recommend that you go in there and look; there is a lot of information. Systembolaget sounded a little creepy. They were not quite correct in these matters. We also have CAN. I'm a little curious about what to evaluate. In these movements, a lot of people bite Systembolaget. You can think about that. I think the Moderates are extremely interested in alcohol. In a sentence that I find interesting, the Moderates write that they believe that a broad evaluation is necessary for the possibility of developing alcohol policy from a public health perspective as well as a nutritional perspective. It is also believed that the alcohol law needs to be fundamentally reviewed and modernised and that a broad evaluation provides a basis for this. That's the whole thing you've been running through. Madam President, I would like Approximately 320 000 children in Sweden grow up in families with hazardous alcohol consumption. It's not a small group. It may sound like we are living in a country where these problems do not exist, but I would say that these problems – with parents who drink too much for various reasons on weekends, for example – are a little everywhere in Sweden. It is 100 000 children who have a situation where parents are in contact with addiction clinics or are cared for in hospitals for addiction. This is not a small question. Let us look at the support these children receive. It is 2 000 – 3 000 children who receive support because of their parents' dependence. These children are suffering very badly, and it is unfortunately voluntary for the municipalities to give advice and support to them. That is why we have exercised in the past that the government should investigate legislation in order for children of dependent parents to receive broad support and assistance, because it helps. You're opening the door to the alcohol industry. In fact, that is what you are doing; it is about nutrition. You want to modernise. It is not so much that you want to look at the public health aspects, but you want to modernise. This means, for example, that you think that the availability of alcohol should be increased. We are of the completely opposite opinion. We think that Sweden should have a solidarity-based alcohol policy. This means that we believe that the availability of alcohol should be limited. It sounds really boring, but it's not that there's no alcohol in all the restaurants and so on in this country. It is not that it is difficult to obtain alcohol. I don't know if you've ever experienced it. I don't think it is, but maybe I live in the wrong neighborhood. What do I know? We shall have high taxes; it stands for the Left Party. We will have a strong system company and stricter rules for private entry. This is about the low total consumption model, which we have worked with in Sweden for a long time. If total consumption is low, alcohol-related ill health and mortality will also decrease. Alcohol-related mortality among women, for example, can be considered. I am extremely curious about this evaluation. What are you going to evaluate? I think it is more likely that you should evaluate the nutrition and how to sell alcohol in a more sophisticated way. Farm sales are an issue that we will debate later; it will be alive, I think. If we allow farm sales alongside Systembolaget, Madam President, I think it will be a departure from the systematic and coherent alcohol policy that we have had in Sweden and which has worked. When you start talking about evaluating this policy, the focus is not on children who are dependent, nor on young people. In fact, we have reduced the consumption of alcohol among young people. I worked on the Alcohol Committee myself, which I'm very proud of. We worked like ferrets to reduce alcohol consumption. It's low now. We'll be very grateful for that. It shall not be increased. M oderater na, Centern, KD and SD want a slightly more poppy alcohol policy, a modern alcohol policy. I have seen this in a bit different parts of the world – i.e. a nutritional alcohol policy and i.e. an easily accessible and cheap alcohol. It reaps more deaths and makes people sicker, and children of parents with high consumption try to be as invisible as possible. Madam President, I would like I request the approval of reservation 3.
i-F3giN51PswRmMoxtFrR3V2	Madam President, I would like It is of course very gratifying that Karin Rågsjö has read the Moderates' alcohol policy exercise so carefully. Of course, more should. It is good reading that contains many sensible proposals. As regards the question of evaluating alcohol policy: I find it extremely strange that Karin Rågsjö may think it quite obvious that we need to evaluate drugs policy in order to create a basis for how to develop it and tackle the problems we see with high drug-related mortality, but do not at all think that the same kind of evaluation is needed as a basis for developing alcohol policy. It is true that I believe that the parties behind this reservation have different views on how alcohol policy will develop in the future. What we have agreed is that an evaluation is needed. Then we will certainly draw different conclusions and come up with various proposals on the basis of such an evaluation. However, evaluations are needed as a basis for policy development. We should be able to agree on this from right to left. I think that Swedish alcohol policy has served us well in many ways. We have low injuries compared to other countries. But much has also changed. We have seen how accessibility to alcohol has increased significantly while consumption has changed. Then you have to start thinking about whether all the old truths are true today. I think we need to focus more on prevention. It is more effective to give customs and police more resources than to regulate alco-glass. It is about which measures are most effective. I think it is better for an independent evaluation to look at it than for me and Karin Rågsjö to stand and argue about it here in Parliament. Why does Karin Rågsjö not want to know which of the tools in Swedish alcohol policy are really effective? Why are you turning a blind eye to that information?
i-FhDYP8ZUR5931VeeBbAXEA	Madam President, I would like Johan Hultberg! I have read not only this exercise but also other exercises that were in the pile of alcohol movements. I'm a little amazed at the easy way the Moderates look at alcohol, I must say. What information can be obtained today about alcohol, how it is sold and so on? You can go in with the Public Health Agency and compare the hit and the hit in different groups and with other countries. You can go in with CAN and look at various tables of how it looks or does not look. You can also go to Systembolaget. I think I have a pretty good picture of what it looks like when it comes to alcohol, I have to say, unlike when it comes to drugs, where you don't have the same track. I see that you have thrown out a rather juicy meat bone for the rest of the parties. An evaluation-- that sounds almost scientific. But if you look a little more into the evidence you can see that you will not, for example, look at how to catch children of people dependent on alcohol. But you are going to modernise the alcohol policy, which means that the market will have more power over the issue. Here the alcohol industry has really managed to push a door, I think. It's boring. I myself have a principle, and that is that I do not listen to either the tobacco industry or the alcohol industry. I think you should be careful about that. You want to modernise alcohol policy. But, as I said, it is not difficult to find alcohol today if you go to a small pizzeria or wherever you go. It's not the big concern in Sweden – oh, how hard it is to get alcohol! And alcohol ice cream-- is that the big election question?
i-CuLFuGvfvvhMktZ7QgibBn	Madam President, I would like No, alcoglass is certainly not the big election issue, and that was a little bit my point. Unfortunately, sometimes in the debate on and work on the ANDTS issues, you sift mosquitoes and swallow camels. That is my main criticism. For example, the government has come up with regulations on alcoglass during this term of office, but customs has not been given a strengthened law enforcement mission. Nor has it provided the police with sufficient resources to be able to intervene against all the rolling Instagram system companies, which supply all the alcohol to our young people. I think that's a bigger problem than the alcoglasse. I think it is a bigger problem that we have this kind of illegal entry and sale than that serious restaurant owners and tourism entrepreneurs get a license to serve. I do not think that a wine bar that gets an alcohol license without having the obligation to serve a varied range of prepared food will contribute to increased alcohol damage. On the contrary, I believe that this bar can help to continue developing the Swedish alcohol culture to become more healthy, so that we leave the intoxication drinking that we have historically had too much of and are moving towards a healthier approach to alcohol, where taste, quality and, not least, craftsmanship and origin are values that are held high. As I said, what we are asking for in this announcement is an evaluation. Then you can draw different conclusions from it and make various proposals. I think that a serious way of dealing with politics is to look at how the instruments, tools and tools that have been put in place have worked from time to time and whether it is still the same policy that will deliver the best results. I'm result-oriented. I think we should look at which instruments are best. An evaluation is therefore needed.
i-XJnoz5kgZpGQu8NsRmKsei	Madam President, I would like Johan Hultberg! It is not quite the case that small wine bars are not allowed to serve alcohol. You can go into a shop – I won't say which – on Folkungagatan, sit down, have a glass of champagne and wait to go shopping. It's not even difficult to get alcohol. As far as alcohol is concerned, I think we have slightly different views. I don't see alcohol as just any good. I see alcohol as a commodity that you should be very careful to let flow out to the population. One thing we have really succeeded in is to make youths drink less. I'm very happy about that. But an enormous amount of work has been required for that. As far as alcohol policy is concerned, I believe that we have an eye on what works, what statistics look like and who serves alcohol and not. The most important thing for me in this matter is to keep down alcohol consumption. It may sound a bit boring, but I really do not want Sweden to increase its total consumption of alcohol, because it is so distressing for so many, especially children but also those who become addicted. I think you should have some special scout. It is not business that should govern our alcohol policy, but it is quite different principles that should do so, namely public health principles.
i-JAZm4bYvYZGAjeBUzsNcRz	Madam President, I would like Addiction is a brain disease. There's a lot of scientific evidence for that. Yet, many people view addiction as a weakness of character rather than a disease. In my role as a researcher at Karolinska Institutet, I studied what happens in the brain when developing addiction. In the case of repeated intoxication of alcohol, for example, there are changes in the brain's reward system. The normal mood in a sober state is reduced over time. Anxiety and depression become common. Instead of drinking to get a positive experience – a intoxication – which when you started drinking creates a strong craving. You get a drive for more obsessive drinking so you don't feel bad. While these changes occur in the reward system, the activity in the front of the brain also decreases. There is a deterioration in impulse control that makes it even harder to resist the strong craving. It is these changes in the brain that make it more difficult to stop drinking. But the myth of character weakness is alive. It contributes to many sufferers and their relatives living with strong feelings of guilt and shame. Unfortunately, the strong stigma also often permeates treatment in healthcare and treatment. Madam President, I would like I think most of us would react with surprise and anger if a person who has undergone cancer were refused care if the cancer came back. Unfortunately, though, this attitude is common in the case of addiction, despite the fact that relapses are part of the course of the disease. Madam President, I would like I am hopeful that there is actually a positive change going on. It is thanks, among other things, to important steps that we in the Committee on Social Affairs have taken together during this parliamentary term. Three years ago, a united parliament directed a mission to the government to review the main staff, which today is divided between health and social services. I am pleased that the government acted quickly to set up the joint illness investigation with Anders Printz as investigator. The investigation is complete and out for a referral. It will be very interesting to read the referral, but I feel very hopeful about many of the suggestions. There are many parts about person-centred efforts. The fact that the head of the team should be with the care is a very important proposal to create an addiction care without guilt and shame. But, Madam President, there is an urgent issue in which the government has not acted quickly. It's about drug mortality. Every year, more than 500 drug-related deaths occur in Sweden. Behind each number is one person, and every death is one too many. The human suffering in the trail of drug use is merciless. All too often it is relatives and friends who have for a long time alerted the authorities and the care that their children, friends, siblings or parents need help to cope with life but without hearing. I can only imagine how the traces of society's betrayal are tearing these families apart while they are in the darkness of grief. A unanimous social committee stated two years ago that Sweden needs a zero vision for drug-related deaths. In order to achieve this, a notice was issued to the government that drug policy should be evaluated in order to ensure that it is consistent with evidence-based care, proven experience and harm minimisation requirements. I regret that the government has not yet begun the evaluation despite the fact that we have an emergency situation where it is ultimately a matter of saving human lives. A key to moving forward on this issue is learning from experiences from other countries. I would therefore like to extend my warm thanks today to all of you colleagues in the Social Committee from all parties for agreeing with the Christian Democrats' proposal that the government, in the forthcoming evaluation of drugs policy, should analyse the outcome of efforts taken internationally to reduce drug mortality. Thank you very much for your support in this matter. Madam President, I would like In this context, I would like to emphasise that we Christian Democrats want a continued restrictive drugs policy. We are therefore, like the government, opposed to decriminalisation. In addition to the obvious damage to health and human tragedies, drugs have too great a negative impact on society, not least linked to gang crime. The use of drugs should therefore not be encouraged by lowering the thresholds for testing. However, Madam President, a strong position against decriminalisation must not stand in the way of an overall evaluation of drugs policy with a view to reducing drug mortality. By raising eyes and seeing the whole picture, Sweden can learn from other countries that combine a restrictive drug policy with factors such as accessible care, coherent care chains, punitive scales that promote care and treatment and strong evidence-based preventive work. I therefore hope that, following the parliamentary decision in the House tomorrow, the government will immediately set up the necessary investigation to enable Sweden to reach the goal of a zero vision for drug-related deaths. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to emphasise that we Christian Democrats are disappointed by the government's rigid approach to the ANDTS strategy. Unfortunately, almost a year ago, the government presented a poor product three months after the previous strategy had expired. The government's unclear strategy was rearranged by a majority in the Riksdag on the basis of proposals from us k ritdemocrats. The government was invited to return immediately with an improved strategy that would include, among other things, a national competence centre for ANDTS prevention. Time's running out. The government said a few weeks ago that it would now return to Parliament. But then you choose to do it in the form of a letter instead of a bill. It is unfortunate because a letter is more of a statement. Unlike a bill, it does not contain a proposal for a parliamentary decision. I regret that the government does not seem to share the view of the Christian Democrats that there is an urgent need for a cross-party consensus on ANDTS issues in this part. Finally, Madam President, I would like to endorse the Christian Democrats' reservation 8 on the need for a national interprofessional centre of excellence in the prevention of alcohol-related birth defects.
i-wumYuNZjcejEHNLeeVYfF	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservations 3 and 14. It is very positive that you know where to turn. Just like you know where to go when you've sprained your foot. When you stand at the cliff, you need help quickly. That is what Marthin Latvalehto said in 2018 when he was interviewed by Swedish Radio. This was in connection with the amendment of the Social Services Act, which meant that municipalities and regions are now obliged to work preventively against gambling abuse and help people who play too much. Since just recently, games have also been part of the ANDTS strategy. Both of these changes are very positive, and we feel that the development is moving in the right direction. But you can never be satisfied. It can always get better. When you stand at the cliff, you need help quickly. Of course, the best thing is that no one should have to stand there at the cliff and think: Should I take a few more steps and then end up over the cliff? Today, gambling addiction is a real public health problem. I have heard that as many as 340 000 people in Sweden have some degree of gambling addiction. It is people who usually have worse health and worse economics. They have a risk consumption of alcohol, and they use more often than other tobacco. In coronan's footsteps, gambling addiction has also increased among people who previously had a problem gambling and among those who did not have a job to go to. To support this patient group and prevent relapse, you need to work long-term. An important role in this long-term preventive work, in addition to the work of municipalities, regions and county boards, has the non-profit associations around our country. We believe it is of great importance that we give these associations that work with gambling addiction stable conditions and increase the funds allocated to our non-profit associations. They struggle with this every day, and they are there all the time. It applies to those who get hurt by the game, relatives and players. We believe in the development of local collaboration between debt counselling, health care, social services, loan institutions and non-profit associations and that this collaboration needs to increase. This should be done on a regular basis so that the holes in the safety net that will capture individuals with gambling addiction do not become so large that people fall through and maybe eventually stand there at the cliff and think. Exactly what this local collaboration should look like is up to regions and municipalities. They are the ones who are going to organise it, but we believe that cooperation around this group needs to increase. One problem of gambling that seems to increase is that individuals are now looking for help because they have lost insanely much money on speculation of crypto currencies and even, as it seems, lost a lot of money on stock trading. They have the feeling that players at online casinos are a bit more stupid – if I may put it that way – while those who speculate in stocks are more concerned with a craft that requires solid knowledge. However, these individuals ignore the game and chance that is also present in the stock exchange. Stock trading is similar to traditional gambling, and even that can lead to abuse. At the same time, it is socially acceptable, and those trading in shares generally have higher socio-economic status than other players. However, stock market abuse is still quite unexplored. So the size of the problem at the moment is difficult to say, and this means that there may be a large number of darkness. A challenge is that those who play with shares cannot block themselves from the stock exchange in the same way as you can from online casinos. There is also an obvious difference in the treatment approach and in what society can do for people with this type of problem. Much of what I am saying now has taught me in conversations with a researcher in gambling addiction. I think it is urgent that we have a lot of knowledge on these issues so that we can make the right decisions. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank you, Pia Steensland, who gave us more knowledge from a research perspective. We had a good conversation about gambling abuse and stock market abuse. But we also talked a lot about the importance of support for relatives. Research shows that few people today actually have targeted support for children. The children need the support, the safety net and the attention. Without it, they risk becoming invisible. That is not acceptable. This is a serious flaw, which we really need to take seriously. I think that all of us in the Committee on Social Affairs have a common responsibility to monitor the way in which support for relatives, and especially children, works around the country so that everyone can get the support and help they need.
i-QMZX4gA2CBoqLp4dCCbqX3	Madam President, I would like Allow me to begin by thanking Mrs Fransson for highlighting gambling issues. When we debate the ANDTS issues, we are paying just the last letter, the S, far too little attention. If I am going to say something positive about the work of the government, I can mention that it was one of the few positive news in the proposal on the ANDTS strategy that games had been added to the strategy. As far as the Moderates are concerned, the report has a reservation on gambling issues. We think it is important to follow up how municipalities and regions now take the strengthened responsibility they have under the Social Services Act and the Health Care Act since 2018. However, this was not really my question to Mrs Fransson, but I would like to return to alcohol policy. I found it interesting that the honourable Member initially said in his speech that you should never be satisfied without it always getting better. She then called for reservation 3 to be rejected on the basis of an evaluation of alcohol policy. When I read the reservation I get the impression that S, V, L and MP are just very pleased with what Swedish alcohol policy looks like today. Madam President, I would like I read from the reservation: our view is that Swedish alcohol policy serves its purpose well, and we therefore do not believe that any evaluation of alcohol policy is required. You seem to have felt that you have reached the perfect policy. You don't have to evaluate, and you don't have to develop politics. Is it the Green Party's view that we have achieved the perfect alcohol policy, which is now to be established?
i-8awYcjA25BJGJdNooZPpvc	Madam President, I would like To the honourable Member's question, it is very difficult to answer with a yes or a no, because I really mean that things can always get better. But I agree with Karin Rågsjö, who questioned what it really is we should evaluate. I am grateful that Mr Hultberg has just asked for a reply to my speech, because I would like to return a question if that goes well. The County Administrative Boards today have a coordinating mission on ANDTS issues. They work very preventively and play, as I see it, a great role. Madam President, I would like My question to Mr Hultberg is: how would you like to see the governance of the ANDTS strategy, for example, if you can decide and the county boards do not exist?
i-VyCJWcqdDeAUSMs4o5PdVu	Madam President, I would like It is exciting how a debate can grow! We can talk about the state organization. Me and my party think the county boards are quite dysfunctional today. They do not work as they should, and they often forget who they serve, namely the citizens and businesses. Of course, county administrative boards have a wide range of tasks that someone has to perform. If we were to abolish the county boards, it is of course another player who needs to shoulder this responsibility. Here and now, the county boards have this mission, and I think that is perfectly reasonable. I also believe that the county boards in this part are doing a good job of coordinating efforts and supporting the municipalities in their work on the ground. After all, it is out in the municipalities that the real work is being done to prevent and help people in need of support. Madam President, I would like Returning to my question, I find it interesting to say no to the evaluation. For what is it supposed to be about? It should be broad and solid, as we write in our proposal. Above all, it should be about looking at the various instruments that we have in alcohol policy. These include, for example, the regulation of opening hours, the way in which the rules of the Alcohol Act on marketing are designed, how we use the tax tool to regulate prices and many other things. I think it is important that we evaluate and see which tools are most effective today. Who can we turn on? Whom can we develop? Who can we phase out? What new tools do we need to pick up from the toolbox or add? That's what the evaluation should be about. But now S, V, L and MP sit on their heels and say: No, we don't want an evaluation! You're afraid of what's coming. Let us develop politics!
i-65CZjQMQqrUnavToEWWtDK	Madam President, I would like I don't think any of us are afraid. It's for the honourable Member himself. Otherwise, I was just going to say that I am looking forward to seeing what your view of governance will look like. Although Mr Hultberg feels that the debate has grown, the role of the County Administrative Board for me is an important part of governance and management. The County Administrative Board is also an important player in the ANDTS strategy and preventive work, but also in support of municipalities. Perhaps I am thinking, above all, of smaller municipalities, which need a lot of advice and help to cope with this important work.
i-KXrwW5aZn6iYRin3gQNaqG	Madam President, I would like We are now debating TU6 Digitisation and postal issues. Let me begin by stating that there are great social benefits in rapidly expanding Sweden's digital infrastructure. We have seen the shortcomings in this, not least now, under the coronapandemy. We have all been sitting in front of screens where the image has hacked, where the sound has not arrived and so on. It is even worse if you live in the countryside and not in any of the major cities. Digitalization often works even worse there. As many as 17 per cent of households in Sweden currently lack good broadband. Half of the households are located in sparsely populated areas. The Government's target of 95 per cent of all households and businesses having access to fast and good broadband by 2020 has thus not been achieved. The Left Party's view is that the expansion of good broadband throughout the country has lost pace rather than increased in speed. It is strange, now that we see what great needs there are in our country. It is welcome that the government has provided money for further broadband expansion, but that is simply not enough. It's not enough money. There's more to it. But it is not only the case, Madam President, that more money is needed to expand fast broadband throughout the country, it is also about how this extension is done. Today, the government has what it calls a market-driven roll-out of broadband. In short, the government is providing subsidies for private companies to manage this. It can be managed reasonably where there is a market for broadband, namely in cities, but it works very much worse in rural areas. That is why we in the Left Party want the government to take greater responsibility for the expansion of good broadband throughout the country. This is particularly true now that the so-called 5G extension is to be rolled out. A good example, Madam President, of a common solution for the IT expansion in the country is Sweden's urban network associations. The city networks are almost exclusively owned by municipalities or municipal companies and are located in the majority of our municipalities. They represent a very large part of the roll-out of broadband infrastructure and do so in a non-profit way with a single purpose, namely to deliver good broadband to their citizens. We in the Left Party want to make it easier for city network associations to expand broadband. They have repeatedly pointed to the difficulty of not acting outside the municipal border. This is contrary to the so-called localisation principle, which says that they can only connect households located in the municipality where they are based. We in the Left Party have for a long time been pushing the government to change the localisation principle so that city network associations can cooperate across municipal boundaries. It is positive that the government has listened to our demands and those of several others and has now put forward a proposal which says that the localisation principle should be relaxed. But I wonder why this should not take effect until July 2023. Why is it so slow? Madam President, I would like In 2017, the so-called Transport Board scandal, namely that the Swedish Transport Agency had relocated the management of registers and sensitive personal data to a private company outside Sweden's borders. Non-classified persons were then given access to this data, i.e. persons who would not have access to it. It was a good thing that attention was drawn to this, because it pointed out something fundamentally difficult when authorities put the handling of sensitive data on private companies. We in the Left Party do not want this to happen again. Therefore, we have proposed that the state build its own competence to manage registers, personal data and other things. We simply suggest that there should be a state cloud, where our authorities and others should be able to safely manage their data. Germany has recently decided to set up a state cloud, or several state cloud services, and the UK is likely to do the same. Now we have had an investigation that has looked, among other things, at the possibility of setting up state clouds. The final report came a few months ago. It is a rather thorny investigation, I must say, but the proposal is that it should be possible to set up state cloud services. We in the Left Party think that this is very positive, but once again we think that the work is going too slowly. We also think it is unclear what the investigation proposal, as it stands now, actually means. That is why I am in favour of reservation 4 on the establishment of a state cloud service, so that we can get it right, quite simply. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would also like to say a few words about artificial intelligence, data management, megadata etc. A number of years ago, we received the EU's Data Protection Regulation GDPR. The purpose of that regulation is to ensure that our data is handled in a secure manner. In practice, it has become so that every day we have to sit and click that we accept cookies on websites, otherwise we cannot surf the web. However, the GDPR idea is right: Our data must be handled in a more secure way. A little over ten years ago, there were lively debates in this Assembly about the FRA, the Defence Radio Institute, and their signal reconnaissance, that they could be signaled on Swedish citizens. Back then, the state was seen as the great threat to personal integrity. Today, rather, it is the large tech companies' collection of our data that jeopardises personal privacy. Not least Edward Snowden, who had worked in the US security services NSA, has revealed this and how companies such as Google, Apple, Facebook and others have collected our data and simply passed it on to security services in the world. Madam President, I would like This has to be handled in a much more legal way. I think that what we ourselves did in this House a year ago, when we made a law that makes it impossible for Chinese Huawei to build the new 5G network, was a step in the right direction. I note that Huawei has sued the Swedish state twice and lost both times, and now it goes to an obscure investment tribunal outside our borders and requires SEK 5 billion, which I find very strange that one can do. This is an example of wise handling of what is ultimately one of the most personal things we have, namely our data, that is, what we do online. It should not be leaked to a dictatorship state in Asia. I also don't want my data to be leaked to commercial companies that repackage them and resell them. That is why we in the Left Party believe that we need tougher legislation against the big tech companies. We need to act in the same way as we did to Huawei against Facebook, Google, Apple and other big companies. Some of these issues are addressed in this report. Now I see that I have no more time to speak, so thank you for me.
i-7vMrQxND6UraDC5KaxqyvB	Madam President, I would like The hour is late, but this is a very urgent question. I think that the whole issue of digitalisation has been raised very much in connection with the pandemic. We saw that people who were normally used to going to work and sitting in an office every day instead worked at home. Although it is clear that there have been shortcomings and there are places where the broadband does not work the way it should, you still have to say that it has worked quite well. Hopefully, it has also given a boost to seeing the opportunities of digitalisation. Rightly used, digitalisation can be one of the biggest contributors to solving problems that both Sweden and other countries are struggling with, such as the climate challenge, welfare and energy policy. For example, the Digital Administration Agency, Digg, believes that the potential of a full introduction of current AI technology in Swedish public administration is estimated to save up to SEK 140 billion per year. It would free up resources that could be invested in improving the quality of welfare, justice and other public commitments. Madam President, I would like The Moderates have long pointed out the importance of a coherent and well-developed digitisation policy. Today, many point to the lack of leadership and vision of the government that is sitting now. We want to strengthen Sweden by showing clear leadership and investing in education, continue to expand the digital infrastructure, secure our digital security and increase the supply of public open data to enable the potential of AI. Sweden is still strong as an IT nation, but more and more countries are catching up quickly. We must not sit still and believe that our leadership is self-evident without having to work for it. A new digital leadership is needed in Sweden and a new policy that goes from words to action and takes competition and security issues seriously. Madam President, I would like When society changes, it places high demands on leadership to lead the way and explain new phenomena so that it gains broad acceptance among the population. It is not just about solving problems that we are seeing today with digitalisation, but about daring to raise our eyes to the future, while ensuring that those who do not have as much user experience of digital tools actually get the help they need. Today's political leadership is unfortunately too slow in its leadership and has not been able to explain a coherent story about how new technologies and innovative solutions could be a large part of the solution to a number of our most acute problems. We must therefore begin to impose much higher demands on everyone in senior management positions to show good judgment on digital leadership. For example, it is of the utmost importance that political leadership understands what AI, cybersecurity and digitalisation are and understands the basis for how it works and what it can mean. It is important that we ensure that there are good educational efforts so that those of us who sit in this House but also other decision-makers actually understand what digitalisation is all about. Madam President, I would like The digitalisation strategy sets out the direction of the Government's digitisation policy. The vision is a sustainable digitised Sweden, and the overall goal is that Sweden will be the best in the world to use the opportunities of digitalisation. We Moderates believe that a well-developed country like Sweden should not be content with having an objective that only states that we should be the best at using the opportunities of digitalisation. Instead, we should aim to become a country that is leading the development of digital technology and is an innovation hub for new digital solutions. The objective should also be structured in such a way that it is possible to measure and evaluate. Madam President, I would like An important step in reducing the digital divide is for more people to start using digital mailboxes. It may seem like a small step, but it means that many people are taking the step into the digital world. In Sweden today, approximately 50 percent have a digital mailbox. This compares with Denmark, where it is 80%. There have been completely different decisions, which has led to more people getting a mailbox. You can do this in different ways. You can have incentives, for example the Swedish Tax Agency has the incentive that those who have a digital mailbox and declare digitally can get their tax refund back faster. We think it is reasonable to make demands on all public authorities and other public administrations that they must offer digital mail via digital mailboxes to all those who so wish. Madam President, I would like The roll-out of 5G, the fifth generation of mobile communications technology, is a prerequisite for Sweden to fully enter the digital age. In addition to the benefits that individuals can use with the new generation of mobile connections, many innovations and systems require a 5G connection, such as artificial intelligence, the internet of things, self-driving cars and much more. Unfortunately, Sweden has fallen behind in the roll-out of 5G, which has created less competitiveness and hindered innovations that could have benefited society. Historically, Sweden and Europe have been the leaders in setting the new standards for mobile networks. Unfortunately, we have now fallen behind, not just Sweden but the whole of Europe, and it is important that we do not lose influence in the next technological leap that comes. It is time for us, together within the EU, to create a development centre for 6G. We should make sure that we do so in the near future so that we do not fall behind. Madam President, I would like A well-functioning digital infrastructure will increase the opportunities for more information and data to be sent via connected citizens. I felt that in his speech Jens Holm was more sceptical about the issue of data processing than we might be from moderate quarters. It is important that we see the dangers, but we must not let it prevent the development that can actually be achieved by making data available. It is important that we find a good balance there. For example, the development of AI solutions requires large amounts of data, and it is important that we ensure that you can use all the data that is actually a large asset and worth a lot of money. At the same time, we must protect the integrity of people. Madam President, I would like Sweden would need to take a concerted approach to AI. Today, the concept is fragmented between several different authorities, and there is no uniform understanding of the concept when it is discussed in the public debate. It is therefore important to generate more knowledge and a better understanding, especially in politics. We Moderates therefore believe that an AI commission should be set up to develop public administration in the use and development of AI. Sweden needs to gather together in the process. Politics, academia and business need to jointly develop a coherent AI policy. With that, Madam President, I would like to endorse reservation number 1.
i-EGs4PN2iHNQEBMQ4cJDZmX	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats support all our reservations, but I choose to vote for reservation 26 only. When you think back like that 30 years you realize that a lot has happened. We have gone from cassette tapes and stone cookies to CDs and then to streaming. We have gone from videocassette tape to DVDs and also here to streaming. About 1995 – 1996 I worked in the port of Gothenburg. Then we had the opportunity to buy a tax-subsidised computer as part of digitalisation. The computer had a hard drive with 4 gigabytes and cost, even though it was tax-subsidized, nearly 20 000. It wasn't cheap stuff. Who can forget the fixed phone and modem with which to connect via the copper networks, ADSL? And it took forever. Madam President, I would like I am delighted to have been involved in this technological development, from fixed telephones to today's technology, which continues to develop at a furious pace. But not everything about technology development is gold and green forests. Unfortunately, there is a lot that continues to have the old technology with fixed telephony and ADSL connection. One major problem is that in recent years Telia has gradually dismantled the fixed copper network that is used for the internet. This means that Telia in different parts of the country replaces fixed telephony with solutions via the mobile network and that broadband via the telephone jack, ADSL, is replaced by fibre or mobile broadband. We believe that this shift affects access to telephony and broadband services, and it affects rural areas hardest because alternatives to a fixed connection, such as fibre networks or mobile networks with high transmission speeds, are not always available and can also be too costly. In order to prevent people from being left without the possibility of functioning connectivity, we believe that the operator who currently provides the copper network should not be allowed to phase it out before an adequate remuneration is in place at a reasonable cost for the subscribers involved in the technology transition. Technology shifts must not lead to exclusion. The pandemic has shown how important it is to be able to be digital. These are everything from being able to act digitally, as restrictions have led, for example, to quarantine, to workplaces having more or less work at home. It is about schools having had distance learning. And it is of course about digital contact with loved ones as physical encounters have not been possible. A video call is of course worse than meeting physically, but a digital meeting is much better than no meeting at all. The pandemic has been a hard test for society, but it would have been more difficult if we had not had access to digital technology. Madam President, I would like Older people who lack knowledge and practical experience of the Internet are at risk of being shut out from many parts of society. It's very troubling. More than 400 000 people over the age of 65 are living in digital exclusion today. According to the Swedish Public Health Agency, older people with a cognitive disorder, such as dementia, are even more likely to be excluded digitally. We therefore believe that the government should urgently develop an action plan to counter the digital exclusion of the elderly. Sweden should be at the forefront in exploiting and developing the opportunities of digitalisation. With new digital solutions, services to citizens can be improved. It is about having everything from digital mailboxes to bank IDs to be able to perform services, access information and identify in a secure way. Sweden must also be at the forefront of safety. We note that if you can legitimise yourself using several services, the consequence of an attack on an individual service will be less. Unfortunately, these hacker attacks become more common. They are an easy way for skilled hackers to make big money by attacking companies. Madam President, I would like I have to talk about the train, too. It is often said that the train is a good means of transport because you can work while travelling. Most trains have access to the internet, but mobile coverage is rarely satisfactory because it is poor, sometimes very bad, along our railways. An extension of the mobile network along the railways is necessary. In this context, we note that poor coverage exists not only in sparsely populated areas but also in more densely populated areas and in urban areas. A review of mobile coverage along busy railway routes should be carried out in cooperation between the Finnish Transport Agency, railway undertakings and mobile operators, with a view to prioritising the improvement measures. Extending the coverage along the railway also improves the network for those living along the tracks. The operators are doing a lot today. For example, SJ changes windows to get better coverage on board, but it does little to help. Madam President, I would like I also need to talk about letters and packages. They should be delivered on time, no matter where you live in Sweden. That is something people have a right to demand. The government has the ultimate responsibility for the operation of the postal service throughout the kingdom. But with declining profitability and lower volumes, it is a challenge that needs to be addressed. We look with concern at the deterioration in service that affects, in particular, individuals and businesses in sparsely populated areas. We believe that it must be possible to live and work throughout the country. Therefore, the government should review the possibilities of improving service, postal delivery and accessibility in rural areas in particular. In our opinion, postal node must be better at delivering mail on time in order to avoid inconvenience to the recipients. Postnord has failed his community mission. We call for structural changes to be made within the business and for it to be made more efficient. The Government should therefore urgently instruct Postnord to take the necessary efficiency measures.
i-WghqCoHPjjwpfotZqqC4cp	Madam President, I would like Broadband, mail and the digitalisation of society are issues that people discuss at home at the kitchen table, at the workplace or at the dinner party. These are issues that are important for people throughout the country, for companies and for public Sweden. Today, society is considerably more digitised than just a year ago. Nearest overnight, Sweden took a historic digitalization life. A large part of the population, but far from everyone, also quickly changed to a fully digital working life. Hundreds of thousands of people were sent home from work, school and university. Digital working methods have helped to support society, entrepreneurship and jobs while the pandemic has been managed. A well-developed infrastructure for mobile telephony and broadband services is a prerequisite for continued opportunities for people to live and live throughout the country, run businesses, participate in teaching and practice culture digitally in community farms and Folkets Hus. The Center Party therefore stresses the importance of a functioning infrastructure and the possibility of communication, which is necessary in order to achieve an effective digitisation of society. In order for all people in Sweden to be able to be connected and take advantage of the possibilities of digitalisation, it is important, in the opinion of the Center Party, that a digital right of alleman be introduced that guarantees a fast and stable connection throughout the country. Similarly, it is important that more frequency space is released for increased mobile coverage and better mobile surfing throughout the country. Madam President, I would like For the Center Party, living rural areas are extremely important, and that is why we are very concerned that part of digitalisation is delayed. The Government's broadband strategy from 2016 sets out the direction for the goals we have set for, among other things, broadband deployment. The Center Party notes that the first target that 95% of all households and businesses should have access to broadband of at least 100 megabits per second by 2020 was never achieved. It is therefore important for the Government to rapidly develop an action plan for how the target is to be achieved and at what cost. According to a report from the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency, there is a need for substantial efforts from both the state and of course the market. The Center Party further notes that it may also be difficult to reach the target of 2025. It may be easier, but more needs to be done. Here too, the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency appreciates the need for significant government investment, which is a major challenge. The fact that Sweden is losing momentum in the roll-out of broadband is serious. Digitalisation of the whole country is important for many sectors of society, including agriculture and forestry, transport and logistics, and for the possibility of distance learning and domestic work. One of the most important ways of providing conditions for jobs, growth and access to welfare services throughout the country is to make better use of digital development. In order for the digitalisation of the whole of Sweden to take further speed, the expansion of fibre and other modern communication technologies is required throughout the country. In order to achieve this, creative solutions such as pooling of broadband infrastructure with other infrastructures and a more fast-footed availability of frequencies in the mobile broadband network are needed. In conclusion, it is important to be seen as the fifth mode of transport. When we have learned even more from digitalisation after the coronapandemine, it is important that it is given more space as a mode of transport. Digitalisation is extremely important, but it requires that we first have fibre on the slopes and broadband in place. Only then can we continue to take Sweden into the future. Madam President, I would like In order to meet the broadband targets, it is important that not only the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency works with these issues, but also other authorities, such as the Swedish Agriculture Agency, Lantmäteriet, Swedish Power Network and the Swedish Transport Agency – this to promote the roll-out of broadband across the country. It is important that the government imposes requirements on these authorities through instructions, dialogues and regulatory letters to facilitate broadband roll-out across the country. Madam President, I would like Good mobile coverage is just as important as fibre and broadband. Mobile coverage in the country varies, but access needs to be ensured no matter where you are. You need to free up more frequency space in the 700-megahertz band and ensure that the 4G network is actively expanded throughout the country. Similarly, it is important that the 5G network is targeted at rural areas in order to meet the innovations and future connectivity of industry, agriculture and forestry. This should be done on a commercial basis, but active public dialogue is important. In areas where market players do not find it profitable to build a mobile mast on a broadcasting site, the Center Party believes that consideration should be given to building so-called community masts. ‘Societal mast' means broadcasting sites in mobile networks which are wholly or partly publicly funded. Generally speaking, the regulation of masters of society should be designed so as not to impede competition, and the masters should be dimensioned in a practical way to allow more than one operator to enter the transmitter equipment. In order to guide regions and municipalities, the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency should be tasked with updating its previous report on the master of society in order to follow up developments since 2015 and also include the extension of the 700-megahertz band. Madam President, I would like Since autumn 2020 there have been a number of changes in the Swedish postal system. In the autumn of 2020, Postnord introduced a bi-day distribution in Skåne, and this distribution model has now begun to be introduced in several parts of the country. These developments cause some rural municipalities, entrepreneurs and organisations to be concerned about the deterioration of postal services. The question of how Swedish postal services will change is important, and a change may have to be given the reduced letter volumes. For a long time, the Center Party has been asking for a comprehensive management of how the Post Office and Postnord will develop in the future. We believe that the experts in the ongoing Post Financing Investigation should be allowed to work on these issues in peace and quiet and also to consider how Postnord will develop further. During the course of the investigation, the Center Party believes that mail should be distributed every day. Madam President, I would like I meet many companies and people around Sweden every year and of course at home in the constituency of Sjuhärad. Everyone says that good infrastructure is a priority, and that of course also includes broadband and mobile coverage. These are issues that engage and require long-term solutions with a focus on strong confidence in the future, innovations and digitalisation as enablers. Madam President, I would like I commend the Center Party's reservation number 17.
i-AZps569h8g7Y9GAAh6Bdhy	Madam President, I would like Sweden is a large country, which means that we are dependent on functioning infrastructure regardless of systems. During the covid epidemic, the digital infrastructure has been used in a completely new way. Companies, authorities and associations have continued to meet even if the participants have not left home. At the beginning of the pandemic, this was a new experience for many, but today it is part of everyday life. This change has shown that technology development can go very fast, but it has also shown that technology development requires that the digital infrastructure exists throughout the country. For everyone to be part of the new digital community, we need to continue to expand the network. The best thing is if it is done physically with fibre, but where it is not possible to connect everyone via fibre, we need to build up airborne systems that allow those living in rural areas to join the new digital labour market and the new digital community. The digital changes also affect our authorities. More and more documents are being sent out digitally, leading to significant savings for the authorities. However, digital letterbox operators receive no compensation from state authorities for the service they provide. The study reboot – the reboot of the digital administration proposed a replacement model for the digital letterbox operators. We believe that the government should urgently come back with a bill that resolves this issue. In line with society's increasing digitalisation, many of the applications and cases previously made by filling in physical forms or by personal visits have been transferred to the Internet. These may include applications for assistance, banking, various educational measures and contact with healthcare and social services. For the vast majority, increased digitalisation facilitates everyday life, and it is important that more services can be provided online. At the same time, people with cognitive impairments may find it difficult to use these media for various reasons. For these persons, it may be necessary to continue to have the possibility of, for example, personal meetings with different authorities and other relevant actors to ensure that forms are properly completed and submitted in a timely manner and that interruptions to payments from compensation schemes or payment notes are prevented. I therefore believe that account should be taken of the needs of people with disabilities in the development of society's digitalisation. To continue digital development throughout the country, we need to work more to build a comprehensive network that increases national capacity. We also need to make it easier for municipalities to interact with each other, for example, by withdrawing fibre to a neighbouring municipality, if it is the easiest way to get a number of companies or homes involved. Madam President, I would like We need to have a functioning postal service throughout the country, but as digitalisation progresses, the role of physical mail has been reduced. More and more services are being provided digitally, resulting in fewer and fewer physical letters being sent. This change leads to a number of challenges for postal services. Postnord has, on several occasions, struggled with economic and quality problems. This has resulted in increased fees and more and more locations have now gone down to bi-day distributions. The latter is a development that will continue. For the absolute majority, bi-day distribution will not be a problem as it is possible for those living in cities and larger urban areas to purchase other distribution services. However, in rural areas and small towns, the deterioration of Postnord's service will have negative consequences, for example through fewer households being able to get their morning newspaper every morning. There will also be problems for individual farmers and other entrepreneurs when postal services deteriorate. This is a development that we must follow. There is nothing to suggest that digitalisation will stop, but the digital development is here to stay. This will make it increasingly difficult for us to maintain good postal services throughout the country. This is why, among other things, we want an investigation to be set up that takes a holistic approach to postal management based on availability, security, future development and costs. Madam President, I would like As I have already explained in the past, the postal and parcel industry is undergoing a structural transformation in which the number of letters sent is steadily decreasing. At the same time, an increase in e-commerce results in a sharp increase in parcel delivery. Today, postal parcels up to 20 kg are covered by the universal postal service, which means that they are exempt from VAT. This distorts competition, which ultimately leads to higher prices, fewer retailers and reduced services to consumers. We therefore believe that there is reason to promote market conditions by abolishing the universal postal service for the parcel market. By reducing the scope of the service and limiting it to the letter market, conditions of competition in the parcel market should be improved. If we can reduce the current monopolistic situation for heavier letters, it is likely that in the long term it will also make it easier for other companies to develop their services in rural areas in particular, which may also have the consequence that other companies will have the opportunity to deliver, for example, newspapers and other smaller consignments. Madam President, I would like We support all our reservations, but for the gain of time, I only ask for reservation number 6.
i-Lgp3pgX6jMsPopjDTokEEG	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the report by the Committee on Transport and Tourism on digitisation and postal issues. Let me begin by saying that I support all of our reservations, but I only support the most extensive reservation, number 5, on the digitisation of society. The digitalisation of Swedish society has never gone as fast as in the last two years. The requirements for distance were gradually tightened, and in order to take responsibility for themselves, their loved ones and those at greatest risk if they are affected by Corona, those who could work in front of the computer began to work at home. Some were used to it, others learned quickly and digital meeting programs grew rapidly. Sweden was relatively well equipped. Statistics Finland's 2018 survey shows that 84 per cent of those aged 16 to 85 use the Internet daily. This data maturity has been an important platform that has enabled us to cope with the pandemic as well as we have done in these years. However, the possibility of working from home should not depend on where you live in the country of opportunity. The pandemic has clearly demonstrated the need for the digital network to be available throughout the country. In addition, teleworking is predicted to take place to a much greater extent after the coronapendem because people have become used to it. Add to this the possibility of studying at a distance, which is greatly increasing, as well as the possibility for healthcare and home care to offer better service. All in all, it is very important that we reach the objectives of broadband deployment and that we look at various technical solutions to get broadband also in rural and rural areas. In the Liberals' budget, we added an extra 1.2 billion in addition to the government's budget to speed up broadband roll-out. In addition, we need to review the regulatory framework in order to facilitate fibre drawing across municipal borders and along our roads. And as with everything else, we cannot remove the current solution before there is an alternative. It is therefore important that the copper networks remain in place until there is an alternative, because people throughout the country must be able to connect digitally. That is how our country works today. Madam President, I would like Sweden will be the best in the world on digitalisation, according to Parliament's objectives. At the same time, the Swedish Financial Control Agency points out that digitalisation of the public sector is far too slow and that the Government's digitalisation strategy does not provide the necessary governance. The OECD also points out that Swedish companies lag behind in the use of large amounts of data. This is very worrying. The government therefore needs to develop a digitisation strategy that is concrete, measurable and timed. If we are to achieve our high goals – best in the world, which obliges – we must push and continuously follow up where we are. Liberals therefore point to the importance of the authorities collecting data continuously on the development of digitalisation. We also propose that an authority should be given responsibility for storing basic data from public operations and that data should be automatically collected from municipalities and regions on the implementation, results and impact of digitisation projects among users, in order to draw conclusions in the future. Madam President, I would like If we are to be the best in the world, we need a much greater focus. What is not followed up will not be realized in time. The EU is taking clear steps towards a common open data market, and this is very gratifying. EU directives dealing with data are being developed, including the inclusion of data ownership. Common ways of accessing data will be developed to enable organisations to build services covering more than one EU country. However, the focus is still on service development, such as apps. But without data, the apps don't work. We need to create better conditions for those who will produce and provide data. Preparing and managing data is very expensive, which among other things Lantmäteriet calculated. And here new structures and processes need to be identified in order to drastically increase the number of data sets on the market. What is required, and how can access to these data sets be facilitated? Properly implemented, there are huge social benefits to be made in all sectors. Madam President, I would like Not least the use of artificial intelligence offers great opportunities to streamline and at the same time create many new jobs and businesses. It is an important success factor for our competitive companies but also for our authorities. Access to data is a prerequisite for artificial intelligence. Sweden is close to the bottom of a series of studies on the number of data sets available, which is worrying for the future. The work of providing data in a secure manner without, for example, revealing people's identity, developing digital platforms such as secure cloud services, as we have heard about here before, and increasing digital skills must be driven with a much greater focus if we are to be the best in the world to exploit the benefits of digitalisation. Madam President, I would like In the midst of all work on digitalisation, which is a necessity for Sweden's competitiveness, the risks of digitalisation must be addressed. Digitalisation must be combined with analysis of data security, impact on privacy and cyber security. It is about private companies' cloud services, where data that is sent can be requested by the state in, for example, the United States and China. Contracts for security checks at airports, which we have read about recently in newspapers, including data management, are won by foreign companies. It is also about camera-equipped foreign-produced cars that freely collect data around our country and about disinformation campaigns like the ongoing social services. The list can be made long. The Data Protection Act and other applicable laws need to be continuously developed to keep up with technological developments, and the application of the laws needs to be followed up in a much more systematic way. Madam President, I would like In addition, Sweden could become a pioneer in the work on the ethical guidelines for AI technology. A modern and clear regulatory framework needs to be established to enable an ethical and legally safe use of different AI applications in all sectors of society. Here, too, we must use the EU's power for more secure digitisation and to be able to influence at a global level. There, Sweden is far too small to be able to pursue these issues with vigour. In addition, it is necessary to add a defence aspect to what we do and analyze vulnerability when we collect a lot of data with easy data access and when 5G networks connect society and the alternatives to digital become dismantled. Liberals welcome the increased interest in our country's preparedness on these issues. Madam President, I would like The postal service in Sweden is important, not least from a preparedness perspective, and the consequences of digitalisation have drastically reduced the number of letters sent. It is important that the postal service works throughout the country and that it can be operated on a commercial basis. Everyone realizes that the number of letters will continue to decrease. It is therefore important to find a long-term solution that ensures a good postal service throughout the country. Postage, packages and broadband are very important parts of society's infrastructure for the whole of Sweden to work. Madam President, I would like Finally, we liberals really believe in Sweden's capacity for data-driven innovation, the potential of digitalisation for old and new companies and to reduce costs within continued good welfare. However, we need to be much better at dealing with the risks of digitalisation. It is one of the most important platforms for Sweden to be the country of opportunity for all. As I said, I support all our reservations, but I only support reservation 5 on the digitisation of society.
i-CzCVAWeg17pL2RTW89LDUo	Madam President, I would like When our railways and roads were built in this country, a railway and a large road were built. Four parallel roads or four or five parallel tracks were not built. Why not? Because this was the basic infrastructure that the state was responsible for expanding. This is not the case now that we are building new basic infrastructure, which I believe broadband and IT are. And I think the Liberals can agree that there is a fundamental social responsibility here. We fully agree that we do not reach the broadband targets set by the government. And the government prides itself on having a market-driven expansion. The market will solve this. But we see that there is a market failure. It's not working. It's not expanding all over the country. That's why the Center Party has to patch and fix with its masters. That's a good suggestion. But it still means patching and fixing. The Swedish Democrats want to force the train companies and the Swedish Transport Agency to bring broadband along the railway. We heard here that the Liberals want to add over SEK 1 billion extra to market players to really build broadband across the country. Helena Gellerman, isn't there something that doesn't work with this market-driven model when in politics we have to patch and fix all the time to make sure that the whole country has workable IT? Now we come to the extension of 5G. Then we have an opportunity to build a well-functioning 5G network that the state must be responsible for – and no problems with external actors. Do the Liberals not consider that there is a social responsibility and that the state should take responsibility for the expansion of new IT in Sweden?
i-J9zpuEgybqQE2insB4ztDZ	Madam President, I would like I agree with Jens Holm that it is very important that we expand and that the broadband expansion and also the 5G expansion take place throughout the country. On the other hand, we differ greatly in our view of what the market adds and where the state should go in and do things. The market has worked very well to a very large extent. But when it comes to parts of our country where there is a very small customer base, the state must help. But it is a combination of the fact that market companies continue to expand but receive some support from the state where there is actually no commercial opportunity to expand. So it's a combination. That is why we are saying that in order for us to have an extension of the white spots that exist, for example in the area of broadband, the state must help. At the end of the system, the state must help. That is why we contribute SEK 1.2 billion. We have also said in the past, when we were behind the January agreement, that the state needs to help on the white spots.
i-JWM8s7dYHD8nj4CcJuMAc2	Madam President, I would like If we look at the railway we had such a system in Sweden in the mid 1800s. There were little stumps with rails a little here and there. A horse could pull out these wagons. You could go a little bit. Then you may have to go on foot or ride with a horse and a carriage. And then there were some more rails. This didn't work. That's why the state went in, and the main roads were built. A main rail network was built because it is not quite rational to have five competing tracks next to each other. But now this mistake is being made when 5G is to be rolled out throughout the country. Then parallel networks are built. In addition, this must be covered by legislation in order to guarantee safety. It is extremely important, but it is quite difficult to ensure that it really works. And the expansion of both 5G and broadband throughout the country takes place at a very large cost. Therefore, I am a little disappointed that the Liberals would rather come afterwards and notes and laws instead of identifying IT and 5G as basic social infrastructure that the state needs to take the main responsibility to expand. When it comes to who is actually building it on the ground, we have construction companies, technicians and others to whom the state may put the work on, but should not the state have the main responsibility for the expansion?
i-Chd3a4FGprJTXZiyDUV1Rs	Madam President, I would like I believe that the state should have a responsibility to ensure that the whole country works. That is what I mean by helping the farthest part of rural and rural areas, because there are not enough customers there for a commercial expansion. As far as the market is concerned, it can well be said that there will be competition that causes prices to fall and that we must be much more efficient in their expansion. Earlier in this House, we have debated state-owned companies that will operate the extension of rail, for example, and that the Swedish National Audit Office has criticised, among other things, the Swedish Transport Administration for cost control. I therefore believe that we should have a market but that the state should look at this so that the whole country has an opportunity to take advantage of the new technology. The state does not have to take full responsibility for the infrastructure and for it to work. As we can see, a very large part of the Swedish population is connected via broadband today, but it is the farthest out you need to help. Then there are also those in densely populated areas who do not actually want to connect, and that is up to the individual. But there should be an opportunity. So our opinions differ widely here, although we naturally agree that everyone in Sweden should be able to use both broadband and 5G in the future.
i-B2heh22Qv8ViiHszv9KryU	Madam President, I would like Digitalisation is central to the construction of a modern, fair and well-functioning society. Digitalisation brings fantastic opportunities. Digitalization can simplify our everyday lives, develop the labour market and improve our welfare. Digitalisation can also be an important tool in the climate transition; it has been demonstrated not least in the last two years. Large international conferences have been replaced by digital alternatives, and many professional groups have worked from home. Many have also indicated that they continue to do so one or a few days a week. The restrictions that have been in place during the pandemic have also meant that digitalisation has taken major steps forward – many have learned to handle new digital tools, and organisations have equipped for and adapted to a large digital participation. There is simply a good chance that even after the pandemic there will be a greater element of teleworking, digital meetings and conferences, thereby reducing the need for travel. Not least, it is urgent to reduce the need for long-distance travel, which is often very harmful to the climate. As society is now digitising at a high rate, it is important that it is done in an equal manner. Everyone should be given the opportunity to take part in the benefits of digitalisation; digitalisation should not lead to injustice or to a more fragmented society. Today, not everyone is given that opportunity. For older people, for example, it can be difficult to handle phones and computers, and it can be difficult to know where to get in touch when problems arise. This is, of course, an extra concern when society as a whole turns to using only digital solutions and people are thus at risk of being completely excluded. In order to reduce digital exclusion, specific technical solutions should be offered to everyone above a certain age. In addition, the role of libraries in assisting older people with technical support should be strengthened, and other support functions could also be envisaged, for example in dialogue with civil society. Madam President, I would like We also want the Government to analyse and proceed with the Digitalisation Council's proposal in order to achieve greater digital equality. In 2017, the then Minister of Environmental Party Housing and Digitalization, Minister of State Peter Eriksson, established both a digitisation strategy and a Digitalization Council. In a report from 2019 entitled Participation in a digital era, the proposal is to identify, prioritise and point out a number of necessary public services that all citizens should be able to use using digital technology that meets the design requirement for everyone. The report describes the proposal as follows:- the designated public services should meet the standard of universal design, offer good safety and all should be able to be offered guidance for increased use and a good user experience. ..................................................... This would mean that more people would have the opportunity to be part of digitalisation. Increased digital equality would make a huge difference in many people's everyday lives. Digitalisation policies also have an important preparedness perspective that should be updated both by the pandemic and by the security policy developments of recent weeks and months. Access to functioning internet services and telephony for society's infrastructure, communication and administration makes it easier for society to quickly reset in a crisis and is a very important part of preparedness. That is why it is important that broadband is available throughout the country, and it is not enough with just a high percentage – coverage must be up to 100%. The Green Party also wants the state to take increased responsibility for financing the development of rural areas and to make it easier for municipalities to cooperate on the expansion of fibre so that the networks are strengthened. Private operators are already paying emergency charges which are used to increase the robustness of networks, but we believe that additional funds are needed and that more long-term investments are needed. Therefore, we believe that emergency charges need to be increased so that more resources can be allocated to make the internet more robust. Madam President, I would like In conclusion, digitalisation policy is central to the green construction of society. Implementing digitalisation in a conscious way is also important for Sweden's preparedness and for equality and participation in society. There are simply many good reasons to invest in digitalisation. Finally, I would like to call for reservation 14 on digital participation.
i-5SFq9vht14Lv1W3nGXBRJw	Madam President, I would like Many with me are delighted that we are now opening up. Although many of us are fully aware that the pandemic is not over, the return to normal is important. What we have learned is the importance of society and social functions during the pandemic, and this applies not least to the area we are debating today. Digitalisation, mail, IT, broadband, packages, letters etc. are societal functions that must work whether we are in a pandemic or not. I would say that it is even more important when we are in crisis. Getting social information, being able to order medicine – or spare parts for assistive devices, for those who use them – and being able to get food sent home is important for people. This applies not least to those who have no one to help them or who are ill. But for many, Madam President, it is also about seeing your loved ones. When countries closed and it became impossible to travel, the alternative became video calls. This has meant a great deal to many people. That is why today's debate is important. For decades, Sweden has been a leader in many areas of digitalisation. I hope we continue to be. Innovations coming from our country have changed people's lives. Just like classic Swedish invention like when Celsius changed the way temperature and three-point belt made us safer in traffic, Skype has changed how we meet, Spotify how we listen to music and Klarna how we act. Madam President, I would like In the report, the committee deals with 157 requests. This shows that all parties in the Riksdag think that these issues are important for Sweden. Everything from broadband roll-out to the digitisation of public authorities are important steps to make it easier for our citizens and businesses. Broadband expansion has been a priority for this government. Sweden is one of the most connected countries in the world, despite its size and elongated form. We in Sweden have not only expanded, but we also have very fast broadband. When you hear that we in Sweden have stopped, it is because we have come so far, while countries that are now struggling to expand come from a low rate of expansion. For us, the difficult part remains to expand where it is not profitable. The market, which everyone believed in, does not care about people in rural areas. There's no money to be made there. There we must step forward in politics and ensure that it is expanded. Now the referral on the localisation principle is out. It's due on March 14th this year. I sincerely hope that the Government and Parliament can quickly come to an agreement and change the law. According to the City Network Association's calculations, 150 000 households and businesses are quickly deprived of broadband as a result of the localisation principle. It is important that the proposal that will be pushed through Parliament quickly. It is a simple measure that will help us to expand broadband in rural areas more quickly. The fact that we now have 5G technology available also makes it easier to pick up the last percentage of the population that does not have a fast connection. From Monday onwards, towns such as Karlskoga, Kumla and Odensbacken can boast that they also have 5G connection. This will mean a lot to the people living in rural areas. Madam President, I would like It is good that we are expanding, but we must also fill these broadband motorways with content. Government Sweden should lead by example when digitalisation in the tracks of the pandemic has now become so strong. From seeking help within health care to applying for building permits or schools, Swedish authorities must make available to people in a simple and safe way. This also applies to companies. You should easily – with one click – be able to get all the information you need to apply for a school for your children or start a business. The obstacles that currently exist must be removed. However, we must do so safely, because there are companies, people and countries that want to govern our way of life. Therefore, we cannot allow data to protect our citizens to fall into the wrong hands. This is incredibly important when deciding where cloud services should be stored. It is also important how data is handled by companies that send data between their servers. Most recently in the line is Facebook, which is now threatening to leave the EU if they are not allowed to store the data of European citizens elsewhere. Our message must be clear: my data, my choice. As we implement the directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on open data, the rules governing the use of data are important. The report proposes that the directive be implemented by means of a new law on open data that regulates the formats and the fees and conditions in which the information is to be provided. Right now this is being prepared in the Government Office. Madam President, I would like Open data and access to data are important for us to be able to use artificial intelligence in the future. As mentioned earlier, implementation of today's AI in the public sector could save SEK 140 billion. Of course, even though there is a lot of money to save, there are challenges. For example, useful data and security management are required. We must also ensure objectivity, objectivity and transparency. In October 2021, it was decided on a national strategy for increased access to data for, among other things, AI. If we are to be the best in the world at AI and digital innovation in the public sector, this is the necessary step in the right direction. All the decisions taken by the government or in this House have been intended for Sweden to be the best in the world on innovation. We are already the best in the EU and number 2 in the world, according to the Global Innovation Index. We should be proud of that, but we should not be satisfied. What do you say? Nobody remembers second grade. Madam President, I would like Everything I've just talked about leads us unsearched into questions about postal services. The reduction in the number of postal items is directly caused by digitalisation. Government letters, bank statements and school placements are currently handled by digital services such as Kivra or government posts. The need to communicate with others by letter has decreased dramatically in recent years. In addition, everything indicates that it will fall even further. That is why it is important to have the investigation now under way on how to fund future posts. It will be reported on 31 January 2023. However, we are already seeing the consequences of reduced volumes. Every other day's distribution, postboxes and higher price of stamps are steps that companies have had to take to compensate for reduced volumes. However, the parcel market is increasing apace. We in Parliament need to think about what coordination should be like in the future. To force people to go to different places depending on who delivers what can't be reasonable. Coordination in the postal and parcel markets must be improved; it is important for both people and the environment. There must also be coordination between companies, especially when it is to be run inside cities. More and more e-commerce companies allow their buyers to choose the supplier of goods. You can also choose the delivery date and the delivery method. For example, I always look at companies with good working conditions and at the fact that they have collective agreements. The price is no longer as important as reliability and security. Madam President, I would like There are many areas that I have not touched upon in my speech, such as the roll-out of 5G networks, competition, future networks and the IOT. I have not forgotten these issues, but I would need much more time to touch everything. In addition, I have been good and, for the first time, emailed my script to the secretariat. I would like to endorse the proposal in the report by the Committee on Transport and Tourism, TU6, and reject all the requests.
i-LhFMiPMnY1mgdN4t1wRqNk	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Denis, for a good speech. Within the framework of the January agreement, the Center Party and the Social Democrats have had a very good cooperation in particular with regard to the continued expansion of broadband throughout the country. After all, this cooperation has not been maintained for more than six months. Former governments, including alliance governments, also invested huge sums of money in the further roll-out of broadband. We have adopted targets for how we should have it with broadband rollout and for how much one as a private person can expect to get connected at home. The targets are set for 2020, 2023 and 2025. The target set for 2020 has not been achieved. My question to Mr Denis as the representative of the Social Democrats is: Is it the opinion of the Social Democrats and the Government that one can be content with saying, yesa, okay, we did not achieve the goal – what a shame, that happens, or will one take any steps to follow up what it was that did not reach the targets and set some kind of action plan, so that this goal can also be achieved in the long term?
i-3nBvuYimigFCR7SYCcF3gL	Madam President, I would like I thank Mrs Larsson for the question. I mentioned that it is incredibly important that we have our elongated country connected. If the honourable Member listened very carefully, he heard me say that the market has not worked in all the places where we would have liked it. Of course, I would have liked us to have achieved the objectives, and it is regrettable that we have not done so. There are, of course, a lot of different reasons why this has not happened. I think one of the most important reasons is that the market has not been able to make money from what we have left. Unfortunately, when I met people in the country, I was told that it had stood still for five years before anyone came and dug. Now it has been decided that it should be technological neutrality. We believe, of course, that it is one of the measures that will give us faster connectivity. We have also noticed this, as I mentioned, in some rural areas where 5G networks are being used. It will make people connect very efficiently, faster and better. Since it is technology neutral, you can also apply for money to set up masts, for example for the 5G network. We know that this is a good technique for us to connect the whole of Sweden.
i-CZKbbtPhMacRPMwdFeAm4e	Madam President, I would like It has been decided that we should connect the whole of Sweden. This really is something that needs to be done in consultation between several different bodies. Public Sweden must assume its responsibilities and the market its own. The market has taken on a very great responsibility in many places, as has the state. But when it comes to broadband roll-out and mobile coverage throughout the country, it's not just about how much money we spend. It is also about other things that we can do to facilitate further expansion. For example, Mr Denis Begic mentioned the principle of location, which I also believe will be very good. Another thing you could do is put even tougher and higher demands on authorities in regulatory letters to facilitate the roll-out of broadband across the country in order for us to achieve the goals set. There has been talk of the 4G network and the 5G network, and we heard the Moderates talking about the 6G network. That's great. We're supposed to believe in innovation and the future. But we must also remember what is to be transported in the networks. Is the 5G network so good that from now on we can distribute the care of the future there and switch to education? Or is it just directed here and now – which is also very important – towards agriculture and industry? We have to go back to what it is we're going to use the net to make sure it's robust and secure. It's a combination. Continued fiber expansion with fiber on the slopes is very important. 5G is the future and great. But to achieve the goals we have, we can't just rely on 5G to revolutionize everything and solve it. I find it rather remarkable that this is being combined and not being seen as a whole with the objectives set.
i-2ZFvD7BugwSXsddd5RJhaz	Madam President, I would like I think Mikael Larsson has mentioned everything the government has done to make things easier. I still want to say that it has not worked because the market has been far too slow, as I was told in my encounters with people. In some places the market has not been able to achieve this, especially in rural areas, where people have been kept waiting for many years instead of someone else taking over and expanding. The steps now being taken, for example, with the principle of location, I very much hope that the Center Party will not stop. Perhaps we can even proceed more quickly with the proposal, so that the 150 000 households and businesses can get their broadband faster. In the past, there has been a decision that it should not be technologically neutral. This government has decided that it should be technologically neutral. All assessors say the same thing, namely that this will make that more will come up in 30 megabits, 100 megabits or 1 gigabit faster. I think that is an important step. In addition, together with the Center Party, we have spent almost 1.8 billion on expanding broadband. I very much hope that many companies will take part in this and expand it, because it is important.
i-EQJdzSs9hshgCsJeNLFeu	Madam President, I would like We are now debating the Committee on Transport's report on road and vehicle issues. The Coronandem has hit our society hard, not least the transport sector. But the pandemic has also laid the foundation for some behavioral changes that are well worth supporting. Both road transport and air travel have fallen sharply during the pandemic. This has led to a significant reduction in emissions from those sectors during the year of the 2020 pandemic. Never before have we been able to see such strong emission reductions as in that year. But the pandemic has also reduced travel by climate-smart modes of transport, such as trains and local and regional public transport. This is very much a direct consequence of the direct calls that have come from the policy of avoiding public transport travel. On the other hand, cycling trips have probably increased in most parts of the country, especially in our cities. We Swedes have learned seriously to take advantage of what Anders Åkesson calls the fifth mode of transport, namely IT. Continued telework when it suits has great potential to reduce transport work in Sweden and thus emissions. Now that our economy is to be restarted and our society is going back to normal, as they say, it is important that we do not go back and do everything the same as before. Can we safeguard the positive behavioural changes that have been established during the pandemic? Can we therefore take steps towards a more transport-efficient and climate-smart transport system? We in the Left Party hope so, because the transport sector is crucial to achieving our climate goals. We know that the transport sector accounts for one third of Sweden's greenhouse gas emissions. These emissions need to be reduced by at least 70% by 2030. We are not at all in line with this objective, although yesterday the Finnish Transport Administration reported figures where emissions from the transport sector had been reduced by a few tenths. That is far from what is needed to achieve our climate target. How, then, are we to switch to a transport-efficient and sustainable society? We in the Left want to clarify, among other things, our reservation 3 in this report, which I also call for. There we stress that it is very important that we have an infrastructure policy that goes in line with our environmental and climate objectives. Unfortunately, the government has given the Swedish Transport Administration too little money for future infrastructure investments. In turn, the Finnish Transport Agency has presented a proposal for an infrastructure plan based on forecasts of increased road transport and not based on our environmental and climate targets for reducing emissions. We just need to do it again and do it right. We need to invest more in expanding the railways and investing more in public transport. We need state co-financing to expand the bicycle infrastructure. It's not all about building a lot of things. We can also fix what is here and now. For example, we need to ban new car sales of diesel and petrol cars. Overall, we need to invest in electrification of the fleet of vehicles. The charging infrastructure needs to be expanded throughout Sweden. Today we have a rate of expansion that is sprawling and completely unstructured. The government prides itself on the fact that it has a market-driven expansion of the charging infrastructure. It reminds me a little of the previous debate that we had about IT and 5G. It can work well in some places but far from good throughout the country. Electric cars are good. But even better, we try to avoid the dependence of a self-owned car. Can we stimulate the country's economy with, for example, car pools and ensure that we move transport from our own car to public transport, walking and cycling where it fits? Yes, of course we can do it with the right political decisions. We also need to invest in more sustainable freight transport. Everything suggests that the number of freight transport will increase within the transport system. It is therefore extremely important that, as far as possible, these transports do not take place on the road, but take place by rail and by sea. Here the government has developed a good strategy and set up a freight transport council. Unfortunately, however, there are no measurable positive effects of this strategy and the Council in terms of a shift from road transport to rail. We in the Left Party believe that we need much more stringent instruments. For example, we need a road toll on truck transport, and we need to lower the rail tolls so that it will be cheaper to transport goods on the railway. We need special support for so-called freight commutes so that we have freight trains running every day from south to north and from north to south where needed. We need a policy of continuing to reduce flying. It is possible to transfer flights from flight to train. It is also possible to avoid travel at all by investing in the digital infrastructure so that you do not have to fly down to Stockholm over the day to, for example, attend a meeting. Madam President, I would like The report deals with vehicle inspection and, not least, the lack of environmental control in vehicle inspection. I am pleased that the report calls for the government to get to the bottom of the reduction in environmental ambitions that the government and the Swedish Transport Agency have implemented since 2018 in Sweden. Today, in Sweden, we have one of Europe's lowest environmental ambitions during the vehicle inspection. In 2018, the Swedish Transport Agency and the Government carried out three important deteriorations in the control of particulate emissions from cars. Much higher emissions of particles are now permitted. The vehicle's on-board diagnostic system is no longer required at the time of the inspection, where fault codes and problems in the car could be looked at earlier. Diesel cars older than 20 years are completely excluded from a detailed exhaust measurement. As a result, far more petrol and diesel cars, which would not have been approved in the past, are now being approved. This is also shown by the inspection industry, which has courted us on several occasions in the Committee on Transport and Tourism. I and many others have brought it up with the Minister for Infrastructure. We've been given sweeping excuses, I would call it. The Swedish Transport Agency says that these deteriorations had to be made due to EU legislation. But it's, frankly, nonsense. That's not true. Other countries have increased their environmental requirements during vehicle inspection. We now call in the report for us to get to the bottom of this and for the government to then correct the reduced environmental ambitions of the vehicle inspection so that Sweden can once again get Europe's best and highest environmental ambitions during the vehicle inspection.
i-J9C4Yn1XhJTDdZR7q7Fysu	Madam President, I would like We are debating report TU7 on road and vehicle issues, but also the government's letter on the Swedish National Audit Office's report on the re-regulation of the vehicle inspection market. I would like to begin by emphasising that we Social Democrats are in favour of our reservations, but for the benefit of time, I am in favour of reservation 25 on environmental controls. The report covers everything from automation of vehicles, winter maintenance, car pools, a fossil-free vehicle fleet to heavier and longer trucks, etc. Madam President, I would like We Social Democrats want Sweden to become the very first fossil-free welfare country. Much of the effort to reduce emissions so that we reach net zero in 2045 must be done within the remit of the Committee on Transport and Tourism, and not least in the area we are debating today. The transport sector accounts for almost one third of Sweden's greenhouse gas emissions, and road transport accounts for just over 90% of the emissions from domestic transport. The transformation of the transport system is therefore crucial if the short-term and long-term climate objectives are to be met. Yesterday's report from Trafikverket that greenhouse gas emissions from road traffic were provisionally reduced by 0.3 per cent last year compared with 2020 indicates that we are slowly moving in the right direction. The reduction is explained by an increased share of biofuels through increased reduction obligation, electrification through increased new registration of rechargeable cars but also energy efficiency. As a result, emissions could be reduced even though passenger and lorry traffic increased during the year. However, the March 2021 report of the Climate Policy Council shows that things are progressing too slowly. We need to work faster. It shows that we need to reduce emissions by at least 8% per year in order to reach the target for domestic transport by 2030. Although the transition is moving fast and there is a will in politics, research, industry and industry, it is clear that we need to speed up. We all have to change our behavior in the way we move. In many parts of the country, much more road traffic needs to be transferred to rail and maritime transport. But as clearly as it is, it is also clear that in other parts of the country the roads are the only way to get to work, school and leisure activities but also for the goods. We must therefore plan the infrastructure on the basis of the conditions that exist throughout our country and remove the gap between city and country. Whether you live in the city or in the countryside, you should be able to be part of the transition. Madam President, I would like To cope with the transition, we social democrats see electrification as an important part of many others. It is therefore a good thing that the electrification commission's work continues for ongoing exchanges between representatives of industry, associations, municipalities and, not least, the government. It is also a good thing that we finally have the state electrical investigation in place. It notes that electric roads can be an important complement to stationary charging in order to prevent bottlenecks in the transport system and contribute to increased transport efficiency. Experiments already carried out in various places around the country are also important. Of course, I would like to mention in particular the test going on in my own municipality of Lund, where the committee had the privilege of visiting both the factory and the electricity road itself this autumn. Madam President, I would like I would also like to say that the Social Democratic Government has just presented the electrification strategy, which takes a holistic approach to the conditions in the energy sector in order to make it possible precisely to increase electrification. Among other things, we can read in paragraph 6 that the roll-out of charging infrastructure should take place at such a pace that it does not become an obstacle to electrification of the transport sector. Electric transport shall be made possible throughout the country through a rapid, coordinated and socio-economically efficient deployment of efficient charging infrastructure. [ – – –] Controls and support for deployment of charging infrastructure are reviewed to ensure their effectiveness and effectiveness. ..................................................... The government's focus is clear. The transition needs to be speeded up. But in order to do that, we must therefore build a functioning infrastructure, not least with electricity, along our roads, but also charging stations and fuel filling stations such as biogas and hydrogen. Madam President, I would like Another important perspective in terms of the climate challenge and Sweden's competitiveness is the work on the national freight transport strategy that the government delivered during the last term of office and also the decision on a higher load class of 74 tonnes. The road network for the BK4 bearing strength class is now being developed step by step. I would like to say that enabling 74 tonnes is good for industry, for the climate and for the environment. But it also helps to increase the efficiency of our transport system. The work to improve the conditions for our individual roads around the country is also crucial for strengthening the entire road network in Sweden. Madam President, I would like I would particularly like to highlight an example that we have heard about in the Committee on Transport, namely an initiative that has been taken between Sweden's Åkeri companies and the Train companies. It aims to optimise transport chains so that road transport can be shortened in the freight chain to regional routes and to cooperate with rail transport on the longer routes. It is an example that really shows how we can get more optimised transport chains between different modes of transport. Madam President, I would like I would like to emphasise that almost a year ago the government presented a historically large infrastructure bill with not least major investments in road infrastructure and maintenance. It gained approval in this House and lays the foundations for the forthcoming national plan to be decided by the government later this year. Madam President, I would like As regards the Swedish National Audit Office's report and the government's letter concerning the re-regulation of the vehicle inspection market, I would like to emphasise that it is unreasonable for me as a social democrat that people in some parts of the country need to take a full working day off in order to drive back and forth to the inspection because the opening hours are so short and accessibility in some places so low. At the same time, we see that the cost has risen in some places. The car inspection is an important public service that should be available to all citizens of our country. In the letter, the government says that the uneven distribution of accessibility to inspection is not unproblematic, especially in the light of the general price increase that has occurred since the re-regulation took place. We Social Democrats will continue to monitor the development of the inspection market regarding the availability of inspection, not least with a focus on geographical accessibility. Madam President, I would like As far as environmental inspections are concerned, there is a majority in the committee for a declaration. However, I note that the Government has already investigated the effects of current environmental control and is now moving on to give the Swedish Transport Agency a mandate aimed at creating the conditions for tightening environmental requirements. There is a harmonised EU regulation to be introduced, but there is also the possibility of making certain national applications. The Minister for Infrastructure has stated that the studies and analyses that have been carried out are not sufficient. The government will therefore give a commission to the Swedish Transport Agency, which is about developing the measurement methods and that vehicles that do not meet the exhaust gas requirements should not be released. We therefore now want to review what is needed to strengthen environmental requirements during inspections so that cars with high emissions of air pollutants are kept off the roads. We Social Democrats want the whole country to live, and we prioritise a modern, fair and sustainable transport policy that contributes both to climate change and equality and strengthens competitiveness.
i-AyEbsgCeK9WB4C3mgdjFoj	Madam President, I would like Soon this government will have been in power for eight years. In my opinion, it is eight years lost in terms of both maintenance and maintenance of our roads. That is one of the points I will make in the report. The report deals above all with vehicles and our roads. It contains 2 announcements and 70 reservations. An area that the government has not cared about is something that each of us can see out on our roads: the roads are falling apart, and this puts transport to our companies at risk. Our jobs are at risk because of these bad ways. How often do we get to go between big pits and holes on the smaller roads? We see how the major roads have experienced speed reductions and reduced accessibility. We see how maintenance is so inadequate that the deep ditches in the road risk causing both hydroplaning and severe accidents. Madam President, I would like If Sweden is to function, if our industries are to function and if our jobs are to remain, we must continue to grow and ensure that the whole country can grow. We cannot continue with this poor management of our road network. Everyone understands this, but unfortunately not the government. Instead of increasing maintenance to our roads, the S-government is currently planning not to even give the Swedish Transport Administration the money they have requested to pass today's level. You heard correctly, Madam President – today's level! You don't even give money to get through that part. For the government intends to use the money saved on the roads for an unprofitable and unsolicited high-speed train, which means that our roads and railways will be even worse for a long time to come. Yes, you heard correctly: the roads and railways, which are already bad, are going to get even worse with this government. Instead, the government intends to build an unprofitable high-speed train. Madam President, I would like I believe that everyone who listens and follows the debate understands that if we are to have roads, we must also maintain them and make them work. The only people who don't seem to understand this are the government. Despite announcements that you should be able to drive both longer and heavier vehicles in Sweden, nothing has happened. Instead, the government is working to make it harder and more expensive to transport by truck. We have heard in previous posts how the government gradually makes it harder for trucks and tries to get the goods over by rail or boat. The tax has been increased and nothing has been done about illegal transport, which must continue to ravage our roads. Madam President, I would like Sweden must have a government that sees the whole country, understands the conditions of companies and ensures that competitiveness is improved. One such measure is to be able to drive both longer and heavier vehicles. Madam President, I would like We must also have a government that realises that we have taxes and charges that mean that people can neither afford nor use their cars and vehicles anymore. Unfortunately, however, the government is tone-deaf and sits and makes its decisions on higher taxes far away from the countryside and far away from the companies that need cars, trucks and working roads in order to be able to operate. Madam President, I would like The Alliance government was involved in trying both longer and heavier vehicles, but after that the government has done nothing, or far too little, in eight years. Instead, the focus has been on reducing trucks and moving to boat and rail, even though everyone knows that a transport by boat or rail usually or always starts and ends with a truck transport. We have tried in Skaraborg with longer trucks that will take two large containers from the terminal in Falköping to the main warehouse in Skara. These transports are still on trial and exemption. This has been going on for seven years because this government has not made sure that the permanent attempts have been made. It has not accepted that this is how we actually have to start transporting our goods – on longer and heavier trucks. Instead, this company may make new exemption applications without knowing what the decision will be and what the result will be. Seven years is a fairly long time to be able to make an evaluation and see if things work or not. But this government, Madam President, is not working so fast. It has been going on like this for eight years, and during these seven years the issue has not been resolved. Madam President, I would like We also want to make it easier for the country's heavy vehicles, such as cranes and crane cars, so that you can avoid the bureaucratic burdens and the hassle you have when moving a crane car to and from different workplaces and construction sites in Sweden. It must, of course, be facilitated. This has been mentioned for a long time from the industry. Unfortunately, the government has done nothing here either. You've been sitting on your hands in the Government Office. Madam President, I would like During the election campaign, everyone is usually out promising far and wide, but then the government has locked itself in Rosenbad and let the Environmental Party control investments in roads and our vehicle teams. Today we see the result. Everyone can go out and look at the roads and see what it's been like for the last eight years. For eight years, the government has been working with the Green Party to try to get rid of petrol and diesel cars and said that everyone should go on electricity. At the same time, we have neglected to ensure that we have enough electricity. Madam President, we have even turned off fossil-free nuclear power stations and made us dependent on increased imports of electricity. Everyone has been able to see this on their electricity bills during the winter. Although everyone knows that we will need to double our electricity production and consumption by 2040 compared to today, the government has not made the necessary planning and investment in the country's electricity grid. Even if we had the electricity, we cannot get it to the charging post, because the infrastructure with wires does not exist. Our industries need more electricity and secure electricity that is in the socket even when it does not blow. Madam President, I would like Eight lost years. Lack of electricity, lack of electricity. You talk about electrification of the vehicle fleet, but you should have had something in those eight years. lack of charging infrastructure; lack of sufficient capacity in the network; This, Madam President, prevents and discourages the rapid electrification of the vehicle fleet. And it is hardly the fault of the opposition, which you always blame when you have not done what you would do. The big problem is that for almost eight years we have had, and have, a paralysed government which, instead of solving problems, has been sitting on its hands. Madam President, I would like Sweden is a large and sparsely populated country that needs both functioning roads, reasonable fuel taxes and a government that tackles problems and really solves them. Instead, we now have extremely bad roads, the world's highest diesel prices and high petrol taxes, which even mean that people can't afford to go to work anymore. The worst of all, Madam President, is that this government intends to make the roads and railways even worse. And there are no plans to reduce the high fuel taxes. Sweden can replace this government on 11 September this year. Let us really do it! Madam President, I would like Another obvious issue is the cars and vehicles dumped by criminals and car thieves in nature. Of course, we should be able to remove them from the land whose owners have been affected by this. But in eight years this problem has still not been solved. The cars dumped by many of the country's landowners remain in a conflict over who will do what. You put the responsibility between Trafikverket, the police and the municipality. No one wants to take on the main responsibility. But solve this! Eight years! It would have been reasonable for this to have actually been done in these eight years. Madam President, I would like In other countries, self - driving experiments have been going on for a long time. Of course, Sweden's vehicle manufacturers also want to be able to try this out in full. Here too, however, the government has dragged its legs behind it and has not produced the clear regulatory framework that would make it easier for self-driving vehicles. Everything is going so slow, and the government is not pushing. Eight years! Power is the most important thing, not to rule the country and make it work. Madam President, I would like The Swedish government also needs to solve the situation and make it easier for all the cranes and heavy trucks required during construction. Today, the processing times for exemptions are far too long and the rules are far too bureaucratic to follow. Solve this! How many talks have we had with those actors? Madam President, I would like The Moderates also want to see a simplified and better regulatory framework around our cultural vehicles. In Sweden there are many who, with their own economy and their own hard work, make a huge effort to preserve, repair and take care of our old veteran vehicles. These people deserve much better treatment from the country's authorities and works. Their contribution to the rolling cultural heritage is invaluable. How authorities can actively try to scrap and destroy valuable veteran cars that are picked up and imported into Sweden is unbelievable. The regulatory framework and practice need to be reviewed so that no enthusiast has to undergo the treatment recently suffered by these importers. Once again, the government sat on its hands and was not in the debate. There were no plans to intervene. Eight years and nothing has happened, and you have planned to drive valuable enthusiast cars to the junkyard. This is happening in Sweden of the Social Democrats. Madam President, I would like We want to facilitate imports, review the regulatory framework, reduce charges and facilitate the regulatory framework for vintage car hits. We want to take advantage of our rolling cultural heritage and ensure that it can continue to live. This can be done with greater opportunities after 11 September this year. Madam President, I would like Another issue that needs to be resolved is to facilitate the display of signs along our roads. Having a regulatory framework that forces you to exhibit large truck trailers or road vehicles in order to bypass the system is completely unreasonable. Of course, we need to review the regulatory framework in order to facilitate advertising along our roads. Eight years and nothing has happened. Madam President, I would like If you want us in Sweden to invest more in maintaining our roads and railways and say no to an unprofitable high-speed train, you should vote for the Moderates on 11 September. To conclude, Madam President, I would like to endorse reservation 60.
i-S8f3L9ceu2WV6c22EjfB6f	Madam President, I would like I do not know if it is the hour is running late and that Mrs Sten Bergheden may be getting a little tired, but at least I thought the tone was unnecessarily loud and unnecessarily black. In any case, I think that we in this House can stick to the truth, whether the hour is late or it is early in the day. One might wonder where Mr Sten Bergheden has been during the last term of office and the previous one. In any case, it does not seem that the honourable Member has followed the important steps taken by the Socialist-led government in these years, not least in the area we are debating today. We have heard that everything is so slow, that power is the most important and that eight years have passed and nothing has happened. These are rather harsh words, even to come from someone who does not vote for the Social Democrats. I have to repeat a bit of what I said in my speech, because Sten Bergheden obviously did not listen to me or have listened to the efforts made by the government during its term of office. Apart from the fact that we have launched and decided in this House on a historically large infrastructure bill, which not least provides major additions to road maintenance and roads, we have made more funds available in the budget work during the parliamentary term. We have also rolled out BK4 and strengthened the work on the transfer of goods. Not least, we heard ourselves from Sweden's Åkeri companies and the Train companies that they want to work more together to optimize the transport chains. So the government has been working, and we Social Democrats will continue to fight. But the question is, what do the Moderates want? The honourable Member spent most of his speaking time talking about what the Social Democrats have done, but what do the Moderates really want?
i-RKCn141FRm8iRKXLDLYNPu	Madam President, I would like Why don't I start with the last one? I was probably not talking about what the Social Democrats had done, but more about what they have not actually done. That's what I brought up. It is our roads that are substandard, the railways that are substandard and the state and the rules that are substandard. Nothing has been done about this. You let people have the trouble in this country. You don't fix it. Member Elin Gustafsson says I'm tired. No, I don't think I'm tired. However, I actually think that this government is very tired. It has barely succeeded in implementing any of the announcements that we have made, the directives that Parliament has decided to actually bring about certain things. On the other hand, efforts are being made to close down the airports in Sweden. And trying to move goods to boat and rail sounds good, but then one should also think of those companies that have neither streams, rivers nor anything else that can be carried by boat or hardly any railway rail to the premises. Just look around – these companies depend on the trucks. We have two big truck manufacturers in this country. It is not a coincidence, but it is simply because we need trucks. You have worked strategically to make this business more difficult, but you have not addressed the problems that exist in the industry. Our hauliers in Sweden need to continue to compete with illegal shipments from abroad that come here and drive on worse diesel than Swedish companies can drive on, because that part you have released. Don't come and talk to me about the environment and other things when you can't deal with the problems that you are responsible for taking care of in this country! Madam President, I would like I think we're talking more about what the Social Democrats haven't done. The Social Democrats seem a little tired.
i-CdMKNFAEN9fjVBGabsVCtm	Madam President, I would like I can promise Mrs Bergheden that there is tremendous power and energy in the Social Democratic Party, not least in our newly elected Prime Minister. We want to continue working to build this country together. Although Mrs Bergheden is trying to make it sound like the government has not done anything for eight years, it is again so that I can say that we have put all the time and effort into building the country together by investing in infrastructure from north to south. Not least, we see that these modes of transport complement each other, which is something that I wonder why the Moderates actually do. As I said, we heard from the industry, from Sweden's Åkeri companies and the Train companies, that they want to cooperate more between the transport modes to get more optimized transport chains. When you hear the Moderates talking here, it sounds like you don't want any other modes of transport, you don't want road traffic to be able to cooperate with other modes of transport, and you don't want to ensure that we get optimised transport chains. Are the Moderates afraid of getting a more efficient transport chain where we make sure that the goods and traffic go on the right transport mode and in the right place when it fits best? I can also say once again that we have made proposals to increase investment in particular, but also to make it easier for these transports on our roads. Now this is not a commercial traffic debate, but I can nevertheless note that Mrs Bergheden is talking about order and the Moderates do not have a very good register in this regard. Don't tell us Social Democrats that we are not doing anything on the road or in order! We have delivered there on a proposal. I would like to hear the honourable Member tell me how you view efficient transport chains, which it seems you are totally against.
i-PLPaEPzXCVxfceZSTJgQGe	Madam President, I would like We can start with efficient transport chains. As I said in my speech, most transport chains start and end with trucks. Then it is very good if we have roads that carry and that you can actually drive on. In addition, it is good if we have roads where it is possible to maintain a reasonable speed. Then you cannot start by not doing maintenance and then reduce the speed of our roads because they are no longer navigable. That is not how we can rule a country when we have so much transport that has to go on the road. In fact, that is exactly what the Social Democrats have done. Now they intend to continue, and that is what I wanted to warn the Swedish people about. So it has been thought not to give the money to the Finnish Transport Agency that they have requested in order to meet the current level of railways and roads. It is planned to take some of that money to build a high-speed train to be completed in 2040. And in the meantime, our roads and railways in this country will have to fall further. It's not a good strategy. Many companies out there will die, many jobs will disappear and businesses will move abroad. We want to stop this, and the Swedish people can do so on 11 September. In fact, it is possible to replace a government and get a government that intends to deal with this instead of a government that is blindly staring at building high-speed trains cost whatever it wants, however unprofitable it is, because it has an ideological basis that says that you should have high-speed trains. We'll say no to that. Madam President, I would like I haven't seen much power and energy. Elin Gustafsson is happy to have my document and read it. Feel free to go through all this stuff and the requirements that we have put forward and implement something during this last part of the period until the election so that we see that there is some energy in reality. Documents and strategies to put on the shelf are certain to go well, but it would have been better with a little workshop here in Sweden. It's a tired government to be replaced on September 11.
i-KTA2kJhtVhWbH52CT56YXo	Madam President, I would like We in the Swedish Democrats support all our reservations in the report, but in order to save time at voting time, I call for the approval of reservation 29. Madam President, I would like During the summer of 2018, Trafikverket was able to open a limited part of the road network to a new type of bearing strength class, the one called BK4. Compared to the previous 64-tonne limit, vehicle combinations with gross weights up to 74 tonnes are now allowed to drive on these roads. The expansion of BK4 is far too slow, and in the ongoing work to reduce the environmental impact of transport, it is strange that the pace of expansion is so slow. It should be clear to everyone how much more efficient a transport will be if you bring as much goods as possible per journey. With the right combination of vehicles and the right axle configuration you can reduce the pressure on the roads and thus generate more environmentally friendly transport than today. With a adapted vehicle for 74 tonnes gross weight, the axle load is lower even though the combination of vehicles becomes heavier. It's not always such a combination gets better from an economic perspective because vehicle construction becomes more expensive. On the other hand, a 74-tonne sekipage is effective from an environmental point of view because it carries more payload. For the Swedish Democrats it is important that as much as possible of the Swedish road network is open to BK4. There are, of course, limitations where, for example, bridges cannot handle a 74-tonne vehicle combination, but otherwise the road network should be open. The introduction of BK4 must be a priority in order to achieve the benefits of this configuration. Madam President, I would like The report we are just debating contains some motions on renewable fuels, a fossil-free vehicle fleet and electric roads. These exercises have as their starting point to improve our common environment – beautifully so, but to what benefit? It may be a provocative question, but the reality is going in the opposite direction. For a number of years we have seen how goods have been moved from energy efficient full-sized vehicles to smaller and more energy-intensive vehicles. Although during the pandemic we have seen a slight increase in rail freight transport, the trend in recent years is the opposite. Railway operators are experiencing the same situation as the serious hauliers: they lose transport assignments to the rogue operators in the transport industry. What we are seeing is the result of the dismantling of traffic police in recent years and a transport industry left without control and protection from our authorities. The regulatory framework for cabotage and combined transport is abused most by rogue operators. The serious transport companies with high environmental ambitions are becoming increasingly difficult to cope with in this unhealthy competition. The country's political leadership is extremely passive in the fight against criminal activity in the transport industry and is literally on its hands. The bill is paid for by the serious companies and the environment. Last night I had a debate with the Minister for Infrastructure on the situation on the country's roads. The government is too slow in tackling illegal traffic. Madam President, I would like If we are to regain a healthy, environmentally friendly and functioning transport market in which hauliers, railways and shipping can develop a healthy and sustainable transport industry, policy must deliver. We members of the Swedish Parliament can and must create the conditions for serious entrepreneurship. We have a responsibility to take action when we see that unhealthy companies and criminal activities are putting away the bones of serious business. The voters, whether they are entrepreneurs or employees, can rightly expect us to act. It's not good enough to push the problems into an investigation. It takes a lot of force here. Something is really sick about a transport industry that moves goods from efficient and environmentally friendly vehicles to small and energy-intensive units. If we do not get things right in the transport industry, all the ambitions about renewable fuels, a fossil-free vehicle fleet and electric vehicles will remain dreams. Madam President, I would like At the beginning of this year, large parts of Sweden were hit by a heavy snowstorm. It caused chaos in traffic. Several major roads such as E4, E6, E20 and E45 were more or less blocked by vehicles that did not make it. At E20 there was a stop in Finnerödjabacken for twelve hours. Queues of stationary vehicles were several miles long. The fact that such an important artery as the E20 is blocked for such a long time is not acceptable. Of course, the social costs of such a large stop will be large, far greater than the costs of well-functioning winter road maintenance. For my part, I was contacted by several truckers and drivers who alerted me about glass-haling roads where it was even difficult to walk. On Facebook, films were posted on roads that were so slippery that you could ride on your shoes on the ice - covered roadway. In February 2021 a group was started on Facebook with the name Vägen is our workplace. The group was created because of the increasingly poor maintenance of our winter roads. Professionals ensure that industries, hospitals, pharmacies and grocery stores – to name but a few – receive their deliveries. The fact that the maintenance of winter roads has deteriorated significantly over the last ten to fifteen years has been a constant topic of conversation among the country's professional drivers. In a radio feature in P4 Gävleborg, a professional driver describes the situation on the E4 as a war zone. It is not reasonable for drivers to risk their health when they do their important work. Professional drivers ensure that transport that is important for industry and private individuals is delivered. Nor is it reasonable for major transport routes such as European roads, national roads and major county roads to be blocked for several hours due to poor maintenance. Time and again government representatives say that you should stop when the road team is bad. A reasonable follow-up question will then be: How should transport with deliveries to industries, grocery stores, pharmacies and hospitals be carried out if poor maintenance constantly stops freight flows? It is important that these deliveries work regardless of the weather. Transport is the bloodstream of society and an absolute prerequisite for the functioning of our welfare society. In addition, emergency services, ambulances and police are at risk of being delayed in their important service exercises when maintenance of our roads is inadequate. Poor maintenance of our roads is literally at risk of life. The Finnish Transport Agency must allocate sufficient resources and develop procedures to ensure the functioning of the country's roads, regardless of the season. It is not acceptable for our roads to lapse and for there to be such poor maintenance in winter roads as we have seen examples of this winter. The Swedish Democrats therefore believe that increased investment in road maintenance must be prioritised before the construction of high-speed rail.
i-FLaKsXe3gk5VyhMDxSJVzH	Madam President, I would like I agree that much really needs to be improved in terms of Swedish road maintenance. Thomas Morell himself was into something; it is a matter of caring for what we have instead of building new ones, if we have to choose. But I hear only the Swedish Democrats talk about that they do not want new railway to be built. But what about building new motorways in Sweden? It costs an extreme amount of money, and they are often built in connection with our large cities, such as Stockholm. There are proposals for Cross-connection Södertörn, which will cost at least SEK 14 billion. Bypass Stockholm has already begun, but now the Swedish Transport Administration has added a lot of on- and off-roads that also cost a lot of money and build barriers between the suburbs of Stockholm. This drains our infrastructure on important resources that could be put on road maintenance throughout Sweden. But I never hear the Swedish Democrats talk about reprioritizing from major motorway projects in Stockholm to better road maintenance throughout the country. What about the policy of the Swedish Democrats? Are you prepared to oppose your construction of new, large motorways, such as Tvärtändning Södertörn, here in Stockholm?
i-QecrDunm9qy6W4tyvWJQZN	Madam President, I would like Thanks for the question, Jens Holm! Thank you, it is absolutely excellent with the traffic policy of the Swedish Democrats. We see no use in building the high-speed railway. This money can be set aside for the maintenance of existing railways. We have not opposed the construction of new railways, but investments must be socially viable. One example of many that we have proposed is to build a double track between Alingsås and Gothenburg. It would improve traffic on the Western Main Line all the way up to Stockholm. There would be a vastly better flow of rail traffic throughout the rail system with that investment and at a significantly lower cost than for the proposed high-speed trains. We are not prepared to say that we should refrain from developing roads. We have to look at our entire infrastructure. Then I'm talking about shipping, about rail, about road and about air. They're not competitors. They complement each other. We need to have an infrastructure system that works all year round. It must also be easy and easy to transport both people and goods in a system that is coherent and where you can change the means of transport where it fits. Maybe one minute it's better to ride a train. The next moment, the flight or the car may be the best option. If we are talking about heavy goods transport, rail and maritime transport are excellent. But then we need to have a rail system that does not constantly stand still because of signal failures or ne-powered contact lines, because then customers do not choose to use the railway.
i-CShCKZG7D5yHWPgpBaPnDx	Madam President, I would like We really need to strengthen the capacity from Alingsås into Gothenburg. For that, money is needed, and the money must be taken from somewhere. Thomas Morell was elegantly able to avoid my specific question. Cross-connection Södertörn is a very concrete example. It has got a full pot in Trafikverket's proposal for a national infrastructure plan, and the argument for it is exactly what Thomas Morell was thinking: that there will be many freight transports from the new port, Norvik's port, located north of Nynäshamn. But from Norvik harbour an industrial track has been built up to Nynäsbanan, which is available. What needs to be done is to strengthen Nynäsbanan a little, so that there are double tracks all the way. Then we could get climate-smart, transport-efficient freight transport to and from Norvik harbour without having to build a new, expensive motorway for SEK 14 billion. We could use that money to build the lighthouse track from Alingsås into Gothenburg and get money over. I never hear the Swedish Democrats criticise these big bragging constructions for motorways. It is always the railways that are to be given priority. What about new highway constructions, Thomas Morell? Are you prepared to say no to them, especially those who end up here in Stockholm and who drain the rest of the country on important resources? Are you prepared to say no to Interconnection Södertörn?
i-YbjVUczPTFvf4RA4vFehAP	Madam President, I would like I thank Jens Holm for the question. Rail investments are important, and the committee was looking at Norvik's port. Then we talked about the volumes to be transported from there, and there was no way to get the goods from the port without waiting for the night to be able to move it. It did not have to do with extension to double tracks or not, because the system itself had to be able to swallow the goods. It is not just a train from Norvik harbour up to Stockholm and further out on the railway network. Up here in Stockholm you also have to cope with the amount of goods coming by rail. This is where it falls in both the ruling and Jens Holm's view of logistics flows. You have to look at how logistics flows go and how you can optimise them so that you get the transport where it is thought of in as short a time as possible and as energy efficient as possible. Sometimes the railroad is the best, but sometimes the road is the best. It costs both money and the environment to sort and reload. I call for a greater understanding of how to deal with goods and, above all, with people so that a system that works can be created. We are not against rail investments or motorway investments, but investments must be socially beneficial and environmentally friendly and lead to improvements throughout the system and not just in one spot. Here we differ, and this may be because I myself have worked with logistics for so many years and tried to get goods from one place to another with as little work as possible – and work can be electric energy, diesel or something else.
i-ETQwyuAkhcoE62v7QL25ze	Madam President, I would like It is a very comprehensive report that the Committee on Transport and Tourism has to deal with. It addresses perspectives on electrification and energy supply of the vehicle fleet, climate change, high-capacity vehicles, regulations for ownership and use of vehicles and winter road maintenance. I would like to dwell on three parts of the report. It is about the two heavy announcements that Parliament gives the government to work with and the section on vehicle inspection. The first announcement concerns the environmental control of vehicles. The Swedish Parliament wants the Government to investigate the consequences of the Swedish requirements for environmental control in the vehicle inspection in comparison with the environmental control in other EU countries. The basis of the announcement is, in short, the most wonderful action over several years by the S-MP government, together with the Swedish Transport Agency, which has finally placed Sweden in Europe's absolute bottom swamp as to how we provide environmental control of vehicles. We are in the bottom league when it comes to controlling emissions from vehicles. According to all research, Swedish and international, traffic emissions lead to life-long diseases and thousands of premature deaths in Sweden every year. The socio-economic cost in Sweden is estimated to be over SEK 50 billion. Keeping track of vehicle emissions and ensuring that they are as low as they are expected to be is therefore well-motivated. Nevertheless, we have done the opposite. The modern and more climate-smart vehicles sold are also subsidised by both buyers and society for environmental and climate reasons. We are paying for a modern vehicle, and we boast a little that it is an environmentally smart vehicle with lower emissions than we had before. It would then be most reasonable for the annual inspection to give the go-ahead that the vehicle bought and even received subsidies from the community to purchase is of the class expected. Madam President, I would like Today this morning, the government and Minister Eneroth were reported to have set up an investigation into the environmental control of vehicles. Eneroth wonders if the methods for measuring the emissions of particulate matter on the Swedish car inspections are in line. Since the government is not sure about this, it will ask the Swedish Transport Agency to investigate whether the environmental control of cars, trucks and other vehicles needs to be tightened up. Madam President, I would like I have said this before and I would like to repeat in this House that Minister Eneroth is one of the most obedient ministers in the government in respect of when Parliament raises its tone and makes announcements. That's what he's supposed to wear. But there are a few questions coming up. The Swedish Transport Agency is appointed as an investigator of the issue. But they were the ones who, together with the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the government, initially caused the misery, to the wonder of the outside world. Now there is a risk of putting the goat as a gardener. I therefore assume that the government in its mission gives very clear directives that more people than those who have placed Sweden at the bottom level of Europe with regard to the environmental control of vehicles are given the task of seeing how we are moving forward. The vehicle inspection industry, which for several years has sounded the alarm about what has been allowed to happen, welcomes Eneroth's message but also says that there are two main problems with environmental control. One is that regulatory developments have been far too slow. The second is that the requirements and limit values for permitted emissions are far too generous. This makes us the worst in Europe. Therefore, it is extremely important that the forthcoming investigation reviews both the measurement methods and the limit values that have to be observed. Even if we introduce clever methods but have very generous limits, a dirty vehicle will be released. The limits do not need the government to investigate in order to arrive at the limit values. The whole of Europe, yes, everyone except the government obviously knows them. This part of the announcement can therefore be implemented immediately by the government. Madam President, I would like The reservations of the Social Democrats and the Swedish Democrats against this announcement surprise me. The reservation was also confirmed in a speech by Elin Gustafsson. It cannot be easy for the Members of the Social Democrats in this House to keep up with the changes when Minister Eneroth acts, but it would be interesting to know whether the Social Democrats still think it reasonable for Sweden to belong to Europe's bottom layer of environmental control of vehicles. I am convinced that any Member can give an immediate answer to this, particularly as Elin Gustafsson just recently requested that the reservation be accepted against the announcement, which is surprising, as I have said. The second announcement is about winter road maintenance, especially in northern Sweden. The Swedish Parliament wants the Government to review how the Swedish Transport Administration designs procurements with contractors so that it is possible to carry out snow clearance for both the state and individual road communities within reasonable time limits. The background to this, Madam President, is a mess with the government's procurement of winter roads, which has made life difficult for people living along municipal roads and community roads in connection with state roads, especially in northern Sweden. This has been brought to the attention of many, and it has been run in this House by the Center Party and other parties in numerous interpellation debates. It has produced some results in that the Swedish Transport Administration has begun to settle, but now it is time to follow up with a proposal for an announcement so that the government also understands the seriousness and feels pressure from the Riksdag to engage in that the whole of Sweden should have reasonable conditions and availability also in the winter. Madam President, I would like On this issue, it is incomprehensible to me and the Center Party that social democrats, left-wing parties and environmentalists reserve themselves against the equal right of all people to have a reasonable winter course, reasonable availability and safety even in winter in all parts of the country – an accessibility, safety and public service that has been hampered and devastated by an election-handed approach in a procurement by the Finnish Transport Administration. I believe that more people than me and the Center Party want to know why social democrats, left-wing parties and environmentalists oppose that right for all. Finally, Madam President, there is a reservation from the Center Party, the Moderates, the Liberals and the Christian Democrats on the view of vehicle inspections. It was a very successful reform, I would argue, as also confirmed by the National Audit Office, which reviewed the outcome of liberalising an inefficient state monopoly which for several years was allowed to have a poor service vis-à-vis the country's vehicle owners. We have achieved a well-functioning system and effective competition, which has promoted a rational inspection procedure, which develops new control methods, which lead to affordable prices and which means better accessibility. The Swedish National Audit has confirmed what the Alliance Government launched in 2009. We reserveants want the government to make sure that the control authority Transportstyrelsen does its part of it and ensure that such a simple thing as controlling vehicles with charging infrastructure on board is introduced into the Swedish regulations. Although every other new car sold in Sweden today has charging function, this is not something that will be checked by the car test because the Swedish Transport Agency has not had time to write regulations. It doesn't make sense. Madam President, I would like Of course, I support the report, except in those parts where the Center Party has expressed reservations, but I specifically support reservation number 23.
i-6MhfpPjqtcHq9oEJEN9F3k	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Anders Åkesson, who in some way invited me here to the speaker's chair. I felt after Anders Åkesson's speech that I needed to clarify certain parts that I still thought I was trying to say in a clear way earlier. I would like to start by thanking you for a good speech and saying that I largely agree with what Anders Åkesson said. However, on the subject of reservations, I would like to emphasise once again that we Social Democrats want Sweden to become the first fossil-free welfare country. We certainly do not want us to be in a bottom layer, but, like Anders Åkesson, we know that there is a common ambition to help to continue to speed up the transition and to make the whole country a part of it. The reason why we support the reservation on environmental controls and ask for its approval is simply that the government is already working on it. So there is no point, we think, in proposing a special announcement on this issue, because, as I said, the government has already investigated certain elements and will now also give a new mission to the Transport Agency to proceed with this. Although I heard Mr Åkesson asking for a lot of things, I can see that this is an important step along the way. What the Minister for Infrastructure has said very clearly is that the aim is that vehicles that do not comply with the exhaust gas requirements should not be allowed to pass through. We simply want the cars with large emissions of air pollutants to be kept away from the roads. I find that, in principle, we agree on these elements, and I look forward to working on this with Mr Åkesson.
i-QngKjHfu2Qsf2dyFM1KVrw	Madam President, I would like Thanks for the question, Elin Gustafsson! My question, which was a very nice one, was for what reason the Social Democrats maintain their reservation that the government should be entrusted with a much sharper and clearer mission than today to ensure that we as a country move from the bottom swamp of Europe to a leading position in controlling the climate and environmental performance of cars. 5 000 people die prematurely, thousands become ill and the cost of the economy is 50 billion a year in our country alone. It is, in order to use infrastructure language, a very high net added value ratio, Madam President, that the Transport Agency, which has complicated it and with the approval of the then government, has shifted us to the bottom layer, will ensure that we get back up by applying tougher rules, as hard as in our neighbouring countries. My question was for what reason, Madam President, that the Social Democrats and Elin Gustafsson maintain their reservation, despite the fact that today in the morning, on the same day as we have this debate, which was a good thing, a Social Democratic Minister captures the announcement itself and says that something should be done about it. Then the parliamentary group reserves itself. It's amazing. Please explain!
i-MuTap3yEFFeqkZbCnGUsqD	Madam President, I would like I thought I was clear in my speech and also in my first reply, but I can say it again. We see that the government is working in the direction we want. As I said, the matter has been investigated in this area in the past, and now we see that the government will give a mission to the Swedish Transport Agency with the aim of doing exactly what Anders Åkesson mentions when it comes to ensuring that we get rid of the large exhaust emissions that we know contribute and lead to air pollution and that affect people's health negatively. The Social Democrats and the Government have no other opinion there than Anders Åkesson, and therefore we think it is reasonable that we do not have to propose an announcement to the Government. The government is already working in this direction and has the ambition to continue to strengthen the requirements and ensure that the entire society contributes to the green transition and, not least, that the inspection side does its part in this. It's incredibly important. As I said, we have conducted investigations in the past and have taken steps to move forward. Now we see that more needs to be done. That is what the Government said today, and that is why we do not see the need to agree to any announcement, as the government is already working in this direction. I look forward to working together with Anders Åkesson to ensure that we have fewer cars that contribute to air pollution and that not many people's health is adversely affected in the way we see today. On the contrary, we shall ensure that we contribute positively to human health, while contributing to the green transition. I thank Anders Åkesson for the question.
i-TGLwU8aZB6ZypMg4CDeC4t	Madam President, I would like It was a good thing we had this little discussion. After all, there is a risk that anyone who reads the Parliamentary Minutes of this debate afterwards will get the impression that the Social Democrats and the Swedish Democrats reserved for Sweden's government and its authorities to apply reasonable environmental inspections of the vehicle fleet in the country and move the supervision from the bottom layer in Europe at least up to the top layer. That's what the reservation means. A majority in the Parliamentary Transport Committee wants us to apply reasonable supervision so that not 5 000 people die, thousands of people become ill and a community cost of SEK 50 billion arises. It's a huge social benefit. It is a very high net value added ratio with a rather simple measure. Madam President, I would like There is a risk, Elin Gustafsson, that posterity nevertheless notes that Social Democrats and Swedish Democrats were against this, the same day that a Social Democratic Minister is so sensitive that he in part follows the announcement. It's dancing, I must say, by Minister Eneroth. And he's worthy of praise. It is not for a central party to decide how the Socialist parliamentary group should act. But I want to say that I'm surprised. We share the problem picture of what needs to be done. Then I have to say that the reasonable thing would have been that at least you do not reserve for your announcement. But it is the Social Democrats' choice.
i-LFFkLD5AK5jg2joPxKaYR6	Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats are behind all their reservations, but for time winning, I only call for reservation 4. We also support the two announcements on environmental control in the vehicle inspection and on the Swedish Transport Administration's procurement of snow clearance, among other things. Madam President, I would like If we are to manage to reduce CO2 emissions by 70% by 2030, we need to work with several different methods. The Pump Act was introduced in 2005 to get more petrol stations to supply renewable fuels. However, since 2005, several new technologies have been developed that are not covered by the law. The Pump Act should allow for the range of options currently available on the market. KD believes that the Pump Act should be amended so that it is possible to also provide electricity or charging for fuel cells in hydrogen powered vehicles and that it can also provide a basis for complying with the Act. We see today that many new cars registered are rechargeable cars, which is gratifying. At the same time, several of these vehicles are charging hybrids. And when you listen to how individuals use these vehicles, you can think about whether it is really good for the long term for the environment that more and more charging hybrids are going to the market. A modern diesel car produces less fuel than a charging hybrid, which results in that every mile that a charging hybrid travels with petrol is environmentally worse than if you ride with a modern diesel car. This is a fact that we need to reflect on when trying to reduce emissions through various public systems, such as bonus malus. From KD's side, we want to facilitate electrification through the development of charging stations for both passenger cars and trucks. It is also important that we build an infrastructure for various forms of vehicle gas, including hydrogen. We also believe that we need to look at different methods that make it easier for those who want to buy a vehicle that is good from an environmental perspective. More alternative fuel and charging stations, continued research and a new vehicle and fuel taxation system are methods that we believe can lead us to meet the climate targets in the long term. But if we are to manage to create a fossil-free transport system, there must be fossil-free energy. This is why, among other things, we repeatedly emphasise the importance of expanding transmission capacity within the electricity system and that we need to facilitate hydropower and build new nuclear power. The environment-friendly transport of the future presupposes that we have environmentally friendly energy. These two issues are linked, Madam President. The transport sector accounts for 32% of Sweden's carbon dioxide emissions. Heavy goods vehicles account for some 3.3 million tonnes of these. Investment in rail is not enough if we are to reduce CO2 emissions. By electrifying the major roads, such as the Nordic Triangle and the coast of Norrland, we can reduce CO2 emissions from trucks by about 50%. Another issue that we highlight is that you should work with longer and heavier vehicles. Compared to trucks with the current maximum length of 25.25 metres with a 32-metre truck, the larger truck carries the same quantity of goods with 17% less CO2 emissions and 25% less staff costs. If we combine electric roads with the fact that, like Finland, we allow longer and heavier vehicles, we will have a further positive environmental impact while reducing the cost of our transport, which makes it easier for our hauliers to compete with international hauliers who often drive older vehicles with less fuel and with staff who have a poor working environment. In the transport sector, rapid technological development is taking place. We see this partly on the fuel side, partly in the form of more and more vehicles becoming more autonomous and self-driving. This is a positive development that will eventually lead to a better functioning transport system and fewer accidents. It is therefore important that the Riksdag and the Government regularly facilitate this development. New technologies and new fuels will be what will make us achieve our environmental objectives in the long term. Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, there are people who are prepared to use our public systems for criminal purposes. We believe that it should be investigated how general access to the vehicle register can be restricted. In many countries in Europe, it is common for registers to be open only to authorities. Swedish authorities have a lack of access to other countries' vehicle registers while Swedish transparency creates problems for individuals and companies. Today, criminals from all over Europe can use our openness to locate theft-seeking vehicles. We Christian Democrats believe it is urgent that access to the Swedish vehicle register be restricted to authorities, insurance companies and security companies. The government should examine the design of such a system as soon as possible. We would also like to point out that vehicle goalkeepers are a tool for organised crime. Another problem is that the same person who is not a Swedish citizen can create several coordination numbers. This allows a number of digital persons with coordination numbers to exist without this being matched by any natural person. These digital people with coordination numbers can in turn own a number of cars. The Swedish Parliament has decided on the Government's proposal 2019/ 20:67 Prohibition of use and marking of vehicles with unpaid parking errors. This means that it has been prohibited to use a vehicle with unpaid parking fees and that a police or car inspector will take care of the vehicle registration plate if the prohibition of use is infringed. We believe that this is a step in the right direction. However, KD, like a number of consultation bodies, wants to tighten these rules further. The period for imposing a ban on use should be reduced from six to three months. We also believe that it is not enough to seize the registration plate. A police officer or a car inspector shall have the right to dispose of a vehicle when the prohibition of use is infringed and the vehicle is used without authorisation. Madam President, I would like Different weather conditions can make different demands on car drivers and the conditions for cars to travel. We therefore believe that the use of digital signs to promote flexibility in terms of maximum speed should be increased. A more flexible signage gives you greater respect for speeds, which also increases road safety. Madam President, I would like We also have major problems in Sweden with lack of maintenance on our roads. From a Christian Democrat point of view, we have said no to high-speed trains. Instead, we want to move these resources to invest in freight trains through the country, but also to increase investment in our roads. If you look at the plan drawn up by Trafikverket, you can see that 80 – 90 per cent of all transport is on the road, but that 80 per cent of all investments are planned for rail. This doesn't stick together. We have a rural area with increasingly poor roads with reduced speeds, and on top of that we have to pay more and more with the increasingly expensive fuel. This is not working, Madam President.
i-6AcuSxWF1Ad9zFsk4T3sXY	Madam President, I would like I would like to know a little more precisely what the Christian Democrats have against charging hybrids. Magnus Jacobsson said something in the speaker's chair that I actually don't think is true, namely that a charging hybrid has much more emissions than a diesel car has. I wonder if Jacobsson compares apples and pears here – old charging hybrids with new diesel cars – or what it's about. We should also remember that diesel vehicles have much higher emissions of nitrogen oxides. Moreover, in the case of real driving, emissions of nitrogen oxides are even higher than those previously reported by manufacturers. I can tell you that I myself run a charging hybrid and that we run on electricity 85-90% of the time. We live in a town, and we can charge at home. Drivings are usually under 40 km, so we can basically run on electricity all the time. The problem is to go a long distance; then the car goes mostly on the internal combustion engine. But it's not very often. So I think Jacobsson should be a little careful here. I actually think charging hybrids can work very well in urban traffic, and a lot of people live in cities. I would like to know what Jacobsson is basing his data on that diesel cars would have lower emissions than charging hybrids on, Madam President.
i-Rdt65FsvaKCC7gPfShtn9J	Madam President, I would like I thank Jens Holm for the very good question. In our family we also have a charging hybrid, a brand new and modern, and at home in Uddevalla we can handle most transports on electricity. We charge nighttime, and then we can drive during the day. But the charging hybrid is heavy – it has a heavier battery than ordinary vehicles, which makes the whole vehicle heavier – and it means that it becomes more environmentally friendly to take my Ford Kuga, which goes on diesel, the times we go to Gothenburg or the like. It draws less fuel than the charging hybrid does in those positions. When I have talked to some companies that have charging hybrids as corporate cars, I have also heard the following: If you drive in the service, it is the company that pays the fuel, but if you bring the vehicle home – which you will have to do if you have benefit value – and charge at home, you will have to pay for the fuel yourself. So we get the phenomenon that it does not pay to some extent to drive the charging hybrid as it is supposed to run. I think that I and Mr Holm act the same way, that is to say, charging and running on electricity, but if you do not use the charging hybrid in that way, but run on fuel all the time, there will actually be no environmental benefit. I also said, as I hope was noted, that the question is whether we need to think a little bit about the bonus malus system. Perhaps we should strengthen even more the use of clean electricity, i.e. clean electric cars? So it wasn't really about any formal resistance or that I don't like charging hybrids, but it was more about when we're inside these systems all the time we need to strive to get the best environmental benefit for the money we're spending from the state.
i-c43TNa3unR1xE7TeRze2S	Madam President, I would like There were a number of assumptions in Jacobsson's explanation, and I think it will be a bit shaky for the claim that diesel cars are better than charging hybrids. I would say that is not true. When Jacobsson has driven down to Gothenburg he could also charge his charging hybrid there, and then he can drive at least half the way up to Uddevalla on electricity. I also think it's a strange assumption that people who drive charging hybrids would be running with the internal combustion engine all the time-- why would you do that? I guess you're trying to make the most of battery power. Then it is actually the case that the government has put forward a new proposal on bonus malus which just means increased support for pure electric cars and a reduction in charging hybrids. That is a step in the right direction. So I think that Jacobsson should be a little careful when he speaks, so that it doesn't sound like the diesel car is better for the climate, because at least I haven't seen any basis for that. Furthermore, if we include public health and emissions of nitrogen oxides, the diesel car is certainly not a good alternative.
i-KKNCtjmPJ1iScYXKgHbrHy	Madam President, I would like What I was trying to say is that in the end it is not always exactly what we have thought when we in politics are in different systems and moving around. In the last few weeks, I've met a number of car vendors. They have noted, among other things, that due to the tax effects of bonus malus, for example, no new diesel cars are sold in principle. Instead, they sell used diesel cars, which to some extent – at least in my home area – have risen by almost 20 per cent. Why does this phenomenon occur? Because with a new diesel car subsidizing an electric car, prices and taxes have risen. Then it is not profitable to buy them. This means that the car park is ageing in Sweden. We are about to get more and more older diesel cars. It was also a previous debate here that they are actually exempt from taxation when they get sufficiently old. We Christian Democrats therefore share the view that we should work with economic instruments in order to achieve a good environmental policy, but the policy must also constantly be observant of what its consequences are in real life. And then at least I'm not quite as negative towards diesel cars as Jens Holm is. I'm more concerned about having the wrong type of fuel. At the same time, the fuel debate is easily complicated, because it is not easy to obtain the biofuels that we wish we could obtain. There is a problem there too: if you use old forest raw material and make fuel from it, it is environmentally friendly, but if we were to cut down forests in the Amazon and convert it into palm oil, it is not as environmentally friendly. So, however we turn, we have a little bit of a backside, but surely the aim must be to pursue the best possible environmental policy.
i-V8SHJAWW675hwPpHWw49rE	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the Committee on Transport's report on Road and vehicle issues. First of all, let me say that I support all my reservations but, in order to gain time, I only want to approve reservation number 12 on infrastructure for charging and fossil-free refuelling. Madam President, I would like I chose our reservation on charging infrastructure for road transport because it is the single most important measure for the transport area to be able to reset, eliminate its climate emissions and achieve the goal that all parliamentary parties have endorsed. The Swedish Parliament has decided that the climate emissions will be net zero in 2045 and that by 2030 the emissions from our transport operations will have decreased by 70 per cent compared to 2010. How do we reach a fossil-free vehicle fleet? Liberals believe that investments in research – such as automotive strategic research and innovation, FFI – and collaboration between universities and industry are important pieces of the puzzle. We also believe that the polluter should pay and that, in the event of rapid technological transitions, the state may need to facilitate the transition with time-limited efforts. However, road transport accounts for 90% of emissions in the transport sector, so the Liberals put their focus there. There are a number of measures to stimulate the transition to chargeable cars, to support the purchase of chargeable cars because they are more expensive than fossil driven cars. We in the Liberals also want to see an increased climate focus in the benefit value system for business cars. By far the most important measure, however, is that car owners must be able to charge the car where they live. If you can't buy a rechargeable car. That is why we from the Liberals added 3 billion extra to our budget for 2022 to charging infrastructure with a special focus on facilitating the expansion of charging infrastructure in residential buildings and with a special focus on multi-residential buildings. Villa owners already today have the opportunity to put a charging box on their house through subsidies and root deductions. If we are to maintain the rapid increase in the number of rechargeable cars, the charging infrastructure must be one step ahead. We have 5 million passenger cars in Sweden. In 2021, 135 000 rechargeable cars were sold, which corresponds to 45 percent of all sold cars that year. It's a fantastic development. The number of electric cars sold doubled. Forecasts say that an electric car will cost as much as a fossil - powered car in 2025 or 2026. Then sales will accelerate, not least because the secondary value of fossil-powered cars at the same time will fall, further improving the economy for the purchase of an electric car. It puts additional pressure on the roll-out of charging infrastructure to prevent this from becoming a brake block for development. We heard former Social-Democrat Elin Gustafsson refer to the electrification strategy and to the fact that the charging infrastructure must not become a brake block. This is a bad rhyme with the way the government acts. The government is far too slow here. We have still not seen any requirements for equipping existing homes with charging infrastructure, but requirements for charging places are imposed only in the case of conversion and new construction. It's not working. Furthermore, the requirements for charging boxes in the case of conversion and extension cover only 5% of the number of parking spaces, and this should not be met until 2025. The problem is that the figure is already 6%; we passed that figure already in 2021. Today, 6% of the vehicle fleet is rechargeable. The vast majority of all parking spaces are located in and around existing residential buildings and in public parking spaces. The government's policy actually makes it difficult to change the sector that has the easiest to change. As I said, we in the Liberals added 3 billion extra to our budget, mainly to residential charging points, to drive development. We hope that the government is now taking a strong stand here. Madam President, I would like Liberals initiated the Electrification Commission in 2019 because the electrification of heavy road transport is far too slow. The Electrification Commission presented an action plan last autumn with ten points on how to speed up electrification of heavy transport. We Liberals are very pleased that our initiative has now produced results. Over the past year, we have also been able to see more electric trucks coming onto the market. However, they are significantly more expensive in purchases than the corresponding fossil-powered trucks. In order to drive the transition, we added an extra 1 billion in the Liberals to our budget for truck premiums to increase the sales of electric trucks. In much the same way, we are currently behind bonus malus but want to phase it out to 2025. We Liberals also want to facilitate the development of charging infrastructure at depots and transhipment centres as well as along Sweden's roads and are now closely following the pilots we initiated and implemented during 2021 and 2022. Liberals also want to allow longer trucks on a larger part of our road network. It is a fast and socio-economically effective way to create fewer transport, less emissions and higher road safety. This is already happening in Finland with very good results. Liberals put in 150 million. This is what is needed to rebuild the roads for the introduction of longer trucks in Sweden. It is a very low amount to reduce the climate emissions from lorries by 4%. Why is the government not acting on the basis that we have been presented to us in the Committee on Transport and Tourism? Madam President, I would like As the average life span of a passenger car is 17 years, fossil-free fuels are needed to reduce emissions from today's petrol and diesel cars. The incorporation of fossil-free fuels through the reduction obligation system plays a crucial role here. This should be done at a pace linked to the speed of electrification of the vehicle fleet in order for the reduction obligation and electrification together to reach the transport target of 70% reduction of emissions by 2030. The reduction obligation system must also be long-term in order to stimulate the start-up of domestic biofuel production. The production of fossil-free fuels must be consistent with its incorporation in order not to significantly increase the price of fuel. Large parts of our road network were built over 60 years ago. A neglected maintenance means that large parts of our road network need to be upgraded. This applies not least to the possibility of allowing heavy goods vehicles on a larger part of our road network. Transport must work all the way from start to destination. The carrying capacity of roads is also of great importance for mobile cranes, which have an important function not least during the construction that we need to do in the housing market. The Finnish Transport Agency should also be able to offer support to municipalities with the permit processes. It is important that the State continues to provide significant support to the owners of the individual roads in order to maintain the road standard. The conversion of a public road into a single road must not mean that the costs incurred by the State are passed on to the owners of the roads. In addition, the Government should review how the Swedish Transport Administration designs procurements from contractors to enable winter road maintenance and snow clearance both for the state and for individual road communities. Today, there is a regime that leads to higher climate emissions and a significantly higher snow clearance cost for individual road communities. Madam President, I would like Now comes the day when we have self-driving vehicles on our roads. The technology will be introduced this year and gradually expanded. Therefore, it is urgent to review and adapt all relevant legislation so that self-driving cars can be introduced on our roads in a safe way. Based on Jonas Bjelfvenstam's 2015 report on the introduction of self-driving vehicles in Sweden, the government needs to develop a strategy and an action plan for how self-driving cars can be introduced into society. We have lost seven years since this report came. Liberals wonder why the government has not done anything during this time. We need a new government to be able to drive this issue if we are to introduce self-driving cars in a safe way. Now comes the technology, and the report came seven years ago. I finish as I started, i.e. with the emissions. The Swedish National Audit Office's report on the re-regulation of the inspection market points to the consequences of the greatly reduced environmental requirements in the inspection of vehicles. The government should therefore investigate the consequences of the Swedish requirements for environmental control during the vehicle inspection in comparison with the environmental control in other EU countries and then introduce measures based on the analysis to ensure that Sweden continues to appear strong in the climate work. Finally, I call for reservation No 12 on the most important area of road transport, namely charging infrastructure and fossil-free refuelling.
i-Nyd7dC95SPvR3nEvx2Vgtw	Madam President, I would like Yesterday, the news came that road traffic emissions decreased by 0.3 per cent in 2021. That is completely inadequate. We know that emissions from road traffic must be reduced much more, by about 30 times as much. This should be a wake-up call for the Transport Committee, for Parliament and for the Government. Despite all the positive things that are happening, progress is far too slow. Achieving a fossil-free vehicle fleet is one of the most important things we can do to reduce our emissions at a sufficient pace and live up to the Paris Agreement. Today, traffic accounts for about one third of Sweden's emissions. In order for us to reach the Paris agreement, Sweden's emissions must be reduced by about 12 – 15 percent per year and be close to zero in 2035. It goes without saying that we are facing a huge challenge to reduce traffic emissions at a sufficiently high rate. To get there will require courage and political action. The Green Party wants new sales of fossil-powered cars to be phased out by 2025. The target date for fossil fuel sales should be set at 2030. For us, it is obvious that Sweden will live up to the Paris Agreement. There is no alternative to coping with climate change. We must do everything we can to reduce emissions. For us to live up to the Paris Agreement and for traffic emissions to be reduced sufficiently quickly, motorism must be reduced. The Green Party sees that the conditions for this are very different in different parts of the country. In many parts of our country, the car will continue to be extremely important in the future, but in and between our large cities there is a great potential to reduce car traffic. The big city motorism must be broken. To do so, a palette of measures will be needed – local, regional and national. Madam President, I would like One issue that is very important in this context is the issue of parking. We cannot continue to plan our big cities with the car in focus, so that parking spaces are allowed to spread out and eat both surface and money. That's not how we build nice and viable cities. Instead, we do this with green spaces, pedestrian streets, outdoor cafés and playgrounds. Therefore, the Green Party wants the parking standard in the Planning and Construction Act to be replaced by a mobility standard, which means that property owners are not forced to build parking spaces but that access to sustainable mobility is instead the focus. In addition, congestion taxes need to be increased and charges should be introduced in more places in the city to reduce congestion. State support for municipal measures for climate-smart urban and traffic planning, such as the urban environment agreement and climate change, needs to be developed and strengthened. When we talk about traffic and travel, it is important to ensure the whole journey. The relevant is not just a certain distance and means of transport but the whole journey from door to door. It will be easier to combine several different modes of travel in a simple and seamless way, so-called combined mobility. In this way, the combination of several sustainable modes of transport can replace car travel. We therefore believe that a regulatory framework for combined mobility should be put in place. We also believe that there should be a public investment in car pools. Investing in car pools means both investing in mobility and making better use of our resources, as a car stands on average at approximately 95% of the time. Madam President, I would like As I said, in Sweden we see a certain positive development, even if it goes far too slowly. There is reason to think about what this positive development depends on and how we build on it. Thanks to strong instruments such as bonus malus and reduction obligations, we see that emissions from road traffic are decreasing, even if it is far too slow. Backing back and weakening these instruments would be quite the wrong way to go. It would be trying to back up into the future. As I mentioned earlier, the car will continue to play an important role in many parts of our country. Then it is the policy's responsibility to ensure that there are good conditions for people to switch to sustainable fuels. In this area, we are currently seeing a fantastic development. The electrification of the fleet of vehicles is going on at a raging rate. In 2021, the number of electric cars in traffic in Sweden doubled. But more needs to be done, not least to ensure that there is good access to charging infrastructure throughout the country and to facilitate the transition further in rural areas. Everyone should feel confident that there are good charging possibilities that suit their needs and their everyday lives. A holistic approach is needed in this area. Therefore, the Green Party wants the government to develop a national plan for the expansion of charging infrastructure. Madam President, I would like Allow me to dwell on a few further questions. First of all, I am pleased that a majority in the committee agrees that the government should investigate the consequences of the environmental control requirements in the vehicle inspection. I would also like to highlight the issue of mopeds. Since 1 January last year, all mopeds and motorcycles sold within the EU have to be type-approved according to the exhaust and safety requirements of Euro 5. As a result, the safety and emissions rules are now harmonised between mopeds, motorcycles and cars. However, mopeds, i.e. a combination of mopeds and cars, are exempt from these rules. This means, among other things, that many moped cars have no exhaust gas cleaning. Therefore, the Euro 5 requirements should also be applied to mopeds and the exhaust and safety requirements should be harmonised between mopeds, motorcycles and mopeds. Madam President, I would like The climate crisis is acute. That is the greatest challenge mankind has ever faced. Now we're done talking and fine words. Action is now needed – in all policy areas, in all situations and in all decisions. Fossil dependence must be broken. The big city motorism must be broken. The fleet of vehicles must be fossil-free. Emissions have to go down. We can't wait. It is time to act now. Madam President, I would like In conclusion, I would like to endorse Amendment No 5 on a fossil-free vehicle fleet.
i-R4eHKVURWLCZE8HimQEe5C	Madam President, I would like For time winning, I only ask for reservation 60. The rolling cultural heritage I thought I'd talk about. It is an issue that is close to my heart and which I hope will be close to many people, particularly in the Committee on Transport and the Government. The rolling cultural heritage, old motor vehicles but also older ships, trains and aircraft, is a hobby and an interest that employs several hundred thousand people in Sweden. For many years motor associations have had reports of problems with the rolling cultural heritage that usually arise as a result of the fact that laws and rules for ordinary vehicles do not apply to vintage vehicles. The lack of knowledge and commitment of public authorities about veteran vehicles makes it difficult for the country's enthusiasts. The latest example in the line is the high-profile cases of the US-imported veteran cars that were to be renovated in Sweden and that were seized and classified as environmentally hazardous waste. I have spent several hours visiting events with vintage cars and also met many car enthusiasts in garages around Värmland and listened to the views that they want to make about veteran vehicles and the problems that exist for them so that they can be protected in the future. Some spend thousands of hours in their garages while others drive around in their vehicles, display them at meetings and exhibitions. Others live professionally by renovating objects. They may not be active car enthusiasts themselves, but they are happy to visit a car hit, take a trip with a museum train or an old steamboat for nostalgic reasons. There are hundreds of thousands, old and young, who love vintage cars and motor events. It also provides thousands of jobs. Madam President, I would like I do not feel entirely at ease about safeguarding the rolling cultural heritage. Sweden already has Europe's highest diesel price. I hope that the price and cost of the fuels will be reduced. It affects rural areas in general but above all those who have an interest in motoring. It is usually carried by people living in rural areas. Madam President, I would like The government must understand the importance of the car for people from several aspects. It is important to move forward in a perspective of cultural value, such as leisure, tourism and social commitment. All this can be linked to the rolling cultural heritage. For those who live at Södermalm in Stockholm with access to a comfortable public transport system 24 hours a day, the car hatred may make sense. But it is not for us in rural areas and especially for us who live in Värmland far away from the subway and cultural events every day of the week. We travel several miles for the children's activities or to meet like-minded people and enjoy car hits and other things. With this intervention, I would like to raise interest in this cultural heritage. That is why we Moderates have put forward a committee motion in which we press on the parts that I have been dealing with. Clarifying the interpretation of the EU regulation on the import of environmentally hazardous waste is an important issue. It is about simplifying the rules and harmonising fees for the rolling cultural heritage and simplifying the licensing procedures for vintage car hits and motor events. I'm hoping for an improvement.
