i-LrrLZotd7bABN5cdQXQ7sV	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of the Moderates' reservation 1 only for the importance of summer jobs even for those under the age of 18. But, of course, we support all our reservations. More than 60 000 iva nurses, 72 000 more primary school teachers or 88 000 more nurses, especially iva nurses, would have been needed now. If unemployment in Sweden had developed as the EU average during Magdalena Andersson's time as Minister of Finance, the costs of Swedish unemployment would thus be SEK 42 billion lower per year. It is money that could, should and should have been spent on welfare. On the contrary, Sweden now belongs to Europe's ironing class. Only Italy, Greece and Spain have higher unemployment rates than Sweden. So we are the fourth worst in the European Union, Madam President. And I have news for Magdalena Andersson : It is not only Sweden that has suffered from a pandemic. Madam President, I would like The proportion of people working in Sweden has developed worse than in any other EU country since 2014. Those are facts. Even before the coronapandemia Sweden had the lowest growth per person in the EU, and before Magdalena Andersson became Finance Minister, Sweden was on the contrary among those at the top of the EU's growth list. Despite the Social Democrats' promise that Sweden would have the lowest unemployment rate in the EU in 2020, we already had the fifth highest unemployment rate in the EU before the crisis. Sweden was also the only country where unemployment increased from autumn 2014, when the Social Democrats took office, until the Corona crisis broke out. Madam President, I would like With regard to the Corona crisis, the pandemic has deepened an already serious exclusion. We are now in danger of a large-scale mass unemployment in large groups. It beats Sweden hard. Thus, when the economy is to be restarted after the pandemic, major reforms are needed, which we Moderates have been calling for for for a long time. Such an important reform concerns the issue we are about to discuss here now: a more flexible labour law for more people in work. Let me tell you about our four moderate overall entrances. First, there are safe and secure jobs only in safe, secure and growing companies. That was true yesterday. That is definitely twice true today. And it'll be just as true tomorrow. Secondly, Sweden's labour market has been facing major problems for a long time. These are challenges that are about a sluggish labour market where the transition works very badly. We also have legislation in this area which largely excludes large groups from the labour market. This applies to those who are very far removed from the labour market and those who have never entered the labour market in the first place. One might wonder what it is that needs to be done. Thirdly, we need safe, secure and growing companies as well as safe and secure employees who see increased labour market mobility as a way to increase opportunities. But one should also be able to be safe with and sure that one cannot get rid of the job on wrong or arbitrary grounds. At a time when so many people have lost or risk losing their jobs, it has never been more important for companies to be able to change or retain key employees, so that more jobs can be saved. It is ultimately about the chances of small and medium-sized enterprises to survive and to create more jobs after the crisis. Madam President, I would like Fourthly and lastly, after the Social Democrats have turned around, there is a broad consensus in the Swedish Parliament that we need to change labour law. That's good. In 2018, the Social Democrats went to elections on the promise that they will never, as they put it, contribute to exactly the proposal that they are now making themselves. They are prepared to throw all solemn promises overboard in order to remain in power. Power always has its own value. This applies to previous elections, and it also applies to the forthcoming elections. That kind of thing breeds contempt for politicians. Madam President, I would like The Moderates have long worked to develop the Swedish model. This report contains a sufficient number of proposals to modernise labour law and strengthen the adaptability of the labour market. Of course, we agree with what is stated in the motions. Like the committee, however, we note that the parties to the Swedish labour market have reached an agreement and that the government has promised a bill in this area in the spring of 2022, i.e. this spring. Madam President, I would like Although the government has promised proposals in the past that have not arrived until four years later, and although we do not know whether the Left Party will abandon its promise to stop or water out in the ongoing red-green civil war, there is reason to await further work on implementing changes to the labour acquis in line with the orientation set out in the Party Agreement. I would like to conclude, Madam President, by emphasising that we Moderates believe it is important that the proposals contained in the agreement be drawn up and implemented effectively, cost-effectively and accurately. The reforms should of course also be closely followed up to ensure that they strengthen the Swedish labour market and the competitiveness of Swedish companies. That's how, and just like that, you get a country and a society that stick together.
i-USpwM4ePzLW3uNw1b9uBXi	Madam President, I would like Today, motions from the general period of exercise concerning labour law are being debated. Of course, we support all our reservations, but we choose to endorse only the joint reservation from the M-SD-KD, reservation number 12. Madam President, I would like The Swedish labour market is changing. Although there is a considerable shortage of labour in some areas, there are major problems with the fact that some groups are far removed from the labour market. This is worrying from a future perspective because the dependency ratio is relatively small in the population, which unfortunately is the consequence of poor policy in the last decade. High employment rates in all honour, but what good is it when it is not possible to get people into regular employment. The government beats its chest with Sweden having the highest employment rate in Europe. Yes, we can have the highest employment rate in the world, but if we do not create regular jobs, it does not matter. Madam President, I would like Then you have to raise your eyes and see how and where you can create more real jobs. Small businesses play an extremely important role there. According to the Swedish Agency for Growth, approximately 50 per cent of Swedes are willing to start their own business, but unfortunately only 10 per cent do so in the end because they feel that the current regulations that give six months' leave are too short. You just don't dare to make your dream come true. This is a proposal adopted in 1998. At that time, aid was adopted for the start-up of business activities, also known as starting a self-contribution. But the law authorises leave of absence for only six months. It is an old law that was passed when the Swedish labour market looked completely different, and it does not match today's challenges because we need more and growing companies. There are therefore some parties in this House who want to extend the time to at least 12 months. It is a proposal that is more in line with how the Swedish labour market is developing today. Madam President, I would like The first step into the labour market is often a substitute. However, an employee on leave for six months is very rarely replaced because the company considers the time to be too short. If the rules are extended to one year, more people will have the chance and the security to invest in their dream without getting rid of their employment protection, and that gives more people a chance to get their foot into the labour market. It is only to be regretted that the Social Democratic Government does not go along with the challenges and developments we have in the Swedish labour market when it chooses to call for rejection of the proposal with the help of the Left, the Green Party, the Center and the Liberals. That the Left and the Green Party choose to support a rejection, I fully understand – it is in their DNA – but that the Centre Party and the Liberals, who consider themselves to be business-friendly parties, choose to vote 'no' is strange. Madam President, I would like It is not possible to debate Swedish labour law without entering the EU and the influence of federalists on the Swedish labour market. Unfortunately, this is a development that is going in a negative direction. The Swedish Democrats are a party that values cross-border cooperation and is pleased that Sweden is conducting a dialogue with other states in various forms. Here the EU has an important role to play, which was the basis for the creation of the Union once upon a time. It is therefore worrying to see that the social pillar is now challenging the sovereignty of nations and national sovereignty. Madam President, I would like Today, unfortunately, there are political parties in this House who are actively working for the EU to have more influence on the Swedish labour market and seriously threaten the Swedish model, which has served our country so well. It is only to be regretted that the government, headed by former Prime Minister Stefan Löfven, opened Pandora's box and was driving the establishment of the social pillar without understanding its consequences for Swedish labour market policy and the Swedish model. It could not have escaped anyone in the Chamber or in the country. Through the EU's proposals under the social pillar, we can see that guidelines are being renegotiated in order to become binding in the long term, and that is something that threatens the whole of Swedish labour law. But I will, Madam President, not just stand here and complain about the government. It also does good things. I am pleased that the government, together with the Swedish Democrats, is saying no to the reintroduction of lex Laval. It is an introduction that would open up further threats to the Swedish model and create unhealthy competition on Swedish construction sites in particular. The statistics are clear here. The removal of lex Laval has not impaired the availability of seconded workers, but instead contributed to the fight against labour crime and unfair competition. These are areas where there is still much work to be done. Together with long-term unemployment, these areas are the main problems today in the Swedish labour market.
i-JKX4u1dCnhq6Q8rruMKNEF	Madam President, I would like The subject of the day is labour law. It is a substance that touches on the substance and in the stomach, not only today but also historically. My own interest in labour law as such has been moderate. Employment protection rules, the design of rotation circles, the number excluded from dismissal and procedural rules are in themselves complex enough for me to get started, but after a long career in civil society, I have come to the realization that there is a need for codes of conduct for both employers and workers in order for the labour market to function optimally. Precise limit on where to draw the codes of conduct– there goes the dividing lines between the right and the left. But let us remember the following. Thanks to the Swedish partner model, we have had real wage increases in principle every year since the beginning of the 90s. There have also been few days of conflict, and this in turn has increased the productivity of companies. Let us continue along this path. Madam President, I would like Let me clarify further. For me, labour law is a multifaceted issue. Job security or job security? It's like the ultimate question. For me, the answer is given – for myself, I choose job security before job security every day. It is only to be noted that the labour market is not static. It changes, sometimes without the legislation keeping up. Take, for example, the emergence of the gig economy. If we really want innovation and security for those who employ but also for those who work, we need a modern labour law that weighs in interests, balances and reduces the risk premium for those who create jobs so that people have a job to go to. Madam President, I would like Right now a piece of Swedish history is being written. The biggest changes in labour law since the Saltsjöbad agreement in 1938 are hopefully soon a fact. It's been a long and tough trip. Many have tried before and fallen on the finish line. Changes that were not even present during eight years of bourgeois rule are soon placed on the table of Parliament – thanks to the Center Party. However, the greatest changes are not taking place in the area of labour law per se, but the historic one is the gigantic, world-unique conversion package that I once sketched out in my civil profession. At last, we address the single most important piece of the puzzle for the functioning of the labour market, that is, people's ability to change over a long working life. That is where the issue of job security gets its substance. Madam President, I would like Our training programmes are no longer enough for a full working life. We will have to adjust several times in order to continue to apply ourselves to the labour market. Digitization, automation – yes, dear child has many names. It places great demands on us to constantly develop competence, and the role of the state in this will be to facilitate for the benefit of our society. These changes will affect everyone in the Swedish labour market – the collective but also the non-collective. The latter group, which is basically always left behind, is now allowed to take part in this fantastic journey. These changes will create mobility in the Swedish labour market for the benefit of groups with weaker roots in working life, such as young and foreign-born. The disadvantage is that it takes time for structural changes to take effect. The real effects may not be seen for ten years. But let us be proud today that the state is going in with over SEK 8 billion a year over a business cycle and that the parties in the Swedish labour market are going in with at least as much. Together we take responsibility for the Swedish labour market in real life. Madam President, I would like We will return to this debate in connection with the parliamentary examination of the proposals, so I will close that part. Today, the main debates are on the motions put forward by each party in the area of labour law. We in the Center Party have a number of requests in this report. They concern, among other things, the regulatory framework for a more flexible working life, an issue that has proved to be increasingly important with the pandemic. But we also come back to a centre party stick horse, namely proportionality in combat measures and the reintroduction of lex Laval. We are, of course, in favour of all our reservations in this report, but for time to come, I am only in favour of reservation number 21. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to touch on the question of the fundamental limitations of the Swedish model of partnership which are in danger of being the consequence of all the EU's proposals for directives in the field of labour market. This is not a development that we from the Center Party are accepting. We have even warned of this since the Social Democrats got a feeling and pushed through the social pillar. Now there are proposals – the minimum wage directive, the directive on wage transparency, the directive on platform work, the balance directive, the working conditions directive and so on. This is the consequence of the tone deafness of the Social Democrats.
i-NE1GgYsBxQxCwpqex9wifi	Madam President, I would like I just have a short question. I have listened to Alireza Akhondi here and above all to the Center Party in the debate over the past year and noticed that it really takes the lead in the fight for the Swedish model, both in Brussels and here in the Swedish Parliament. At the same time, they say forcefully and clearly that they want to reintroduce lex Laval. Lex Laval is a threat to the Swedish model. Reintroduction will contribute to wage dumping and more. I know that from my own experience after 26 years in the construction industry. I worked in the field when lex Laval was introduced in Sweden and saw the consequences. I have also seen the results of the removal of lex Laval. It was not as the Center Party and other parties feared. I would like to hear how Alireza Akhondi thinks when with one hand he defends the Swedish model and at the same time with the other hand he likes to shoot it in mind.
i-W5NuULN7jSQ1aPaUvt5XMJ	Madam President, I would like I thank Magnus Persson for the question. The Swedish party model is fantastic. I just reported on the amazing results of the fact that we have a good and solid structure in the Swedish labour market, such as real wage increases and few days of conflict. Let us also remember that 90% of the Swedish labour market is covered by collective agreements concluded by the parties. This is a development that we, as the Center Party, actually accept and think is reasonable, without forgetting the non-collectives, who are also important to take part in this journey. When it comes to the issue of wage setting and the parameters that affect wage setting in the Swedish labour market, I would have to give a lecture. I would need a picture in which I explain the mechanisms for how wages are put on the Swedish labour market. I will spare the House this exposition, but I note that lex Laval and the principles surrounding the right to establish in other countries on the free market do not affect the Swedish wage setting model. That's not how it works today, and Magnus Persson needs to read into a little more.
i-DUCycBEh5enF6aKJ16pHKy	Madam President, I would like When I listen to Alireza Akhondi, I notice that he does not understand or do not want to understand the consequences of the introduction of lex Laval. It affects the Swedish labour market and the Swedish wage formation. We can go back to the construction industry. There it is that posted workers can have minimum contractual pay agreements. A seconded construction worker can work in Sweden for SEK 178 per hour. It's perfectly normal. The cut salary of a Swedish construction worker is SEK 224 per hour, so it is a form of wage dumping no matter how you twist it and turn it around. Alireza Akhondi therefore believes that Swedish construction workers simply pay too well. I do not know how it rhymes with the preservation of the Swedish model, where it is in fact the parties who agree on the wage setting. I urge Alireza Akhondi to go out in real life and look at what lex Laval did on the Swedish construction market and what it meant for Swedish employees. I myself had to take part in warning and dismissing people at my company because we could not compete with the companies that used posted workers. The fact that it does not affect Swedish salaries, as Alireza Akhondi stands in this Chamber and says, is absolutely not true.
i-LSMmPXcSpPrtG6URpeMRMh	Madam President, I would like I have had a long civilian career before I became a member of Parliament, including as a labour market expert at an employer's organisation. So the issue of wage formation is not a new one. The lecture on how wages are put on the Swedish labour market I would like to turn my back on. When it comes to the construction industry's challenges, we have some structural problems regarding the supply of skills. This means that companies feel compelled to seek skills abroad. These structural problems have certain consequences. We see, for example, that there is a fairly widespread crime in the construction sector. This is not a development that the Center Party supports in any way, but we see the same problem as Magnus Persson. However, the methodology for tackling the issue does not end with restrictions on freedom of movement and companies' ability to establish themselves on the Swedish labour market.
i-5wh2v2dyaGXAfG27F6RqFR	Madam President, I would like Strong labour law is crucial for workers' security in the labour market. This gives the individual worker basic protection against the discretion of employers. At the same time, it gives workers a collective strength. Strong labour law thus contributes to smoothing out the fundamentally unequal power relations between workers and employers. Most of the actual relations in the Swedish labour market are regulated by collective agreements. This is a good order that provides stability and flexibility. However, the agreements relate to the provisions of the law. Problems which were not foreseen in the drafting of the law or which were directly caused by changes in the law are often addressed in collective bargaining, but this does not mean that the legislative process can ignore them. Madam President, I would like In recent decades, the Employment Protection Act, LAS, has gradually been eroded. The order of business rules have been amended, the period of re-employment rights has been shortened and general fixed-term arrangements have been introduced. In addition, the practice, through the actual actions of employers and the judgments of the Labour Court, has clearly shifted in the direction of employers. The proportion of precarious jobs has increased and the degree of union organisation has decreased. The security of workers has thereby gradually weakened, as has the common strength of the workers. The power of employers has been strengthened at the expense of workers' security. Madam President, I would like The Left Party has 11 reservations in this report, and I would very much like to raise them all. But with respect that you do not want to hear me Mass all day and for the voting not to be so insanely long I still choose to only lift reservation number 6. Fixed-term employment plays an essential role in the labour market. It must be possible to take in substitutes when employees are on parental leave or sick or enter the Riksdag, for example. And it must be possible to employ extra staff at temporary work gatherings or when specific knowledge is needed for a limited period of time. But the problem is that many employers systematically use fixed-term employment. This gives them incredible flexibility in the moment, which goes out on the employees but also on great, important social values. In the original version of LAS, there was a clear regulation of fixed-term employment. The temporary contracts were separated from the permanent contracts in such a way that the fixed-term employees could not be used to carry out the same work as the permanent employees. Until further employment, the norm and fixed-term employment were an exception. During the 1980s and 1990s, changes were made to the LAS which opened up for the wider use of temporary labour. Over time, fixed-term employment increased to a large extent. Since 2000, the proportion of temporary workers has remained fairly constant, with some minor ups and downs due to cyclical fluctuations. In 2020, however, 14 per cent of all employees in Sweden had some form of fixed-term employment. Madam President, I would like Not only that – for the last 15 years, temporary employment has become increasingly uncertain. The explanation is that temporary employment consists of several different types of employment, and it is the most uncertain forms that have increased. It is, as I mentioned earlier, general fixed time and various forms of needs. At the same time, the safest forms, i.e. the usual temps, have been reduced. There are also major differences between the different groups in the prevalence of fixed-term employment. As happens, workers, women, out-of-European born and young people are overrepresented among those in precarious employment. The industry with the highest proportion of fixed-term employees in 2019 was a hotel and restaurant, where 42 per cent were insecure. Madam President, I would like Of course, being employed on temporary contracts has enormous disadvantages for the individual. Life cannot be planned, the economy is uncertain and in the workplace you are constantly at a disadvantage. It is more difficult to engage in trade unionism and to disassociate yourself from injustices and problems at work. Temporary employees are also offered to a lower degree skills development and have lower wage development. Not having a permanent contract of employment makes it difficult to sign a rental contract or to take out a loan to buy a dwelling. Insecure employment is a major source of stress and anxiety, especially among young people. Research studies show clear links between mental illness and precarious employment. Insecure employment thus gives a precarious life. Temporary employees pay a high price for employers' demands for flexibility. When the number of fixed-term contracts becomes too high, it also affects the working conditions of permanent employees. For example, a survey carried out by the Association of Trade Unions among shop and warehouse workers shows that many fixed-term employees are in a worse condition, but even those who are permanent employees are allowed to take a heavier load because they have to constantly train new colleagues. It has a lower number of permanent employees and a low staffing rate. Madam President, I would like General fixed-term employment was introduced by the bourgeois government in 2007. Since then, together with several trade unions, the Left Party has called for the removal of fixed-term general employment from the LAS. In fact, since 2017, the Social Democrats have also supported such a demand, following a decision at the Congress of the Party. However, neither the former nor the current S-MP government has unfortunately put forward any proposals on the matter. So the problem remains. In the debate, it has been argued that these problems should be addressed first and foremost in negotiations between the social partners. But the basic problem has been created by the drafting of the law, and that is where it should first be resolved. Today's design gives a very one-sided advantage to employers and builds discretion into the system. Employers have nothing to gain from regulating this in collective agreements, while the problem is greatest in areas where workers are already in particularly vulnerable situations. Therefore, if the issue is to be regulated by collective agreements, this means that the organisation of workers must pay for something that the legislator should never have opened up to. The DS based on the parties' agreement in principle proposes that general fixed-term employment be replaced by special fixed-term employment. It is a good thing to move to more secure working conditions, but the basic problem remains. The employer still does not have to give any objective reason to limit the period of employment. Madam President, I would like Finally, the Left Party therefore believes that LAS should be amended to remove general fixed-term contracts and to introduce objective criteria for the eligibility of fixed-term contracts. In this part, the law should continue to be semidisproved, i.e. that the social partners in key collective agreements can agree on the appropriate forms of employment in each sector. The Employment Protection Act should therefore be amended. Madam President, I would like I apologise very much for taking over a little bit of time, but this is a subject that is important to me and to the Left Party. Thank you for your time!
i-Lv7oFpJo2FtUZdQHtBEA9v	Madam President, I would like ALVA, general fixed-term employment, is great. The Left Party has the accumulated empirical research against it when sawing this. I just wanted to say that. But I have a brief question for Mr Ciczie Weidby and the Left Party. You say you protect Swedish workers. The historical package of the LAS transformation addresses a lot of the shortcomings that exist in the Swedish labour market. It is a question of people's possibilities for conversion, for example. Can you say today that you will vote to improve the ability of Swedish workers to develop and develop their skills in the Swedish labour market, so that they can continue to apply to the Swedish labour market in the future as well? Can you make such a promise?
i-QXFNoE6Aw5CMC9gq7d3uBX	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, Alireza Akhondi, for taking a line on me! I heard in your speech that there is almost no one in the whole Parliament who has as much knowledge and experience of life outside the Riksdag as you have. Madam President, I would like I've been working for a long time in LO professions, too. If there is one thing I have been fighting with, especially since 2007, when the general fixed-term employment was introduced, it is that companies should not exploit this and stack these terrible jobs on each other. It was months when you went through thick paper boxes with individual employment contracts because you're only employed on the exact day you're there, and you don't know when you'll get to come next time. I don't know how many times I've comforted colleagues and members who say they're insanely stressed out having to sleep with their cell phone on their chests because they're hoping to get an extra time in the cash register the next day, and if they don't respond fast enough, they're missing it. All the empirical research I've been looking at says that our precarious employment leads to precarious jobs and ill health. You get very curious about what research it is that Alireza has access to that says that general fixed-term employment is such a fantastic form of employment.
i-6cwXAxTuvygy6tjsU1XhBU	Madam President, I would like Just google. To recite a lot of reports from IFAU and others is useless. Literacy should be a requirement. Ciczie Weidby avoided answering my question, so I repeat it. Will you vote to improve Swedish workers' opportunities for skills development in the Swedish labour market in the future? It is a very important question when one claims to protect Swedish workers. Then you can't get around the question and don't answer it. It just gets wrong. I would very much like answers from Mr Ciczie Weidby and the Left Party.
i-QuS47T7bcEZYZbcC3JSXoP	Madam President, I would like It's an interesting tone that Alireza has towards me. He refers to Google and literacy. In that case, I could exactly the same way ask Alireza Akhondi to just google and read what the Left Party thinks and thinks. To question whether the Left Party is defending the Swedish workers is being ragged in a way that does not benefit this debate at all. When it comes to what we think about the LAS agreement, conversion and competence development, just google and read, Alireza, and you will find out. It is fantastic that we agreed on good conversion protection and competence development for workers. Alireza would have known if he had somehow been familiar with the policy of the Left Party.
i-J75YzkWdR3Y7T4FtSyXNjS	Madam President, I would like I will begin by saying that the Christian Democrats obviously support all their reservations, but for time winning, I only call for reservation 16. Labour law in Sweden is, as it should be, based on legislation. But then it's a little different, because we leave a lot to the social partners. It is usually called the Swedish model. It means that the parties – employers and workers' organisations – negotiate and arrive at a joint outcome. This has benefited Sweden well and has a very strong political backing. Not least the Social Democrats tend to claim that they are the driving force and guarantor of the Swedish model. All the more spectacular is it then that a Social Democratic-led government succeeded with the trick of eroding the Swedish model by arguing for and joining the EU's social pillar. This means that Sweden will have to fight again and again against proposals from the EU. It can be about minimum wages, transparency directives and platform directives. It is a plethora of things that belong to the social pillar that we in Sweden do not want. If the Social Democrats and the government led by them had kept a tight grip on the Swedish model, we would have avoided all this work now. Madam President, I would like Politics is sometimes a funny game. The Christian Democrats have been arguing for a long time that the exceptions to the rules of rotation must be increased, not least given how much special knowledge there is in many companies and, Madam President, that it is not certain that the person who possesses special knowledge is the person who has been employed the longest. In many companies it is exactly the opposite. When we have presented this over the years, it has been considered completely impossible from the left side, completely devoid of reality, as quite wrong, simply, and as something that would break everything and everyone and perhaps not least the Swedish model. But now that the social partners have been wise enough to agree that more workers can be exempted from the rules of rotation – the proposal from the current two to three – silences criticism from the left. The number three is suddenly considered to be the height of wisdom. Sometimes politics is funny, isn't it? So you can go from thinking that this is terrible to thinking that the number three is the height of wisdom – I should think that as a Christian Democrat in itself is good. I am delighted that the parties have taken a step in the right direction, but there are still enough reasons to continue working for the future so that more people can be excluded. We are currently proposing that four be excluded. But the figure is perhaps not the decisive one, but the crucial one is how we can ensure that companies can retain skills, develop and fight in an international market. This is crucial for Sweden's future. Madam President, I would like Sweden is an example in the world when it comes to parental insurance. It's amazing. However, there is more to be desired in terms of flexibility and in terms of adultising parents in terms of being able to make the best decisions for themselves and their children. Madam President, I would like I am absolutely convinced that there is no situation where politicians are better at making decisions for the individual family than the family itself. Here there is an obvious difference between how the left side and the Christian Democrats view family. When we Christian Democrats want to increase the ability of families to govern their own reality, the left side wants to continue to govern more. When we want to introduce the right to unpaid leave five days a year and a parent until the child turns 18, the left side says no. One argument is that it could affect equality. It is an excellent example of the fact that the family is not considered to be able to make rational and wise decisions about their own reality. No, it is then thought that politicians can judge better. Madam President, I would like The free movement of goods, services and labour is a cornerstone of European cooperation. The single market within the EU creates the conditions for good economic growth and is essential at a time when Europe is being challenged by emerging economies in other parts of the world. For workers in companies providing services temporarily in another EU country, there are specific rules in the Posting of Workers Directive, a directive implemented in Swedish law by the Posting of Workers Act. The government's criticised approach to demanding a special collective agreement for posted workers is far too far-reaching. With the abolition of the rule of evidence, action can be taken even if the minimum conditions of the so-called hard core are met and only to achieve a specific collective agreement on posting. As a result, a seconding employer will not be able to stop fighting. This makes it less attractive for companies from other countries to come here, thereby hampering free movement. In addition, abolishing the rule of evidence is very likely to be incompatible with the EU legal principles of proportionality and mutual recognition. The rule of proof, Madam President, was generous to the trade unions, as it provided far-reaching opportunities for an employee organisation to take action as long as a posting employer could not demonstrate that the posted workers had essentially equal conditions with Swedish workers in the field of the contract in question. The very word is that the posting employer should prove that this is the case or, in other words, that it is beyond reasonable doubt that this is the case. It is unclear how the government can improve the control possibilities for workers' organisations by removing the rule of proof. Ensuring good conditions for those who work in Sweden, no matter where they come from, is a matter of course. But the consequences of government policy mean more protectionism and less concern for those who come here to work.
i-2VWt9zjLzBnf7tzUTzJNgH	Madam President, I would like The report we are debating today concerns labour law. We Liberals want to highlight in particular the proposals we have to improve the situation of workers who are victims of bullying and harassment. We have, in a number of motion requests, called for a government investigation to produce improved and strengthened legislation. Unfortunately, the majority of committees reject this and refer to some general ongoing investigations. However, work on harassment and bullying in workplaces has been going on at least since 2018 with various additional directives, and now there is a final report on the government's table. But I see great risks: the longer it takes and the more you postpone this in some department, the lower the probability that it actually becomes something concrete through proposals to Parliament. We will have to wait, Madam President, and see if the government makes any such proposals, depending on how things go in the September elections. We have also tried to raise the situation of the long-term unemployed and those who are weakest in the labour market – addicts and former criminals. We ask for insurance and information about Krami at Arbetsförmedlingen, so that we still have that toolbox. Now it is referred a little briefly to a regulatory letter that the government decided on in December. But I can assure you, Madam President, that throughout the winter there have been very worrying and worrying signals about how this will be for the important labour market and social policy, I would say, the Krami business. It is an activity of ex-criminals who need hands-on and personal support. They need to meet people who know their situation. This is very staff intensive. And we heard today in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs that there is a category of long-term unemployed who demand a completely different support from the state and society. Therefore, we think it is an important complement that the state has its own operations. I will later this afternoon have an interpellation debate with the Minister for Employment and Social Affairs on the activities of Mr Krami in the Employment Service. Finally, what we want to mention and particularly highlight is the importance of more ways into the labour market for those who do not enter at all, those who are outside. We have a record long-term unemployment rate of 180 000. 100 000 of them, Madam President, have been unemployed for over two years. That's over 360,000 enrolled at Arbetsförmedlingen. About half of them were born outside Europe. And half of them have no upper secondary education. That is why we are calling in this report for new opportunities to be created, job opportunities without entry requirements, so that new arrivals and young people can be brought into the labour market. Many of the fine reforms that we also support – conversion packages, skills initiatives, opportunities to resold – we have absolutely no problem with. There, however, is the focus on those who are already in different types of occupations and are in the labour market. But the Liberals also want to highlight the need for entry jobs. That is why we will also call for the approval of reservation 4 in the report, in which we want to follow up on the requirement for entry jobs, which reduce the cost to employers and where the state goes in more actively and supports newcomers and young people under the age of 23 who do not have a secondary education in order for them to actually enter the labour market. We see light points. Youth unemployment is falling in Sweden, which is positive. But the fact that it remains above 9% is alarming to me. Over 40 000 young people aged 18-24 in Sweden still lack opportunities, and many of them neither study nor work. The risk is double exclusion – that you do not have the right education and that you do not get into the labour market. Even weaker positions on the labour market have the new arrivals and those who have been short in time in Sweden. That's why admissions are important. That is why it is also important to create jobs, as this report refers to. But we have not yet seen the smoke. The Social Democrats reject all liberal proposals. What are they referring to? What are the options? Surely these cannot be extra services, which we have debated several times, where only 3% move on to real jobs? Nor can it be the announced start-up jobs, because they do not exist yet. They have been postponed from 2017 to 2018, to 2019 and to 2020. And the government said last time that they might be coming in the first half of this year. Or is it the labour market programmes that are to receive foreign-born women? Only 20% of those enrolled in labour market programmes in the Employment Service are women. There, the agency has failed completely in its gender equality mission. Finally, with regard to the intensive year of new arrivals – for those who have been a short time in Sweden – as a way into the labour market, this reform has not gained the strength and impact that we expected. It's way below forecast. Barely 700 people are enrolled. There must therefore be more ways into the labour market if we are to seriously break long-term unemployment in Sweden.
i-36ZMuFoqHxWJfvha8SjHZF	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of all our reservations, namely reservation 7 on the right of older people to remain in employment higher than they are, and reservations 24 and 25 on strengthening the work against bullying and harassment in the workplace. Madam President, I would like In other countries, people become presidents or take other important positions due to old age. In Sweden they are considered to passé quickly. The Green Party believes that we need to enhance the skills and experience of older people. In the government, we have been involved in raising the age limit for entitlement to study funding from 56 to 60 years. This is an important first step. We want to move forward and also ensure that those who want and have the opportunity can remain in their employment for much longer. At present, the Employment Protection Act gives every person the right to remain in employment until the age of 68. In 2023 the age limit will be raised to 69 years. However, we believe that the right to remain in employment needs to be even higher in the years. Work is an important health factor for many, and I do not believe that we, as a society, can turn down people who want to continue to contribute through work. In a broader perspective, it can also contribute to reducing ageism in society. I therefore believe that the government should return to Parliament with proposals to increase the limit on the right to remain in employment. Madam President, I would like In Sweden it is illegal to bully children. At school, teachers and other school staff actively work with students with values and equal value. When bullying takes place, the Ombudsman for Children can help with support and guidance and tell you where the children can turn when they are in trouble. The School Inspectorate and the Children's and Student representative can also be involved. Several municipalities have been convicted and have had to pay compensation to children who have been caught. In Sweden discrimination and harassment are also illegal. If you are discriminated against or harassed at your workplace because of your religion, skin colour, sexual orientation, age, disability, gender or transgender identity, you can contact the Discrimination Ombudsman and file a complaint. In several cases, damages have been awarded to individuals both in the area of discrimination and in the area of gender equality. There is also the Consumer Ombudsman who takes advantage of the interests of consumers and the Ombudsman for Justice who defends the rights of individuals to be legally and properly treated by authorities. Of course, if crimes have been committed, the police can also be involved. It is widely known that there is adult bullying in our workplaces. It is also common knowledge that employees who are bullied at their workplaces can suffer both psychological and physical injuries. On the other hand, it is less known that when bullying takes place outside the areas mentioned, i.e. discrimination and harassment, the adult bullied person is completely unable to obtain legal redress or compensation for the harm suffered by that person. This is a vulnerable group that often suffers from both mental and physical problems as a result of bullying. It is difficult to make ends meet if you need to change jobs or get sick leave due to bullying in the workplace. If the bullied police report the bully for harassment, the result is often that crimes cannot be justified. And a large number of bullied employees commit suicide every year. Today, therefore, there is a lack of clear legislation to protect those who are subjected to harassment in the form of bullying in the workplace. The Work Environment Act allows preventive work, not punitive work, in this area. There are also no external bodies or ombudsmen to address at national level. Therefore, those exposed to bullying in the workplace have at best the workplace's own staff policy to lean on. However, if bullying cannot be classed as discrimination or harassment, workplaces cannot report employees who bully other employees. If the perpetrator of the same sex and has equal pay, the same ethnicity, the same religion and the same physical status, discrimination or harassment cannot be claimed. The victim is often left alone, even though unions, staff health and others involved are doing the best they can to help the bullied. Most often, the bully is allowed to change places of work, while the bully is allowed to stay. There is no legal scope for redress or punishment in the field of abusive treatment. Nor does the Ombudsman stand on the side of the wronged person. In other words, discriminatory treatment is an unpunished adult bullying if the workplace itself does not act on the problem. I believe that this is a gap in legislation. In order to overcome the fact that employees are exposed to discrimination in the workplace, this needs to be punishable. I therefore believe that the government should set up an investigation to produce a proposal for a new law against harassment in the workplace. We also need to set up an ombudsman to collect information at national level and to provide support and information to employees who have been subjected to bullying at their workplace. With better knowledge, we can investigate and work out proposals for further action on the problems of bullying, leading to high costs for both the individual and society.
i-2xjwVZKn28KZTxvBVsmKkh	Madam President, I would like So today we are debating the AU7 report on labour law. It is a motion report that deals with all the motions that Members of Parliament and parties have written about labour law, and it is – as always – many motions to deal with. What we can see is that most motions and claims do not differ significantly from those of previous years; it is still proposals to reduce job security in various areas that pervade the movements of the bourgeois parties. At the same time, we can see that the world around us has changed a great deal in recent years. The Covid-19 pandemic has hit the whole world hard, and the labour market has changed as a direct result. Some industries have been hit harder than others during the pandemic itself, such as trade, restaurant and tourism. Many young people had to leave the labour market at the beginning of the pandemic, and for many it is difficult to get back in. In fact, what those people need now is more security in the labour market, not less. Over the past year, we have also seen clear benefits from a strong partnership model and the importance of collective agreements in the labour market. We see how quickly and effectively the social partners signed short-term lay-offs agreements at the beginning of the crisis in order to prevent major lay-offs and abuse of key skills. The parties quickly and effectively took responsibility for Sweden's companies to be able to restart quickly when the crisis one day is over. The parties have also concluded negotiations on security and transition, and some of the negotiations have focused on labour law. The proposals have now been taken care of by the government, which recently sent the matter for referral to the Law Council. It will be further discussed in the near future. We Social Democrats welcome the fact that the contracting parties have taken responsibility for creating stable conditions for the labour market in the long term. There is often a broad consensus in the debate on the importance of preserving and safeguarding the Swedish model and on the fact that the role of the parties in the labour market is crucial to the rules of the labour market. When the parties agree, the policy shall respect it. However, this report shows that this is not always the case. For example, there are some reservations where it is not considered that the parties' agreement on the rotation rules is good enough. A party wants to extend the exceptions, and one wants to reduce them. But the very essence of a negotiation is that it is a worthwhile and take-up, and a result of the negotiations is being carried out in full or not at all. As political parties, we cannot examine the outcome of the negotiations and poke in the parts that we think are wrong for various reasons. It is the social partners who have negotiated, and if we respect the Swedish model, we also respect the outcome of the negotiations as a whole. As late as 2019, the conflict law was changed as a result of the parties' negotiation of a modern conflict law. Nevertheless, we see no less than four reservations in this report aimed at changing legislation in this area. Here the parties agree, and we have delivered what they have negotiated through legislation. We Social Democrats believe that we should respect the party model and stand up for it and therefore not review the parties' agreement in this case either. Another section of the report deals with posted workers. Here I can see that, as in previous years, there are several claims to reintroduce lex Laval. One main argument for this is that it would now be less attractive for foreign companies to come to Sweden and do work and that the right of trade unions to fight for collective agreements would hamper freedom of movement. This argument has been put forward by the bourgeois parties for many years. What we see in reality, however, is the opposite. The number of posted workers in Sweden remains high and also increasing. In 2021 – which was still a pandemic year, one should remember – it is about 55 000 people, which is an increase of approximately 15 000 people compared to the previous year. We Social Democrats, of course, want the posted labour force to have good working conditions and that order and order should apply to the Swedish labour market as a whole, not only for the sake of the employees, but also for the sake of companies and the conditions of competition. In fact, there is no reason to reintroduce lex Laval, but rather to ensure that more of the seconded workers are covered by collective agreements and that checks on workplaces with many secondees are becoming more and better. There has been some talk about the social pillar here today. It is not an area directly affected by this motion report, but I think it is worth recalling that the social pillar is not an initiative which in any way transfers decision-making powers between the European level and the national level. On the other hand, it expresses an ambition that Europe should be a continent that offers good social conditions to all its citizens and where the free movement of capital, which facilitates the market, must be met with an increased ambition for good living conditions. Workers and citizens should not be subjected to arbitrary treatment or a poor social level of welfare. I understand that this is not an ambition that the bourgeois parties embrace, but the idea that the social pillar would be the reason why, for example, the discussion on minimum wages comes up is actually innovative, or whatever it is to be called – possibly on the verge of lying. Minimum wage requirements have existed since long before the social pillar came into being and had come up completely regardless of the social pillar. Criticism of the social pillar is rather an expression of not wanting social rights to be an EU-wide project. You might think so, but you should use the right arguments for it. With this, Madam President, I would like to support the proposal in the report and reject all motions.
i-S7vkHoi9wUWKJ2AQTWwKqa	Madam President, I would like I think something has gone wrong here, because Anna Johansson's speech must come from before 2018. She explains that there are a number of proposals from bourgeois parties – motions for motion which she calls for rejection, as she has always done. The point is that in a few weeks' time the Social Democratic Government will propose the absolute majority of what bourgeois parties have been exercising for a very long time. Then the Social Democrats themselves will implement what they promised dearly and sacredly during the 2018 election movement that they would never implement. They refer to party discussions and such, but say that a moderate government had done the same. Anna Johansson and the committee colleague Patrik Björck and others had been in the ceiling and turned around. They would have thought this was terrible. It would therefore be interesting to hear Anna Johansson list all the benefits she sees from the changes that the Social Democrats are now making to labour law. In particular with regard to the rules of rotation, it would be interesting to hear all the benefits she sees, as well as the simplification of dismissal for personal reasons. I'm looking forward to it. I am also looking forward to that debate in due course, but I think we need to hear a little bit about this here today because you might think that you are rejecting the motions on this because you are against it, Anna Johansson. But you're asking for your own refusal to make the same proposal in a few weeks' time. I would also like to ask another question. In view of all the sacred promises to never do this that you have made, especially during the previous election movement, and that you are now carrying out almost all of this yourself with a heel kick – how serious are you to take on solemn promises from the Social Democrats in the upcoming election movement? Given to breast tones, how serious are we to take those promises against this background?
i-4fZwSLKq84L6BJdjT3ioCx	Madam President, I would like If I was in Mats Green's clothes and belonged to Mats Green's party, I would be very careful to criticize other parties for breaking promises. I just want to start by pointing that out. We went to elections in 2018 to make changes to the Employment Protection Act aimed at removing planing and removing general fixed-term periods. Having said that, the parties have now negotiated. We have not implemented and will not implement unilateral deteriorations in the employment security of employees. If Mats Green claims that this is the way Mats Green claims something that is not in harmony with the truth. After all, the negotiations concluded recently by the parties balance on several different legs. It enhances the security of workers in certain respects and, in other respects, increases the flexibility of employers. Overall, it is an agreement that the parties can support because both parties have won things and have had to pay things – just as it usually is in a negotiation. Mats Green says that we reject claims on the grounds that we ourselves will carry it out later, but that is not true. What is true is that if we had made decisions politically, we would probably have done something different. But now we have handed over this arrangement to the social partners and, of course, we must respect what they have agreed. What I would like to know is why Mats Green in the claims that the Moderates remain at, which include conflict law and lex Laval, continues to insist that security for workers would be a serious threat to Swedish companies. It has turned out that this is not true – Swedish companies are developing in a very positive way with the limitations of labour law and the possibility of signing collective agreements and tying companies in this context.
i-HUWnxRkDHLgin3rcFXRXVt	Madam President, I would like Perhaps this was an answer to some question, but it was definitely not an answer to my question. Anna Johansson says that proposals have never been put forward to reduce the number of employees or to reduce labour law. Neither have we. Nor have we claimed that there have been deteriorations. It is about developing and strengthening labour law. It is of course Anna Johansson and her party who have repeatedly said, especially in the previous election movement, that these are deteriorations. Now they are doing it themselves and saying that these are improvements. It's ok when we do it. There you can see how much Social Democratic promises are worth. It is a fact, once again, that we are now only weeks away from your carrying out the absolute majority of what bourgeois parties have been calling for in a number of motions for a long time. To say otherwise is not in harmony with the truth. You refer to the fact that the parties have agreed on this, but it was also part of our proposals – otherwise legislation would be put forward. It was exactly the same as you said, and it was exactly the same as you agreed in written form. It's a little hard to get away with this. Had we done this, Anna Johansson and her party friends would once again have stood in the pulpit of the Riksdag and in what remains of the first May trains and with breast tones spoken against it. Now they are doing almost all of this themselves; so it is. How should we look at your forthcoming promises in view of the heels with which you are dealing with the promises already made, no matter how much you claim these are for your important questions? In the case of lex Laval, the Social Democrats will win only thanks to the support of the Swedish Democrats. Companies that provide better conditions than collective agreements should of course not be discriminated against in the Swedish labour market because they have their registered office in another country; that is of course completely unreasonable. Again: What about the promises, Anna Johansson?
i-C57dtc3KYBfaUuchzRHiYu	I would like to remind the honourable Member that we are talking through the President and are not using you
i-XwJ5sWyAh3B6Y8DMjTMt31	Madam President, I would like Speaking of lex Laval, it would be very exciting to get some examples of companies that have had far better conditions for employees than collective agreements and that have in some way been subject to sanctions because of it. But we can do that in another line shift at some other time. Mats Green's party has, on several occasions, unilaterally introduced changes to labour law that have cost only one side, that is to say, the workers. Changes have been made in the LAS that have unilaterally reduced the security of employees without the other side having to pay anything in the form of increased costs in any other way. What has now been agreed by the parties is a balanced proposal that responds both to the workers' desire for greater security and skills development and to the employers' need for greater flexibility. We support this. We would probably have made other assessments if we had been able to decide for ourselves, but that's not how it works. If we have left this responsibility to the parties, we must also stand up for it in full, and so do the Social Democrats. I would have welcomed if all the parties in the Swedish Parliament did so – also in other areas where the parties have made agreements, for example when it comes to conflict law. I note that the Moderates still think it should be more difficult for trade unions to hear their demands than the parties have agreed in an agreement on conflict law.
i-TzHsrbEqTsVAJ7wEUP29ox	Madam President, I would like Bengt Eliasson has asked me what measures I intend to take for the vulnerable emergency situation of the beneficiaries of assistance, with all the implications of legal uncertainty, easy-to-be-initiated investigations and lack of participation in decision-making concerning them and their daily lives and what I intend to do to overcome the above-mentioned problems. Bengt Eliasson has also asked if I and the government will appoint a crisis commission to get a quick look at the emergency situation for aid beneficiaries. LSS and assistance allowance are important efforts to ensure that women, men, girls and boys with disabilities are able to achieve equality in living conditions and full participation in society. I would like to stress very carefully the responsibility of the municipalities to ensure, on the basis of the LSS, which is a law of rights, that individuals receive the support they need. For personal assistance, responsibility is shared between the municipality and the state. However, I share Bengt Eliasson's view that many persons eligible for assistance, and also persons with disabilities without the right to personal assistance, do not have enough support to achieve full participation in society. That is precisely why this government has taken a large number of measures to strengthen LSS and personal assistance. Breathing has been introduced as a basic need, and all aids related to breathing and meals in the form of probe feeding now give the right to personal assistance. In 2020, the Government appointed a study on the strengthening of the right to personal assistance and intends to present two proposals in line with the investigation's proposals this spring. These proposals are estimated to lead to approximately 2 000 new recipients of assistance compensation. It is the largest reform in personal assistance since LSS was introduced. The proposals are also assessed as leading to increased legal certainty and predictability in the assessment of the right to personal assistance. The government has also set up an investigation to review a government headship for personal assistance. These are investigations that the government set up in cooperation with the parties in the January agreement, and there was broad support for this. In addition, the Government has commissioned Försäkringskassan to develop knowledge support regarding the assistance compensation in order to contribute to a process in which the privacy breach for individuals becomes as small as possible without any deterioration in the quality of investigations and decisions. The Government has also commissioned the National Board of Health and Welfare to investigate the prerequisites for a national competence centre on intellectual disability and autism. Bengt Eliasson believes, finally, that in the longer term the government should set up an LSS inspection similar to the School Inspectorate. There is already such an inspection – the inspection of care and care is responsible for the supervision of LSS and assistance compensation. My assessment is that the measures we have taken will significantly improve many people with disabilities. I therefore see no reason to introduce either such a crisis commission as Bengt Eliasson proposes or an LSS inspection.
i-3n93FzigvZiMMaXikiBo4v	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. This is a very important debate to conduct. I would like to start with a little media sweep of what has happened about the last two weeks. I can mention Hanna Grahn, Agneta Brave, Ulrika Bengtsson, Petra Bengtsson, Ellinor, Birgitta Beronja, Thelma Carlson, Jenny Johansson, Kerstin Larsson, Eva Ljungsten, Albin Plahn and certainly many more. This was just a media sweep this morning. Between January 2019 and August 2021, approximately 200 people per year – it becomes statistically 17 per month – received their assistance allowance withdrawn in the event of a review due to a significant change in circumstances. It has to be remembered, Madam President, that there have also been good and good reviews in this group, but after all it was an overwhelming part that, as it were, got the review against itself. Overall – with media reporting, statistics, personal testimony, organisations' loud help calls and more – it is quite clear that there is an acute crisis. I agree with the Government that steps are taken and that much is done. But, after all, it's just a step along the way. I am the first to pay tribute to the fact that we can launch the investigation into enhanced assistance from the turn of the year. But I would have liked to have seen an even earlier launch. We have also put forward proposals for greater and clearer funding and a faster pace of implementation. But it's another interpellation debate. This debate is about the existence of the crisis here and now. When I see a crisis like this, which affects the people I listed and many more, I feel compelled to take action, to do something. Such an action could be to set up a crisis commission and allow a number of well-elected people to examine what is happening and why. In the short term, you can come up with support and help for these people, who receive rejections or reductions or live in fear of it, until you have time to put in place other legislation and other things to come. It is also possible to make long-term proposals – what can we do to strengthen in the long term for more and more people, so that we can go back to the intention of the law? One thing many people testify to, not least the government's own authorities, such as the National Board of Health and Welfare in a report after a report, is that the intentions of the law are not respected. Madam President, I would like The crisis is also felt daily in the other nine LSS operations, not just personal assistance. These include, for example, reductions, refusals of escorts and contact persons, a lack of quality in group housing, misplacements of people in different forms of housing, shortcomings in daily activities and a pandemic that has hit people with disabilities particularly hard. All this together shows, Madam President, that a crisis is taking place. I cannot quite understand this huge step back, saying that there is no need for a crisis commission.
i-RAAtBhcuCTjJY4LD558XYM	Madam President, I would like Now Bengt Eliasson, at least in terms of his speech, mentioned that we have been working together on these issues for a few years. I think it would have been nice if Bengt Eliasson stood up for it even more. With the cooperation that we started this parliamentary term and the January agreement that existed, we built on many of the improvements, actions, measures and contributions from the last parliamentary term. Given that we had close and close cooperation, Bengt Eliasson also knows that we have worked and worked hard on these issues. You shouldn't try to make it sound like it would have been more, faster and easier if the Liberals had been able to decide. I don't really think it's consistent with the truth. These are genuinely incredibly difficult questions. Bengt Eliasson, like many others, knows that political decisions have not been taken that have avoided assistance. But there has been a court practice that has changed reality, not for the better, but for the worse, for example, for people who should be entitled to assistance or who are entitled to assistance but should receive more assistance. I really want to emphasise that a lot has been done. I'm not saying that's enough. I'm not saying we shouldn't do any more. But a lot is done. That is why I see no reason why we should set up a crisis commission. Instead, we are working to improve and strengthen the right to personal assistance. As I said, we have had this term of office and just before it stopped two years of review. We have breathing and probe feeding as basic needs. If you're going to change your assistance, you're going to need an investigation. A previous investigation that was passed to the trash basket by many, including Bengt Eliasson, could have given us the opportunity to make some improvements. If you do not like the measures presented, new investigations will have to be set up. It'll take time. I do not know if I have said this before in this House, but I think assistance is one of the most difficult things I have dealt with as a politician and as Minister of Social Affairs – the pandemic included, I would almost say. I do not think that we should try to make this issue seem easier to deal with than it actually is. I would just like to emphasise that a great deal is being done. We will shortly be presenting two proposals that will follow up the investigation that will increase the possibility of assistance. It is about self-care, medical supervision and narrowing parental responsibility. There will be substantial improvements. I'm not saying the last word is said. However, it is important to emphasise that it is part of the municipalities' mission and responsibility to participate in the implementation of the LSS decisions. There is reason both to examine and in various ways to assure us that you are really doing what you are supposed to do. A centre of excellence will now be set up to increase knowledge about the target group that it has to deal with and respond to. It is not least for many of the practitioners and perhaps also for the principals of the municipality.
i-8h4SSfojHWAvSQBTizbu9s	Madam President, I would like At every debate that is given and in principle in every thing that leaves my pen, I stress that we have worked together with the government. I can assure the Government of that. We have also made progress along the way. Strengthened assistance, I think, should be seen as one of the flagships of what we achieved in those years and years. I agree with the Government that there should, of course, be well-examined measures. You should know what you do when it's time to do things. I can also agree with the Government that this is a complex area. It is a law of rights that affects people's entire lives. That is why we need the greatest care and clarity in the contributions that legislation and its practitioners can actually give people in order to be their very best self. But with that said, we see every day examples of things going wrong. This applies to the state's exercise through the Swedish Social Insurance Agency and decision-making in relation to personal assistance, but also to municipalities' different management around the country of the nine other interventions. The municipalities also get to overwhelm, if we are to call it that – you have to take over after rejection at Försäkringskassan, so that there will be municipal efforts instead. When you see this, it becomes clear that the crisis is moving on. We will do good things. There needs to be many more efforts, which I hope the government will return to, or the government that will take office after the September elections. But until then, in the meantime, there is this great fear and fear of withdrawn support, increased isolation and mental illness. A report from the National Board of Health and Welfare shows how hard the pandemic has hit. When I talk to funkis organisations, they say that the National Board of Health and Welfare describes the pandemic and LSS-eligible people's fear of reconsiderations, of new decisions and of the everyday life they live in in a very good way. What the National Board of Health and Welfare did was to very clearly identify and analyse how the pandemic affected the ability of people with disabilities to access daily activities and other municipal interventions. This leads me to the conclusion that there is a need for a fast-footed crisis commission on the way forward and that we need to be prepared to take short-term measures that will last until the date when proper legislation is in place and there are investigations that will point to what is needed in the future. Then we can take a bigger step to improve the lives of people with disabilities and great needs, so that they have the opportunity to become their very best self.
i-Vo7r4eopVTN6ozESB1EitT	Madam President, I would like Of course, I agree with the last thing Bengt Eliasson said. It's not just about being your best self, it's about being able to live your life like others. That is the purpose of the LSS legislation. What Bengt Eliasson is talking about is that you as an individual should be able to understand why a certain decision has been made, for example why you have had this or so many hours, how the decision has been made and whether it has mattered if you have lived elsewhere or had another administrator. Therefore, we have recently given an assignment to Försäkringskassan to develop knowledge support for assistance compensation that can provide administrators with guidance and support in the work of documenting needs and making the assessment of needs more understandable to the individual. The support shall contribute to a process in which the integrity of individuals is minimised without any deterioration in the quality of investigations and decisions. The mission will be completed on 30 June this year. This is about tackling problems, difficulties and challenges rather than setting up a Commission. It's not that I can't see that the assistance and the LSS efforts can get better. The Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare will develop knowledge support for how the daily operations according to LSS can be designed so that those who are the furthest from the labour market have increased opportunities to acquire and retain their abilities based on their own conditions and participation in society. These are examples of how we are constantly working to ensure that those in the LSS's personal circle have the opportunity to live their lives as others and for authorities to make decisions on a good and equal basis, and we intend to continue to do so.
i-WWRQLLUKza73kMaNvTEsXJ	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. Many aid beneficiaries and LSS beneficiaries already had limited social contacts before the pandemic, and the closure and removal of many of the social interventions in the LSS activities during the pandemic has further increased isolation. As in the care of the elderly, visitors have been closed, access to common spaces restricted and daily activities withdrawn. Every day life is torn apart in these processes, families are in trouble and so on. The LSS crisis is quite powerful, and I continue to think that our duty as politicians is to both work short-term and acutely and to see the worries in the longer term. There is an increasing awareness of the longer-term concerns. We may need to debate properly which way to go and which end point we should have, but that is the essence of politics. We must also be able to say that in the short term we need to carry out a rapid review and analysis of what is happening right now and put an end to it. I would rather not see a single headline on people like Hanna, Ulrika, Birgitta, Kerstin, Albin or any of the others.
i-6oZfDPkpfyyY2qeJH694yV	Madam President, I would like I thank Bengt Eliasson for another debate, or a conversation. Unfortunately, we have a society that is not entirely equal. Not everyone has the same conditions because of growing up conditions, socio-economics, parents' background and economics. It may also be due to a disability. The government is driven hard by achieving just equal opportunities. We are making many proposals in this area, and this is no exception. We continue to work with knowledge support, reviewing the headship of assistance, with a competence centre and in terms of resources. If I may wish for interpellation debates, we would have to discuss much of the second in the LSS legislation. We have spoken earlier about acquiescence. It is the municipalities that offer this effort to individuals, and for many it is absolutely crucial that this effort works. It is not a question of having a crisis commission, but of drawing attention to it, following it up and ensuring that the legislation is complied with, because there is basically nothing wrong with it. Work continues. The assistance is in general focus, and I am pleased to say that at least a few proposals will be presented in the near future.
i-7KwxgJuZ6zgykmgAimAaGb	Madam President, I would like Roger Haddad has asked me what I and the government intend to do to ensure that SFI education is conducted with high quality. He has also asked me what concrete measures I and the government intend to take to compensate the individuals affected during the period of distance learning in the form of additional courses or opportunities to make up for both theoretical and practical elements. Furthermore, he has asked me whether the government will tighten up the requirements for training providers to adapt education and for individuals, such as those with the lowest language level, to participate on the ground so that they do not miss important points. First of all, I would like to say that some individuals and groups have been hit very hard by the pandemic. For individuals who have not come so far in their development of the Swedish language, distance education has been a major challenge. In order to reduce the negative impact of the pandemic on pupils' knowledge development, health and well-being, a total of SEK 2.65 billion was added to the budget for 2021 and 2022. The funds may of course be used in adult education. In its regulation letter for 2021, S taten's coal mill has been tasked with carrying out efforts to address, in the short and long term, the consequences for education in the school system due to the pandemic. The Swedish National Agency for Education will, among other things, develop support that facilitates the identification of knowledge that pupils have not been able to acquire during the pandemic. In order to improve the quality of adult education, the Government has also extended the State's school inspection mission in relation to adult education. The ongoing supervision of adult education and training shall be exercised from 1 February 2022 both at the level of principals and at the level of schools, rather than as in the past mainly at the level of principals. Another quality-enhancing measure is the Government's investment in vocational vocational education and training at upper secondary level in municipal adult education, so-called regional vocational adult education. These courses combine upper secondary vocational education and training with either municipal adult education in Swedish for immigrants, Sfi, or Swedish as a second language, sva, and with supportive efforts aimed at giving students increased opportunities to reach the goals of the education. The aim is to provide additional resources per annual study place for municipalities to provide the additional support that students need. This could involve, for example, double teacher resources with both language and professional teachers or other language support. In December 2020, the Kliva study in the report "Collaborated forces – for improved quality and equivalence in Komvux for pupils with Swedish as second language" (SOU 2020:66) submitted proposals aimed at strengthening quality and increasing equivalence in SFI. As the government announced in the latest budget bill, we plan to return to Parliament with a bill based on the investigation's proposal.
i-4FcwsNQcBKfEa5RdvhyquN	Madam President, I would like I thank Minister of Education Anna Ekström for her answer to my interpellation about Swedish for immigrants and adult education, with a special focus on Swedish for immigrants. This issue is important for the Liberals. We give priority to school and integration, and one of the main tools of the state to get people into work, not least women born abroad, is that more people can cope with SFI education, because language is the key to good integration. This obligation, which is why we raised this issue already in the summer of 2020 to assess the effects of the pandemic on sfi readers. We received several assignments and several examples where you see drop-outs and where students simply can't handle distance learning or for that matter that some municipalities didn't teach SFI. This made it impossible for people with a short time in Sweden to complete this education. Madam President, I would like To this we have for over ten years had the establishment reform as part of Arbetsförmedlingen. There people are written into the establishment programmes for the first two years. A central part of the whole state's integration, labour market and education policy is to get these people into SFI education. This is primarily carried out on behalf of the municipalities. Then you can do it on your own or procure it from private operators. It is no secret that SFI has become a lottery when it comes to quality. We don't know exactly what the presence looks like all the time. We get different reports of lack of quality. The other day I read an audit report in my own municipality. It criticised the governance of adult education and, in particular, the SFI in terms of the objectives it sets and the frequency with which it follows up this important activity. For example, it was considered that the principal's parameters when looking at the activity are not even relevant, not to mention the lack of competence of those who teach these courses. For example, the Public Employment Service is asked if it knows what the presence is and if people actually show up in SFI education. Today, there is no national requirement to collect data on the presence of SFIs. Madam President, I would like In all my years, I have heard, whether it has been at municipal or national level, all politicians and party representatives say: we want a good presence. It is important for the flow, for integration and for people to enter the labour market. But then we do not always meet all these expectations that politics creates by ensuring quality. The fact that the state now goes in and provides more resources for the State's school inspection is great. We are strong supporters of the State School Inspection. But I see continuing difficulties for a national authority of a couple of hundred employees nationally to be able to ensure follow-up and that we have an SFI operation throughout the country that is crucial not least for integration.
i-Q1okreCKXST9PX6xc96rKv	Madam President, I would like Thank you again, Roger Haddad, for the question. That is an important issue. It is an issue in which, for a number of years, we have spent considerable resources to ensure that SFI education can work in the way we want it to. It should be a way for those who come to Sweden to get the knowledge of the Swedish language and about the Swedish society needed for them to be able to take a job, continue to educate themselves but also be an active social participant who is involved in taking responsibility for our democracy. I believe that Roger Haddad and I are united in the wish that we want every child in Sweden, Madam President, to see Mom and Dad having breakfast and then going to work or to education. They will grow up in homes where work and education are obvious to Mom and Dad. Sfi has a very important role to play in this work. That was one of the reasons why we appointed the Kliva investigation, which has made proposals. Its proposal has been out for a referral, and we are now working on its proposals. The government has said that we will return with feedback on its proposals. We said that last time in the budget proposal. At the same time, everyone listening to this debate knows that neither SFI nor any other activity in our country has been unaffected by the pandemic that we have been living in for two years. Think, Madam President, if two years ago we had known what the two years that we now have behind us would be like. What if we had known what heroic efforts have been made by participants in SFI, teachers in SFI, principals and educational providers? They have had to turn into an activity that has been admirable in view of the conditions. But I'm sure that too many participants have been far from what we want the SFI education to be. The weaker your language skills in your mother tongue, the weaker your writing skills and reading ability are in your mother tongue, the harder it is to learn Swedish, especially in adulthood, and the more support is needed by a present teacher. Nevertheless, remote and distance learning has been applied. Because of this, we have also ensured that the very group we are talking about should have had an opportunity to come in and have local education also during the time when the pandemic was ravaging at its worst. The government has also had a very active dialogue not only with the Public Health Agency but also with the organisers working with adult education, both independent and municipal actors. We have also ensured that we have had a constant and lively discussion with the teachers' organisations so that we have had good opportunities to take advantage of the requirements that have been in place for this business to function in a way that meets reasonably high still. Madam President, I would like I am absolutely not satisfied with the SFI education that our Swedish SFI students have received during the pandemic. But I am very proud that Swedish SFI education could also be there under the most difficult conditions. I am also very pleased that we were able to invest in the combination training that we, together with the Liberals, developed in a number of different rescue packages during the pandemic. I am, of course, prepared to continue the work of monitoring developments in adult education in general and SFI in particular and to come back with the proposals that may be needed to ensure that students who have had SFIs during the pandemic have good opportunities to enter our society.
i-9x4o5B4mSCvvkuzhG9wG7J	Madam President, I would like It says in response to my intervention from the Liberals on SFI education that a number of billions of dollars have been allocated to the pandemic to deal with its consequences. We have, of course, contributed to those resources ourselves. Then I know that the lion's share of that money hasn't gone to SFI. They have mainly gone to upper secondary school. Hopefully, the upper secondary school has also benefited from these initiatives because we saw great risks for a knowledge gap there. We have also seen the pace of knowledge in SFI. It was the Liberals, Madam President, who called for national scrutiny to assess the state of knowledge. It was an assignment that the Swedish School Inspectorate and the Swedish National Agency for Education then received and was presented during the winter. One of the conclusions we received from the Transparency Council at the School Inspectorate, where I sit as a member, was that adult education and especially the SFI students were the ones most affected by the pandemic, not least because of distance learning. These can be technical possibilities, home conditions and, not least, their linguistic prerequisites. That is why we are keen to know how much of the funds that the Minister is highlighting have gone through precisely the SFI education. It is 40% like those in adult education who take part in SFI activities. It is a significant activity throughout adult education in the country. As I said earlier, it is absolutely crucial for integration and, not least, for bringing more foreign-born women into the labour market. We want to know how much of the funds have been allocated to adult education in order to be able to make assessments and draw political conclusions. We still want to know how to compensate those individuals who have not received elements. This applies regardless of whether these are theoretical elements or, which is by far the most common, whether they are practical elements. This applies if it is combined vocational training and sfi education, of which we are strong supporters, but of course also language training. If you do not have access to the teachers you cannot discuss and you do not have the proximity to support and dialogue. This is shown by all studies from both the Swedish School Inspectorate and others who have investigated SFI before. Distance learning is not good for this target group. The problem, Mr President, is that a great deal of the criticism of the quality and shortcomings of SFI education and adult education shows that the situation has perhaps worsened during the pandemic. But it has been so for many years. I note that in almost every parliamentary term a new SFI is being set up. That if anything indicates that there is something in the system that is not good enough. We are not satisfied with either the knowledge step, the management of the knowledge step, the flow of knowledge, the presence or the competence of the teachers. It is really incredible that the political system, from state level to municipal authority, has allowed this important activity to have been managed in this way. That is why I believe that the governance of the state must be much stronger, beyond what is announced in the answer.
i-HNJXDE8Quk26U7C5vyvBmi	Mr President, I would like to Roger Haddad notes that the lion's share of the SEK 2.65 billion contributed to the entire school sector in the form of additional contributions during the pandemic has not gone to SFI. I agree; the lion's share of these resources has not gone to SFI. But, of course, the equation is that the 2.65 billion is far from the lion's share of the state efforts that have gone to the local and regional activities during the pandemic. In fact, Mr President, during the pandemic, we have provided the municipalities and regions with historically large resources. It is many times more than the 2.65 billion that Roger Haddad and I are now discussing. It's been necessary. It is because whether it is a pandemic or not, it is the municipalities that are responsible for municipal adult education. It is in municipalities that responsibility for resources, quality, access to education and the implementation of education exist. It is worth recalling that although municipalities may have outsourced this, responsibility remains with the municipalities. Therefore, Mr President, I agree with Roger Haddad that it is not, of course, the School Inspectorate who should be responsible for resources or quality. That's what the principals are gonna do. It is the municipalities that have been given this responsibility by law. It is they who have a tax right and who also have state resources to carry out the task. Although it is the responsibility of the municipalities, the government has chosen to make extra investments during the pandemic. I'm proud of it. It was absolutely necessary. The 2.6 billion directly to the school system and the other large billions that have gone to municipalities and regions have indeed been needed. What about the students who attend SFIs, have they received the education and instruction they need? No, Mr President, I, like Mr Roger, am concerned and concerned that the consequences of the pandemic have had a negative impact in this area too. What do we do about this? An important contribution is, of course, to ensure that there are good municipal resources in the future. We will ensure that we invest in a well-being that meets the standards, including SFI. We will ensure that there will be room in the municipal budgets in the future to ensure that pupils who may have a paper that they have learned something but who have in practice missed this element because of the pandemic will have the opportunity to supplement the future. This will be an important contribution for the future. Here, of course, will be the support material developed to discover and find out what knowledge gaps may be of great importance. Therefore, Mr President, my conclusion is that this debate should be about how much we invest in our publicly funded welfare. How much are we prepared to invest to ensure that we have a good, safe and secure welfare that is there for us throughout our lives? I can only note here that with the political choices that the Liberals appear to be making, it seems that they are choosing the side of politics that will not have welfare efforts as a priority.
i-JRQ13B2w1ZUUJ6Q2BxxQr5	Before I give the floor to Mr Roger Haddad of the Liberal party for his closing returns I would like to welcome my college, the Speaker of the Walloon Parliament, and his delegation to the Swedish Parliament. They are our guests today. We bid them a warm welcome always the weather in Sweden is much colder than in Belgium. You are most welcome to the Swedish Parliament!
i-6Hgw5MWEp99ysWvU4PqgGM	Mr President, I would like to It is stated in the reply to SFI education that the additional state funds can be used for adult education. However, I still do not receive a response from the government to the extent that it has strengthened the municipalities and the independent actors involved in this important activity in order to compensate those who have lost during the pandemic. Anna Ekström and the government are trying to shift part of the responsibility to the municipalities. It is they who conduct adult education and, not least, SFI. But the state investigates the issue almost every term of office, most recently in the so-called Kliva investigation, because the state is not satisfied with quality, equivalence, throughput and presence. It is not possible, Mr President, to just say that it is the municipalities that have the right to tax and that they are the ones who are going to implement this. We, the state, and ultimately the government, also have a very great responsibility to ensure quality. With regard to the extra money for the School Inspectorate, I have a direct question for the Minister. Yeah, they get more money. However, register data is missing, and for the Swedish School Inspectorate to be able to go down not only at municipal or main level but at school level, data registers, data and information about the supply are required. I would like to know if the Minister is prepared to change the regulations so that the State's school inspection can go into the catalogue in order to carry out the mission they have received from parliament and government. Finally, it is the State through the Public Employment Service that the first two years of establishment have the ultimate responsibility for the entire establishment programme, where SFI education is an important and central part. In this way, we also have an interest in and a responsibility to monitor quality. As things stand right now, it is under all criticism and a pure lottery depending on where you happen to live in the country.
i-76hS5Zg6wqLYCvzP74oVYD	Mr President, I would like to Unlike Roger Haddad, I am proud of the SFI education conducted in the country. I wouldn't call it a lottery, and I wouldn't say it's beneath any criticism. On the contrary, I see how SFI teachers and participants are fighting together for the participants to acquire the knowledge of the Swedish language and the Swedish society that is needed to be able to take place in our common community. I will work hard to ensure that SFI teachers get even better tools and even better conditions. I will work hard to ensure that the municipal sector and our common well-being receive the resources they need. I will also be very careful to continue to ensure that the municipalities take on the responsibilities that they have under law. Roger Haddad calls it shooting away to remind us where the responsibility lies. No, Mr President, responsibility for quality and resources and the fact that the mission is carried out in a legally secure, efficient and qualitative way lies with our municipalities. The municipalities should take that responsibility. The state should continue to contribute with the resources that may be needed in extraordinary times, for example during a pandemic, but the responsibility for SFI lies with Komvux. Our joint responsibility, Roger Haddad, is to ensure that they get the conditions they need. I am prepared to continue to take that responsibility.
i-AYAqDL7tupb4nyj3F4cHbs	Mr President, I would like to Boriana Åberg has asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure that independent research can also be carried out in controversial areas. Boriana Åberg has also asked me whether I intend to initiate an evaluation of the application of the Ethics Review Act. The questions are based on an individual matter on which I cannot speak as a minister of state. Academic freedom and the freedom of research must be protected and strengthened; it is an important part of a democratic society. In Sweden, freedom of research is protected by the Constitution and the Higher Education Act (1992:1434). The Government has also proposed, and the Riksdag has decided, that under the Higher Education Act as a general principle in the activities of higher education institutions, academic freedom should be promoted and protected. However, the free search for knowledge and the free dissemination of knowledge must always be carried out within the legal framework that exists, including the Act(2003:460) on the ethical review of research concerning humans, what we call the Ethics Review Act, and the Act( 2019:504) on responsibility for good research practice and the examination of misconduct in research. The Ethical Testing Act is designed to protect the individual and respect for human dignity in research. The Act therefore requires that certain research related to humans must have been approved in an ethical review by the Ethical Review Authority before it can be carried out. An authorisation relates to a particular project or part of a project or research in a similar manner. Researching on people without an ethical review permit, or contrary to such a permit, may include research methods that pose a risk of harm to a research person or violation of someone's personal integrity. The decision of the Ethical Review Authority may be appealed to the Board of Appeal for ethical review. The Board also supervises the Ethics Review Act. The Board of Appeal's supervision covers, on the one hand, research that has been approved for ethical review and, on the other, research that is carried out where there is no authorisation. Enforcement decisions relating to injunctions or prohibitions may be appealed to the General Administrative Court. I can therefore see that the regulatory framework means that questions of ethical review are examined by several different bodies. The free search for knowledge and the free dissemination of knowledge must always be exercised within the existing legal framework. Although research has legal freedom, certain limitations apply. One such restriction is that the people involved in research should be protected. Furthermore, the inviolable human dignity must always be respected. In this context, ethical review, which is governed by the Ethics Review Act, plays an important role.
i-YWU6ViyMWeiasTaqbSbnSU	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for his reply. However, I did not understand that the Minister answered the two specific questions I raised in my interpellation, namely whether the Minister intends to initiate an evaluation of the application of the Ethics Review Act – yes or no – and what measures the Minister intends to take to ensure that research can also be carried out in areas considered controversial, such as the over-representation of immigrants in rape statistics. The Minister returns several times in his reply to the fact that the purpose of the Ethics Review Act is to protect the individual and respect for human dignity in research. We are in complete agreement on that. What we are debating today is whether it is reasonable that pseudonymised studies can be equated with studies on people and whether the Ethics Review Act is intended to be used as a weapon against research that does not suit the rulers. In a pseudonymized study, no one can identify the people included in the study, either the people themselves, the researchers or anyone else. The researchers only have access to a code key that they can submit to the Statistical Office for anonymised data. It is deeply dishonest to claim that register research with completely anonymous data would be researching people or violating someone's personal integrity. These data can never be linked to any individual. In his reply, the Minister is arguing about researching people without an ethical review. In the case that the Minister does not wish to comment, the responsible researcher has all possible ethical review permits. Besides, she hasn't done research on people, but on statistics. She has permission from the European Research Council, which has carried out an ethical review. An external ethics consultant has been hired and has reported that everything is in order. The responsible researcher has applied for and been granted a number of changes to the permit during the years of the study, in accordance with the current regulations. The responsible researcher has hundreds of published scientific articles. In fact, she is the most cited medical researcher at Lund University. She's a doctor, a professor and a manager. Can the Minister imagine what a stigma it is for a doctor to be accused of being unethical and being charged with it? It is sad, to say the least, that the researcher's name should be dragged in the dirt by a board appointed by the government, the Board of Appeal for Ethics Review. Does the Minister think that the Ethics Review Appeals Board has really acted in accordance with the intentions of the law?
i-8smh5mpBzX4bBEosCgmWyk	Mr President, I would like to As I said at the outset, I cannot comment on individual cases. I note that Boriana Åberg uses 90% of her reply time to discuss a specific case in detail. According to what she just said, Boriana Åberg believes that this interpellation is about whether it is reasonable that research on people can be equated with the use of register data and whether this regulation is intended to be used as a weapon. I leave it to those who listen to this debate to judge for themselves whether Boriana Åberg's discussion is about the questions that Boriana Åberg raises in the interpellation or whether Boriana Åberg uses the time to discuss just one particular case. I note that we have legislation on ethical review. One of the reasons why we have this legislation on ethical review, Mr President, is that research questions should be asked – also, Mr President, on controversial issues. In order to protect it and ensure that the research can really go into fields that the researcher believes need to be researched, we have an ethical review in order for this to happen within the law's landmarks. In order for this to be handled wisely, we have an ethics review board. The activities of this Ethics Review Board are reviewed by the law enforcement authorities that review our authorities. The decisions can be appealed, and there is also a regulatory framework dealing with supervision. As I cannot enter into a discussion on the individual case, Mr President, I am staying there.
i-8LavuGHfTS1mzvC412e92z	Mr President, I would like to I understood that the Minister considers that the Board of Appeal for Ethics Review operates in full compliance with the intentions of the law. I am very divided when I hear this, because there are very many experts who believe that this is not the case. They even believe that the Board of Appeal for Ethics Review is a research-ethical disaster – a research-ethical disaster, Mr President! If the Board of Appeal for Ethics Review continues its progress so far, it will affect Swedish research very negatively and also damage Swedish research reputation abroad. The case of Lunda researcher is not the only example. There are several. Two professors in Uppsala conducted sampling for covid antibodies in a group of friends and acquaintances through regular finger-stick tests. The Board of Appeal for Ethics Review notified the professors to the prosecutors for the fact that blood sampling is a physical procedure and can only be carried out if it has been approved for ethical review. This was done during a pandemic when it was very urgent to obtain information as soon as possible – but not according to the Board of Appeal for Ethics Review, which considered that finger-stick tests endangered the health of individuals and respect for human dignity. At the same time, Mr President, those Members of Parliament who so wanted to undergo covid antibody tests were able to do so by the same method here in Parliament. I am sure that none of these legislators perceived the voluntary stick in their finger as something unethical, let alone a lack of respect for human dignity. Mr President, I would like to It is clear that the law in this case has taken a stranglehold on ethics. In Today's Medicine, three highly qualified ethics experts wrote last year that the ethical review has shifted the focus from the protection of individual patients and investigators to a bureaucratic process where legal and formalistic interpretation of the legal text has come to the fore. I think that the Minister should listen to these experts and ensure that the ethics review system is reviewed. It is unacceptable for Swedish research to be governed by bureaucrats who interpret the law in the wrong way. The danger is obvious that when researchers who have followed the rules are reported to prosecutors, few will dare to start or participate in research projects for fear of reprisals.
i-UGdcb7k1fpdEdkkPZ2P1jK	Mr President, I would like to If I could say in the previous speech that Boriana Åberg used a large part of her speaking time to discuss an individual case, I can now note that Boriana Åberg extends her discussion to more individual cases. Boriana Åberg also takes the right to decide for herself what should be considered as intervention because Boriana Åberg seems to think that if members of parliament submit to various forms of sampling, it would in some way affect how Parliament's legislation is to be interpreted. Mr President, I would like to The Parliament has decided on an Ethics Review Act. The Ethics Review Act has certain criteria, some of which are written down. When the Riksdag has passed a law, it is in the Swedish system, our Swedish model, that it is authorities that apply the law, in this case the Ethical Review Board. The authorities have an independent responsibility to apply the law in the way our legal tradition offers. If it is the case that there are wrong decisions, there is a legal order that allows for appeal and where a superior court can correct a possible wrong decision. It is also the case that, to the extent that these authorities report matters for prosecution, an independent prosecution is carried out within the framework of our prosecution system. This trial may also be subject to review and eventually be the subject of a court hearing. This is how we handle legislation in Sweden. We ensure that it is authorities and courts that decide in accordance with the products developed by the Riksdag. If Parliament wants to change this, I advise Boriana Åberg to write a motion on the matter – not to devote interpellation time to discussing in detail difficult legal positions.
i-E78wQ18HYKwnJUgx4AaLF5	Mr President, I would like to I would like to say that several individual cases form a pattern. And behind each law there is an intention – in this case that research should be conducted according to ethical forms but that at the same time you should not persecute researchers who have fulfilled all the rules and have all kinds of permits. As regards the possibility of appeal against the appeal by the Appeals Board for ethical review to the prosecutor, this is not possible. It's the court that's the last instance. It is sad that this is being tried in this way, not because the courts can be blamed in any way, but in the case that the Minister does not wish to comment, the report came to the Supreme Prosecutor, and she then said that she had to check with the Board of Appeal what the crime would exactly be. Usually prosecutors are very aware of what a crime consists of. On the Government's website, you can read a quote from the Minister for Education, which says: It is a legitimate goal to pursue. Free research, however, requires free researchers – researchers who are not afraid that the facts they come up with may displease politicians and researchers who do not risk prosecution due to fabricated violations of the Ethics Act when working with anonymised data.
i-UoCAfuNrFgfgoAraPgRW8n	Mr President, I would like to The freedom of research and academic freedom are important issues. We cannot take these freedoms for granted. As has just been said, at a time when right-wing nationalism is on the rise in several European countries, Sweden is to be a beacon for free research. Unfortunately, in recent years we have seen a number of examples of threats and hatred against individual researchers both in Sweden and in other countries. That cannot be accepted. At the same time, however, freedom of research means freedom under responsibility. A great responsibility is placed on researchers to work to ensure the quality of research, to benefit the public and society and to uphold the ethical and legal principles accepted by society. For example, it may concern the selection of research objects, methods and use of the results. The freedom of research, as I said, is so important that it enjoys constitutional protection and protection in the Higher Education Act. However, the freedom of research does not mean that the university or those working at the university are outside the laws, nor do the laws relating to ethical review, which are produced for a reason and in which I, Mr President, see one of the most important reasons why we have ethical review in the research: that we should be able to ensure that we can conduct research on the subjects and use the methods that the researchers consider necessary. For this to work, we need to have an ethical review framework, and that ethical review framework is, of course, there to be compliance. Once again, I would like to remind you that it does not matter how many examples are given. I will not comment on individual cases.
i-W6LXMh7RT6q4MFvtEkoCLS	Mr President, I would like to Magnus Persson has asked me if I intend to work for proposals to increase leave to start my own business from six months to at least one year. One of the Government's objectives in working life policy is to create the conditions for a working life that meets the needs of both workers and employers for flexibility, security and influence. Workers' needs can be met, among other things, by the right to leave employment to pursue an economic activity. Under the Act on the right to leave to pursue a business activity, an employee is entitled to such leave for a maximum period of six months. However, there is no obstacle to an employer and an employee agreeing on longer leave. At the time of the introduction of the law, the government considered six months to be a well-balanced time as a fundamental right following a balance of employers' and workers' interests. The government is not making a different assessment today. The Government therefore has no plans to amend the Act on the right to leave to pursue a business activity. The government is actively working for a good business climate. The Government has, among other things, implemented a number of measures to make it easier for those who want to start a business. There is access to information and advice from both private and public actors, such as Almi Företagspartner AB and Tillväxtverket. Information and services are continuously being developed and reached, among other things, via the public authority's common portal affakt.se. Since 1 January 2020, the requirement for share capital in private limited liability companies has also been halved to SEK 25 000. The Government also works continuously to simplify the business environment for entrepreneurs and in September 2021 submitted to the Riksdag the letter A simplification policy for strengthening competitiveness, growth and innovation capacity. Through this, the Government decided on simplification policy objectives that create the conditions for concrete simplification work in the future. The government has also referred to the report Simplification for micro-enterprises and modernisation of the Accounting Act, which includes a number of proposals for concrete simplifications of the regulatory framework for micro-enterprises. The Government Office is now preparing the proposals. In addition, the report is an improved protection system for entrepreneurs – simpler and more predictable now for consultation.
i-KLMMNaNNGv3D9ioLtjKUtc	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for Employment for his answer, although I had hoped for a more concrete response. The answer is mostly about measures for a good business environment, and we think that is a good thing. I don't see any problem with that. However, that was not the idea of my interpellation, which is about how one looks at adapting the regulatory framework to what the labour market looks like today and where the jobs of the future are created. It is no secret that small businesses are responsible for those jobs. In 1998, when the decision on six months' leave was taken, the labour market looked quite different from what it is doing today. The industries dominated, and far more than today had a real job to go to and not a subsidised one. Mr President, I would like to Now our labour market looks like it does, and we need to lift every stone. To offer those who start a business for a longer period and longer security also increases the incentives for success, while at the same time creating pathways to the labour market for other individuals. We know that tomorrow's jobs are in small businesses. For me and many others, it therefore feels natural to develop the regulatory framework in the direction that the labour market is developing. Leave from one job also creates jobs for someone else, but when leave is six months, companies usually refrain from taking in someone new. On the other hand, with twelve months' leave, a person often receives a substitute, which is often the first step into the labour market. The Minister for Labour is happy to explain why the government believes that the 1998 regulatory framework should remain in force and not be revised despite the huge changes in the labour market. The number of people who want to start a business is increasing enormously, and they feel that the six-month limit is a problem.
i-VDf2nSBzSC7GojxjF8varv	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister. It's an exciting subject. I agree with the Minister that some things have been done, such as reduced share capital, which I think is great, not least because limited liability companies are always safer and safer than an individual company. The Minister also mentions preparations and letters prepared by the Government. A lot of that's good, too. With regard to the criticism that has been levelled at precisely the simplification work and the possibility of more companies being set up, the Minister is, of course, right to say that it is easy to set up a company. The problem is to create long-term profitability for companies. That is the challenge itself. You usually talk about maybe a couple of years before the company becomes profitable. If a person does not have a capital to begin with, it takes a lot of sacrifice, energy, power and long nights to get this on its feet. We in the Swedish Democrats believe that twelve months is also too short in normal cases, even if it is better than six months. We would like to see more small businesses, because it is small businesses that are creating jobs, as my colleague mentioned. After all, four out of five jobs are created by small and medium-sized enterprises. Back to the letters and the preparation, the criticism that has been levelled at the government is linked to these measures that it is little too little and that there are no concrete objectives for this particular simplification work. It is more of vision and thought than concrete objectives. I believe that objectives are crucial to achieving what we want to achieve. I think it was IFAU that came up with a report a few years ago that had investigated who is hiring who on the Swedish labour market. What was found to be very interesting was that people born in another country have a higher tendency to hire people from other countries. There were a lot of different theories about why this is the case, and given that we have huge long-term unemployment and a lot of people who are far from the labour market, not least people born outside Europe, I think it would be quite logical to simplify for small businesses. Simplifying people to start their own businesses rather than spending money on labour market measures that cost very much but give very little back is a win for the state. I am curious to hear how the Minister for Labour is discussing this. For me, that logic is very simple, and I think the Minister feels the same. I therefore wonder why we do not choose to invest more in small businesses than, for example, in subsidised employment. It's a real question.
i-YWAeXfXiTvq8euqbWdV9Vk	Mr President, I would like to I share Magnus Persson's and Alexander Christiansson's view that Sweden needs more companies. It should be easy both to start and run companies in Sweden. It is extremely important that our companies are prosperous, because that is how we can also create more jobs. That is how we can ensure our prosperity over time, so it is clear that these are extremely central issues. With regard to the specific issue of the interpellation of the length of leave for self-employment, it is essentially a question of balancing different interests. Firstly, it is of course about the employer's interest to be able to plan and operate, and secondly, it is about the employee's interest to have enough time to start up his business. This balance is difficult, but we have not seen any reason to change that deadline today. The right is valid for six months, but there is nothing to prevent an employee in dialogue with his or her manager asking for longer time, which can be granted if the employer makes that assessment. All of this is, of course, a balance, just as much on the Swedish labour market. As Minister for Labour, I see how important it is that we have a well-functioning labour market in which we can weigh the interests of employers and workers and create the best conditions for new jobs and more companies that should be both easy to start and easy to run.
i-WKutKJ85H2gCvUkLJ1U4sP	Mr President, I would like to My colleague Alexander Christiansson took some of my line with his speech. But what I'm a little hung up on is why the government is not prepared to even look at adapting the regulatory framework. After all, we must be very much in agreement that the labour market today certainly does not look like it did in 1998. Then one could in a utility community like the one I come from go down and knock on the door at the factory and get a job if you did not want to read further. That is not what it looks like today. We have a huge alienation today. We have almost the highest unemployment rates in the EU, with almost 180 000 long-term unemployed. Fewer and fewer people with a regular job will support more people. Things are going the wrong way in Sweden. I think we are 10 million inhabitants in Sweden, and about 5.2 million have regular work. That is quite the wrong development. Why does the government see it as a problem to look at this? This would benefit everyone. This would above all increase employment and give those who want to start a business the chance to do so. Of course, you can increase your leave in consultation with your employer, but then you do not have the security that you would have with a statutory proposal. I would like to pass this on to the Minister. Why do you see such big problems with this? I know that there are factions within the Social Democracy who may be somewhat opposed to entrepreneurship. That's the way it's always been. And there are cooperation parties that do not like entrepreneurship. I hope, however, that this is not an ideological issue. I would like an answer from the Minister as to why we do not want to look at this. It has been a long time since 1998, and it is quite different today.
i-CpVQfjiD9qygo33s1uqB97	Mr President, I would like to It is quite clear that we share the image of the role of small businesses in growth. It is when you link it to unemployment and to being a labour market measure that there is a certain difference, as I see it. However, neither I nor my colleague Magnus nor the Swedish Democrats as a whole believe that it solves all the problems only by extending the possibility of starting a business. Of course, this is not the case, but this is a small detail in a big puzzle. We believe that it is still an important part. It is growth, innovation and job creation that we want to get through this. In the proposal that we have put on the table about those who are professionals and want to start a business, it is not just an extension of the time that you should have the opportunity to be free or the conditions that you can get to start your business, it is also a question of compensation. We believe that during this period we should be able to receive a remuneration which is roughly equivalent to the unemployment benefit. We have also been open to reviewing the possibility of providing it as a beneficial loan. However, we have not quite landed there yet. The bottom line is that we see this as a central labour market measure. You can't agree on everything. That is why we have democracy and a parliament. I am content with the Minister's reply and thank you for the opportunity to raise this issue.
i-QbZdd1WziycxpauvFddSrB	Mr President, I would like to I share Magnus Persson's view that the labour market has really changed since 1998. There is a big difference today with what it looked like 23 years ago. The government is, of course, prepared to review regulations when the labour market changes and when there is a need to make changes. A clear demonstration of this is the proposals that we will be putting forward at Parliament's table in the spring. Through them, we are changing the Employment Protection Act to increase flexibility for employers and, at the same time, increase security for employees. Together with this, we are presenting a historically large change package that will give employees in the Swedish labour market the opportunity to change throughout their working lives. You should be able to study up to a year with about 80 percent of your salary. We are doing this because we are seeing changes in the labour market. There is a great need to make regulatory changes and to come up with new reforms. I also see that it increases the opportunities for employees in the Swedish labour market today to be able to try out entrepreneurship. You should be able to change and become an entrepreneur or go to extra training and then start your own business. The government is, of course, prepared to continue developing labour market policy and to ensure that people have the opportunity to change, further train and start a business. We want to see more growing companies that create jobs and create wealth in Sweden.
i-D9BSYnkwfnm6Dfe65gqspp	Mr President, I would like to I agree with much of what the Minister for Employment says. We're gonna turn every stone around to create jobs. And I think it would have been a very small stone to turn around if you created a measure that was simply about extending a commitment. It would have benefited a lot of people. According to the Swedish Agency for Growth, about 50 per cent of Swedes are willing to start a business, but only around 10 per cent do so in the end. The major obstacle is that six months are considered to be too short. You don't feel safe in your efforts to set up a business. I hope the government really listens to this and takes it with it. We have a labour market that looks different and that will look different. We will never return to the old labour market, as it used to be, because of digitalisation and so on. The simple jobs don't exist. They're rationalized today. There is no such thing in industry. Even if you often talk about the simple jobs, they will never come back. We therefore have enormous problems in the Swedish labour market in terms of how to get all the people into employment outside the labour market today. It is not a problem that only our generation can deal with, but this problem will also be left to succeeding generations to work with. It is only to be regretted that the government is not listening to this. It is small businesses and more companies we need. As Mr Alexander said earlier, this is just a labour market measure for us. It's about doing everything to create more jobs.
i-sow778Tt8hcSQQ1kEYobv	Mr President, I would like to The Government is actively working to promote a good business climate. As I mentioned earlier, we have taken a number of different measures and also taken decisions to make it easier for those who want to start a business. It is about everything from advice and information to those who want to start their own business to reduced requirements for share capital in private limited companies and better conditions for skills provision. These are extremely important issues. SMEs play a crucial role in the transformation of the Swedish labour market. Unlike Magnus Persson, I see great opportunities in the Swedish labour market. We should not forget that thousands of new jobs are currently being created, not least in all the new green industries that are emerging around Sweden. In addition, the unemployed at Arbetsförmedlingen are one hundred thousand fewer than at its worst during the pandemic. There is also a huge need for many employers to employ. However, we have two challenges. One concerns long-term unemployment. Many people are far from the labour market and do not have the skills needed. That is why we need to put in more education and make more efforts to provide people with support, but also to make demands, to get them to work. The second concerns the question of matching. We really need to ensure that the needs of employers to employ are matched with the skills that exist. That is why the new transition package and the reforms presented by the government will be extremely important keys to ensuring that employers can employ the skills they need and that people get their own jobs and livelihoods. Having said that and with these challenges, the future is bright in the Swedish labour market.
i-Ju8NobEFNtPSM8EP57ZqAk	Mr President, I would like to Alexander Christiansson has asked me what measures I intend to take in my area of responsibility to deal with the shortcomings that exist in the matching between unemployed and employers in the tourism industry. Two clear political priorities for the government are breaking segregation and creating jobs throughout the country. The government therefore continues its efforts to ensure that jobseekers receive better support to get to work and to make it easier for employers to find the skills they are looking for. A fundamental task of labour market policy is to bring together those seeking employment with those seeking employment. The unemployed must meet both clear requirements and receive appropriate support to get to work. Employment services have access to a broad range of labour market policy measures to meet the varying needs of job seekers and employers. Within the framework of a matching service, a job seeker can take part in individualised activities to get to work or training more quickly. There may be contacts with employers, support in finding and looking for jobs, information on educational opportunities and guidance. Through labour market training, the job seeker can acquire the skills required from recruiting employers. Many job seekers lack the skills needed in the labour market. In order to increase transitions to training among job seekers, the government has therefore extended the possibilities for job seekers to study with retained financial compensation when justified in order to obtain a job. The Government's investment in the Knowledge Lift has continued during the covid-19 pandemic. During 2022, the investment in the Knowledge Lift will reach its largest level with the addition of funds corresponding to over 160 000 new places of study in regional vocational adult, folk high school, university of applied sciences and higher education. The transfer of knowledge is central both to enable those outside the labour market to establish themselves and to provide opportunities for transition for those who are already established but who want to move on to more skilled jobs. In addition, the Government intends to submit a proposal to Parliament on flexibility, adaptability and security in the labour market in spring 2022. The proposals in the bill will be based on the agreement in principle that all central organisations in the private labour market are behind. In addition to improving the possibilities for transition support and lifelong learning, the TTIP also provides a better balance between different employment conditions, including how to regulate the hiring and hiring of workers. The purpose of the proposed conversion study support is to improve the conditions for adults to finance studies that can strengthen their future position on the labour market taking into account labour market needs.
i-TcrgSByfegLJvPtHdxP6uP	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for his reply. I should have had this debate with the Minister three weeks ago. I was looking forward to it, but we had to move it forward because of family quarantine and other things. Although my question in the interpellation is specific to the tourism industry, the issue is of course much broader because we see the skills issue in a number of different sectors – almost all – today. I will problematise the broad perspective a little more in my second post. But I would initially like to stick to the tourism industry, because the tourism industry is an industry that really stands out in terms of what it has suffered when it comes to restrictions resulting from the pandemic and so on. I'm sure both the Minister and I have met a great many traders who have been hit hard. It is not just a business and an economy that is affected, but there are far-reaching consequences as a result of family support and because of the psychological strain that it means as an entrepreneur trying to save their staff and try to save what is saved can by going on personal bail and so on. The discussion is normally about how much the state should go in and subsidise and provide support to a free business community. However, when it comes to this particular precarious situation, where we are talking about state restrictions where the state enters and makes real interventions that affect a particular industry in this case, it should still be very topical to come up with the kind of support that has been done during the pandemic. But I think the Minister misunderstood my question a little. I wrote: After the pandemic, the issue has become a critical point for the tourism industry, which, with light and lanterns, is looking for labour. Today there are about 46 000 registered at Arbetsförmedlingen with links to the industry. Of these, 15 500 people are enrolled at the hotel and restaurant staff's unemployment fund. At the same time, there are 7 000 job vacancies in the industry, which testifies to a bug in the system. ..................................................... Then, of course, there is a large proportion of people who are also enrolled in Arbetsförmedlingen but who may not have a direct connection to the industry. With the reality that I am describing here, education and vocational training in the field of long-term unemployment are not the measures that I am actually looking for here. Let me give you an example. I recently met representatives of a Scandic hotel here in Stockholm. They go out looking for staff, and they're not very complicated jobs, but they don't even get a single person coming for an interview. That says a lot. That's the bug I'm after. We have people who are close to the labour market and who would obviously be able to take a job, but who still do not come for an interview. What's the reason for that bug? That is my question. I thought we could discuss it a little bit. I have my theories, of course. But it would be interesting to hear what the Minister for Labour thinks about this problem.
i-FLSkJqAS1mjBueYbDHE38S	Madam President, I would like In his previous speech, Alexander Christiansson asked me a question about the fact that there are 16 000 registered at the unemployment fund of hotel and restaurant employees today, while there are 7 000 vacancies. Why is this? The honourable Member asked me to reflect on this, and I am happy to do so. There are two aspects that I would like to highlight in particular. First of all, however, I would like to comment on what concerns the unemployed registered in the unemployment fund of hotel and restaurant workers. The number of people receiving compensation from the said unemployment fund is almost at the same level as before the pandemic; in week 3 more than 4 000 of them received compensation from the unemployment fund. This can be explained partly by the fact that more people have got jobs and partly by the fact that some have left the industry. So there are two aspects I would like to highlight. Firstly, it is not certain that those who are job seekers in the tourism industry have the skills required in the specific jobs that are out there. That's where the match is very important. Some individuals may have been employed in the tourism industry and may need a matching service or training – some kind of effort – in order to take a job off where there is demand. The match is of course very important. Secondly, the industry must ensure good working conditions. We are now seeing a labour market where many employers are looking for labour. Then it is also important that the industry can provide attractive conditions so that many people want to work there. Madam President, I would like I would also like to point out that there is now cooperation between Arbetsförmedlingen and the parties in this industry. A dialogue has been initiated between Arbetsförmedlingen, Visita's CEO and Head of Skills Supply, HRF's Federal Chairman and Vice-President, where the parties look at the type of activities and efforts that can be made. This is aimed at both job seekers and employers in the industry. This is something I very much welcome. I think it is very important that the industries together take responsibility and do so with Arbetsförmedlingen and other actors, such as educational actors. There are plans for joint working groups, activities such as webinars for job seekers, regional meetings with the regions of Visita to provide information on, for example, various digital services to employers, internal information and dissemination of knowledge about the industry, and that Arbetsförmedlingen will learn more about the industry. This is something that I really want to take the opportunity to welcome. There is also a lot going on in Arbetsförmedlingen. It has a serving and chef training in 12 locations, and a further 15 locations focus solely on chef training. Now I'm talking about labour market training where there's a need from employers to hire. They work with validation of knowledge within the professional competence of chef in several locations. There is also validation against the service profession. A procurement of service training focused on sales and customer service is under way. Many other actions are also under way, such as education in garden and forest, to ensure that hiking trails and tourist destinations are nice.
i-8t1hZW9VkQukFPraeUW9n1	Madam President, I would like I thank Eva Nordmark for a good answer. The figures that Eva Nordmark mentioned about matching services are different from the figures I have. However, it can be said that this has been symptomatic for industries providing relatively simple jobs. This can be about cleaning fish and employers who do not make any demands on language or education but say: If we get people here, we teach them ourselves. Yet they feel that they do not get people to apply for the job or come for an interview, either from the Employment Service or from other services. This creates a question of many employers. What is the problem when we have so many people in Sweden who don't have a job but still don't look for a job? It can certainly be an interaction between employers and employees, speaking of the Minister's response here. There are many different aspects to this, but as the Minister will understand, it creates a question that I find very interesting and that one can almost have a little difficulty understanding. When I put the question to various member organisations, and in other forums, I usually get the same answer. One answer is that it depends on attitudes towards this type of job. Some feel that the grant holders may be too high, which means that it is not worth taking such a job. There are lots of things you can think about here. The Minister said in his reply that a fundamental task of the Employment Service is to bring together those seeking employment with those seeking labour and that the unemployed should meet both clear demands and receive appropriate support to get into work. When I talk to administrators from Arbetsförmedlingen, they think that the resources are often insufficient for the group of jobseekers who are close to the labour market. It will be an organic process. A person is given notice from a company, is looking for a new job and gets a job. The jobs are there; it is not that there are no jobs in Sweden. Every industry screams for labor. This is a giant nut to crack; I understand that. There are so many different aspects to this. This is also why we in the Swedish Democrats were in favour of reforming the Swedish Public Employment Service. We saw the problems – the Swedish labour market costs a lot in its measures, but the results are pretty bad, if I talk harshly, compared to many comparable countries. I noted that the Minister was in News on Thursday. The Minister mentioned there that every stone should be turned around to bring down unemployment. As I mentioned in the previous interpellation, we see small businesses as a concrete labour market measure. That's why I thought I'd help the minister lay out some stones. Modernisation and simplification of human resources should be envisaged. Costs linked to hiring – i.e. employers' contributions – need to be substantially reduced, generally and permanently in order to make it easier for small businesses to hire. The energy tax should be reduced, the requirements of alcohol serving should be relaxed and farm services made possible, which has also been the subject of an announcement addressed to the Government by the Parliament. The regulatory framework for dance permits and tent permits should be simplified, fees should be paid ex-post as a rule and sick pay should be lifted from small businesses. This is a type of measure that would directly help the tourism industry. Is this something the Minister would be interested in looking at?
i-UqCJhy4592uo5TP9r8vCt	Madam President, I would like If we focus on all those who are long-term unemployed, we see that what is really needed in this group is that people get the education and experience that employers need. Many of those who are long-term unemployed do not even have upper secondary education. Therefore, it is very important that we continue with the knowledge-raising efforts. We have also made sure that Arbetsförmedlingen can direct to regular education. In addition, we have made it easier for people to retain their remuneration when they study. These are very important efforts, Madam President, to ensure that people who are far removed from the labour market are properly educated. But it is sometimes also necessary to gain experience from a workplace. This is why traineeships and labour market training are important. I would also like to mention local job tracks, where I see a great opportunity for the tourism industry, together with the Employment Service, and on the basis of the needs that employers have to employ tailor-made training and efforts that enable employers to employ quickly. People who are far from the labour market are given this opportunity. It's very powerful. I met a while ago Said, who had been unemployed for quite a long time and jumped between different jobs, and the head of a construction company that needed demolition workers. Together with Arbetsförmedlingen and the municipality, you could make sure to tailor a local job track that allows Said to support itself. We need to use many different types of tools. Education is needed. We need to ensure that there are different types of actions that the Public Employment Service can assign to. We also need, of course, to make demands on people to make themselves employable and to make an effort to get into the labour market. The last thing I want to mention in this post is that we from the government both work with tools that we know works and develop new tools. We must do this as the labour market changes and as we face a major challenge of long-term unemployment. I am very pleased to be able to tell you that we recently received a positive advance ruling from the European Commission regarding the start-up jobs. It will make it easier for employers to hire the long-term unemployed and newcomers for SEK 8,400 a month. It is simple and cheap for employers. The state provides compensation to the individual, so that they land at a collective agreement level. It will be able to provide jobs for thousands of people, and it will solve skills supply problems for many employers.
i-9KKKv65sCQY9CjgNTJFrUz	Madam President, I would like Once again, I thank the Minister for his reply. I try to be optimistic about the start-up jobs and subsidised employment. But it's gonna be hard for me when the facts show different. Then it becomes a bit like doing the same thing and expecting a different result. But the issue of subsidised employment might be discussed at another time. Maybe I'll bring it up in another interpellation. As mentioned earlier, the tourism industry is a hard-hit industry. Now that you're about to start re-employment – it's about both key competences and simpler jobs – you can see that you can't. Then there will be an extra blow to those who are already having a tough time, and I find that regrettable. I've been thinking a lot about what this is all about. I can find partial solutions, but in the big picture I think that I and the Swedish Democrats in relation to the Social Democrats have a different view on how to get to grips with these problems. Be that as it may! I was thinking about what the Minister said about vocational training. I think it's a great thing. The Academy of Occupations trains truck drivers and more and has a huge result. I think it is 99% or something of them who go through their education that gets a real job. It is an amazing thing and something that we may need to invest even more in the long term. The Minister mentioned the need to make demands on those who are far from the labour market. Can the Minister concretise what is meant by making demands and people making themselves employable? What is it that needs to be done by the authority to make these people employ themselves, and what are the concrete requirements?
i-FbenFqHZdLndNhxvTvAuHM	Madam President, I would like In case of mismanagement, there are sanctions that can be applied both in the area of unemployment insurance and in terms of compensation for participants in various labour market policies. Of course, it is very important that we have that tool. But I would say that it is very much about the Arbetsförmedlingen needing to ensure that each individual receives the support that you need to get into work. The government is super clear that priority should be given to those furthest from the labour market. We also direct the authority towards being in our entire elongated country. We know how important it is. You should also collaborate with the municipalities. Often the long-term unemployed have support for their livelihoods or other kinds of needs, and it is therefore crucial to work together around them. Madam President, I would like It is now coming to light in the Swedish labour market. It is very positive that we have 100 000 fewer enrolled today than we had at worst during the pandemic. But long-term unemployment is the major challenge. This debate has mainly focused on the tourism industry, which has had a very tough time. It is now gratifying to see that the Swedish economy is recovering and that there is a need to hire. The policy should of course contribute with matching efforts, make demands and also provide support for people to get into work, for anyone who can work should work. Thank you very much for the debate.
i-KvCRuahmRofsdvzjCqYypi	Madam President, I would like Roger Haddad has asked me if the government will ensure that Krami remains as one of several adapted activities of the Public Employment Service. Furthermore, Roger Haddad asks me how I see that several localities state that the activities and support for the target group are phased out. Finally, Roger Haddad asks how the government will act to improve and develop new methods that can speed up the establishment of the labour market for the target group of people with a criminal background. Combating crime is one of the government's most important priorities. An important part of this work is to reduce the risk of recidivism. A strong link with the labour market is a key factor in the risk of reoccurring from crime. Labour market policy must therefore help to increase the conditions for each individual to get to work. The Employment Service has access to a wide toolbox that can be used based on the needs of the individual and the labour market. A functioning collaboration between Arbetsförmedlingen and the Prison Service and also with the municipalities of the country is central to increasing the conditions for each individual to have their own livelihood and work as well as a life without crime. Such cooperation has been conducted since the 1980s, including in the form of Krami. In the Employment Service's and Prison Service's respective regulatory letters for the year 2022, the authorities have been given a joint mandate to develop and strengthen cooperation. The assignment means that the authorities, in collaboration with the municipalities or other actors in the country, will develop Krami or equivalent activities in order to strengthen the opportunities of the criminal services clients in the labour market as part of the relapse prevention work. The activities will also reach more of the prison service's clients. The public authorities shall take advantage of the experience and lessons learned from the work of the municipalities where Krami is located. The assignment shall be presented by 15 September 2022. The Government considers that the ongoing work and the range of interventions that take place together facilitate and improve the establishment of the labour market. The government is continuously monitoring developments in this area to ensure that the unemployed receive appropriate support.
i-N9af2yKuZw7SG1HPNsCn1y	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Employment for the answer to my interpellation. Unemployment may fall slightly, but is still at a high level and has not really recovered to the levels we had before the pandemic – not to mention long-term unemployment, which continues to be record high and affects not only poor people and new arrivals who have been short in time in Sweden but also others who have a weak position in the labour market. There are, for example, people who come to an effort like Krami through the Prison Service, may not have been out on the labour market for many years and have no network or updated education whatsoever. Madam President, I would like I note that the Government refers to the assignment that the Prison Service and the Employment Service have received in the regulation letter. However, the reason why the Liberals are raising this issue today is that it went so far as the municipalities began to phase out their activities. It wasn't just at the planning stage, it went to enforcement. The employment agency began to lay off premises, and only in November and December, participants were contacted and said that it was no use to apply for this because it was in the phase-out phase. This was also announced to its partners the prison services, municipalities and civil society actors. So there were long - standing plans. The employment services were on the way, or are perhaps still on the way, to dismantle one of several important activities that the Liberals believe must exist for those with a weaker position in the labour market. There are still people at Arbetsförmedlingen who do not really know how long-term the government's announcement is. The Liberals must ask the Minister: why was there a special mission to produce a report to the government on 15 September? What is the purpose and motive of this mission? Can the government today give a message to those who participate in Krami's activities in around 15 locations in Sweden that they will be able to continue with this important activity? This target group is not just any. It's about addicts and maybe homeless people without contacts and networks. These are people who need much more than traditional employment services and cannot be assigned to a private operator. Staff-intensive efforts, personal contact and active management are required for these people to get into training or, as is obvious, in work. I very much hope that the Minister for Labour will be able to clarify and give some reassuring information about this important activity.
i-MQ9p486qLiv5UwYrJFUEEK	Madam President, I would like The government was reached by the same information and journalistic reviews and reports as the Liberals. It was for this reason that at a press conference at the end of December I was able to tell you about this important mission. We want to see Arbetsförmedlingen and the Prison Service develop their cooperation. This is very important as part of relapse prevention. The fact that people who have a criminal lifestyle or are in prison and want to break with it is supported to do so is crucial for us Social Democrats, also linked to the clear priorities the Prime Minister has pointed out. Breaking segregation and breaking gang crime is an important priority for the Prime Minister, and this is fully in line with it. People should break with their criminal career and work and do the right thing. That is the point of departure, and that is why I presented this in December. Now we are talking about Krami, but Krami is only part of the collaboration between Arbetsförmedlingen and the prison service. Let me highlight all three aspects of this important collaboration. The first concerns institutional cooperation. In the country's institutions there is cooperation with Arbetsförmedlingen. I had the privilege of attending a labour market training course in an institution. These are 1 800 cases a year, and there are about 200 inmates who participate in labour market training every year. There are about 40 year-olds working in institutional cooperation. The second part deals with care cooperation, and here the whole of Arbetsförmedlingen's toolbox can be used. We often talk about how important it is that Arbetsförmedlingen interacts with municipalities, non-profit and idea-based businesses and so on, but the unique thing about this is that the co-planning takes place with the prison services. Of the Employment Service's staff, approximately 35 are employed in the free-care cooperation, and there are approximately 1,600 cases per year. The third part, and the one raised by the honourable Member, is Mr Krami. It is a tripartite collaboration between Arbetsförmedlingen, the Prison Service and the municipalities. This is where participation takes place on a voluntary basis, and the punished seek to find themselves here. So it's a different kind of business. It currently exists in 15 municipalities in the country, and the aim is to help people break with this lifestyle and provide them with support to get into education or work. It is about 20 years of work in the Employment Service and the Prison Service respectively who work in Krami and a few more in the municipalities. Madam President, I would like It is important to highlight this, because, as I said, Krami is only part of the important collaboration between Arbetsförmedlingen and the prison service. The government has been very clear in this year's regulation letter that this activity should be developed. I also look forward to the report mentioned by the honourable Member. It has a few months to develop the business, and this is crucial.
i-HFPriSpvFxVZqWB8EgJNPr	Madam President, I would like I was privileged to be the political spokesperson of the law during the last parliamentary term and was then able to follow these questions from another side. Krami is an important activity, and I believe that anyone who has been in contact with this activity can confirm how important it is. The activities are also effective and succeed in getting individuals into education and work. It was not just anyone at Arbetsförmedlingen who went out with this last winter, but it was one of their top executives who said: Our collaboration with the correctional services will look different in the future. There was a signal to the local and regional employment services at these locations, and you can quickly go into SVT and see elements from Luleå, Uppsala and Örebro that confirm that they went towards a decommissioning. But then came the government's letter of regulation, and now the Liberals wonder: Is this a way, pending the reorganization of the Employment Service or an alternative plan, just to postpone the winding-up of Krami? I am aware that you have a broad palette and that you can use the whole of Arbetsförmedlingen, but for the group of individuals we are talking about, Krami is the most effective. Madam President, I would like It is important that the Riksdag is informed if the assignment is long-term or if this is only valid until September or the end of the year. In that case, we'll be standing here again in a year and talking about whether Krami will still be here. This uncertainty worries and worries me. We cannot see how other actors, civil society actors or private actors, can quickly and effectively use government expertise in terms of confidentiality, investigation, education and contacts with detention centres and prison services. If there is closure, all this will be rebuilt, and we believe that this will have negative effects and worse results in terms of employment services for this group. It would also consolidate the record level of unemployment that we already have and where many of these people are actually included in the statistics.
i-H4BmK6eyvuXNJbFML5R2CC	Madam President, I would like The government's starting point is that everyone who can work should work. A person who is in an institution or who lives in a criminal environment and has chosen such a way of life should have the opportunity to get to work, support himself and be able to change course. Madam President, I would like As I mentioned in my introductory speech, it is about creating the conditions for relapse prevention and giving people the chance of a whole new life. Labour market policy is, of course, very central to managing the priority with which our Prime Minister has been very clear. We're gonna break the segregation and break the gang crime. We will ensure that people who have chosen this course have the opportunity to make a new choice in their lives. It's absolutely central. There is no doubt about what the Social Democratic Government wants. We have been very clear in the assignment to Arbetsförmedlingen and the Prison Service. Arbetsförmedlingen and the Correctional Service will develop Krami or equivalent activities in collaboration with the municipalities or other actors in the country in order to strengthen the possibilities of criminal services clients in the labour market as part of the relapse prevention work. The activities will also reach more of the prison service's clients. The authorities shall take advantage of the experience and lessons learned from the work of the municipalities where Krami is located. We also say that the report, which will be published by 15 September at the latest, will show which actions have been implemented and are planned, how the resource allocation from each authority looks out in the operations and an assessment of the future resource needs. In addition, the Authority shall report in particular which municipalities have shown an interest in participating in cooperation. Madam President, I would like It is about creating the best conditions for people to work and support themselves. It's a long-term strategy. As the honourable Member knows from his previous mission, it is not a quick fix. We're gonna crack crime and gang crime. It is an important piece of the puzzle to ensure that people have the opportunity to work and support themselves and to do the right thing.
i-Riznnm1MgCMCixdYBqtWZ8	Madam President, I would like What concerns me and does not calm me down is the point where the Minister says that the authorities, in collaboration with the municipalities or other actors in the country, will develop Krami or similar activities in order to strengthen the opportunities of the criminal services clients in the labour market. We see several sentenced to prison for crimes. We see several people who need drop-outs to leave criminal environments. This applies, in particular, to young people. Unfortunately, we see municipalities that are cutting back on drop-outs instead of investing in social and preventive work, where work and housing are a key element. To this end, the State through the Public Employment Service, including Krami, which has proven to have positive effects and results, must be available. I repeat my question. The Minister now has the opportunity to answer the Liberal question in his final speech. Will Krami remain at the end of the year and at the beginning of next year, or is the mission's aim to develop an alternative? We therefore ask that we know that there have been criticisms from Arbetsförmedlingen that the activity is staff-intensive. It is an expensive business, and it went towards closure. The matter will now be investigated, and the mission will be submitted to the Government on 15 September 2022. If there is no doubt about what the government wants, the Minister, and that this means that Krami will continue, then say it clearly so that we in Parliament can feel calm.
i-6vi3ETiC6Z5pqDJ8yQzTAK	Madam President, I would like With all due respect, the honourable Member is really breaking in open doors here. Krami is a tripartite collaboration between Arbetsförmedlingen, Correctional Services and municipalities. The government is very clear that Krami or similar activities will be developed. There are three actors. From the government we have now been clear to the authorities that we want to see this activity develop. If it is called Krami, or if it is renamed when working with the parties, then perhaps not the most important thing in this House, but the results. It is about ensuring that people get the best conditions to change paths. I would also like to reiterate that there is a great deal of collaboration between Arbetsförmedlingen and the Prison Service. What the honourable Member is highlighting here is Mr Krami, who is the voluntary part. Today, we have an institutional cooperation involving 1,800 cases a year. We have a care cooperation involving 1,600 cases a year. We have the Krami business, which concerns approximately 370 cases per year. All of this is important. We will continue to develop labour market policy and ensure that everyone who can work in Sweden works, including those who have previously chosen a criminal path.
i-2UnF3yBVDu6JRmuumxsJGo	Madam President, I would like Kristina Axén Olin has asked me what the continued process looks like regarding the renovation of the Royal Opera. Kristina Axén Olin has further asked if there is any further information that the Minister needs to be able to decide on a renovation of the Royal Opera and when a notification of this can be given to the Royal Opera. The Royal Opera is Sweden's national scene for opera and ballet, as well as a state building memory and a culturally historicly valuable building centrally located in Stockholm, which has been of benefit to Swedish cultural life in the same place since the 1700s. Several governments prior to the government in which I am now sitting have been involved in the renovating and rebuilding of the opera building. The issue is complex because there are many perspectives that the government needs to consider: the economic, because it is about big money, the real estate, because it is about a unique and old building and, not least, for me as Minister of Culture, the operational perspective to give opera and ballet the best conditions for operating in the future. I am well aware that the building is in need of investment to meet both the requirements of the property owner and the requirements of a modern opera that is accessible to more people and has a working environment. On the Government's table are a number of supporting documents in the form of reported government assignments regarding the property, operations and finances. At the moment, I cannot tell you when the government will decide on the matter, but the matter is currently being prepared in the Council. The decision that is well made will have a major impact on the development of opera and ballet art for several decades to come.
i-7qn2qvtphSfM3xsUwrCjZm	Madam President, I would like Sweden has a music-loving people. Not only are we extremely fond and very fond of music. We're good, too. Even in an international perspective, Sweden has a tradition of being well regarded in the world, and we have among the most talented musicians and singers in the world. Of course we should have a functioning opera house and a national scene that works. The current Opera has existed since the 1700s. But the current opera house was built in 1898 with the dimensions and requirements of that time. Today it is not a functioning opera house. Already in the 70s, we discussed the need for renovation of the Opera at Stadshuset in Stockholm. In the '90s, I myself attended meetings on the future of the Opera. It has not exactly been a fast process, Madam President. In 2013, the then Minister of Culture, Operan and Statens fastighetsverk, commissioned them to develop a proposal for the renovation of the Opera House, which they also did. The final proposal was submitted to the Government in 2018. At the time, the government also commissioned the National Property Board to come up with another proposal for just one renovation of the house. It was handed over and was completed in 2019. Now, Madam President, in 2022 – three years later – nothing has yet happened. I find it regrettable that we are no longer able to make a decision so that we can have a functioning opera house in this music-loving country.
i-2JB4QYw1ySk3S5we1NFT38	Madam President, I would like How cold you are of the hand let me warm it in my You should know where nothing is to be found
i-AYNzRJXARBDqAjmGcKUUcn	We are now debating opera houses – renovation or possibly new buildings. This applies to the Royal Opera at Gustav Adolf torg here in Stockholm. It is a beautiful house from the 19th century, but time seems to have run past it. There is talk of renovating, rebuilding, expanding or building new ones. Reykjavik, Oslo, Copenhagen and Helsinki – all have modern opera houses, but not Stockholm. There is an alternative to renovating, and that is building new ones. There are sketches. This applies to Masthamnen on the south, below Fåfängan, which many know after standing and looking out over the bay from there. It would be at a lower cost than a renovation with extension, according to the sketch I have seen. At this point, I do not take a stand on what is the best solution, but I note that the future of the opera house has been occupied and investigated for ten years at a cost to taxpayers of SEK 200 million. And yet we're still at square one. None of the representatives of the Minister for Culture have managed to take this issue forward. I find that regrettable. My question, therefore, is how the new Minister for Culture takes on the issue of the opera house's being or not being. That's the question.
i-UQPXSyMpHWLqkUCqXFfC75	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Roland Utbolt, for the question! As Minister of Culture, I want to create good conditions for the Opera to complete its national stage mission to be the leading institution in opera and ballet and a matter for an audience throughout the country. The issue of renovation and reconstruction of Sweden's national scene for opera and ballet has been an important issue for several governments for more than ten years. I would like to emphasise once again that the issue is important and complex with many aspects to take into account: the property, the business and the money. Roland Utbolt raised the issue of being able to build a whole new opera house. I would like to make it clear that no investigation has been carried out into the costs of a new opera house. However, as Mr Roland pointed out, there is an external initiative. It is not unthinkable that this could mean new opportunities for the development of opera, as an older house has its limitations. At the same time, it should be remembered that this would require in-depth analysis to see the appropriateness of such a proposal. As I have said before, on the government's table are now a number of bases. As I have also said before, I cannot tell you at this stage when the government can make decisions. However, the case is currently being prepared in the Government Office.
i-5KwfUmigGnxpe2Egrdgjon	Madam President, I would like I've got the files right here. It is not very much paper to read, but I understand that the issue is complex. And just as Roland Utbolt describes, there are several suggestions. But it won't be cheaper the longer we wait. Now all investigations have been completed and are on the government's table for three years. Madam President, I would like I read aloud: The opera will be the leading department in opera and ballet in Sweden and the national scene will be at the highest level in development, renewal, artistic quality and craftsmanship in studios and workshops. The opera will act as a national stage in an international opera and dance context and initiate collaborations and promote intercultural exchange. The opera will also support innovative Swedish opera and ballet art by ordering and performing new works by both Swedish and international composers, librettists and choreographers. Madam President, I would like They don't come in with the set at the Opera because the stage opening is too small. I don't know what the government means in the guidelines to the Opera when it comes to being able to follow through this year when they can't even accept international guest performances because the scene is too small. I would still like to know, Madam President: when will the government take decisions on the Opera? Whatever direction you choose, when can we expect a decision?
i-HPLYNiNbEC8fZWc1oZpAMh	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Culture, for your answer so far. I have now listened to what Kristina Axén Olin highlighted here, and of course I also think it is important how the government makes decisions on this issue. It is in itself elections in September, and we do not really know what is happening there and what the constellations will look like. It is always exciting to think new and modern, while preserving our cultural heritage. When I have spoken to some of my colleagues today, they have raised the fine house and cultural heritage and that they would simply preserve it in some way. But I note, as I said earlier, that Oslo, Reykjavik, Helsinki and Copenhagen have modern opera houses. We do not have that in Stockholm. I see that as a flaw. The Oslo Opera House had 5 million visitors during the first four years. It has been a formidable success, one might say. After SEK 200 million wasted on projects, it is now important that the new Minister for Culture takes on this. I really hope that happens. The board of directors of the Opera recommends a new investigation. My question is therefore whether the Minister can imagine the new investigation that the Board of Opera wants. It would therefore examine the question of new construction. Let me conclude with what the Minister said in his reply: a decision that is well taken will have a major impact on the development of opera and ballet art for decades to come. This issue is so important.
i-Y3Ua8sAFPo7mKz2hfba69A	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by answering the question put by Roland Utbolt as to whether we could envisage a new opera house. I would like to say, at the risk of repeating myself, that at the same time it would require in-depth analysis to see the appropriateness of such a proposal. Then there is also a risk that it will take even longer. As I have said, it is extremely important to create good conditions for the Opera to complete its national stage mission. It is a matter for the whole country and, of course, international visits are also extremely important. The government is well aware that the building is in need of investment to meet both the requirements of the property owner and the requirements of a modern opera that is accessible to more and constitutes a working environment. The overall aim has been to meet the requirements of the property owner, create better conditions for the development of opera art and make the house more open and accessible to more people, including new audience groups. On the table of the government, as Kristina showed, is now a number of documents in the form of reported government assignments. There are many different aspects to be carefully considered, and that work is ongoing. The postponement of the decision is also about the need to give priority to issues related to the pandemic in recent times. It's been about two years. I cannot tell you at present when the government can decide, but the matter is currently being prepared in the Government Office.
i-MCZFcxb9WViYx1UereJ2m	Madam President, I would like It's just like the Minister for Culture says: It's not that the Opera is just for all of us music-loving Swedes; it's also a workplace. There are almost 600 employees at the Opera. Unfortunately, we already have a blunder today when some of our most talented opera singers choose to move and live in other countries. It is also enriching for Sweden and of course for them in its own way, but we do not want it to be because we have a completely useless national scene in Sweden and in Stockholm. We need to renovate the Opera – or build new ones, or whatever we land in. Finally, Madam President, I would just like to say to the Minister for Culture that there are many of us here who are passionate about music, and we would like to help. If the Minister for Culture feels that there is an opportunity, there are probably many of us who would like to think together in parliamentary terms about how we can find a solution that will be sustainable for a long time to come. As I said, we are a music-loving people – even we MPs.
i-GWp4fA74JPpHBgd8VmsLMc	Madam President, I would like Yeah, we're really a music-loving people, and I'm really taking that with me. I stress this once again: the issue of the renovation and reconstruction of the Swedish national scene for opera and ballet is an important and complex issue for the government. As Minister of Culture, I am anxious that the decision that is well made will enable the Opera to carry out its national stage mission. The issue is currently being prepared in the Government Office.
i-W7HvCikKeHKwSZ5PWBuKN1	Madam President, I would like Amineh Kakabaveh has asked me whether I and the government will ensure that all professional groups who come into contact with children and young people in the country's schools get the right and relevant knowledge and competence about honour repression and standards. Amineh Kakabaverh has also asked whether I intend to take steps to ensure that school principals and school leaders have the knowledge and competence of honour and honour standards needed to guide their staff who come into daily contact with children and young people, especially young girls who are under pressure of honour. Furthermore, Amineh Kakabaveh has asked me if I and the government will send a regulatory letter to the relevant authorities, universities and the school system to make them feel both support and demands to actively prevent honour repression and discrimination. Finally, Amineh Kakabaveh has asked me whether I intend to take action in my area of responsibility to stop the relativisation of the repression of honour and crimes of honour in certain higher education institutions. Let me begin by emphasising that there should be no place at all for honour-related violence and oppression in our society, least of all in school. All education in the school system should be based on our fundamental democratic values and human rights. The school has an important role to play in helping to establish the security and self-esteem of children and young people. What is important for the work to work is the relationships that those who work at school can create for the students and their homes. The Government has therefore taken several measures to strengthen the knowledge and competence of honor-related violence and repression among all school staff. Among other things, the Swedish National Board of Education has recently reported on the Government's mission to strengthen the systematic work against honour-related violence and oppression within the school system through awareness-raising efforts and support for various staff groups within the school and preschool. The Agency has, among other things, carried out a competence development effort in the form of a digital education with process support for vice-chancellors and student health personnel in the work against honor related violence and repression. The National Board of Education has also been commissioned by the Government, together with the National Board of Health and Welfare, to carry out early and coordinated development work for children and young people. Special efforts should be directed at children and young people who are at risk of honour-related violence and oppression. The Government has also decided on new curriculum texts to strengthen the teaching of sex in tet, consent and relationships. The new writings represent a clear responsibility for the school to ensure that all students learn about honour-related violence and oppression. The school will also combat, prevent and respond to honour-related violence and oppression with knowledge and active efforts. Preventing and combating honour-related violence and repression is a priority for the government. Several of the 99 measures in the Government's action programme to prevent and combat men's violence against women are particularly focused on this. The Government has implemented and implements a series of criminal law measures to strengthen the protection of those subject to honour-related violence and repression. Several authorities have also been given assignments aimed at strengthening competence about and preventing and combating honour-related violence and repression in various ways. As far as Amineh Kakabaveh's research and higher education issues are concerned, these are outside my remit as Minister of Education. Nevertheless, I can reply briefly that the government has carried out research efforts in this area. The latest research bill points out that honor-related violence and oppression is a major social problem. There is a need for more knowledge about which methods can lead to an evidence-based and effective practice, help prevent violence and other crimes, and prevent relapse into crime. Therefore, the Swedish Research Council has been tasked with carrying out a national research programme on crime. The first calls are expected to open this spring. The degree descriptions for the education that Amineh Kakabaveh provides – teacher education and socionomie education – contain clear degree goals on human rights. In addition, we have introduced a new degree goal in teacher education to ensure that all teacher students have competence in issues related to identity, sexuality and relationship. However, higher education is not regulated in detail and should not be so since the academic freedom of higher education institutions is of vital importance. Based on, among other things, the Higher Education Ordinance, which specifies, for example, the degree descriptions, the Higher Education Act and the governance contained in the university's regulatory letters, the higher education institutions are responsible for planning the structure and content of the programmes.
i-G3RNRTU2rwKq2CZBVU2hy1	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister for his answer. It is nice that we are debating for the first time in this House. I am aware that higher education issues belong to the portfolio of Minister for Education Anna Ekström. But teacher education is also important for a school minister. In its reply, the Minister refers to the National Centre for Women's Peace, which, more than ten years ago, was given a government mandate to investigate the extent to which issues of honour-related violence and oppression are dealt with in teacher education. A report from 2010 reported that only 2 out of a total of 23 Swedish higher education institutions with teacher training addressed honorary oppression in their education. And none of these colleges told of how much time was set aside for teaching the subject. It is true that a lot has happened since then, and it is good that new curricula will come into force by summer. However, since there are no follow-up studies, I suggest that the government give instructions on a new survey of the extent to which the subject of honor-related violence and oppression is dealt with at higher education institutions. This is very important, especially when it comes to the teacher programme but also other relevant professional programmes. It is true that much has been done about the legislation, but much remains to be done. It is impossible, I mean, to evaluate the results of the work to increase the competence of honour repression and violence without such a follow-up survey. It is good and important that the Swedish National Agency for Education and the National Board of Health and Welfare has received directives to increase the competence of professionals. The government's priority should also be specifically highlighted in the forthcoming spring budget. The government should take the initiative to, but also fully finance, a special knowledge boost for school staff on issues of honour-related violence and repression. I believe that school is a free zone for girls who must be supported by staff who can deal with the problem and who can understand that children are exposed to honour-related violence. This is also a preventive work and should apply to all education and training at higher education institutions and all occupational groups in which you come into contact with the target group honorably. It is not enough to reform the education of those who are currently studying as teachers, but I believe that continuing training for those who are already working is equally important. And it should not be a budget issue for the municipalities. This is very important, and I would really like to hear what the Minister of Education thinks about these issues. Will the government bear in mind that the long-term work against honour repression should be marked in the budget? The responsibility should not only be placed on the municipalities or this should only be included in the budget, because what happens then when new teachers and professionals come? This is very important given the need for preventive work for both children and parents.
i-JzRe5BffdwAxBP7cMSz4bB	Madam President, I would like I share Amineh Kakabaveh's commitment to the issue and also the sense of how complex this is. I met Bris yesterday, and they describe it this way: In common with many conversations, the children describe how their parents say that the rules, control and violence are for the children's good, in order for the child to have a good future. When I hear this, I shudder because I think that children are born without standards. They do not know what is normal and what is not, and they are part of a context where they are told that violence and repression are for their own good. Then we understand how difficult this is and how complex it is. That's why I want the school to be a free zone. That is why we have made an effort so that there are 35 000 more employees in school today than when we took office in 2014. We have also made strong efforts against segregation. I would like to point out that in some schools, if you have a student composition that is very segregated, it is very difficult to break standards. The strange thing is that everyone knows what school segregation is, but no one knows what the opposite is. When you talk about the comprehensive student composition, which will give all students an opportunity to understand how life can be for others and that will make us reflect on differences and learn things, nobody understands what it is. It is in this segregation and in exclusion that the curriculum right now becomes something very important that all children face and that all teachers have to take on board. It is therefore important for all students to have a reflection in the context of teachers. I would also like to say that there are several collaborations, as I mentioned, with the National Agency for Education and the National Board of Health and Welfare. But it is important that the whole of society is involved. This government has decided that we will break the segregation and remove gang crime, and this is actually part of it. We cannot allow things that are oppressive and criminal. That's why a lot of things are being done. The gender equality authority has been given a mandate. I also know that they work towards higher education, i.e. towards universities and colleges, so that everyone gets this knowledge. We know that the Agency for Family Law and Parental Support also has a mission from the government on this issue. The Swedish Agency for Youth and Civil Society also has a mission from the government to work on these issues in one way or another and also to identify what it looks like for young people and especially LGBTI people, who are also affected by honour-related violence and repression. Barnafrid at Linköping University has an assignment. The police authority and IVO also have a mission, as well as Sis who works with young criminals, especially boys, and will look at masculinity standards and honour repression. This work must take place broadly. No one's gonna miss that we're on this mission.
i-MT5RTN9TVY3Jc69nvWKJBH	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of School, for your answer! The segregation is terrible and reinforces the oppression of honour. I was a school counselor in Botkyrka in 2000 and was then in a school where there was not a single child with immigrant background who knew what honour oppression really was – they only knew that they were vulnerable. But if you are with the same people who are vulnerable, you never embrace freedom, so it is, and therefore we have let down hundreds of thousands of children under the age of 20. As long as the school is not nationalised, the government has to find other ways of directing schools to work better with issues of honour-related violence and repression, which the Minister was also concerned with regarding both LGBTI people and parental work. Parents need to know that the Convention on the Rights of the Child is law in this country and that there are rules and standards that must be adhered to in order to uphold children's rights. As long as religious and private schools exist and maintain honorary culture and oppression, the government must find other ways to counteract it and improve. I also hope that the government will soon come up with proposals that will be supported by Parliament. Do we want a society divided into us and them, or should we have a society where all children feel at home? In fact, our feminism, equality and equality apply to everyone. New curricula are good and the Swedish National Agency for Education is developing an education. Unfortunately, that is not enough. The government should take greater responsibility for funding to further train school leaders and staff on this subject. The national competence team is working to maintain a support phone. But when we visit schools around the country in Neither whores nor hives, I myself have noticed that most schools do not even know about the skills team or the support line. More focus must simply be put on prevention and not just on urgent matters, I mean. The competence can not only be centered in Linköping but must be spread throughout the country. There is no threat to academic freedom to re-assess the extent to which higher education institutions teach honor-related violence and oppression in their teacher educations and other central educations. Free research, I mean, is not threatened by clearer national degree goals. Therefore, it must be up to the Swedish National Agency for Higher Education to decide how much one can avoid or reduce the problem and still be considered to complete the national degree goals. I believe that the relativisation of honorary oppression has been going on for a long time in many higher education institutions. Now is the time to stand up for these girls and everyone's equal rights and opportunities. The minister himself read a piece. In many schools, if you heard this, you would disagree and agree on it. But when it comes to immigrant girls and immigrant women, you're quiet.
i-AM9QaXCfCWCGkVwJbz6hxZ	Madam President, I would like I share Amineh Kakabaveh's concern that this area will fade away and disappear in other missions. Nevertheless, the government has three areas of focus, and I think that all the areas that we prioritise, including the withdrawal of democratic control, have to do with this issue. You can't run a school and have something oppressive in the profile of a school that has to do with culture or religion. We have control of anyone who wants to start a school, and if you have this kind of behavior, you shouldn't get a school permit. We also see that it is about breaking crime and segregation. This is a crime. We have made it even more criminal, and it is therefore important that we make it clear that segregation leads to such crimes. As described by Bris, it is also about siblings and young people who must subject their loved ones to oppression, which is also a way of oppressing. This is just wrong. Society must stand up all together and break segregation and this kind of crime. We also see that the 350 million that the government has provided for 2021 and 2022 will be used for very important measures relating to the implementation of the curriculum, especially in areas dealing with sexuality and identity and the boundaries that affect these areas. There, honor-related violence is a clear area that will be highlighted, and that means that even those who have an older teacher education will get into the area. This government has a very broad approach, which is why very many authorities have been given assignments, both the Police Authority and others. Research is also a very important area. This means that more universities will be interested in the area, and I hope that more research will give us more knowledge. This is a deep, difficult and complex problem that will not be resolved at once. But I think it can be done with a great deal of stubbornness and determination. Just like Amineh Kakabaveh does so very well, we'll never stop talking about it.
i-HXHrgNarxtHTu1w8zQkzbs	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for the analysis and the description of the problems. But, as I said, more is needed in the budget than only for 2022 and 2023. I hope that the government will mark this in the budget in the future too, because we have to get to the bottom of it at various levels. I know that both the Prime Minister and many ministers are deeply involved. It is important, but the work should not only disappear within different authorities but should go into schools and out into society. I get ringed down by students and students who mainly study to teachers, sociologists and other occupational groups. They are disappointed that they learn so little about honour oppression in their educations and therefore want to interview me in their studies. Many young people with their own experiences of honorary oppression also complain that the teachers have relativised and reduced the issues. Here a girl from a segregated area manages to improve and educate herself, and then she comes to the university where her own experience is denied by a teacher. I think that this is very distressing, and that is why universities must assume their responsibilities. I hope that more students are interviewing their teachers about why you can't learn more about the subject in the education at the teacher's school or the socionomie programme. I very much hope that this will be taken more seriously and that the work will not remain in bureaucracy with the authorities, because it is needed in society, in school, in social services and so on.
i-CozTZRDuExrVz9xyEWZJeP	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Amineh Kakabaveh for the debate on a very important issue. The systematic work becomes an important piece of the puzzle, just as in the case of work environment work and systematic quality work at school. Everyone who works with young people, whether it is in social services, school or college, should ask themselves several times and not only once a year what it is you see, and to be able to judge what it is you see requires knowledge. I myself have been headmaster and seen happy girls playing together, and I've been thinking that it's great that they're having such a good time. When one of the girls doesn't come back after the break, I realize that maybe they didn't have it so well. I'm asking, and everyone's quiet. No one's talking. The reality is there, but before we understand it, it's hard. It is hidden in languages and in cultural expressions, and we may not have employees who understand, who know the languages and have the mother tongue. The basis is that we must dare to get to know students, have a dialogue and dare to ask the question. We have to do it often and follow up, and when we have the facts on the table, we will clearly correct and again ask how things are going. Thank you for the debate.
i-YLNpBhgbYKfUzvTCpGQLMa	Madam President, I would like Mikael Larsson has asked me if I believe that the support of the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency (PTS) is well designed for fibre associations to be able to take part of the money, and, if not, what measures I intend to take. All of Sweden should have access to high-speed broadband and stable, high-quality mobile services. The government is working towards reaching the broadband targets. Among other things, the long-term objective of the broadband strategy to 2025 is that 98% of households and businesses should have access to 1 giga bit per second. PTS considers that it is possible that this target can be reached by 2025. According to PTS's survey, nearly 95 per cent of households and companies have access to 1 gigabit per second or fibre in absolute proximity in October 2020, compared with approximately 92 per cent in October 2019. The Swedish Parliament has decided, following a proposal from the Government, that an additional SEK 500 million will be invested in the expansion of broadband throughout the country. A total of SEK 1.3 billion is thus added to the national broadband roll-out support system for 2022. PTS is the responsible authority for the take-up of broadband support in accordance with the regulation on state aid for the roll-out of broadband infrastructure. According to its regulation letter for 2022, PTS must ensure that all regions of Sweden with eligible buildings are eligible for the allocation of support funds. PTS shall promote good geographical dissemination of the support and ensure that different types of actors are eligible for support, especially broadband associations. It is important that the support is effective and that it contributes to the government's broadband objectives. The Government has clarified the reporting requirement in PTS's regulation letter for 2022. PTS shall report on how the authority has taken advantage of experience in the management of the support. The report shall also include an analysis of how PTS has ensured that different types of actors can be considered for the support, not least broadband associations, and other information about the support that PTS assesses relevant to the Government in connection with the assignment. The assignment must be reported to the Government Office – Ministry of Infrastructure – no later than 24 February 2023. The government has recently submitted a proposal for a strategic plan for the CAP, CAP, 2023 – 2027 to the European Commission, which does not include EU-funded broadband support. In order to reduce the number of measures and hence the complexity of the common agricultural policy, Parliament's decision on the budget for 2022 means that funds have been allocated for the next programming period, from 2023 to 2027, for measures that can be implemented both within and outside the common agricultural policy. The government then presented the measures to be implemented within and outside the CAP. In particular, the Government has sought to avoid parallel forms of aid in order to simplify for applicants. This means that the national support system for broadband expansion, which PTS is responsible for, will be added a total of SEK 3 billion for the years 2023 – 2027.
i-Q2c6uEjnkmHZniM5G6eFG3	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I think that the answer contains many interesting things, but I intend to dwell on some of them and will ask some supplementary questions. I think we fully agree that the continued roll-out of broadband is extremely important for the whole country. Not least during the pandemic period, Madam President, it has been shown that digitalisation and access to fibre, broadband and mobile coverage throughout the country are extremely important. Broadband expansion has come a long way in Sweden. Former governments, such as the alliance government, have contributed large amounts of money to broadband expansion. During the last cooperation, which took place in the January agreement and which was actually good, large funds were also made available for further broadband expansion throughout the country. We in the Center Party stressed very actively that several different actors really must be able to benefit from the support. This was particularly true of broadband associations. In the past, money for broadband expansion in the country has been within the framework of the EU's rural programme and the rural programme that we have in Sweden, just as the Government stated in the answer. Fibre associations have been able to take part in a very large sum from there, and it has been possible to do so throughout the country. The support we have now is well designed. There's a lot of money in it. But I would still like to ask you a question about that. Although we have designed new support, which is now with the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency and earlier in the rural programme, there are many signals that fibre associations find it difficult to apply for it. Of course it is; it is a new support and there may be childhood diseases in it. But it is important to take these signals very seriously. I would therefore like to repeat the question I have put to the Government. Does the Government think that it will enable everyone – the market, urban network associations and broadband associations – to participate on equal terms in the aid as it is designed today? Or do certain things need to be reviewed to ensure that everyone, regardless of the operator, but in this case broadband associations, can benefit from the aid? What measures, according to the Government, need to be taken if so?
i-BMiGES3AyQkN1VZK4mFBme	Madam President, I would like Mikael Larsson and the government fully agree on the importance of digitalisation. As Mikael Larsson rightly pointed out, not least the pandemic has shown the need and necessity for everyone to be able to be reached by good digitalisation. I would like to start by thanking you for the interpellation, and I look forward to continued good cooperation on this issue, whether it is within the framework of the January Agreement or in a regular cooperation between us that we have parties. Let me turn to the specific issue of associations. I want to go back to the situation that prevailed earlier so that we all understand the conditions. The organisation form of economic associations has been taken into account by the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency in the design of terms and conditions for the call for broadband support and in the examination of basic requirements in order to be able to apply for and receive funding from PTS. However, since economic associations are not covered by the rating system of credit information companies, such as UC, PTS makes operator-specific assessments of these associations. This means that the associations need to submit documentation in order for PTS to be able to make an overall assessment and an assessment of the economic situation of the actors. The purpose of this is to ensure that when you pay out a subsidy, there really is fibre out there, for real, for the inhabitants. So it is being done for a good purpose. This can in itself mean that there will be additional work for some associations when they have to submit information in order to be able to meet the requirements. I honestly do not think this is completely unreasonable. It is reasonable for the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency to ensure that our tax money is well spent. I do not think that the associations themselves have a problem with this either. Last year, 2021, 24 economic associations or broadband associations applied for support for a total of 46 projects. It is good to think about this since the total amount of project applications was 1 817. Approximately 2.5 per cent of the total number of applications for projects received was therefore from either broadband associations or economic associations. Of the 24 projects received, 14 were run by five associations that were granted funding by the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency. The Swedish Post and Telecom Agency has also done more to facilitate broadband associations. Prior to last year's support, the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency worked to have a close dialogue not least with Byanätsforum, where several of the comments were received. It extended its communication towards potential support applicants in order to get them to search and enter. Then there were other specific problems that were highlighted not least by Byanetsforum, such as challenges with geodata. There, the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency chose to introduce an interactive map function in its application portal in order to escape precisely the challenge that the associations had pointed out. I see that the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency takes the mission given to them by the government seriously in terms of ensuring that associations can be involved, because they are important for us to ensure that everyone is reached by broadband deployment. Whether we are going to do more will be seen when we know how the associations that have implemented this and when the report comes in February 2023. Then we will see if we need to take further action. However, I note that some measures have already been taken.
i-Sh9Dhtz8EoXoEEs2giWxYA	Madam President, I would like I would also like to thank the Government for that answer. We agree on a great deal here. We also share the picture of the possibilities of digitalisation and the work that has been done and is good. We also share the importance of a multiplicity of players who are expanding. We have city networks, we have fibre associations and we have the market ourselves. In some places we notice that the market is withdrawing, and then perhaps the only players who remain and who could expand are urban networks or, of course, fibre associations or broadband associations which, as the Government mentioned, are a form of economic associations. I would like to comment a little on what the Government is saying about the fact that a great deal has been done to try to make it easier for fibre associations to benefit from support in a better way. I know that, even in the framework of the January agreement, we pushed for this and got it in regulatory letters and budget texts, which I personally was very pleased about. The feeling out there is that it's still hard. A feeling is difficult to touch – when we think we have done something but the feeling out there says something else. I am pleased that the Government mentions in its response that it is important that the money that is being spent also comes out so that there is fiber on the slopes. It is somehow the heart of the matter in this. We can actually provide as much money as we can – money – at any time. However, if there are no more connected households and businesses, we will not achieve the objectives set and have been set. In its reply, the Government mentions that the assignment to the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency, which will explain how PTS has ensured that broadband associations can be considered for the support and present other information about the support that PTS assesses relevant to the Government in connection with the assignment. It is great that you have written about this and that you should also do it. However, I think it is quite far ahead in time – 2023. It goes without saying that there should be long-term rules of play and long-term solutions. But it would also have to be reviewed one way or another what we can do here and now. Is there anything important to look at right now? I share the view that it is a good thing that this mission has been taken. But does the Government see that there are some low-hanging fruits to make it easier for broadband associations and the signals you get? I have another supplementary question. The Government itself was involved in Byanetsforum and Bredbandsforum and the work that is being done there. Regarding the dialogue and cooperation that the government has with representatives of the village networks within the framework of Byanetsforum and the Bredbandsforum and the signals that come there, how does the government work with these views to make it easier for fibre associations once again? Does the Government see that there is something that one could do here and now within the government's mission to facilitate, so that one does not have to go to any major mission but really facilitate here and now?
i-83GnMcJ29jQRStBER3Tjof	Madam President, I would like I thank Mikael Larsson for initiated and good questions and a very good will, which I really share, about increased broadband expansion in the country. I presented a series of measures that the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency has implemented and a series of measures that they have been tasked with implementing during the year. I believe that within the framework of there are some low-hanging fruits that the Authority itself will deal with. I share the picture that Mikael Larsson has, and I am in a hurry myself and think that February 2023 can feel far away. However, I believe that this year neither the Authority nor we will be sitting on our hands. However, there is a date when the agency will come back to the government and report what they have done with the assignment and the change in the regulatory letter that we implemented for 2022, i.e. less than a month ago, to ensure that all the regions of Sweden with eligible buildings can be considered when allocating support funds and that PTS will promote that the support has a good geographical spread and that different types of actors can be considered for support and especially broadband associations. It is a change that we made in the regulatory letter that came out for this year. I therefore believe that within this there are low-hanging fruits that PTS will be able to implement. Let's see what happens. A related issue is that the government intends to return to the House with proposals to depart from the location principle. This proposal is being consulted at the moment. It is a good way for city network associations to be able to help nearby municipalities to expand. When the consultation round has been, I hope that we will have time to make a proposal. But if we don't make it by the end of the bill, maybe next year. But my wish, which I am working for, is that we should be able to come back to the House as soon as possible with such a proposal. There is work within the regulatory letter that we have given to the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency, where we point out a particular responsibility to ensure that the broadband associations are supported. However, there is also work on a proposal on the localisation principle which is currently being consulted. With these proposals, I think we are picking a lot of low-hanging fruits. Let me also say that the door to talks is always open if there are good suggestions for more low-hanging fruits because we absolutely share the ambition, Mikael Larsson, me and the whole government, that this will go fast and that more will be connected as soon as possible.
i-GHV6wt7mfJWW9brguCyGYE	Madam President, I would like Here, too, I would like to thank the Government very much for its answer. I feel that both within the framework that we had for the January agreement and in the meetings that I have with the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency, there is still a will. Just having a good will is good. Then it is very important that the signals that come from the government and from the Riksdag on these issues are also followed up and that we also get a good overall thinking in this. With regard to the principle of location, as the Government mentions, it is great that we have moved on. It is somehow something that the City Network Association has been pushing for a long time and that we may now be in the finish line with. It's very exhilarating. This is a signal that we have listened to from, for example, urban networks. Equally important is that we listen to the village networks and what they want to see for signals precisely in order to facilitate the expansion of the fibre infrastructure throughout the country. After all, it is somehow the case that we have set targets. However, we did not reach the 2020 target. We have an objective for 2023 and 2025, and we cannot sit back until we are completely finished. I feel that the Government shares that picture. I hope that the government takes signals from broadband associations very seriously and engages in talks to develop this, and I see the Government as being willing to do so. It – the fifth mode of transport – is an important part of a functioning infrastructure and an important part of rural development throughout Sweden. With this, Madam President, I would like to thank you for a good debate. I will continue to monitor this issue, and I believe that the Government will too.
i-7JckAfEHobfs2LENPXv3ow	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mikael Larsson, for a good debate and good manners! I shall make this last speech brief and say that we have done a great deal in the regulatory letter. We have other proposals, such as deviations from the localisation principle. I intend to follow up on this and expect the Authority to follow up on the regulatory letter's mandate to pay particular attention to broadband associations and to be eligible for support. I have heard that the agency is open to further dialogue with village network associations and other actors, and so am I. Mikael Larsson and his party also seem to be open to it, which I am pleased about. I am confident that we can reach the goal of digitalisation for Sweden with common forces.
