i-NEQjkH4MqWCgieVjnvKDSQ	Mr President, I would like to Tobias Andersson has asked me whether it is my view and the government's view that police salaries do not need to be increased, given that a special police salary investment was excluded from our budget. He has also asked what measures I and the government intend to take to strengthen the attractiveness of the police profession. Police density needs to be increased in order to combat crime and increase security throughout the country. It is a priority part of government policy. Therefore, the government is carrying out a historic investment in the Police Authority, which means that the number of employees will increase by 10,000 by 2024 compared to the beginning of 2016. According to the Police Authority's personnel statistics at the turn of the year, we are more than halfway. Looking at previous year-end statistics, this means that there have never been as many police and civilian employees in the Police Department as we have today. In order to finance the initiative, the government has carried out major budgetary efforts, and the funding has increased significantly. Since the reform of the Swedish Police Agency in 2015, the Agency's funding has increased by no less than SEK 12.7 billion, an increase of 60 per cent. To 2024, the grant is expected to increase by nearly SEK 17.4 billion compared to 2015. This represents an increase of 82%. To ensure the increase in police employees, the government has decided to start police training at two new universities, in Malmö and Borås. This means that police training is now available in five locations, and several of them also offer distance training. In addition, the government has initiated a new, faster admission process to police training. In order to cope with the increase, the Government has also increased the capacity of the Board of Appeal and the Board of Appeal. This has had an effect. The number admitted to police training has more than doubled since 2015, and there is still a high search pressure. In addition, a new road to the police profession has been introduced. By allowing already employed specialists to undergo police training, these people have skills development, the employer can use the employees more flexibly and the number of police officers increases. It is important to point out that the nominees are undergoing the same tests as the applicants for basic education. My picture is that the Police Authority is an attractive employer because the number of police officers is increasing, fewer and fewer stop and many of the police officers who have stopped have been reinstated. The notion that many policemen leave the profession is not true. The staff turnover of police officers is around 3 percent, while the average in the state is 10 percent. On 17 January, 589 new police aspirants were hired to begin the final internship of the programme, which is a welcome addition to the Swedish police force. The police trail will be further replenished in June when around 800 new police aspirants will be employed. That's how it's gonna go on. The Agency's increased funding has provided the opportunity to use the funds for, among other things, improved conditions for employees. The police's average basic salary has increased by SEK 6,000 a month since 2015. This is a significantly higher rate of wage growth than for many other groups in the labour market. The average basic salary for all police officers is currently SEK 38 500 per month. Another example is that the remuneration for work at evenings and weekends has been increased. In recent wage audits, the Parties have agreed to give priority to police officers in external service and in particular to those working in vulnerable areas. As a result, the staff turnover of police officers in external service has decreased. The budget decided on for 2022 will entail additional increases in salaries and other remuneration in order to strengthen the attractiveness of the police profession. The government defends the Swedish labour market model, which is based on union and employer agreeing on the terms and conditions of employment in the labour market. This model has led to real wage increases since the 1990s. The Agency receives grants, then employers and trade unions shall negotiate and agree on the priority groups of employees and the working conditions to be affected. It is a fundamental and important principle for the state sector. My view is that neither Tobias Andersson nor I should decide on salaries and obs for a particular profession.
i-HuofrKvNu2qSJb7ZRo5REJ	Mr President, I would like to In the aftermath of the government's budget bill, when it was presented last autumn, there was a debate about the absence of a targeted police salary initiative. Both individual police officers as well as the Police Authority and the Police Federation criticised the government's failure to invest in a special police salary increase, as it felt that this had actually been needed. In Dagens Nyheter you could read the following on October 11, among other things: a rise in salaries is, according to the police management, crucial if the goal is to be achieved. Especially in Stockholm and other parts of the country where living is expensive. In addition, the agency has promised more money to both local police officers to those who work in uncomfortable times. But now the employees have been told that the promised efforts do not look to be carried out. In the Government's autumn budget there is no room for targeted wage increases. ..................................................... The government tried to defend its stinginess by the fact that it was a misunderstanding or that it was the police's own fault that they did not get the targeted initiative. Regardless of which, it can be said that police salaries deserve to be increased, both because the existing profession deserves it and so that we can attract more people to join the police profession and thus increase police density. Nevertheless, the government chose not to provide any funds for this in its budget. Mr President, I would like to Against this background, it was extremely positive that the Conservative opposition could hear in the Riksdag for its common budget option, which means strong efforts on the judiciary in general and the police in particular. Now the police will receive a targeted salary increase of as much as SEK 400 million in 2022, which hopefully can contribute positively to the police density in Sweden. Mr President, I would like to I submitted my interpellation on this subject before our budget was heard in the Chamber. In view of the resignation of the Prime Minister, it was cancelled. Then I came back to the question, and then there was a delayed answer from the Government and so on. Now we are finally debating the issue, even if it happens under a little different conditions from what was intended when the interpellation was first raised in the Riksdag. Now Morgan Johansson's answer certainly tries to highlight other measures that he and the government have taken, and as usual, the Minister did his utmost to highlight both himself and the government. In my interpellation, however, I asked whether it was Morgan Johansson's and the government's view that police salaries are not in need of raising, given that they excluded a special police salary investment in the budget. Mr President, I would like to Morgan Johansson talks in his answer about the need for a raise in the police force, so there we seem to be in agreement. But he refrained from touching on the special police wage effort that the government opposed. Why has Morgan Johansson opposed this that both the Police Authority and the Police Association have asked for? And does the police get better or worse from the targeted police salary initiative that now becomes a reality thanks to the budgets of the Swedish Democrats, Moderates and Christian Democrats? It is a simple question: do they get better or worse when we direct funds to their salaries to improve their working environment and motivation?
i-N7sQH9hxSmPRR3anUPGT1S	Mr President, I would like to I think it is an excellent opportunity to have this debate, because now I can take it from the point of view that we can report more police officers than ever before in Sweden. That's how it is. In January this year we reached all-time-high in terms of police numbers – 21,929 police officers. So many police officers have never been in Sweden before. It is an effect of the efforts we have made in recent years. So we have more police officers than ever since January. We have more police employees than ever. If we include the civilian employees, we're up to 34,716. We have more police training than ever. It is about 3 000 who attends the programme now, partly because we have increased the number of places and now also train in Borås and Malmö in addition to Umeå, Växjö and Stockholm. We've got a record number of people who want to be cops. It's huge search pressure over time, which actually lasts. Although we are constantly taking in large new hills, more and more people who want to become police officers and enter the profession are returning. We have fewer who leave the police force over time, which is also gratifying to see, and we have more who return to the police. They may have left the police profession for a few years, but now they see that a lot is happening in the police and want to get back into law enforcement. So they go back to the police department. Overall, this means that we have very low staff turnover in the police profession – about 3 percent. This is to be compared to the state at large, which is about 10%. When you count retirements off, the staff turnover is 11⁄2 percent, i.e. very low. I said we recruit back more than we thought. Between 2016 and 2021, more than 800 police officers have been reinstated. So it is police officers who may have left the profession for a while and went to other workplaces but who then wanted to come back to the police. Tobias Andersson talks about wage developments. It is true that during our time, during the years in which we have ruled, the development of police wages has been better than in previous years, i.e. during the alliance years. But there is a fundamental problem here, and that is that the Swedish democrats do not understand or do not want to understand the Swedish labour market model and the Swedish wage formation model. It is believed that there will be politicians here who will decide exactly what salaries police officers should have, what ob-supplements they should have when they work extra in the evenings and weekends and all that. We can never have such a system. It must be based on the fact that unions and employers agree on how wages are to develop. If you don't, you're gonna tear this up. Just how tricky it can be when you compare with other groups. Of course we're in favour of a good salary development for police officers. But if you start to go in and govern this in detail politically, then of course there will be compensation claims from everyone else. We have many heroes in Swedish society. The police are a group that does an amazing job. But we've had nurses and nurses who helped us through the pandemic. When will the special wage initiatives on them come from the Swedish Democrats? We have social security officers investigating children who get hurt. When will the special wage stakes be on them? We have defence workers who have an extremely important task, not least in the situation we are in right now. When will the special wage stakes be on them? What I am saying is that when you go in from the political side and intervene in what is actually the task of the parties, then you tear up the Swedish wage formation model. I don't want to see that. In the long run, you can't handle a society of our nature.
i-PUkbodfjZGGk23MV4NBRtJ	Mr President, I would like to I thank Morgan Johansson for the answer, although I have to say that it was a very long answer to a yes or no question and that neither a yes or a no came up during the long answer. We do not want to regulate in detail any individual salaries or ob-supplements, as Morgan Johansson claims, but this was a direct call from the Police Authority and the Police Federation. They lived in the belief that this would come from the government, that there would be an ambition of the government to invest in and invest in our justice system and raise wages. They were rather thoughtful and surprised when it did not happen. Fortunately, we have now managed to remedy this through the Swedish Democrats' budget. And part of what Morgan Johansson thanks himself for is the result of the previous budgets that the Swedish Democrats managed to get through in the Riksdag by voting on M's and KD's budget options. It has contributed to the strengthening of the judiciary that Morgan Johansson ascribes to himself. Then you should not think that there is any self worth in that we never had this many police officers, as Morgan Johansson talks about. That alone does not have to be positive. It is a sign that we have never needed so many police officers before, that it has never been so insecure that there has been a need for so many police officers. In an ideal world, we would have had fewer policemen than we have now, because we wouldn't have needed so many. You can't say that. Look how good we are. Only to see and so many are in prison or because we have this and so many police officers. Rather, it is a sign of problems in society that it has failed to address. But it is clear that, given today's situation, we need more police officers, which is why we believe in this wage investment. Having said that, Mr President, it does not seem to matter what questions you are asking Morgan Johansson or what you are expressing in other ways during a debate. Just no matter what is said, is done and asked Morgan Johansson has a repertoire consisting of two different answers. Not rarely does he use both of them. The first is to speak ill of his counter-debater, the opinion he has expressed or the like. When I and Morgan debate, the Minister usually points out that he thinks that I put groups against each other or inciting groups against each other, that the Swedish Democrats are a terrible party with our party history and so on. It is neither very truthful nor particularly innovative, Mr President, but rather tiresome, trained and destitute. However, he has not drawn that part of his repertoire yet in this debate. The second alternative contained in Morgan Johansson's rather limited repertoire of answers during our debates is the one he indulged in in this debate, namely to highlight himself and the government he represents and everything fantastic that the Minister thinks they have done. This, too, is not particularly truthful or innovative, Mr President, but, on the contrary, rather tiresome, trained and destitute. However, I am getting used to being met with one or both of these two responses found in the minister's repertoire of responses in debates. However, I would like answers to the 'yes' or 'no' question that I put in my first speech. Is the police getting better or worse with the targeted police wage initiative that is now becoming a reality thanks to the budgets of the Swedish Democrats, Moderates and Christian Democrats? Is it getting better, or is it getting worse?
i-EJVLC9m4aApmcqEiaLryYZ	Mr President, I would like to This was an example of having written lines. I did not attack the Swedish Democrats in any way, either for your view of humanity or for your history, although I could have done so by all means. I didn't. I took the issue. I told the police what the situation was. Then Tobias Andersson says that it is not truthful. It is, isn't it? We have all-time-high in terms of the number of cops. That's how it is. We have all-time-high in terms of the numbers trained to be police officers. We have a situation where more people return to the police profession. We have more training places, and we have almost three times as many who are trained as police officers compared to before. This is all true, and it is an effect of what we have done for seven and a half years in government. I must say that for goodness' sake, because that is actually the policy of the government and the effect of that policy. I also asked Tobias Andersson whether he has understood the Swedish labour market model at all and why it is so important to distinguish between politics on the one hand and wage formation on the other. When you don't do it but want politicians to go in and pay for individual professions, you tear up things that have actually served us very well over the years. There are plenty of examples in the world of politicians engaging in such things. You point out a group and say, "You should have special screens." This applies to you. The Swedish Democrats are doing the same here. You want us to highlight the police right here, and you forget all the other groups. I asked Tobias Andersson about that. When will the special wage bet be on the nurses? When will the special wage bet be on the social secretaries? On the defense workers? There are many heroes in Swedish society who are moving in the same direction. I could say industrial workers. Without industrial workers, we would have had no export earnings, and then we would not have been able to finance either police or social security or anyone else. But this is how it is when you are as an opportunist party as the Swedish Democrats are. Then one would like to point out just one group and highlight it. Take the police department, once again, where we have civilian employees doing an amazing job. It is IT experts who investigate child pornography, system scientists who produce IT evidence in order to unlock mobile phones and find further evidence in this way and economists investigating grant and tax offences. All of a sudden, the Swedish Democrats have just forgotten. They are not worth anything; it is just a matter of pointing out a group within the Police Authority and highlighting it. I have nothing against this in the sense that we want to ensure that police officers have good working conditions in the authority, on the contrary. Nevertheless, I would like to point out that I want good working conditions for everyone who works in the judicial system. The Swedish wage formation is torn apart when you engage in this in the way that the Swedish Democrats have done. We didn't have to do that either. The fact that police salaries are now increasing more than the salaries of the vast majority of groups is actually based in the first, very good agreement that was concluded already in January 2018 between the Police Authority and the Police Federation. It was in Dan Eliasson's time that an agreement was made between unions and employers that led the police on a path where wages generally increased, so that they now have an average of SEK 6 000 more per month than they had in 2015 and the salary development for the police has been better than for most other groups. That is how it should be done: It is a responsibility that authorities and trade unions take together, and politics should have an arm's length distance in this regard.
i-8iFBxKR6ZquGQRDPXQmYHj	Mr President, I would like to There are probably few within the police force who would have highlighted Dan Eliasson in the way Morgan Johansson chose to do. But I'll stay there. I have now tried to find an answer to a question that I have asked repeatedly. The minister has had three opportunities to answer it, and he gets one last. I will not embroider my speech any more, but try to be as concrete and just as possible so that I do not confuse Morgan Johansson in his ability to respond. This year, thanks to our budget, the police authorities will receive 400 million in a targeted police salary investment. Everything else equal – is this good or bad for the Police Authority? I have tried to find an answer to that question, but I have not yet received it. The minister can say yes if he considers this to be good for the police, and he can say no if he estimates that the 400 million is bad for the police.
i-6GDGrdA5Bjm5tuFEt8MGbG	Mr President, I would like to The extra money is on the margins. This is just politics, a political game that you are engaged in. Most of the police's multibillion-dollar budget goes to wages. In fact, if you add a few million more, it doesn't matter that much. You can have an interpellation debate here and say: let us focus on this. And then you go out and write your posts on Facebook and Instagram on that theme. What I am pointing out is that if society is to function, with wage formation for all groups, we must keep to the basic principles, namely that it is trade union organisations, together with employers, that are in charge of wage formation. This should not be passed on to politics. I would like to say that we will then quickly receive compensation claims from all the other groups. They will say: Why should we not spend extra money on nurses, nurses, doctors, defence workers, and so on? That actually leads wrong and rips the wage-setting model apart. I am proud of all that we have done in these years, which has led us to have more police officers, more police workers and more in education than ever. They have more money than ever before. And there are more people who go to the police profession and fewer who drop out. I intend to work for and continue to work for good working conditions for everyone who works in the entire judiciary and the entire Police Authority. Wage formation and such things are, of course, part of this, but I also intend to ensure that the policy keeps arm's length at bay precisely in terms of wages. It is a model that has served Swedish society very well, and I intend to do so.
i-AnYSyDgveKXS6i8dQ3dzqA	Mr President, I would like to Adam Marttinen has asked me what measures the government has taken to stop the foreign begging in Sweden and whether the government intends to reconsider its opposition to some form of begging ban. I would like to begin by emphasising that the government is concerned that people who are temporarily staying in Sweden are begging for their livelihood and that this group is living in unworthy conditions. The government has taken a series of measures to combat vulnerability, strengthen criminal protection against trafficking in human beings and human exploitation, and facilitate action by the police and other authorities against crime that occurs. On 1 July 2018, new criminal law provisions entered into force to strengthen protection against the exploitation of vulnerable persons at work and begging. Among other things, a new classified crime was introduced into the penal code, human exploitation. The provision imposes penalties for the improper exploitation of a person in forced labour, work under manifestly unreasonable conditions or begging. In addition to the new crime of human exploitation, several changes were made to the penal provision on trafficking in human beings. The aim of the amendments was to strengthen criminal protection against trafficking in human beings and to increase the number of prosecutions. In 2018, there are a couple of examples of convictions for trafficking in human beings regarding begging. On February 15, 2022, came the first decision from the Supreme Court where someone is convicted for the new crime of human exploitation. The government is, of course, closely following the development of case law in this area. The government is carrying out a historic investment in the Police Authority. This means that the number of employees will increase by 10,000 between the beginning of 2016 and the end of 2024. According to the Police Authority's personnel statistics at the turn of the year, we have reached more than halfway. In order to finance the initiative, the appropriations of the Politiska ombudsman have been increased considerably. The government has also initiated new rules aimed at making it easier for landowners to get their land back, while ensuring a legally secure process for those staying on the site. The rules entered into force on 1 July 2017. Under certain conditions, arkägare can now have an application for removal examined by the Kronofogdemyndigheten without having to provide information on the persons to be removed. In addition, the removal may be carried out against persons who have joined the site after the application has been submitted. In 2020, 30 removal applications were granted only in Stockholm, of which 18 were executed. The number of cases before the Swedish Enforcement Authority regarding the right to regain possession of their land has decreased significantly since the reform. In 2015, 235 such applications were submitted nationally, compared to 65 in 2020. The statistics suggest a reduced need to turn to the Swedish Enforcement Authority to regain possession of its land. In addition, the Government gave the Stockholm County Administrative Board a national coordination mission on issues related to vulnerable EU and EEA citizens during the period 2016– 2019. The mission was primarily aimed at providing support and raising the skills of actors meeting the target group and contributing to more uniform work throughout the country. The county administrative boards were also commissioned to be responsible for regional competence development efforts on issues related to the target group during 2020. As you know, there is no national ban on begging in Sweden. However, a municipality may, under the Act of Order, make the additional provisions necessary to maintain public order in public places. In a judgment given by the Supreme Administrative Court in December 2018, it was stated that municipalities may regulate passive fundraising in public places, i.e. begging, through local regulations. The judgment states that there is scope for the introduction of local rules restricting the collection of money, provided that they are sufficiently clear in their purpose and defined in their geographical scope. Several municipalities have introduced prohibitions or permit requirements for begging through local regulations. However, it is a police task to maintain public order and to intervene, for example, when persons behave disorderly or commit crimes.
i-H9Tm2i9tZvDJgfwhrL6ZV7	Mr President, I would like to I noted this morning that it was almost exactly four years since we last had this debate on vulnerable European citizens and, not least, the opposition's proposal for a national begging ban. I could also note that the response from the Government is about as obedient today as it was exactly four years ago. It mentions a number of things that the government took the initiative to and then has also implemented, including stricter penalties for human exploitation and other things that the government has announced, not least in the response here today and before. This is not something the Swedish Democrats have opposed. On the contrary, there has been quite a lot of support for all the punitive measures that the government has come up with. In addition, we have been critical of the fact that the penalties that the government has gone forward with everything that has usually been at a disadvantage. I am referring to this debate again, not least because we now seem to share much of the problem picture of the foreign begging on the streets and squares of Sweden, namely that vulnerable European citizens are being used to varying degrees for criminal purposes. This has not always been the case. When the Swedish Democrats began to draw attention to how freedom of movement in Europe was exploited and what the situation was – that it was often organised and that criminal ends were behind – we suffered a great deal of criticism, not least from the Social Democrats and the Red Green Government, that we should have malicious aims. But now we seem to share the problem picture and the view that this should not occur in Sweden and that we should take steps to curb the foreign begging on our streets. It is not in this way that freedom of movement is supposed to work in Europe – that one should be able to reside in Sweden through begging. We can only note that despite all the measures that have now been taken over these four years and all eight years of government, the foreign begging continued to spread on the streets of Sweden. Although it is said that it is a police matter to maintain order and that there is a certain possibility for municipalities to make certain demands, we can see that begging also exists in those municipalities where different measures have been introduced via the local order charter. The result is weak or non-existent. The situation is exactly the same today as it was four or eight years ago in Sweden, despite the government's efforts. So my question to the government remains, to which I did not receive an answer in the written interpellation answer: Is the government prepared to take any action that actually makes a difference? For example, the opposition has proposed a national begging ban, which would send a clear signal that freedom of movement cannot be used by foreign citizens to beg on the streets of Sweden. That possibility would automatically cease. Such a signal would, I believe, lead us to achieve, in a very short time, results that the government has not been able to achieve over the past eight years. Is the government prepared to reconsider its opposition to a national begging ban?
i-Nc2GQhSwLdNhejBs4WCPiD	Mr President, I would like to My picture is exactly the opposite, actually. Here Adam Marttinen says that the results are weak or non-existent. But it's just the opposite. What distinguishes the situation now from what it was like four years ago is that the problem has been greatly reduced. This has been done, among other things, as a result of the measures we have taken. First of all, we said no one should be forced to beg. We said that we need to tighten up the legislation in this respect, so that we have better criminal law tools to get to grips with this. That is why we punished it, and we have new legislation in place since 1 July 2018. There are a number of convictions for this very reason. As late as last autumn, another verdict came. At that time, two parents were convicted of forcing their children to beg. It is a very clear practice by the courts, which actively uses the legislation. A few years ago legislation also came in order to give a landowner an increased opportunity to get back possession of their land, i.e. in practice to be able to evict people who settled there without being entitled to it. This was a very bureaucratic and cumbersome process in the past. It often took a long time, and the landowners paid a fee for each person they wanted evicted. They had to identify each person and so on. There were a lot of bureaucratic obstacles. We introduced new legislation that made it easier to evict people who were on land where they were not entitled to be. This legislation, too, seems to have worked well. Since its entry into force, the number of cases brought to the Police Authority and the Swedish Enforcement Authority for eviction has decreased by 70 per cent. There is a sharp decline in that part. In addition, everything suggests that the begging has generally decreased sharply in Sweden in recent years. The number of reported offences for begging purposes has decreased by 85 per cent between 2015 and 2021. In its 2020 report, the police are quite clear on what this might be due to. They write: The reduction in the number of reported crimes about begging may have several explanations. One explanation may be that in 2018 more people were prosecuted for human trafficking for begging than any other year. The increasing prosecution of human trafficking for begging may have deterred perpetrators. The Political Authority notes that the increased possibilities of criminal law have had an effect, as has the amended legislation concerning the right of landowners to regain their land. Having said that, I say that the situation is now quite different from that of four years ago and that the measures we have taken have had an effect.
i-Wd99ChoQNKKvi2BkKusmUH	Mr President, I would like to My question was not, of course, whether the measures taken have had an effect or not, but whether the government is prepared to take further steps to achieve a greater difference than has been achieved so far. This is, of course, what the debate is about, with the closing vote on a proposal for a national ban on begging, which is now agreed by several parties in this House. The Minister of Justice says that, in general, one can make an assumption that the begging has decreased. But you can still have open eyes when you go out in the community and see that the begging is still widespread. Even if it had now been halved, and there are no figures on this, there are still thousands of migrants or foreign citizens begging on the streets of Sweden. This is still a platform for people who can have bad intentions and exploit vulnerable people. The question you might ask yourself is: Are you satisfied that there is only a little bit? Yeah, maybe that's the message we're getting from the government. The government is pleased that it may have managed to reduce the begging a little, but it can still occur. I do not think it is a satisfactory response, but I would like to have clear information on the actual effects that produce 100% results. Should it be possible to come to Sweden and make a living through begging? This is, of course, a matter of principle, not least in view of how we want to see freedom of movement within the European Union. The answer from the government seems to be that it should be perfectly possible for other EU citizens to come to Sweden and beg on the streets of Sweden. That is what is happening, despite the measures taken by the government. A national begging ban would give completely different outcomes, of course, but also quite different signals to those EU citizens who go to Sweden to beg and those who are behind it and possibly organise it to make money from people's vulnerability. We have seen how other countries have dealt with the issue of the ban in different ways. In regions, municipalities or parts of municipalities where a total begging ban has been imposed, the begging has ceased. Not least, you can see that effect in Holland, where you have given large powers to the municipalities to impose a total begging ban. There is no begging on the streets of the municipalities that have introduced such a ban. Such an effect would, of course, be desirable in Sweden as well, but of course with national responsibility, so that begging does not occur in any municipality, but that the vulnerable EU citizens have an opportunity to integrate into their home countries. This kind of integration becomes impossible as long as they sit on the streets of Sweden and earn their living through begging. I would like an answer to at least one of the questions here. Should Sweden allow land to be used by citizens of other EU countries who come here and earn their living through begging – is it in this way that the government sees the possibilities of free movement in Europe? And does the government rule out the proposal for a national begging ban, which would have an immediate effect on this type of begging?
i-BSC5UchdqQtd2RkHMwBL2b	Mr President, I would like to Now Adam Marttinen says it may have decreased a little. Then he says: It may have been halved. ( ADAM Marttinen): We do not know. ) What I told you was numbers that were much bigger than that. If we look at precisely crimes relating to trafficking in human beings for begging, we can see that it has decreased by 85%. And the number of cases involving the eviction of people living in places where they are not entitled to live has fallen by 70% as a result of the new legislation. I would think that the public picture as well is that this has been greatly reduced in recent years. That is exactly what I said in the debate that we had four years ago: the measures we are taking now will have an effect. It's not allowed to exploit people for begging. That is why we introduced this legislation, and now we have court rulings showing that the legislation actually works. Then Adam Marttinen says: Yes, but we can have local bans, right? Yeah, but we already have. There is a ruling in the Supreme Administrative Court that approved the local bans, so that possibility actually exists now. Nevertheless, my view is that, with the opportunities we have and with the new laws we have with regard to eviction and exploitation, we have reached a very long way in this part. Then perhaps this is about what one considers to be major social problems. How do you look at these people? The Swedish Democrats are a party that almost never shows any empathy with poor people, especially people of foreign origin, on the contrary. You look at them with contempt. Of course, you don't want them here. You just want them out. This is like the basic position of the Swedish Democrats. This is why it is highlighted as a major social problem. The problem is essentially poverty in Europe and the large gaps in Europe. It is about ensuring that we can have economic development throughout Europe that means that no one will ever have to get into this situation. Maybe that's where we fundamentally differ. It is about how you look at the people who are forced into this situation. I think that the legislation we have implemented so far is well balanced, and I am not currently prepared to take any further initiatives in this regard. But I really believe that we differ in the way we look at the people who are forced to do this. I want to try to make sure that we can help them out of poverty, while the line of the Swedish Democrats seems basically to be that they are just going out. You don't want anything to do with them. You look at them with contempt. Actually, I don't like that very much.
i-Qmm1sRRgvBx8V1EfNbqYB6	Mr President, I would like to Apart from the straw men and brain ghosts that seem to embrace the Minister for Justice's speech, we can say that we agree that as long as people are begging on the streets of Sweden, integration into the home countries will be impossible. That is the starting point and the problem of this discussion. Freedom of movement is exploited in Europe, and begging on our streets does not help to integrate vulnerable European citizens into their home countries. It refers here to the local possibilities of begging bans. In Eskilstuna, which is my municipality of residence, we have introduced the kind of begging ban allowed by the Order Act, i.e. passive fundraising is allowed. The begging continues. The begging is still there. I see it when I'm in Eskilstuna. Actually, I'm there quite often, and I see it every week. This is everywhere in society. It's still there. Whether it should have been halved, as I doubt it, it is a question of thousands of vulnerable EU citizens who reside in Sweden and who earn their living through begging in a vulnerable situation, where integration in their home countries is completely impossible. The question therefore arises: Is the government satisfied with this situation? Our streets can be used for begging vulnerable EU citizens. Criminal purposes may be behind this. This has proved to be the case very often – I am thinking not least of the statement made by the Minister of Justice in relation to the crimes cleared up. The government's answer is that it is not prepared to take any new action. This possibility will continue to exist. Sweden will be a country where people can be exploited and where begging can occur and be part of our cityscape. I am pleased with these answers, because they make it clear that there is a certain difference in what kind of momentum we have on the part of the opposition and on the part of the government.
i-UCc5RgCr448z8DzfZVYBcm	Mr President, I would like to Again, everything suggests that this has declined sharply in recent years. The number of cases that come in about having to get your land back because people have settled there has fallen sharply. I remember what it was like when I took office in 2014. Then we had a large camp in Sorgenfri, in the middle of Malmö. Hundreds of people had settled there. They had lived there for many, many years, and no one had done anything about it, which of course was completely unreasonable. This was cleared up after we took office as a government. It was Malmö Municipality and the police that together, so to speak, made the effort. It was necessary, because you can't have it that way. Then came our legislation on human exploitation and on the possibility of evicting people from private land. This has led to a sharp reduction in this problem. But it is a question that Adam Marttinen avoids, about which he does not want to talk: Why are they here at all? Adam Marttinen says: Yes, but if they are allowed to beg in Western Europe, they will not be integrated into their home countries. I say that there is a reason why they are not integrated in their home countries from the outset. Many of these people are not just poor. They are also hunted and subjected to terrible racism. Above all, we are talking about the Roma from Central Europe. It is a terrible racism in the Central European countries that has made it impossible for them to enter those societies. They have simply been denied it. Then we must put pressure on those countries to ensure that they actually take care of their own citizens. That dialogue must be conducted. But I also see that there are some, not least right-wing governments, who absolutely do not want to hear about this and who do not want to give them the opportunity to enter. Again, this has been greatly reduced, but it is the root of the problem that we need to tackle. We must therefore try to ensure that these people can enter their respective societies and achieve good economic development and integration.
i-3eNfmWXXpg4WnfniWboiNg	Mr President, I would like to Johan Hultberg has asked me if I and the government are prepared to review how the collaboration between the prison services and addiction services can develop, as well as to investigate whether it would be appropriate to commission the Correctional Service to carry out self-dependence care. Furthermore, Johan Hultberg has asked if I am prepared to give the Prison Service the opportunity to initiate coordinated individual plan, SIP. Johan Hultberg has also asked if I am prepared to commission the Correctional Service to develop and implement a programme to prevent overdoses after release. Every person who dies as a result of drug and drug poisoning is a failure of society. Reducing the number of deaths is a high priority for the government. The Government therefore intends to set up an investigation to evaluate the Swedish drugs policy. The starting point for an investigation is that a continued restrictive drug policy must be combined with good drug and addiction care, which includes efforts to reduce harm. Just as Johan Hultberg's questions express, the prison services play a central role in reducing the risk of recurrence in crime and abuse. We provide a unique opportunity to coordinate and focus efforts around the individual. It is important that the person serving a prison sentence be given a strong incentive to participate in such recidivism measures as the prison service can offer in the context of the execution of a prison sentence. Therefore, on 1 May 2021, a legislative amendment came into force aimed at establishing a clearer link between the time of parole and participation in relapse prevention. The new provisions will allow the conditional release to be postponed to a greater extent than in the past for those who do not participate in, or misbehave, relapse prevention or other measures that can help the sentenced person to adapt to society. In addition, the Prison Service has been tasked with ensuring that each client is given a coherent and effective enforcement without interruption in the relapse prevention efforts by drawing up individualised enforcement plans. In order to achieve a gradual transition between prison and freedom, the prison services can decide on lock-out measures. People with a harmful use of drugs or alcohol, for example, may be given the opportunity to end their imprisonment in a treatment centre, a so-called care stay, for the treatment of the substance abuse problems that are responsible for the crime. An action in the individual execution plan may also be to participate in a treatment programme. It is gratifying to read in the Prison Service's annual report that the proportion of sentenced persons who have implemented a treatment programme has increased in recent years. In 2020, more than 700 inmates implemented and completed an anti-abuse treatment programme. The prison treatment programme is accredited. The authority continuously monitors the research situation and works to continue to develop its treatment methods. Leaving an addiction and a criminal life behind is a long process that requires action from several actors. Developed collaboration between relevant actors is a key to the importance of relapse prevention in a longer perspective. For this reason, the Prison Service has previously had the Government's mission to develop and test a model for collaboration at individual level, so-called lock-in. Correctional services now have the task of continuing to develop this model, which aims to reduce the risk of relapse through effective collaboration. In this context, it is also important to highlight that someone has to take up where the Prison Service's responsibility ends. In the autumn of 2021, the Correctional Service has therefore been tasked with further developing relapse prevention work, including by continuing efforts to strengthen cooperation between the relevant authorities and civil society in order to achieve an adequate lock-out without recurrence of crime and abuse.
i-9LPZCnKhKh2C9QbDPdoQq6	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for the answer to my interpellation! I have to admit that it is difficult to have a proper focus on domestic policy issues when we are in the situation that we are doing right now in Europe. Just recently there were reports of intense fighting going on outside Ukraine's capital Kiev. But just as the war in Ukraine is now reaping lives, the drugs in Sweden reap an enormous number of lives. In fact, Sweden has the highest drug-related mortality rate in Europe. It is certainly difficult to compare the drug mortality rates of different countries, Mr President, because the reliability of reporting varies greatly, but the fact is that Sweden has an extremely high drug mortality rate. As the government itself noted when the proposed new ANDTS strategy was presented last year, deaths due to various acute injuries and poisonings, including deaths related to drugs and drug poisoning, are the most common cause of death in the 15-39 age group. From this background, it is quite obvious to me and the Moderates that we need to conclude that Swedish addiction care needs to be developed and strengthened and that we need to review and evaluate Swedish drug policy to see how we can be better at preventing people from developing an addiction at all, but also how we can become better at giving people ways out of addiction and giving them the opportunity to re-integrate into a normal life. We want to destroy the criminal gangs, but we want to save the lives of those who are stuck in an addiction. A large proportion of those who have an addiction sooner or later meet with the prison services. A majority of prison inmates have an abuse. Fifty percent of those serving prison sentences are estimated to have drug abuse. There is an opportunity to make important efforts here, but unfortunately we see that the addiction care for people who are in prison services is not working today. This is due to the fact that the criminal justice system is not basically responsible for the treatment of addiction, but rather, according to the principle of normalisation, for the regions. This requires that there is a working cooperation between the Prison Service and Sweden's 21 regions, but there it is very different today. Therefore, I and the Moderates believe that there is every reason to evaluate how cooperation between the regions and the Prison Service can be improved. We would like to see such an evaluation and that it leads to an agreement between SKR, Swedish Municipalities and Regions, and the Prison Service. We also want to look at whether the Prison Service itself would not have the right and the opportunity to pursue addiction care. This is one of the questions in my interpellation, that is, that people in the Prison Service should be given the right to initiate so-called LARO treatment, i.e. drug-assisted treatment against opioid dependence. They are not allowed to do so today, but I believe that this is an important step forward. The Minister said in his introduction that it is a high priority of the government to reduce the number of deaths, but during the government's almost eight years very little has happened. On the contrary, every year in Parliament we have had to push the government for something to happen at all. The investigation that the government intends to set up also began with an announcement from a united parliament, and yet it has not even been set up, which I think is an expression of the fact that little is happening.
i-XBWVyiqrbZiQASX7XHfxYN	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the interpellation. It is an important subject to which it is satisfying to return. I was Minister of Public Health between 2002 and 2006 and was then responsible for drug treatment and addiction care and all the legislation related to it. It was then that we regulated, among other things, the syringe exchange programme, but we also went in with large and targeted money for addiction care, both in terms of LVM legislation, i.e. the forced treatment of addicts, and the open care. Unfortunately, all such money disappeared when the alliance government took over in 2006. At the time, there were tax cuts, and they did not want to invest in this part of the care. It was a pity, for then we had built up a system that worked and could have worked over time. Johan Hultberg referred to drug mortality. It is true that we are at a very high level there. Johan Hultberg is right that it is not always easy to compare different countries with each other. We sometimes tend to have very broad definitions in Sweden, which means that our figures are higher. We are generally high in the statistics, but the figures have fallen in recent years. We had a peak a few years ago when we received a very dangerous drug in Sweden, fentanyl, which harvested many lives in a short time. Then the police and law enforcement authorities went along with this and managed to get some of the access to fentanyl out of the way with pure law enforcement, and this has had a bearing on mortality. It should not be forgotten that law enforcement in itself can play a major role in reducing mortality. We will review addiction care, and we will set up a study to evaluate drug policy and also point forward to how we can strengthen drug care and addiction care. This investigation is in the Ministry of Social Affairs, and we are of course working with the department on it. We will be able to go out with this in the near future, because the directives are almost ready now. At the same time, I think it is important that we do not do things that exacerbate the situation. For example, there has been a discussion about decriminalising one's own use, and there is a lack of clarity as to where different parties stand. I would just like to double-check with Johan Hultberg: Surely the Moderates have not changed their attitude here, but you do not insist on decriminalising their own use of drugs? It would be an interesting message to receive from the Moderates in this discussion. I believe that decriminalisation of own use would be a huge gift to the criminal gangs. Then we would increase, legitimise and normalise drug use so that they can sell even more drugs and become even richer at it. We do not want to do this. With regard to the Prison Service, one of the best-preserved secrets of criminal policy is that relapses in crime are actually decreasing. Twenty years ago, about 40 per cent returned to crime within three years of their release from prison. The latest figures are 30%. So it is a sharp drop from 40% to 30%. There are certainly many reasons for this, but some are that we probably do pretty good things in the prison service. We have treatment programmes in relation to addiction, as well as other programmes that make it possible to re-integrate and re-integrate into society and restart their lives. Of course, we would like to continue to develop this.
i-7BizNGJnxfSgKf352Qu31H	Mr President, I would like to I have to say that it is regrettable that the Minister, when I have raised an interpellation about how addiction and penitentiary interventions can be developed and improved, spends only 30 seconds of his last four-minute contribution on precisely those issues. We are happy to have a broader discussion on drugs policy, but now I have made an interpellation about what we can do concretely to address Sweden's extremely high drug-related mortality in the area for which the Minister of Justice and Home Affairs is responsible, including the Prison Service. With regard to the review of drugs policy in general, the Moderates have been the driving force for it to come about, as have the other parties within the Social Committee. It is a completely united social committee that has called for it. And this announcement is clear that the continued drugs policy in Sweden should be restrictive. The Moderates have in no way changed their minds about it. But what we see is that addiction care also needs to be improved. We're gonna hit the criminal gangs hard. We're going to fight the drug crimes. But we will ensure that people who are trapped in addiction and addiction receive care and help. It needs to be improved across the board, from the work of the social services, to the responsibility of the regions, but also within the prison services. There is a significant problem here with how it works today. Very many of those who are in prison have a problem of abuse and a serious addiction disease, for which they unfortunately do not get much effort. The Minister pointed out that the number of treatment programmes available in the prison department has increased slightly and that more than 700 have recently been allowed to do so. However, about 5,000 are in prisons in prisons every year and have a drug addiction. So a very large proportion is not reached. More is needed here. I also think it takes more than just kbt and other things to get to grips with the concerns. There is also a need, for example, for LARO treatment, which is a treatment method that is in accordance with the national guidelines of the National Board of Health and Welfare. These national guidelines must also apply reasonably to those in prison. That is why I think it is important that we carry out this thorough evaluation of Swedish drug policy and addiction care. But we must not stop at trying to develop addiction care and the efforts that can save lives here and now. These are evidence-based measures, care programmes that are in accordance with the National Board of Health and Welfare's national guidelines. One thing that I and the Minister fully agree on is precisely that if we are to succeed in helping people away from crime and away from addiction and addiction, it is necessary that different actors interact and that they have functioning care chains. That is why I have also highlighted the issue of giving the Prison Service the right to initiate coordinated individual plans. Today, when I meet with representatives from the Prison Service or representatives from Sis, the State Department Board, which is another controversial activity, they testify to a great frustration that they are making contributions during a period of a person's life. Hopefully they can stop negative behaviour, so to speak. But in order for this not only to become a parenthesis, it is necessary for other actors – social services and others – to take on board. That is why it is important, I think, and the Moderates, that more actors are given the opportunity to initiate coordinated individual plans. Today, therefore, only the regions and municipalities' social services have this possibility, not the prison system, not Sis and other important actors. I think we should change that. It would be a way of creating a better coherent care chain for these vulnerable people.
i-Fx8CKXswMtZYeszNNVVcwX	Mr President, I would like to I take Johan Hultberg's response to the review of the drugs policy as meaning that you do not want to decriminalise your own use. That is an important message; then we agree in that part. I know that there are other parties that run a different line, but that was a good message. Johan Hultberg talks about coordinated individual plan. In fact, it is already the case that, within the prison system, individual execution plans are used for each person, trying to focus, so to speak, on what each person needs. Then Johan Hultberg says that it was 700 who went to these treatment programs but that about 5,000 people are in prison. That's it. However, not all 5,000 have an addiction, but have different problems that need to be addressed. Some people need treatment for their addiction. Others need to read their grades. In fact, quite a few people need it. Many people need vocational training. A third group may need treatment programs for help and support to handle their mental problems, aggressions and so on. Each person has individual needs that must be tried to satisfy as much as possible. We are now expanding and expanding the prison system considerably. We have over 7 000 prisoners in Sweden right now, a little over 5 000 in prison and a little over 2 000 in custody. I am very keen that, as we expand the quantity, we do not lose quality, but that we ensure that we continue to maintain a high quality in the prison system. When I visit prisons today and compare with what it was like when I visited prisons 20 years ago, I would say that the big change is that we are now much better at, above all, vocational training and going in and helping and equiping people until they come out. However, treatment for their addiction is, of course, also a very important part. I would like to point out here the possibility of ending the prison stay in a treatment centre, what is called a stay in care. I think that's very good. I am not ruling out further measures or increasing the powers of the Prison Service. But I am keen to check with the prison services what kind of assignment would be needed in that case. If it is a question of drug treatment, it is actually a matter for health care. I don't want it to get sloppy with that. If you are going to go in with it, it must be a quality in that treatment. When it comes to whether prison services should engage in this, I am happy to have a dialogue with them about it. I am not ruling this out. However, this must be based on the needs and problems that have been seen in the Authority. Let us continue this dialogue in that case. However, I would say that what is being done in the area of prisons today, with the additional measures that we are now taking to strengthen this work, is heading in the right direction. But I do not rule out the need for further action.
i-DqzY3SB2CB1GFmkBKAHZV6	Mr President, I would like to I'm sure a lot of things will be better in prison. Nevertheless, we must remember that the criminal justice system is basically not currently responsible for treating people's addiction diseases. This responsibility lies in essence with the municipalities' social services and with the regions responsible for health care. This is where there is often a concern that there is a gap between the responsibilities of the different actors and that people do not get the care and treatment measures that they need when they do not work together. Therefore, I think it would have been good to have an agreement between the Swedish Correctional Service and the Swedish Municipalities and Regions on how this cooperation can be developed and strengthened, so that everyone gets the care they need and to which they are entitled and that it is done according to national guidelines for, for example, addiction care. That's not how it works today. And that is why I propose this. I think it would be a good thing if Kr. iminal care were given the right to take initiatives also for care and treatment under, for example, LARO, because it is a life-saving treatment that can also mean a great deal to prevent future crime. As a consequence of their dependence, people who have a heavy opioid addiction are usually very criminal in order to finance their addiction. I also raise another issue in my interpellation. It is about commissioning the Correctional Service to also work actively to prevent overdoses. We know that people who are released from prison and who have an opioid addiction have a significantly increased risk of dying of overdoses. According to the European Drugs Agency, the risk is eight times higher in the two weeks after release. Here it would be a very concrete and simple measure to commission the Correctional Service to develop an overdose strategy. It would also be good if one became part of a national Swedish overdose strategy. There we can learn a lot from Norway that has worked successfully to reduce the number of overdoses, which is the most common cause of drug-related mortality. Thank you for the debate.
i-WYMGDjQNZB4qxLtJcWG6Sp	Mr President, I would like to I would also like to thank you for the debate. This is an ongoing development work. And I am not, as I said, ruling out these additional measures at all. I would just like to point out that the Prison Service has actually been commissioned by the government to further develop the prevention of relapse by, among other things, strengthening cooperation with the relevant authorities and civil society. When we talk about the relevant authorities, it is also, of course, the municipalities' social and health services that are involved. They are to submit a report to the government on how this work is going, and when that report comes we will see what kind of measures the Correctional Service would then ask for in order to make this work better. I am fully open to doing so and, of course, I am also prepared to allocate resources for it. As far as the issue of overdose is concerned, I am happy to take it with me, because I am quite convinced that it is at least to some extent already being done there. However, I also know that, as Johan Hultberg says, there is a great risk during the first time after a person is released from prison. That's often when the overdoses come. When it comes to the fact that the penal services can strengthen their work in this area too, I would like to look into how this work is carried out, because in fact there is a practical contribution to saving lives here. Thank you again for the debate. Let's continue this work.
i-ENkgtTSQG4rm8SyQrmkx3n	Mr President, I would like to Katja Nyberg has asked me, in three interpellations, what I and the government intend to do to meet the target of 26 200 police officers by 2025, whether I intend to support a special wage effort to raise the conditions for police officers, thereby attracting more competent applicants to the police programme, and whether I intend to take any initiatives to introduce paid police training in order to fill the places of training with qualified applicants. The Government initiated the ongoing expansion of the Police Authority in 2017 to strengthen police operations throughout the country. The objective of the growth is to increase the number of police employees by 10,000 from the beginning of 2016 to the end of 2024. At present, the number of police officers is around 22 000 while there are about 3 000 future police officers in police training. The presence of unused places in police training is due to the fact that the government has provided the conditions for significantly increasing the number of places. Since 2015, the number of admitted to police training has nearly tripled. This has been possible because the government has increased the capacity of the National Defence Service's duty and investigation services, started two new police training courses, initiated a new and faster admission process to police training and enabled civilian specialists to be trained as police officers. At the same time, the government has ensured historically large increases in the appropriation. Since 2015, the agency's funding has increased by nearly SEK 12.7 billion, an increase of 60 percent. To 2024, the grant is expected to increase by nearly SEK 17.4 billion compared to 2015, corresponding to an increase of 82 percent. The Agency's increased funding has provided the opportunity to use the funds for, among other things, improved conditions for employees. The police's average basic salary per month has increased by SEK 6 000 since 2015. This is a significantly higher rate of wage growth than for many other groups in the labour market. The average basic salary for all police officers is currently SEK 38 500 per month. The government defends the Swedish labour market model, which is based on union and employer agreeing on the terms and conditions of employment in the labour market. It is a fundamental and important principle for the state sector. My view is that neither the interpellier nor I will decide the wages and obs for a particular profession. Attractiveness in the police profession has increased, among other things, because wages and other conditions have improved. This is confirmed by the high search pressure for police training and the low staff turnover among police – just over 3 per cent in total but as low as 1.5 per cent if you ignore retirements. This is to be compared with the personnel turnover in other state employments, which is around 10 per cent. The claim that many policemen leave the profession is not true. After 2016, four consecutive years followed with a decrease in the number of police officers who left. In 2016, 950 police officers ended, and last year 762 police officers ended. About half of those who quit retire. Based on the forecast in the Political Authority's growth plan, presented in 2018, it has been shown that fewer police officers have left the profession and more than expected have been reinstated. On January 31, 2022, the number of police officers in Sweden was at the highest level ever, while about 3,000 are studying to become police officers and are about to patrol on streets and squares. This is right, right and important.
i-AmgDFfie7UoUhohQ7QnzVs	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank Morgan Johansson for his answer. But obviously this is not enough, because it is going far too slowly. Since Morgan Johansson took office as Minister of Justice in 2014, the shootings have increased from 19 to about 48 per year, which is an increase of almost 150 percent. Of those killed in acts of violence, 23.6 per cent were killed in shooting violence in 2017, and 28.6 per cent were killed last year – and the increase continues. The police also say that the situation is acute and has been so for several years. Today, serious crime consumes a great deal of resources from other police activities. Investigations of everyday crimes must be ironed out, and ordinary citizens feel left out to everyday violence that neither police nor prosecutors seem to have time to care about. The police refer to the fact that there are so much more serious crimes that require their attention and therefore do not have time for the so-called everyday crimes. I had a conversation this week with some store owners who told me that they only report one out of ten crimes taking place in their stores. They consider it useless to report the crimes because in principle all investigations are closed. It is no longer worth the effort to file a complaint – in that case it would be in order to get money out of the insurance company. This applies, of course, not only to crimes that occur in stores, but also to all other crimes that people are exposed to. Today, in principle, there is no local police that can cooperate with the local community. A store owner in Gnesta tells us that it takes at least an hour for the police to come if he needs urgent help. As I said, it is not only the handling of everyday crime that has to stand back, but the pursuit of criminal gangs has also made it difficult for the police to investigate other serious crime, such as rape. This type of crime has been transferred in Stockholm to the close-to-relationship crime unit, which is an already heavily affected unit where there are not enough staff to investigate these crimes as well. Morgan Johansson mentioned that the number of police employees has increased, and yes, numerically they have increased. The police authority has hired thousands of new people, but it should also be taken into account that the population in Sweden has increased and that crime has increased. The number of police employees has increased by 20 per cent, but the number of trained police officers has increased by only 31⁄2 per cent. In fact, in external service, there have been fewer police officers, and many stop after a short time, especially in the metropolitan regions. In 2015, there were 9 726 in external service, and in 2019 there were 9 049 police officers in external service. It's a decrease from 94 to 88 police officers per 100,000 inhabitants. The figures have therefore not improved, but rather the opposite. Twenty years ago, it was not uncommon for police officers to remain in external service for 10 to 20 years. Today, it is considered a long time if a police officer stays in external service for about 1 - 3 years. Young police officers with a very short period of time in external service are promoted to external officers and, in doing so, are given a huge responsibility. They then have no older colleagues with experience to lean against. Based on this, I find it a little strange that Morgan Johansson cannot even take into account that there may be benefits of targeted wage initiatives to attract more competent applicants and to introduce paid police training. My question is therefore: what does Morgan Johansson intend to do in concrete terms? The alternatives proposed by the Swedish Democrats are clearly not relevant to the government.
i-QgXMPuavzg7j5GRWV4FN2u	Mr President, I would like to That was a total black-painting of the police and the state of the police. It's a picture that I mean doesn't match reality at all. The truth is that after the efforts we have made on the police, we now have a situation where Sweden has more police officers than ever before – in January we had 21 929. From this year on, the number of police officers per capita, i.e. the number of police officers per inhabitant, will also increase. Even that number will be able to reach all-time-high. So we are not only catching up with the population itself, but we are also increasing the number of police officers per inhabitant. Overall, we have more police employees than ever, 34,716. We have more in police training than ever; there are over 3 000 who attend the training and are on their way out. If you look at the funds, you can see that the police have more money than they've ever had. This is really a remarkable development: During the period 2015 – 2025, police funds increase from just over SEK 20 billion to just under SEK 40 billion. It is almost a doubling of the allocation to the police over a period of ten eleven years. I can hardly imagine that any other authority in Swedish government has grown faster, at least not during the post-war period. This is an entirely historic effort; it is therefore a question of almost doubling appropriations over a ten-year period. We also have a record number who want to be a cop. The search pressure is very high for the courses we have had. We have also developed two additional courses in Borås and Malmö. We now have fewer who leave the police and more who return to the police. More than 800 of those who left the police between 2016 and 2021 have been reinstated. These are police officers who have been out for a few years, perhaps in other sectors. Now they see that things are happening and that politics – the government – is making sure that it is invested in the police. There is a social problem that they want to be involved in helping to resolve. They're basically cops. They wanted to get back into the police business and took that step. More than 800 people have been reinstated, as I said. About a quarter of those who have quit since 2015 have been reinstated and are on their way back into the police force, so this black painting of the situation and the activities of the Swedish police is not at all up to me. In fact, this is not in line with reality. Katja Nyberg raised the issue of wages. We have had a very strong wage development for the police profession in recent years. It is based on an agreement made by former Chief Police Officer Dan Eliasson with the Swedish Police Federation in January 2018, which led wages on a higher path. Among other things, they have invested in police officers in external service. During our time, the average salary of a Swedish police officer has increased by nearly SEK 6,000 a month. Wages have increased faster for police officers than for the vast majority of other groups in the labour market. I am keen to keep the arm's length between wage formation on the one hand and government and parliament on the other. It is part of the Swedish labour market model that it is the parties who take responsibility for wage formation. We as politicians should not sit here and decide who should have what monthly salary, what ob-supplement people should have or how much extra they should have when they work evenings and weekends. Because it's going to be completely impossible. Moreover, if policy goes in and regulates in detail in this way, it will trigger compensation claims from other groups. I take care of the Swedish wage-setting model.
i-3FhG3mjyk7oQ6CzDTFfREG	Mr President, I would like to It is certainly not a black-painting of the Police Authority and their activities or of what society looks like, but these are facts. This is what it looks like. We have problems; we cannot get away from it. Morgan Johansson says it's an all-time high when it comes to the number of police employees and police officers. That is true as far as the number is concerned, but why do we have such a high crime rate as we do? What about the gang crime we see? The work against everyday crime must be ironed on the foot. Something's not working. In addition, we have the target of 26 200 more police officers to be achieved by 2025. It will not be achieved; we know that today. Something has to be done. What the government has done so far is not enough. There are a large number of empty seats at the Police College, and this number has actually increased. Many people apply, but the seats are still not filled. Nearly 40 per cent of the seats at the Police College were empty in January. In addition, between 8 and 16 percent of those in police training have completed three weeks of training. This happens every semester, so the question is why these students stop. Is recruitment wrong? Is there something that needs to be reviewed in the recruitment process? However, that is another issue. To be a good cop requires experience. The Police Association has conducted a survey that shows that as many as 36 percent of the employees in the police force are doing something active to plan for a working life outside the Police Authority. In fact, we are again beginning to see an increase in the number that ends. It went down from 2016, but since 2020 or 2021 the number of dropouts has actually increased by 21 percent. This is excluding pension departures. In 2021, 43 per cent of police officers left for reasons other than retirement. It can't keep saying there's gonna be new cops. As I mentioned earlier, the police profession is an experience-based profession, and it is devastating for law enforcement activities when experienced police officers stop. This also reflects the problems we see in society today. Since 2016, nearly 2,500 police officers have stopped, and this is excluding retirements. Moreover, it is not possible to compare the police profession with other government jobs; it is a matter of both wage setting and the number of people who quit. Replacing a police officer is not as easy as replacing a civilian investigator, for example. Because we have the police shortage that we have today, it is very costly every time a police officer stops, both in money and for society. That is, once again, why we need to do something more concrete. It does not matter that there have never been as many policemen as there are today when we have the crime and the problems that we have and many policemen who are thinking of quitting or actually ending. What does Morgan Johansson intend to do besides what he has said so far?
i-Ta5CBQ1T7Aof6RtaFEfbJC	Mr President, I would like to We will continue to expand both the police and the rest of the judiciary. We continue to devote a great deal of resources to this in the coming years. As I said, police funds have nearly doubled in ten years. There is no government agency that has grown as fast as the police have now, I dare say – at least not in modern times. Katja Nyberg is confident that this objective will not be achieved. I guess we'll just see about that. We are complementing the efforts we have already made. In initial education we have 3,000 in education; they are on their way out. Then we supplement with the functional training, which allows some of those who already work in the Police Authority to further train to the police. This will attract additional people into the police force. We also have efforts to re-recruit. I would say that, overall, it is quite a good result to have recruited 800 employees since 2016. The police have very low staff turnover; it is 3%. This compares with the other government sector, which is 10 per cent. Police staff turnover is thus one third of this. If you count retirements off, the rate is about 11⁄2 percent. It's very low. After all, my picture is that those who train themselves as police and enter the police profession in the vast majority of cases want to stay in the police because they feel that they are doing an incredibly important job and want to remain in the profession. We have, of course, a development in the area of gang crime in particular, which is deeply worrying; that is just the case. But we should not forget to see that we have a different development in other respects. What has happened in recent years is that gang shootings and violence within the gang criminal ranks have increased, also with fatal outcome, which is a major social problem. That's it. But overall, the deadly violence in Sweden has decreased over time. The risk of being killed in Sweden was greater about 30 years ago, 1989-1990, when I graduated from school. What has happened in recent years is that gang-related violence and related mortality have increased, but mortality has actually decreased over time. I think you should see that too. Sweden is roughly in line with the other Nordic countries in terms of deadly violence. I think that should be noted after all. Other forms of crime have been greatly reduced. Right now we have the smallest number of burglaries in Sweden since 1975. The number of youth robberies, which were discussed very much a few years ago, has decreased by almost 30% in the last two years. Of course, you can always find statistics that point in your own direction and say that everything is getting worse and worse, but there are also other data that point in another direction. Having said that, we will continue to strengthen the Police Authority and the other judiciary with large amounts of money in the future. We will deploy the necessary resources and provide the police with the necessary tools to enable them to do their job. In these years we have shown that we are prepared to do so, and we will do so in the years to come.
i-VRMsK1NQHsgXnCQqWNp36g	Mr President, I would like to No, it is not about saying that everything is getting worse, but the fact remains: We have a big problem today in Sweden regarding crime. Morgan Johansson says that burglaries have been reduced and that juvenile robberies have been reduced. That's great. Of course you can always use statistics and look at different things. However, I believe that much of this is because we have had a pandemic that has caused this type of crime not to occur to the same extent. Again, we have a target to be achieved – 26,200 police officers by 2025. It will not be achieved as it stands today. Then I wonder why it is not possible to have targeted wage initiatives. We have a desperate need for more cops. 54 percent of the police say that salary is the most important aspect of remaining in the profession. In fact, the police are more than SEK 3 000 under the salaries of other civil servants. With that profession, that complexity, that responsibility, that threat, and so on, and that education, one might ask why they are not higher than that. There should be a targeted wage effort that will make police officers pay a much higher salary, and that must happen quickly. It's urgent now. It's the same with a paid police training. There's been one before. It worked just fine. I think it was in 1993 that it was phased out. You may need to do the same now in order to attract more competent applicants, because there are not enough competent applicants. The seats are not filled, which needs to be done. Then you may be able to catch these people who are in the middle of life, who are unable to take student loans and so on, who have life experience and who can become very good police officers.
i-Sco62v22MbfqAiJqAMwxyp	Mr President, I would like to This is about fundamental respect for the Swedish labour market model. The average salary for a policeman is 38,500 kroner a month. It's an increase of 6,000 kroner since we took office. Wages have improved faster during our time in government than under the previous government. I say that as an account of the development itself. The wages of police officers have risen faster than for most other groups in the labour market. Having said that, I would also like to say that the issue of wage formation must be based on fundamental respect between politics and the parties. If we start bringing wage formation issues into Parliament and will sit and decide how much the nurse, police and defence employee should have, we will have a situation that we will never ever resolve. Then, of course, there will be compensation claims. If you are dedicating this money to the police, why don't you spend as much or more money on the defence workers or on the civilian employees of the police? This is exactly what has led to enormous problems in many countries where, for political reasons, it has begun to be pointed out that this or that group should be given special treatment. It doesn't work that way. The same is true of paid education. We have shortage situations in many sectors in Sweden. We have a shortage of nurses, teachers, doctors and social services. We also have a shortage of industrial workers, and they are the ones who are withdrawing all our export earnings. If so, why should industrial workers not also have free training? You could start to say that. We need to keep society together, I think. This means, among other things, that we ensure that the trade unions, the parties, have their task, and that we have our task in politics. If you want to deal with wage issues, you have to get involved in trade unionism. Then it is not primarily political to get involved.
i-TM3N4r1g5RA9NnQm5kcB2G	Mr President, I would like to Ciczie Weidby has asked me what measures, in addition to those already taken, I intend to take to combat fatal accidents at work, what measures I intend to take to tighten the penalties for occupational health and safety offences, what measures I intend to take to strengthen the judicial work on occupational health and safety offences and what measures I intend to take to phase out all dangerous and risky cooperation with a view to preventing fatal accidents at work. No one should have to die as a result of their work. Every fatal accident is a tragedy for those involved and unacceptable in a modern working life. Since the government took office last year, it has therefore been an important priority to raise the level of ambition for health and safety at work policy, and the government has taken a number of measures to combat fatal accidents at work. In recent years, the Swedish Work Environment Authority has received increased resources to hire more occupational health and safety inspectors and increase the number of inspections. During 2022, the Swedish Work Environment Authority will receive an additional SEK 85 million to strengthen its supervisory work and carry out more labour inspection. Strengthening the inspection activities of the Swedish Work Environment Authority contributes to preventing fatal accidents at work. Safety representatives play an important role in creating safe and secure workplaces. Cooperation with safety representatives is important to reduce the risk of serious accidents. In the spring of 2020, the government submitted a bill to extend the access rights of regional safety representatives to all workplaces with collective agreements. However, a majority of the parties in the Riksdag chose to vote against the proposal. It has then set up an investigation to evaluate the role of regional safety representatives in the work environment and how they can have better opportunities to carry out their task. The investigation shall submit its report to the Government by 22 August 2022. Most employers and companies in Sweden follow the working rules that apply. But there are also those who misbehave. It is, of course, totally unacceptable and requires decisive action, ultimately by prosecuting the perpetrators of occupational safety and health offences. For such a crime, the individual who committed the crime may be sentenced to punishment and the company may be subject to a corporate fine. Occupational crime is often complex and difficult to investigate. An important condition for police and prosecutors to be able to perform their duties properly is that the respective authorities have adequate resources. The government is carrying out a historic investment in the Police Authority. This means that the number of employees will increase by 10,000 between the beginning of 2016 and the end of 2024. According to the Police Authority's personnel statistics at the turn of the year, we have reached more than halfway. In order to finance the initiative, the appropriations of the Politiska ombudsman have been increased considerably. Since 2015, the agency's funding has increased by nearly SEK 12.7 billion. To 2024, the grant is expected to increase by nearly SEK 17.4 billion compared to 2015, corresponding to an increase of 82 percent. In order to strengthen the Prosecution Authority's ability to meet the increased influx of serious and difficult-to-do crimes, the Government has also made efforts on that authority. Since 2014, the Swedish Prosecution Authority's funding has increased by over SEK 700 million, from SEK 1.3 billion to SEK 2 billion. No one should have to die at work, but no one should have to die at work either. The Government has therefore decided to extend its zero vision against fatal accidents in the new work environment strategy for 2021 – 2025. It is about a zero vision against accidents at work that leads to death but also against work-related mortality due, for example, to longer illness, cancer or suicide. Nothing but a zero vision can apply to death due to work.
i-7JWniSSjhhPxPqbjjzzSwu	Mr President, I would like to I thank Johan Danielsson for his reply. It is true that the government has raised the level of ambition for health and safety at work and has taken a number of measures to combat fatal accidents at work. The Swedish Work Environment Authority has more resources and more occupational health and safety inspectors, at least in comparison with what it looked like during the alliance government 2006–2104. However, the priority that is being given is not enough. According to a review carried out by the Swedish Agency for Safety and Health at Work, Sweden invests significantly less in the work environment than our Nordic neighbours do. According to the ILO labour market body, there should be one inspector per 10,000 workers. Sweden, with its 5.1 million employees, should therefore have 510 health and safety inspectors, but by 2020 we had only 258. There are far fewer inspectors than in Denmark, and Denmark has only 3 million employees. More inspections are also being carried out in Denmark. The same year that Denmark carried out 36 000 inspections, Sweden made only 27 000. The government's target of having 300 health and safety inspectors in place by the end of 2020 was not achieved. Is the Government prepared to increase the grant to the Swedish Work Environment Authority further so that more inspectors can be employed and more inspections carried out? When does the Government estimate that Sweden will comply with the ILO guideline on one inspector per 10,000 workers? Is that even an ambition? The Left Party shares the Government's view that safety representatives have an incredibly important role to play in safe and secure workplaces. Like the government, we want to extend the access rights of regional safety representatives. But there is more to do to strengthen the safety representatives. In order for them to be able to carry out their mission, they need to be given the conditions for education, further training and further training, and that is not the case today. Although the law gives the right to leave to undergo training, in reality it looks a little different. Many safety representatives find it difficult to manage their work, undergo training and carry out their duties. Unfortunately, many also feel that their right to education is being questioned by the employer. The problem has been pointed out by, among others, Kommunal and my own trade union Handels, who have proposed that the state should take greater responsibility for education. The Left Party has two concrete proposals to the Government: firstly, that the duration of the training should be five days and regulated by law; and secondly, that a statutory right to further training and training of safety representatives should be introduced, equivalent to one day each year. For several years, the Left Party has presented these proposals to Parliament without receiving support. When does the Government believe that we will reach the ILO guidelines, and how does the Government stand to statutory training for safety representatives?
i-EFEAqHxNsFDumsVkrb23YS	Mr President, I would like to As the Member of Parliament says, the Government has continuously taken steps since 2014 to ensure a better working environment in order to reduce fatal accidents, and this work continues. As I said in my opening speech, the Swedish Work Environment Authority receives additional contributions during this year of SEK 85 million to strengthen its work, and the Government and my intention is to continue to strengthen the Swedish Work Environment Authority's ability to carry out more and more effective inspections. Nothing suggests that this will stop, but on the contrary, this is something we have done continuously and will have to continue with. As I said at the beginning, zero vision and work against fatal accidents remain a priority in the new work environment strategy, and the Swedish Work Environment Authority and the Swedish Agency for Safety and Health at Work have also been tasked with developing concrete action plans to implement the strategy in their respective areas, and here you also look at the zero vision. The measures shall be timed and include a follow-up plan. The action plans will be presented to the Government on 1 March. Let me also highlight another important dimension. Closely linked to the work environment problems and the work environment crimes we see are working life crime, i.e. cheating and crime in the workplace. The government's message throughout this broad area is clear: It should be difficult to cheat, easy to get caught and hard to be punished. Let me briefly focus on the last leg, the penalties, which is also part of what prompted this interpellation debate. The government has significantly increased the maximum amounts of corporate fines for large companies, from SEK 10 million to SEK 500 million for serious crimes. The aim is to give these companies clear incentives to organise themselves in such a way as to reduce the risk of crime in the business. We have also systematically increased fines in other areas linked to the labour market. As I said in my opening speech, it is important for the incentive structure to function that the whole chain works when it comes to dealing with these crimes. Therefore, the Swedish Police Authority, the Swedish Public Prosecutor's Office and the Swedish Work Environment Agency have formalised their work with work environment crime in the central collaboration group for work environment crime. This forum meets four times a year and has also developed specific processing times for occupational health and safety offences, which are complex in nature. Earlier, preliminary investigations were initiated after the Swedish Work Environment Authority had carried out its review, and it could take one to two years. The preliminary investigation is now beginning in parallel with the Swedish Work Environment Authority's review, which also means that we can avoid the risk of limitation. This also strengthens the incentive structure for companies to organise their work in such a way as to avoid serious occupational health and safety offences and fatal accidents at work. Last but not least, just as the honourable Member has been involved in her own dialogue with the trade unions, it is important that we have a close and close dialogue with the social partners on how to reduce fatal accidents and how to strengthen the role of safety representatives. Since I took office, I have met all trade union organisations in the sectors most affected by serious occupational health and safety offences and fatal accidents. This dialogue will continue with the government, because we will only be able to resolve this together – and the government is definitely prepared to take its share of the responsibility.
i-AALMmgov3cmxKY6aX1yB2b	Mr President, I would like to There were many threads to pick up here, but perhaps we should not get involved now because it requires a long debate. Mr President, I would like to It is a good thing that the Police and the Prosecutor's Office have been given more resources. At the same time, we know that occupational safety and health crime is a down-priority activity in the police and prosecutor's services. The focus is on more priority crimes, which in itself is reasonable. However, I believe that the work of the judicial system on occupational safety and health offences needs to be strengthened and, in order to improve the possibility for police and prosecutors to investigate occupational safety and health offences, more resources should be allocated to that particular purpose. There should also be more police officers, investigators and prosecutors working specifically on occupational health and safety offences. In Sweden, it takes an average of 19 months to investigate a fatal workplace accident. In Norway, the average duration of proceedings is about half as long, and in addition, the legal situation is much clearer than in Sweden. It depends on several factors. Firstly, Norwegian legislation is more uniform than Swedish legislation. Since 2005, Norway has its own work environment code, which facilitates the investigation work. Secondly, there is stricter personal responsibility for the employer. The employer can be punished personally if he has been careless according to his obligations. This makes it easier to hold employers to account after fatal workplace accidents. This has resulted, among other things, in a number of important fundamental judgments clarifying the legal situation. All in all, Norwegian legislation and case law provide a better working tool for police and prosecutors when investigating serious occupational health and safety offences. The Left Party believes that Sweden should take the impression of Norwegian legislation and case law in order to shorten the investigation periods for occupational safety and health offences and establish a health and safety code in order to achieve more uniform legislation. Penal sanctions should also be introduced when safety representatives are excluded. We should know that many employers of course have good knowledge of the work environment and carry out good work environment work. At the same time, there are also many employers who lack basic knowledge of the work environment and how to do good work environment work. This can ultimately also lead to workplace accidents, injuries, sick leave and so on. There are safety representatives within Fastighets och Seko, among others, who have proposed that there should be requirements for health and safety training in order to start, for example, a company that should have employees. It is also a proposal put forward by the Left Party in the Riksdag. What does the Government think about setting requirements for occupational health and safety training in order to start a company that will hire people and a work environment code?
i-H2KN9CqNemc7ELKProoTjh	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Ciczie Weidby! It is clear that we agree on what the objective of the work environment should be. We will ensure a good working environment for all employees in Sweden, and we will avoid fatal accidents at work. I believe, like Ciczie Weidby, that there is much we can learn from each other in the Nordic countries. There are things that our neighbours can teach us about how we work in Sweden. Similarly, there are lessons we can learn about how to work with health and safety at work and other things in our neighbouring countries. I am therefore visiting our neighbouring countries right now. I have been to Finland and Denmark, and I will visit my colleague in Norway within a few weeks. I do not believe that the issue of working life crime and the link with health and safety at work should be rushed over so quickly. There are also important lessons to be learned, not least from Norway, from how they have worked systematically on the issue of working life crime for many years. As I have already stated, the Swedish Work Environment Authority has gradually since 2014 received more resources for its work. However, since 2018, it is also responsible for coordinating the joint work of public authorities against labour crime. It's important work. The sectors specifically identified as risk sectors related to occupational crime are construction, restaurant, transport, cleaning, care, agriculture and forestry, beauty care, car care and waste management. Many of these sectors are also among the sectors with the highest number of fatal accidents at work. The questions are connected. Inspection work is important and has produced results. But it has also shown the extent of the problems that exist in the labour market. That is why the government decided only yesterday to change this work through the establishment of seven regional centres in the work against labour crime. These centres will act as a hub of work and lead to both more and more effective controls. They will lead to better contact with trade unions and employers locally and regionally and better contact with regional safety representatives. It will also have an impact on the work environment. If you have illegal labour, you will probably cheat with the tax, and you will also mishandle the work environment. In this way, the joint work of public authorities against labour crime is also important for the work environment. I'll get back to the safety officers. They have a crucial role to play in creating safe and secure workplaces. Although we do not have inspectors at the level of our neighbouring countries after the alliance government's dismantling of the Swedish Work Environment Agency, despite our additional resources, the number of fatalities per worker in the Swedish labour market is not higher than in our Nordic neighbours. The reason for this is our fantastic safety representatives and the work they do around workplaces in Sweden. Now my speaking time is running out again. I know that we will come back to this issue from the Social Democrats and the government. I know Ciczie Weidby agrees with me. Continuing to strengthen the safety representatives will be crucial for us to continue to succeed in this work.
i-5nTNXHhUnQsE5yha1rGgj9	Mr President, I would like to Of course, it's annoying when the light starts flashing yellow and the time runs out. If we are to start talking about working life crime, which I would very much like to do and are very involved in, we need so much more time. I definitely share Johan Danielsson's view that we must have the transparency common to the authorities of the various companies. I also share the view that cheating with one thing is probably cheating with others. Nor is it the kind of society we want where people are exploited in that way. We also agree, of course, that it is important to work so that no one either dies at their job or at their job. I really appreciate that there are ambitions. I just wish, Mr President, that the Council and the Government took on a little more and really put action behind the words. One thing that we have not touched on at all, which is also an issue that we will certainly have to come back to, is cooperation. Cooperation is a common denominator for a great many fatal accidents. If there is no one who has witnessed an accident, it is understood that it makes it very difficult to investigate the question of responsibility and so on, and no one can be held to account. Perhaps you could mention briefly on the issue of cooperation. Otherwise, there is every reason to meet again in this House and discuss this.
i-HaagmdyA99UmdeiVAbXzqY	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Ciczie Weidby! It is clear that we share a deep commitment and a willingness to advance our positions on these issues. When it comes to collaboration with the parties, the government has set up a working environment forum. It will be used to discuss ongoing and planned actions in the context of work on the OSH Strategy with the social partners and the responsible authorities. This year's theme will include threats and violence. It is also an issue that is closely linked to cooperation. There are many reasons to come back to this issue. In conclusion, from the government's perspective, of course, everyone who works deserves a safe and secure workplace. We must each take our share of the responsibility in the work environment to work decisively to prevent workplace accidents and to build a good safety culture. We have also talked about the link between a good working environment and the fight against the growing fraud and crime in the Swedish labour market. I am sure we will have reason to come back to that. It is as Ciczie Weidby states, it is connected. If you commit crimes in one area, you certainly do it to others. Here, we believe from the government that society's response to work crime as well as to the growing health and safety problems must be uncompromising. Since 2014, we have gradually added resources and changed the work. The government will continue to do so until the elections and for the next ten years.
