i-LGoJbZJvKPUMWnvbJ4bCKR	Madam President, I would like We are now going to debate changed rules to allow data at individual level to be released. It is data on income, debt and wealth. It can be about what clothes we shop, how much money we spend on our hobby and other consumption. It can be about buying a house and if so, when we buy the house and how much the house costs. It can be about student loans and how long we take to settle that loan. It is an international data and research centre in Luxembourg that asks for this information. To make this possible, a change of law is needed. This really needs to be debated, Madam President. The government itself says that the breach of privacy can be considered significant. The Government also states that it is not possible for Sweden to ensure that extradited data is used properly. Everyone who listens! We must never forget what happened to the Transport Agency and the classified information. It is therefore necessary to ensure that all data are de-identified before being transferred to the International Data and Research Centre in Luxembourg, LIS. Monitoring and mapping of ordinary people must never be accepted. Madam President, I would like Therefore, the Moderates are in favour of the reservation put forward by the Swedish Democrats that the matter needs to be referred back to be reviewed again and to ensure the protection of privacy.
i-CFje8GoJKkSMmkWfio64jb	Madam President, I would like The government wants to collect and disclose personal information to databases both within and outside the EU and the EEA. This will be done by providing the Luxembourg Income Study Centre, abbreviated LIS, with the aim of providing data to researchers and certain international organisations. Today, LIS receives approximately 65 000 requests per year to the databases. There are personal data laws within the EU and the EEA. However, these laws do not apply when information is passed on to so-called third countries, i.e. all countries outside the EU and the EEA. While the EU requires third countries to offer an appropriate level of protection, it is not in a practical position to ensure that this is followed. LIS provides data to researchers all over the world, and researchers can also work in the databases themselves. The government sees the mapping of all Swedes as something positive, despite problems. The government writes:中 Many of the data can be assumed to be of a privacy sensitive nature. This suggests that the breach of privacy can be considered significant. ..................................................... The Swedish Democrats believe that mapping our privacy is the same as monitoring. What we like to do and what we think is important – everything – will be mapped and saved in order to be handed out to those who want to study us. Madam President, I would like The government lists what they believe LIS will initially demand at personal or household level. I will mention some of the information to be disclosed. It will be mapped out whether you receive maintenance or a scholarship. It will map your gender and marital status, the number of members of the household and other conditions related to the household's composition. It will map your accommodation and your interest payments and mortgage payments. It will map your living expenses, including how much money you spend on food, clothing, rents, transportation, health, communication, leisure activities, culture and education. You will also be able to find out if you are receiving sickness benefit or other compensation. A sample of data that the government believes should be collected and handed over to the LWS database applies to your real and financial assets, your durable consumption habits, your home purchases, your mortgages, your student loans and other debts. If you receive an inheritance, it should also be registered. To update the databases, we will use our social security numbers to link the data to the individual. Only the collection of the data is a violation of privacy, and this before these data are transferred to LIS. Several consultation bodies have examined the Government's proposal. Most do not see any problem with the monitoring and registration of our privacy. However, the Privacy Protection Authority rejects the proposal as a whole. They point out that the proposal involves extensive processing of personal data without the consent of data subjects. It is about the entire Swedish population and will also include privacy sensitive data. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats note that it is worrying that only one consultation body shares our concerns about the survey. True, researchers will not have access to individuals' names or other identification. But the government assumes that it is impossible for the database to be misused or hacked. I'm not so sure. In 2017, the Swedish Transport Agency's IT leak was revealed where, among other things, registers containing information about Swedish agents and combat pilots ended up in the wrong hands. At that time it was about data in the police's secure databases, to which unauthorized persons were accidentally granted access. In addition, the Swedish Transport Agency outsourced the management of government classified information to companies located in Romania, the Czech Republic and Serbia where staff were not regulated. There were many errors and a threat to national security. But perhaps the worst of all is that the errors were made by the authority that was considered to be the most competent in security protection. It says something about how vulnerable our databases are. The information that will be disclosed to LIS refers to an identifiable person, as the government itself writes. It is therefore only when LIS discloses the data that they are de-identified. Madam President, I would like In conclusion, the Government proposal omits information and is inconsistent. I don't know if it's intentional or because of negligence. For example, the government does not mention in a word that LIS this year goes from having a branch in third countries, in New York, to opening another one in third countries, at the London School of Economics. The physical locations provide opportunities to work in the database yourself, unlike requesting only specific data. The government dribbles back and forth in the bill on whether or not you can identify people behind the data. There are conflicting bids on almost every page. But no matter what lies behind the text of the bill, the government has been clear about its view of us ordinary citizens. They write with italics so that no one misses the message: The need to disclose data outweighs the protection of personal privacy. The Swedish democrats do not share this view, but protect constitutional protection and personal integrity. That is why I support our reservation.
i-HwDELM5jdrafK4qwpxh6P	Madam President, I would like Today, we are debating the report of the Committee on Finance 17 on amended rules to allow the disclosure of data for income studies. The Government has submitted a proposal to amend the Act on Official Statistics and the Act on Publicity and Confidentiality. The background is that SCB has assessed for the last 15 years that there is no legal support in Swedish legislation to disclose Swedish data to LIS. Therefore, the most recent transmission of data from Sweden submitted to LIS relates to 2005. LIS is an abbreviation for Luxembourg Income Study, which is a non-profit data and research centre based in Luxembourg and with a branch office at The City University of New York, USA. The research centre is considered a highly respected organisation in the research community and aims to enable, facilitate, promote and conduct research on socio-economic outcomes and the institutional conditions that contribute to the creation of these outcomes. LIS operates and provides two databases dedicated to research on income distribution, poverty and wealth distribution. In order to analyse the distribution of income at household or individual level, data is needed at the level of the individual. The LIS database therefore contains data on individuals' income, tax payments, social security, public contributions and certain costs from nearly 50 countries. For these tasks to be meaningful, they need to be linked to personal data such as gender, age, marital status, etc. Today's report contains a reservation from the Swedish Democrats and the Moderates to reject the bill and that the government should come back with a proposal that limits the disclosure of data and that there should be assurances that the data provided cannot be directly attributed to an individual. The Government proposal states that the data should not be attributable to any individual and that sensitive personal data should not be disclosed, except for information on social security benefits in the event of illness or occupational injury. However, all data will be disclosed in de-identified form. In other words, it will not be possible to assign a certain integrity sensitive task to an individual. And the data will be processed by LIS exclusively for statistical purposes and in accordance with the provisions of the EU Data Protection Regulation. Today, data are released in all Nordic countries except Sweden, but also in most other EU countries as well as Switzerland, the United Kingdom, the United States, Canada and Australia, to name but a few. Over the past 30 years, there has been a trend of rising income inequality in many developing countries. Several international organisations, such as the IMF, the OECD and the World Bank, have been more interested in issues relating to income distribution. Both the UN and the EU have therefore set targets on poverty and the spread of income. The microdata that LIS collects can provide a more complete picture and improve the ability to further analyse and evaluate the impact of economic policy decisions. We Social Democrats, like the government, believe that it is of great importance for society as a whole to be able to study and analyse this and, not least, to use it as a basis for political decisions. This applies to research and teaching purposes as well as to the general debate on, for example, economic policy, income distribution and income development in general and in different groups of the population. I therefore support the proposal in the report and reject the reservation.
i-WNuWQpFj3JzNF1ePiTMok9	Madam President, I would like I have read the bill so many times and with more concern for each time. I would like Gunilla Carlsson to explain to me how to collect the proposed data at individual level. This is particularly the case with regard to the cost of living such as food, clothing, health, transport, leisure activities, culture and sustainable consumption habits. How does the government intend to collect these data throughout each Swedish lifetime?
i-H7DrGnUpW6rZWJgGdvaNVA	Madam President, I would like I thank Charlotte Quensel for the question. In Sweden we have an authority called Statistics Sweden, and it collects information about exactly what you bring up, Charlotte Quensel. The SCB has not been specifically identified as the authority responsible for delivering this data to LIS, but it may not be entirely impossible to do so. It is then, of course, the data that SCB collects that it is possible to deliver to the LIS system, just as it did before 2005. It is also important to point out that the data should be unidentified. So it is not that you will get data on how Charlotte Quensel or Gunilla Carlsson has lived, but it is deidentified facts that come into the system, just as other statistics are collected.
i-G1issNHECd64pRJ59eue68	Madam President, I would like That's not true. The government itself writes in the bill that it will be identifiable tasks. The data that will be de-identified are those that LIS discloses. What I mentioned was that we have seen that the government has not been in control of the Swedish Transport Agency and that important information has been leaked. There is nothing to guarantee that this cannot be done within LIS. Besides, it's not SCB. They don't map what you and I specifically put on different things. They look at how much clothing is sold in Sweden and so on. They can't look at the individual level. The government itself writes on page 20 that it is on an individual level. I therefore ask the question: how will the government collect this data at individual level over what we consume?
i-EiR5tnzDvEJfiyzWaRu1Ti	Madam President, I would like Again: the information to be sent to LIS for statistical purposes shall be unidentified. You shouldn't be able to go in and look at each individual, but you should see only personal data that doesn't tell if it's you or me doing this. It is important that this should be done according to the Act on Official Statistics. The reason we have the bill today is that they did not think they had the clearer law for the statistical disclosure. That is why the Riksdag now decides on the basis of the bill.
i-CdDDZiWMLcY4oKF64vYpGe	Madam President, I would like The report we are dealing with does not bear the startling title of Amended rules to allow the disclosure of data for income studies. It may seem quite peripheral and technically and hardly worth saying anything about. It is a matter whose background – and also the motion that has been made on the basis of the bill, and which wants to reject it – says some important things about developments in Sweden over the past 15 years and the state of Swedish politics today. The decision itself is only about introducing a legislative regulation that allows the relevant authority, reasonably SCB, to once again supply statistics to international comparisons within the framework of Luxembourg Income Study after a 15-year break. It is a major non-commercial international project with two important databases for research on income distribution, wealth distribution and poverty development. The situation that we can now finally remedy arose at one time as a side effect of Sweden's abolition of the wealth tax early in the Reinfeldt government. It was after this that SCB considered that there was no legal support for the provision of information. I note, moreover, that this background is not included in the proposal itself or in the report. In any case, it is a very regrettable situation, not to say embarrassing. I remember a visit to Sweden in 2015 by the great British economist Tony Atkinson. He is the one who basically established a research field for studies of inequality in income and wealth and its effects. On that occasion he had come out with a book, the one that was to be his last. He was eager, and perhaps most of all, to make an appeal to the assembled ones to do something about the very strange situation. Sweden, which from the start of the income studies in 1983 had been involved in delivering high quality statistics, had now ceased to do so. This, of course, creates holes in time series and lowers the quality of the statistics for all researchers around the world who use the databases to better understand the development. But it also means at home that we get a little worse at understanding by, among other things, putting the development here in Sweden in an international context. Nevertheless, we know from other compilations of facts and statistics that developments in Sweden in this area have been very dramatic. Sweden is one of the countries in the industrialized world where the gap has increased fastest in the last 25 to 30 years. Sweden is a country that today stands out in a negative way when it comes to strong concentration of wealth in a narrow layer at the top, with the ensuing negative effects on social development that it gives and that has been studied for decades of international research. Sweden has also, in contrast to how it was the first 40 to 45 years after the Second World War and also in contrast to what is still a lingering picture in many in and outside Sweden, become a country where heavy systems are rigged for widening divides and for transferring resources upward in the economic pyramid. As I said, the fact that we are standing here today is a side effect of precisely the abolition of wealth tax. Then we should remember that when it comes to capital taxation in some respects, Sweden has become something of a tax haven in European comparison by having neither property tax, inheritance tax and gift tax nor property taxation based on the commercial value of properties. Sweden is quite extreme, and then unfortunately no longer in a good way but in a bad way. To return to the report, I note that there have been many bodies and organisations that have long called for the legal problem to be resolved so that the statistics can be delivered from SCB to the international databases. Nevertheless, the question has been drawn in the long term. I believe that there was a strong lack of interest from the bourgeois government which first caused the problem. The Left Party has exercised this in parliament before and also raised the issue with the government during negotiations last parliamentary term. It is good that this is finally happening. As we have heard here, the Swedish Democrats have exercised that the bill should be rejected. We heard from the speaker's chair that it is in principle a question of scepticism that statistics at all exist on various important conditions in Sweden. It is in line with that party's way of being in the world. In this case, it is a rather jumbled argument that is put forward. Reference is made to privacy and the data risk not being unidentified. In the bill, the proposed legal text is admittedly: a U pptgifter should only be released to the extent necessary to reflect Swedish conditions in the research databases provided by the organisation. The data shall not be directly attributable to any individual. So this is the text of the law. It is also interesting that personal integrity and the risk of misuse of information about individuals' practices in the vast majority of other situations in society usually mean very little to the very party that has submitted the motion, the Swedish Democrats, and, more recently, to the party that is involved as a drag on the rejection, the Moderates. When it comes to a question where the information might at some point lead to an analysis or a research effort whose results can be a little annoying to some of the richest in our society, it is an objection that is dusted off, even though in this case there is hardly anything that has actual bearing. The eavesdropping of people without concrete crime suspicion is quite fine. That is something you want to crank up in the general debate. But delivering Swedish statistics to an international database where someone can find out that the rich in Sweden have become richer is a threat to personal privacy. That is quite remarkable. This is something that goes well with a greater political trend in our time. It is parties like the Swedish Democrats who want to be the most serviceable for the economic and social interests of the most wealthy. This is something that we have seen in everything from the defence of profit loss from the welfare sector to tax policy more generally and more. With this note, I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-56eFL2XVgQQosxDXg1RpWP	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating government and statistical issues. A summary of the report on state administration is that it concerns authorities. Authorities are for government administration, and each ministry has a number of authorities attached to it. The task of the authorities is to apply the laws and carry out the activities decided upon by the Riksdag and the Government. The authorities should work for and be a service function for citizens. The report's summary states that the authorities themselves decide how to organise their activities in order to best meet society's needs. Think about that sentence, Madam President, and consider whether it provides the basis for growing bureaucracy or restraint with our common resources. There are authorities that have a growing activism among their staff – county boards and surveying can be given as an example. I receive many testimonies about environmental activism among county officials in Västra Götaland, which is my constituency. Remember how imported vintage cars were treated – they were classified as environmentally hazardous waste by the County Administrative Board of Västra Götaland! Today there are 343 authorities. One authority is the Nordic Africa Institute, which is the centre of social science research on Africa. This authority is located in Uppsala. Other examples of agencies are the Swedish Board for Investigating Unfairness in Research, the Swedish Board for Domestic Crafts and the Swedish Agency for Safety and Health at Work, Mynak, which was founded in 2018 in Gävle. Only this year, 2022, two new authorities have been launched: the Agency for Psychological Defense and the Institute for Human Rights. The Moderates are constructive and have contributed many good contributions to today's case of government. The Swedish welfare model is based on a social contract between citizens and states. We in Sweden have one of the highest tax pressures in the world, but it is not visible in our school results, in accessibility in healthcare or in police density. In crises, it has repeatedly been shown that the Swedish Government is not on its toes but has too large and heavy bureaucracy. The Moderates want to introduce civil servants' responsibilities, which would have made the authorities more stringent. The Moderates want to streamline authorities and want them to focus on the core mission and reduce bureaucracy. The Moderates suggest a way in and that the data should be coordinated between authorities so that the person does not have to repeat himself over and over again. The Moderates have pressured the government through a announcement that authorities should be able to share information with each other quickly and effectively. Sweden has one of the world's highest tax pressures. From 1950, the tax burden has doubled and taxes continue to rise. In comparison with other countries, Sweden stands out with taxing its inhabitants high. Authorities are needed, but they cost money. Then it is important to have strict restraint so that the authorities do not swell. The trend is that we have fewer authorities but that the number of employees per authority is increasing in Sweden. Authorities handle tax revenue and provide subsidies to the needy. It may be considered a failure that the subsidy fraud amounts to SEK 20 billion annually. In order to get the payment of grants in order, a census is needed, Madam President, but unfortunately the government is opposed to this. It is reasonable to know how many and who live in different apartments and that the data is consistent with other data. Here there is cheating and irresponsible use of tax funds, but the government chooses to put energy on the cat bill and bill of other animals instead of on the bill of people. In the case of horses, it is the owner of the stables who is responsible for registering the horses that are present at the farm. This is done to the Swedish Board of Agriculture. All horses have a UELN number, which is the horse's social security number. The horse also has a chip that ensures that it is the right individual. The Moderates do not want to chip people but consider it reasonable that biometric data be linked to coordination numbers so that there is order and order in the population register. Madam President, I would like It's high time for census. Other countries do, and one wonders why the government does not want to do this. In conclusion, Sweden has a lot of bureaucracy and many authorities. This costs money and gives the country a high tax burden. Then the answer is not to increase taxes in a country that is already burdened by a high tax burden. The country needs more people to work and pay taxes. The country should not punish those who are already working. Sweden needs more people who work to give more tax revenue to make good well-being out of – not increased taxes and corporate exodus out of the country. What Sweden needs is a government reform with the aim of reducing the agencies, increasing their efficiency and that they should have more focus on the core mission. Madam President, I would like The Moderates are in favour of reservation 1.
i-Qo8FpkyAssnNvQRfjyDPN4	Madam President, I would like In order to achieve efficiency in administration and to conserve state resources, it is important that the right authority does the right things. To ensure this, the general needs to take a holistic approach to the issue of government and carry out an inventory of agencies, just as the previous speaker very clearly talked about. The purpose of this is to determine which authorities are not socially useful or whether their actual mission has been overshadowed by irrelevant considerations. The general starting point should be that, in addition to serving the public, authorities are there to enforce political decisions and to inform or investigate specific matters within the authority's sphere of activity. Politics, on the other hand, must be conducted in the parliamentary assemblies and in the general debate. Authorities that are politicised or redundant or whose tasks overlap with other, more efficient authorities should be dismantled or reformed in order to focus on their core tasks. For example, Sieps, the Swedish Institute for European Policy Studies, should be given a changed mission. The agency could be reformed to make Sieps more of an audit body aimed at EU policy development and management and the consequences of possible changes in these areas for Sweden. It could be part of the agency's activities to draw up an EU financial statement focusing on how much self-determination has been moved from Sweden to the EU and to draw up an in-depth profit and loss statement on Sweden's expenditure and revenue with the membership. Sieps could play a general role as an implementation council with the task of reviewing and assessing the socio-economic consequences of the implementation of EU legislation. Madam President, I would like Another example where we should demand more value for money is the aid agency Sida. In August 2021, a report from the Expert Group on Aid Analysis, EBA, came on aid to Afghanistan, where the investigator says there has been a discrepancy between objectives and actual results. A few years earlier, the one-percent target was reviewed by the same authority, which wrote that several indications point to Sida's sometimes receiving more money than it was able to manage with sufficient care. In pure Swedish, this means that money has been thrown to the right and left on countries and organisations with no benefit whatsoever to the most vulnerable. This picture is confirmed by a report made by the Mission Review a few years ago. They revealed a farmer cooperative in Zambia that has embezzled financial support of up to SEK 30 million from the aid agency Sida. In addition, aid funds have also fallen into the hands of governments that violate human rights, such as Tanzania, which has been a major recipient of Swedish aid and where state funds go to hunt homosexuals. Madam President, I would like These kinds of failures are symptomatic of the entire political system. Billions are being poured over inefficient authorities and ineffective efforts, while important investments in welfare are being held back. For too long this has been possible without any reflection on what is in the interests of the citizens and not. The budgetary responsibilities of the authorities are not self-described, and it is clear from this background why the need for an administrative inventory with a focus on efficiency and results is so great. In conclusion, the proposals of the Swedish Democrats, based on the principles of administrative law of socially useful and effective authorities, would strengthen parliamentary democracy, the rule of law, cohesion and the rule of law in Sweden. I request the approval of reservation 2.
i-34GwXDLx1shGPGhMdaNyap	Madam President, I would like There is much to be said about state administration, but what is contained in this report as a result of general exercise is more limited. I was going to confine myself to the subject raised by the Left Party in its reservation, reservation number 8, which I also take the opportunity to call for approval. It concerns the recruitment of temporary workers in state activities. This is something that has been drawn attention from several quarters, particularly trade unions, over the years. For example, the ST Trade Union, which organises government officials, has on various occasions highlighted the problems posed by the state's use of temporary agencies and similar solutions. It can be observed that the State is using temporary agency work more extensively than when the possibility was introduced at the time, and that there has been a change in the content of temporary agency work. Temporary agency workers and the like are now no longer used only in the support functions of public authorities such as reception, change and administration, but also for certain work in the core activities of public authorities which may actually be the exercise of public authority. In this context, it is important that the risk of the public's opportunities for transparency, control and accountability being impaired be taken seriously, as well as the risk of negative consequences for the quality of the management. I would argue that this is one of several structural threats to the Swedish administrative model and, in the long run, to its legitimacy. It should be quite clear that there are problems with private law agencies becoming part of the core business of public authorities. I would like to highlight two additional problems or risks. Firstly, the use of temporary agency work creates a division of staff where temporary workers have a higher threshold for participation and influence over the job. This affects both the work itself and the ability to run a functioning trade union activity, just as it is in other types of activities. Secondly, the widespread renting-in involves a large cost to the State. Now it has been a few years, but during 2016, for example, ST's Federal Journal published a review of some fifteen government employers and their use of temporary agencies. That review showed that in several authorities there were consultants who had been hired full-time for several years. According to the study, several authorities also depended on expensive consultants, which means large costs for the State. This review also showed that a large part of the agency staff carried out official activities. The Left Party believes that the government's use of temporary agencies should be phased out. It is partly about the state being a good employer, and partly about safeguarding the public authority's activities. A first step could be to clarify this in the employers' policy of the state authorities. It is desirable for the State to act as a positive example in matters of principle concerning employers. If the state takes the lead and ensures that it avoids problematic staffing solutions in its own personnel supply, it can hopefully also spread to other parts of the labour market. Madam President, I would like This is what the Left Party's motion and reservation in this report is about. I would like to emphasise that this more specific problem of staffing contracts is part of a wider issue of government administration and how the state and the public generally manage the skills and experience of their authorities. A few years ago, there were writings about a British minister in the Conservative Government, a word of Agnew. He had warned, in an internal letter leaking, that the extensive procurement of consulting services in the state apparatus led to the infantilisation of this apparatus. This is not a unique British thing, but there is reason to think about how such things can happen in Sweden, for example. For example, we can look at the ongoing so-called reform of labour market policy, which is actually a forced further transformation of the Public Employment Service into a procurement and control shell. In addition to the obvious and serious risks of commercial interests drumming the needs of the unemployed and the deterioration of service in sparsely populated parts of the country, we also see how crucial competence risks disappearing completely from the state as such. Job intermediaries who have developed concrete knowledge of local conditions and skills of a kind are already replaced by staff who will primarily guide people to web forms and on to other actors. The knowledge and skills that may be generated in the process of equipping and matching the unemployed will in future be much more fragmented as potential competitive advantages for more or less serious companies. The state's ability to pursue active labour market policies is atrophy. For example, in a completely different end of government activity, we can find maintenance of rail. The far-reaching fragmentation and outsourcing of maintenance have been causing significant problems for a long time. This is not surprising, because the railways are a coherent system, and cutting up maintenance with commercial profit and yield requirements on the different parts poses problems at the system level. But it also means that both specialized machines and definite knowledge and skills are spread out and away from the state, which, however, remains responsible in some kind of abstract sense but with limited concrete governance possibilities. Nevertheless, it is all too rarely, I would say, that there is any major critical discussion about what outsourcing and fragmentation of this kind is doing to our public administration. The idea that some kind of abstract market mechanisms are by definition effective and that one only needs to make sure that smart purchases and controls are made to casha in thrive at the command heights of public Sweden. This brings, I mean, a flat and antisocial view of knowledge and skills at all. It is believed that they are disconnected from actual people and actual organisations within the public sector. This is a discussion that there is every reason to return to many times also in other contexts in this House.
i-YFZdBeHdef7YUaZdRD7ECm	Madam President, I would like So today, as the speakers have said before me, we are debating the report on motions in a number of areas relating to the state administration. It is about the structure of government, costs, digitalisation, IT and the state as an employer. Fortunately, there is basically broad agreement that our authorities should be effective and exploit the opportunities of digitalisation, while ensuring the right to privacy and legal certainty. These are also issues that are being worked extremely actively with both in the Government Office as well as in the municipalities and regions of the country. The task of the state authorities is to decide independently how best to implement the policies decided by the parliament and the government. They are, in fact, the cornerstones of our democratic society. They are an important part of our everyday life, without most thinking about it. Our colleges and universities are training and equipping for the labour market. Försäkringskassan and the Pensions Agency pay out support we are entitled to. The AP funds manage our pension money, the Swedish Competition Authority ensures that the market and the economy function well and the Swedish Armed Forces defend Sweden and the country's freedom. But, Madam President, when they are not present, it is evident. For a number of years when the state presence has disappeared in parts of the country, it has been felt that society has failed. Therefore, the 118 established state service offices and the at least 28 new ones planned for 2022 and 2023 are so important. Government services must be available throughout the country. Madam President, I would like It is important that we do not forget the purpose of our authorities and the state administration. It is about ensuring that everyone who lives in Sweden gets access to the service and welfare they are entitled to and that we fund together. In recent years, organised crime has begun to feed on our welfare systems through unscrupulous, advanced schemes aimed at enriching itself at the expense of the general public. The work to combat this, as well as the reduction of undue payments and the prevention of benefit crime, is of great importance both to safeguard taxpayers' money and to maintain confidence in welfare systems, the social contract itself. Therefore, the new Paying Authority has an important role to play in preventing, preventing and detecting undue payments from welfare systems and taking over responsibility for certain payments within the state welfare system, such as sickness benefit, housing allowance and pensions. By cooperating with and accessing data from several authorities, analytical and control capacities will be strengthened. The Authority shall be operational on 1 January 2024. For me as a Member of Parliament from Södertälje, a municipality that has worked very actively for many years to combat organised crime's attacks on welfare systems to combat cheating, it was of course gratifying that the government decided to place the new authority with us. Madam President, I would like Digitisation and the use of artificial intelligence offer great opportunities for government administration, which is also addressed in some of the motions. By making more systematic use of data and automating processes, the efficiency, equivalence and quality of government activities can increase. But it also places great demands on integrity, legal certainty and transparency in how data is used. In many cases, the legal certainty and equivalence of decisions could actually be enhanced by the use of digital aids and AI. But it must always be clear to the citizen how and why a certain decision is made and who is responsible for it. The state administration is actively working to exploit the opportunities of digitalisation, and it is also important that the development work initiated by the government together with the Swedish Municipalities and Regions in order to create a sustainable digital infrastructure for welfare is pushed forward. I would also like to mention that later this spring, in the light of a new European directive, the committee will consider a proposal on open data and the re-use of information. Some of the exercises also affect the role of the state as an employer. In this respect, the committee would like to emphasise that the Parliament made a choice in 2010 which involved a far-reaching delegation of employer-related issues. To conclude, I would like to thank all the staff of our agencies, who are doing a great deal of work every day in the service of the state, but who, over the last few years, have had to make an extra effort to implement the decisions we have taken here in Parliament as quickly as possible. Thank you for your work. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved and for the reservations to be rejected.
i-NpcwnoKW7e6dudv5BVW5Z6	Madam President, I would like A functioning well-being is at the heart of the strong society. It's about getting care when we need it, a good school and we can expect a good care when we get older. By each one according to his ability, to each and every one as needed. The government has implemented major reforms to strengthen knowledge outcomes and increase equality in schools. We invest billions to strengthen elderly care: 100,000 more employees in welfare than in 2014. During the good years we saved for worse times while investing in welfare. This enabled us to enter this crisis with the lowest public debt since 1977 and a well-managed economy. During the pandemic, the government pushed three times as much as the estimated tax loss to welfare. We secured additional costs to protect life and health. But despite these efforts, we see breaks in welfare. Tens of thousands of new employees will need to be employed in health care, care for the elderly and school. They need to grow more and have a good working environment, so that they can devote themselves to the right things. Increased quality goes hand in hand with secure employment conditions. Madam President, I would like The market is not a recipe for solving the challenges of welfare. Privatisation and deregulation have proven to cost money, increase health inequalities and increase segregation in schools. For a long time now, we Social Democrats have been proposing restrictions on profits in the areas financed by us jointly through the tax bill. The growth of private operators in the 21st century has been achieved in all areas by the creation of more and more profit-oriented players. The so-called freedom of choice reforms have allowed for a market within an activity that does not function as a market, partly because the choice is often irreversible. A market requires flexibility and dispersal of players. Those conditions are not compatible with the governance of public activities. In most areas, no clear quality gains can be found either. Madam President, I would like We Social Democrats want the school, elderly care and care to be general, open to all, needs-driven, tax-funded and of good quality. Our common tax money should go to make school, health care and care better, not profits. Welfare should be democratically controlled and take advantage of the skills of welfare workers. Getting care based on your needs, not on the possibility of paying for yourself, is fundamental to a society that respects everyone's equal value. People should be at the centre, not the market's need for profits. We will ensure that healthcare has the same high quality regardless of the thickness of the wallet and that all children have a good school regardless of which parents they happen to have. Madam President, I would like It makes me so angry and upset when I hear stories about cheating and mismanagement in welfare. It is about our tax money, which is to be spent on welfare, on our children and on our elderly, not to pick out increasing profits at the expense of others or on welfare crime. In an international comparison, the situation is in many ways extreme in Sweden. Among other things, Sweden is the only country in the world that allows private profit withdrawals from the tax-funded school system. Today, many profit-making free school groups profit from having lower teacher density, lower wages and fewer special educators. Several schools have gone bankrupt or had to close after mismanagement. Thousands of students have suddenly been out of school. That is not acceptable. The purpose of Swedish school should never be profit or religious influence. We have moved from a policy in which all schools should be good schools to a policy in which competition for pupils drives major differences between schools and where segregation increases. In healthcare, society has withdrawn and allowed market forces free play. Decennier later we see that the diversity of care is threatened by a few groups, that health professionals are forced to spend more and more time on administration and that costs are increasing. These are deteriorating working conditions and precarious employment. I myself have seen this at close range when for many years I worked as a school counselor and met students who came from schools with almost non-existent pupil health or students with knowledge gaps even though they had joy certificates. When I was a councillor, we saw that LOV was being used and cheated in home care. Profit was made, and the elderly did not get the help they wanted and needed. 16 companies have been closed down in Linköping municipality since the first day, when we arrived in the majority, we decided to review all the companies that exist in the home service. The prize hunt does not belong in Swedish welfare. Resources set aside for welfare should be used to improve school outcomes and provide our elderly and sick with safe care and care, not to make huge profits. Society must regain democratic control over welfare, in order, where money is spent on what it is intended for and where real freedom of choice exists. It is about being able to choose and influence how the care should work. Madam President, I would like Municipalities and regions are the basis for the decentralised welfare model that Sweden has. Local self-government gives a great deal of freedom to design and manage their activities according to local needs. It is a good and well-functioning model that should be developed, not phased out. However, the challenges in the municipalities and regions remain large and varied. The situation is generally more difficult among the smallest municipalities in terms of population. This parliamentary term decided on a new cost adjustment, and now more attention is being paid to the social development that has taken place in recent years, with an increasing number of older people in the population and an increase in urbanisation. Overall, the levelling-up is strengthened, taking more account of sparsely populated areas and socio-economic factors. The redistribution following the review of the so-called equalisation system is a step towards ensuring equal welfare throughout our elongated country. Now we need to take the next step with a review of the entire equalisation system. It's a question of justice. It is about creating a level playing field for all municipalities and regions. All of Sweden will live and grow. Madam President, I would like No matter who you are or where you live, you will receive a good health care, a good education and a good care. We Social Democrats want to take back democratic control for a stronger welfare and for a stronger society. With this, I would like to call for the approval of reservation number 3, which is common between the Social Democrats, the Left Party and the Green Party.
i-Qci88KCpLadpUeLNH3f91G	Madam President, I would like Our internal political debate is currently being conducted in the shadow of dark events in our surrounding world. We have a war in our neighborhood. We're risking record-breaking refugee flows. At the same time, electricity, fuel and food prices are running out, which is damaging the economy of households and businesses. At the same time, costs for our municipalities are increasing. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Immigration Service's latest scenario shows that, in the worst case scenario, there could be up to 300 000 refugees from Ukraine to Sweden by mid-year. The cost of this scenario is estimated to be at least SEK 30 billion. Given that over 3.8 million inhabitants have already left Ukraine and that Sweden is quite close geographically, this worst scenario does not seem unreasonable. Several million Ukrainian refugees are already in Poland, and in Warsaw alone there are over 300 000, which has caused the city to alert that it is simply not able to do more. The European Commission also believes that Poland has received too many and that more countries need to stand up. When refugees feel that Poland is unable to cope with the situation, many people will also come to other countries, such as Sweden, on their own. Anyone who doesn't realize this and takes heights for it in time is naive. Where will 300 000 refugees live? In any case, there are no facilities for all these. How is it to be resolved without private individuals standing up? If private individuals volunteer, will the government reimburse their costs of opening their homes? How, then, do you ensure that those who open their homes are serious? The reception of women and children requires even more care when designing accommodation. In addition, a great many children will need schooling. The questions are many and very difficult, but the government has no answers even though it has been five weeks since the war started. Sweden's municipalities and Regions warn that there is no information from the government about how the reception of refugees should be organised, financed and regulated. The municipalities are prepared to take a major responsibility, but it is the state that is responsible for receiving, housing and assistance. Municipalities and regions are responsible for school and health care. Without clarity from the government on how reception should be distributed, designed and financed, it is impossible for municipalities and regions to plan for housing and support. This is the first time that the EU's mass refugee directive has been activated for a group of refugees in Sweden. This requires a much higher level of activity on the part of the state. Madam President, I would like Tomorrow, as I said, the war in Ukraine has been going on for five weeks, but the government has not yet shown that it is aware of the seriousness of the refugee situation. All you do is try to talk the problem down and say that not many people have come. But then you only count those who have registered with the Migration Agency. Those who come to Sweden now have 90 days to register, and very many are in Sweden without being registered. It's time for the government to wake up now. We can stand here today and discuss exercise, balancing systems and quality initiatives in the local government sector. However, if we fail to cope with the threatening refugee crisis, which could be twice the size of the 2015/16 crisis, nothing else will matter for the foreseeable future. The government's lack of information is causing chaos in our municipalities. But, Madam President, as after the last refugee crisis, there will also be a day-to-day situation after this crisis. I intend to devote the rest of this speech to longer-term issues relating to the local government sector. The reinforcements imposed by the Moderates, in cooperation with other parties, on the local government sector in recent years mean that municipalities and regions have a fairly stable economic situation. Many municipalities report good surpluses. But there are many other problems. It is sufficient to mention historically high long-term unemployment and youth unemployment, major problems with integration and social exclusion areas, growing insecurity, poor school outcomes, a great need to strengthen elderly care and a large build-up of care debt in the wake of the pandemic. In addition, we see in many municipalities neglected maintenance of roads, streets, buildings and plumbing. The long-term costs ahead of the local government sector can only be financed at the margin by the state through increased state subsidies or tax relief. In essence, municipalities themselves must create fiscal power that is sufficient for the costs of municipalities. And a key issue for creating growth and jobs and combating exclusion and unemployment is having a favourable business environment. If this is to succeed, municipalities must treat traders with respect. Part of this is to have good service and interaction with the business community and to facilitate entrepreneurship rather than raising unnecessary barriers. Another important part is to charge reasonable fees for permits and controls and not to charge for supervision that is not carried out. Over the years, the Moderates have had a number of movements on this issue, and in our committee motion we propose that ex-post charging of supervisory fees be made the main rule of the municipalities and authorities, that charging be limited for supervision that is not carried out, and that increased use of self-control be introduced. These are very important proposals, especially for certain types of industries and companies, and I therefore call for reservation 5. If you want a good business environment and at the same time develop welfare, companies and organisations that run different forms of public-funded welfare also have a given place. It increases freedom of choice and can develop the quality of important activities. I am strongly opposed to Eva Lindhs's attack on private companies and the black-painting that she is engaged in. We could have our own debate on this; I find it sad. My own experience in the local government sector is that many of these companies do a fantastic job, and sometimes they can solve problems that the municipalities cannot handle. It is therefore to be welcomed that the committee rejects any motion to limit profits in welfare activities on the grounds that high quality requirements should govern welfare and apply to all actors, as well as that all actors, regardless of their mode of operation, should have equal conditions. The committee assumes that the government pursues a policy in this direction. Madam President, I would like The discussion on targeted or general state grants and the design of the municipal equalisation system is a recurring issue for many parliamentary movements. I would like to pay particular attention to our moderate comitology exercise in this area. General government grants provide stable planning conditions, create long-term sustainability and space for efficiency, development and renewal, and particularly reduce the need for smaller municipalities to devote time and resources to searching for, monitoring and reporting targeted state grants. At the same time, it goes without saying that targeted state subsidies sometimes have to be used in special situations. What is important, however, is that the majority are general state subsidies. Madam President, I would like Some voices on the left are raised because we need to raise taxes in order to save welfare and be able to strengthen the police and the defence. But it's the wrong idea. The fault many do is to assume that all our taxes go to welfare and central social tasks such as police and defence. That's not what it looks like. Our tax money is used for far too much other than things that are important for the welfare and security of the Swedish people. We in Sweden pay almost the highest taxes worldwide. If high taxes were the solution, then our welfare should already be in the top class, the police and the judiciary already have sufficient scope and the defence should be strong enough. But that's not what it looks like. In Moderate budgets in recent years, we have invested much more in welfare and basic social functions than the government. Some of this we have also managed to get a majority for in Parliament. We can do it by prioritizing. With a government that prioritises the right things, you can both equip important parts of society and at the same time reduce taxes for ordinary people. It's no harder than that. Of course, municipalities and regions must also give priority to spending, and prioritising means, as is well known, also prioritising away what is less important. For those who need saving tips, the Taxpayers' competition for the worst tax waste of the year may be helpful. Here you usually pay attention to some municipal so-called initiatives that should never have seen the light of day. Not all activities in the local government sector are statutory, and in the voluntary sector there is a good opportunity for municipalities to reduce costs in favour of core tasks. Finally, Madam President, the Moderates are a guarantor of freeing up more money for the welfare of the municipalities, the health care of the regions, the police, the judiciary and defence, while at the same time lowering the tax burden. It is possible if you prioritise the right things in the state budget. There is also a need for wise moderate politicians in our municipalities and regions who want to encourage and stimulate development, innovation, efficiency and smarter ways of working and who prioritise what we all put first, i.e. care for the sick, elderly and disabled, and a good upbringing and education for our children. If high taxes were a guarantee of good welfare and security, we would have no problem. We already have the world's almost highest tax burden. The problem is not that there is a lack of money, but how the money is spent. Our tax money simply goes too little to welfare and too much to other things. We Moderates intend to change that when we take over government power in the autumn.
i-KnoPE8BWqG44f8UtVbzZvq	Madam President, I would like We see fake grades for students in adult education who have never attended the courses they have passed, schools that give joy certificates to attract students and schools run by violent Islamists. We see retirement homes that do not give the elderly the right to food, shower or walk, home care within the LOV – the Freedom of Choice Act – which opened up for welfare crime and rampant increases in costs, patients with health insurance that are given priority to care, and private ambulances that go bankrupt – something that is at risk of affecting patients immensely. We see costs in healthcare choices that increase dramatically and youth homes that charge millions to run housing for children and young people who need special support. Unfortunately, there are plenty of examples. It is a problem that it is possible to collect such large profits in the welfare sector in Sweden. It is a problem that we do not have the democratic control that we need. My question to Jan Ericson is therefore: what does Jan Ericson think of these examples? What do the Moderates think, and what are your solutions to this?
i-3qpJx1cavwcao9yQDozdEN	Madam President, I would like Eva Lindh drives one more lap with her black painting of alternative performers. It is quite interesting: If you want to take on board what Eva Lindh says, all adult education, all youth homes, everything should be run in public. Then I wonder how it would happen. After all, we have a system today based on the fact that other players are also present in these areas. It would probably be rather strange if we were to put all this into public service. My simple answer to this is that if it works this badly, I wonder where the supervision of the municipalities and the authorities is. That's where we need to get our act together. We must ensure that the activities that local authorities deal with also have control over their functioning. How can it be so with a social democratic government and in social democraticly governed municipalities that one has no control at all of the activities that one finances with one's own taxes? I find it extremely strange. As I said, my experience from the municipal side of alternative activities is that these activities offer freedom of choice for people that people want. People are put first and let people choose their own retirement home, where they want to put children in school, and who is going to come home and clean up or do home service. This is greatly appreciated by people. You don't want just one supplier. You want more, and you want to be able to choose who you want at home in your own home. I also have experience that free schools were often able to take care of those students that the municipality had not been able to help. They worked in other ways, they had different pedagogy, they had other premises and in fact often also higher staff density, because they could use staff for different things at the same time. In fact, I find Eva Lindhs's black-painting to be quite deplorable.
i-FuK7uuKGkz6A1vrpoNtPtQ	Madam President, I would like It's not a black painting. These are real examples. That's one thing. The second is that the examples I gave are exclusively from moderate-led municipalities or regions. So I think Jan Ericson will have to have a little chat with his own party colleagues about increasing control over the business. It is obvious that we should do so, but it is not possible to control away the profits that exist in welfare – money to be used for what the money is intended for, namely to improve school, care for the elderly and health care. That's what the money's for. It gets so strange, I think, because Jan Ericson himself has raised both here and now and in many other contexts that he gets very upset as soon as something happens, if someone breaks rules or it is cheated with subsidies. So will I. I don't think that's right. I think we should have strong efforts to reduce welfare crime, cheating and all criminality. It is a crime against those who are affected, no matter what it is, but it is also a crime against the whole of society itself. But when it comes to activities in the welfare sector that are carried out by companies, you don't get so upset. Then you suddenly think it's okay. It's hard to understand. I know that there are many with me who wonder how it is connected, so I would like to take this opportunity to ask Jan Ericson about now. What does he think about the big difference between being upset about one thing but not being upset about what is not working in the welfare sector?
i-4DgTYsHtTSJWMQ14qwE5Kj	Madam President, I would like The clear and simple answer is that there is no difference. We are just as upset about all kinds of cheating, subsidy fraud and cheating from companies and businesses, exactly the same. We want very clear monitoring and follow-up of this. Eva Lindh claims very much. I can also make up a lot of things and say that it is from social democraticly governed municipalities. However, it is still the case that it is the state authorities that are responsible for a large part of the supervision, and it is the Social Democrats that govern Sweden. If you do not know the authorities responsible for supervision of education, health care and care for the elderly, it is very difficult for us in the opposition to solve that problem. In fact, it is your responsibility as a government party, and you are not taking that responsibility. It's quite obvious. As far as profits are concerned, it is strange that the Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left Party want to make a distinction between private companies and our municipalities. Our municipalities are considered well managed only if they show a surplus of 2% in their budget. It is therefore a profit requirement for our municipalities, but at the same time we must have a profit ban for private companies. It is extremely strange, and it creates an enormous injustice between the municipalities and the welfare companies we have. In addition, the left side is fooled by these big wins. It is a very small number of the runners in Sweden who make profits, and of them it is a very small percentage that makes big profits. The companies that make big profits often have a very mixed business. It is not just welfare activities, it is also other types of activities. School groups not only have primary and secondary schools; they often have training on behalf of the Public Employment Service, adult education and so on where they can also make profits. Some have activities abroad. You clump it all together and say they're making too big a profit. It is an unserious debate on the part of the left, quite simply.
i-C1tdjQffJ7NBwwS1Ty42iF	Madam President, I would like The topic of the day is municipal issues. I would like to begin by saying that we in the Swedish Democrats support all our reservations in the report, but in order to save time at voting time, I only ask for reservation 4. The Swedish Democrats do not share the committee's view on the municipal supervisory fees, as we believe that more can be done. Small businesses represent an overwhelming majority of all entrepreneurship in Sweden today. Anyone who has started up or run a company knows that an unexpected invoice can create significant problems, especially if you have small margins. We are pleased that the government has chosen to adapt the legislation to a new EU control regulation. The change in substance means that a supervisory fee should only be charged in the case of supervision carried out. In the past, this fee has been chargeable in advance, something that many entrepreneurs have been critical of. Why should they have to pay a fee for checks that may not even have been carried out, since the supervision itself was carried out only every two or three years? Although harmonisation of the Control Regulation is a good thing, the entire supervisory mandate is not yet covered. The regulation focuses on official controls in the food chain, i.e. supervision of food controls. Here we believe that the government can go one step further and have the same principle for all supervision that falls under the responsibility of a municipality or an authority. Simplifying the regulatory framework makes it easy for both new and old operators to know what applies, regardless of the sector in which they operate. Supervisory fees may seem a small part of a company's costs, but as we have seen during the pandemic, many municipalities around the country waited, postponed, deferred and reduced the supervisory fee precisely to help entrepreneurship over a very difficult period. One such municipality is my municipality of residence Uppsala. Our reservation 10 is about a widespread problem, especially among municipalities that are struggling with emigration and counted as rural areas. We have repeatedly raised the problem of the municipal equalisation system, which we have heard about here earlier today. Its principal purpose is to take from more wealthy municipalities and redistribute these funds to less wealthy municipalities. It is a system that we support, but which we still see needs to be changed. In recent years there have been changes in the system, necessary ones, to make it work as it was once intended. Despite this, there are still a number of municipalities that have very good conditions but which depend on the system to go around economically. To give an example, one might ask whether it is reasonable for the municipalities Malmö and Södertälje to receive as much in compensatory allowances as municipalities with reduced jobs and large relocations. The Swedish Democrats believe that this is not the case, as these municipalities have a strategically important location in the vicinity of large cities and jobs. It shouldn't look like that. The state must be careful not to shift responsibilities to municipalities and regions, especially if they lack full cost recovery. The municipal funding principle is based on this principle, but as we all know and you know at home, the government's migration policy has not meant a profit for most municipalities around Sweden, but rather the opposite. Finally, Madam President, it is of the utmost importance that we learn from past mistakes and do not repeat them in connection with the great flow of refugees that we are now seeing from Ukraine. Sweden must assume its responsibilities and be a safe haven for these refugees, albeit a temporary one, while awaiting peace in Europe, as we all wish.
i-SVpXLqu4r4uxQVp3GWaxZS	Madam President, I would like This report deals with municipal issues and covers a wide range of activities. I was going to start by talking about two topical issues that Russia's war has created. One is the refugee situation that we are now experiencing. We need to put in place a system that works and actually learns from the mistakes that took place and what did not work in 2015 and 16. We know that there are in-depth discussions today between the Migration Agency, SKR, NGOs and the government, but they need to land in a system that captures the individual families' ability to contribute. There is an enormous desire from individual families to contribute today. It's hard to know how many refugees we have in the system right now. I believe that around 100 have already arrived in Gotland. We know that 4 million have left Ukraine and that 6 million are on the run inside the country, so we are on the road to enormous numbers. This needs to be handled. On behalf of the Center Party, we are saying two clear things at this point. First of all, of course, we need to move quickly, but above all, we want to achieve an individualisation at a reasonable level. In today's system it is SEK 71 a day. It doesn't work; that's just the way it works. Secondly, we want a local government set-up so that the municipalities are given guarantees for the costs they are now incurring. We also believe that we will find systems where NGOs and individual housing can play a much greater role than they did last time. This needs to be put in place very quickly. The second issue raised by the war is that we need to broaden our tax bases in order to cope with our energy supply. Right now we see that Putin has the energy supply as a means of power. This means that we need to have more local natural resource taxation, a property tax that goes back to the municipality concerned for example for wind and hydro power establishment and a development system for the rural epoch. This is ultimately a way for the municipalities to make it, but at the same time it is a way of increasing our security in this country and making us independent of Putin. Madam President, I would like As far as municipal issues are concerned, the overall tax equalisation system is a basic condition; it is a basis for the whole system. The Center Party is very much in favour of that, but we see that it needs to change. It should be pointed out that tax equalisation systems exist in all developed democracies. At the initiative of the Center Party, the Committee agreed in December 2020 that there should be a review of the entire tax equalisation system, not just the cost element. We are very pleased about this, but we are still waiting for visible results from the government. Our starting point is that we should have a guaranteed level of service throughout the country. We will also have a system that creates incentives to promote jobs, entrepreneurship and growth. We see it as fundamental that the sparsely populated municipalities, including those in the north, have structural conditions that need to be better managed than today. We therefore need to increase consideration for sparseness within the framework of the equalisation system. This is a crucial issue for municipalities to make progress. There's nothing to wait for – the government just needs to gas up. Madam President, I would like General government grants are another base that the Center Party has been running for a long time. Our view is that we have the best knowledge and ability to determine what should be prioritised locally in our municipalities and regions. Targeted government contributions have long been a nuisance, and they have only increased and increased – regardless of the color of government, let's be honest. This results in consequential effects that are quite clear. This reduces municipal self-government and makes it particularly difficult for smaller municipalities. It increases bureaucracy, reduces efficiency, complicates local adaptation and stimulates short-term thinking rather than meeting long-term needs. So targeted state grants are largely evil. We note that Statskontoret's report Development of government governance of municipalities and regions in 2020 does not actually show that we are heading in the right direction, rather the opposite. It shows that government governance is increasing. Many new laws and regulations have been added that regulate municipalities more in detail. The number of targeted state grants in 2020 was 183, and in 2018 it was 186; it is quite unchanged. The number does not say everything, but it is still a sign that this is not going in the right direction. The same report also points to an increase in the state's other governance of municipalities and regions, which increases administration and the cost of this. The Center Party's basic view is that we need to find some sort of balance. Right now, the state spends a great deal of resources on monitoring municipal activities but very little money on developing it, for example with the help of modern technology and digitalisation. We believe that we need to get the state to take greater responsibility on the development side and less responsibility on the follow-up side. Madam President, I would like The local government sector faces major challenges in the future. Financially, we see that money will be missing after 2025, about 12 billion. There are also huge differences in how it looks around the country. We know that the demographic dependency ratio is increasing. For example, on Gotland, where I have been a municipal councillor, we are already 10 – 15 years ahead of the rest of the country, which is really tough. We have great costs for climate adaptation and change. We will have – I already feel – a huge shortage of labour. We have a digital transformation that is a huge challenge. We have a shift of care to more close care, which is also large and difficult. And the investment needs are enormous in terms of water and sewage, housing and so on. From the Center Party we want to strengthen the municipal sector forward. We want the state to give more municipal freedom and also create the conditions for funding. We believe that this is the path that gives us the greatest success across the country. What I hear in the discussion about who carries out municipal activities makes me a little uncomfortable. I think that the core of Swedish welfare is that we carry out activities. Who is then the principal of the execution, I think, is less important.
i-21KCo9VgqJGWgnDTqKgb8E	Madam President, I would like Earlier during the parliamentary term, a unanimous parliament decided to investigate the municipal equalisation systems, and it is really high time. There are too many differences in welfare and, above all, many rural municipalities have a high tax rate without better service or welfare for their inhabitants than in low-tax municipalities – it is the opposite. The conditions for doing well-being differ widely between municipalities, and the conditions must be levelled out so that the whole of Sweden can live. Pending a new levelling-up system, the Left Party proposed, in its budget motion, an investment of 1.9 billion in small rural municipalities this year. We also proposed a further increase of SEK 10 billion in general government grants. In addition, the Left Party proposed a number of targeted initiatives in areas such as health care, school and preschool at least as much. For many years welfare has been underfunded, and still is. The underfunded welfare made the care and care poorly equipped to meet the coronapndemine. The Left Party has put forward several proposals to strengthen municipalities and regions in recent years. In the face of the crises of pandemic, war, etc., our municipalities and regions must be equipped with functioning schools and care for the elderly and good and safe health care. This requires more resources, not more tax cuts or sales. Madam President, I would like I'm a feminist. I believe in equal opportunities and obligations for men and women. I also believe that we should have a labour market where men's and women's jobs are equally valued. Precisely because I believe that women and men should have the same rights, I find it strange that proposals that public welfare should be privatised as part of increasing women's entrepreneurship and that stopping the pursuit of profit would hinder female entrepreneurship. Women's entrepreneurship cannot be limited to welfare. Nor can welfare be seen as a natural area of female entrepreneurship. Efforts are needed in many areas, not least to get financiers and lenders to understand that women are at least as good entrepreneurs as men. In 2019, today's industry carried out a review of venture capital investments that showed that approximately 1 per cent went to companies with women as founders. That is where the obstacle to women's entrepreneurship lies, not in profit limits in welfare. It is often said, then, that women make up a large proportion of entrepreneurs in the welfare sector and that a stop to the pursuit of profits would hit women hard. But in terms of size and turnover, it is companies with men at the top who have the biggest profits and the biggest dividends. The four largest school groups have together earned just over SEK 1.3 billion in recent years, says a survey of SVT. They are mainly owned or managed by men, and in the background there are often venture capital companies and foreign ownership. Together, the ten largest health care companies account for 35 per cent of the total turnover of private health care and long-term care. Within the largest health care company Attendo the larger private owners are men. With few exceptions, it is men at the top of the largest profit-making companies in welfare. A halt to welfare gains would not affect women who run smaller companies without the men and venture capital companies behind the profit-making giants. Madam President, I would like The interest in profit distorts the way welfare works. Something is wrong when municipal officials are forced to spy on home help personnel for indications that it is being cheated, that visits are registered without anyone being there or being there much shorter than what is being registered. Something is wrong when several home service companies are cut off from the freedom of choice system because of cheating. In the midst of all the cheating, there are older people who are being mistreated. The reports of neglect of a profit-making retirement home on Gotland, about toes that are squeezed bloody into bed gates, the elderly that lie in their stools, are difficult to absorb. The staff at the accommodation are lacking in general education. They do the best they can, but they're not in a position to do the job. Despite the comments made by the region, not all deficiencies have been remedied, and several serious deviations have been reported this winter. Our elderly deserve good care and good housing, not lack of care because companies have to generate profits. When the prize hunt is allowed to control the care, priority is given to those patients who are most profitable to treat instead of those who really need the care most. Healthcare centres and clinics are more often established in areas where people are well-off and relatively healthy. This means that the health care money goes there and is not enough for care in areas where people have lower incomes and where ill health is higher. Similarly, Madam President, profit-driven schools often give priority to attracting students from school-based homes or to attracting students with promises and advertising that do not correspond to the quality of teaching. Joy certificates that do not match students' skills are one of the effects of this. In Borås, students with top grades from the English School even lacked the necessary skills to keep up with the teaching in upper secondary school, and this testifies to both students and school staff at several schools. The students from the English School had the highest average grade in the municipality, but passed upper secondary school less well. Yesterday the newspaper Elektrikern published an interview with a former teacher at Thorens's apprenticeship program in Norrköping. He says that a large part of his students at the electrical program did an internship at a cleaning firm where they had to clean. He had to buy textbooks for himself and fulcopies, according to the management. So there was no money for books. He had to beg electricity from electricity companies to teach – and much more. Some parents arranged their own internships for their children, and it was mainly the students from the resource-weak homes who remained at the cleaning firm. The prize hunt has consequences, and it is the students in both the profit-making and the municipal schools who lose. Publicly run schools bear the full cost of overcrowding in order to be able to receive newly moved pupils and pupils leaving independent schools and to parry when school groups go bankrupt, close down or move. If the public school is at a loss, it must be compensated independently even if it has gone bankrupt. The gaps in school are getting bigger and bigger. It can hardly be a coincidence that the Swedish school results have fallen since the introduction of the free school system. A prerequisite for a really good school system is that it focuses on the most important. Quality and needs should always come first, not the opportunity to enrich themselves in the business. In school and preschool there should be staff so that each child receives the support they need. It is something that should not be prioritised down to create profit distribution to the owners. To get there, the school needs to be commercialized. The Left Party believes that the goal of the school should be to give students the best knowledge, not to generate profit to private companies. Transferring our joint ownership to private ownership does not benefit local residents, equality, equality or welfare. Madam President, I would like I call for approval of the joint reserve number 3 of the Left Party, the Social Democrats and the Green Party.
i-R5RpjnRk4L1QGf1h6AB1an	Madam President, I would like The municipalities are one of the most important building blocks in Swedish society. They are responsible for a large part of the public service that is where we live. Among the most important tasks are preschool, school, social services and care for the elderly. It is a matter of caring for and providing security for our elderly and the vital, vital activities of our children. The fact that the municipalities' tasks work is incredibly important – yes, crucial to the fact that the social contract is there and that we know that we can rely on welfare. This is a major report, but I wanted to make two points more specific, where we also have reservations. Under the item on the municipal economic equalisation system, we can see that, in addition to what I have just mentioned, the municipalities are also responsible for urban planning, water networks, waste management and fire brigades, etc. That goes without saying. Today it is equally obvious that all this service should also be available for those residents who do not live and pay taxes in the municipality. And that is something that today's system does not take up. This is a problem for the municipalities that live up in summer, or winter, and then for a fading existence for the rest of the year. It has been a sneaking development for many years, and we have to do something about it. We want to see living communities develop, not just sunny summer countries that live up a couple of months a year. Apart from the lack of fiscal power, the price of housing is being pushed up, and people with ordinary wages simply cannot compete with powerful buyers. This makes business and local services difficult to operate when there is no profit because the houses are empty ten months a year. In Denmark, this has been solved by what is called compulsory residence. In short, it means that the owner of a year-round home where you do not live is obliged to rent out the dwelling. The law is based on policy objectives to avoid rural depopulation, to counteract the formation of free-time residences in areas built for full-year housing and to prevent unbridled speculation in the housing market – and the ensuing housing shortage. In the review of the system of equalisation that the government is about to do, we want the proposal on compulsory residence to be examined as well. Madam President, I would like The second point I want to talk about is profits in welfare activities. For the Green Party it is incredibly important that the tax money that goes to school reaches the students and strengthens the quality of education. The current regime in which schools are run for profit must then be changed. One in seven students can't take elementary school. At the same time, the free school groups pick many millions of tax crowns in profit each year. The market school makes teachers service staff and parents and students customers. For an equal school and real freedom of choice, the interest in profit must be removed from the school equation. It's time to put the kids in front of the stock exchange. We in the Green Party want to do this by saying no to letting profit-sharing companies own and run schools. The purpose of the school should always be education – never profit. Allowing free schools to organise themselves as profit-sharing public limited liability companies was a mistake. It is high time to correct that mistake now. There are many serious problems with marketing school, and for every student who does not get the schooling and knowledge the student is entitled to, of course, it is a major failure. But it is also serious for society as a whole because the market school contributes to segregation. Unfortunately, the system is rigged so that profit-sharing public limited-liability schools earn more money the more they increase school segregation. It is profitable to teach students to highly educated people. Teaching children with disabilities from poorer families is more expensive. Those students who need more support are more often left in schools that are impoverished by resources. The poorer the elected schools become, the richer the owners of the public limited-liability schools. But the issue of profit is not that all free schools are bad. There are also many good free schools with fantastic teachers and students who thrive and develop. It is therefore important that a profit ban is designed and phased in so that these schools can continue to exist in a different form, such as foundations, cooperatives or so-called SVB companies. Following Chile's ban on profits in tax-funded schools, private schools have continued to operate in other forms. There is a big difference between running a school with the student's best in focus and running it in order to distribute profit. We have hundreds of idea-based schools that have completely different conditions for their activities than the profit-sharing schools have. It is actors who do not try to get rid of students who are more expensive to teach and who do not round corners to save money. Almost no matter what problem at school we begin to sneeze in, we return to the fact that marketing school is part of the problem. It is about more joy certificates, greater need for control and documentation and less time for the students. The market school makes teachers service staff, parents of customers and children into money bags. If we really want to create a society that stays together, school must be part of the solution to society's problems. Now it's the other way around. Instead, the current system makes school an obstacle that cements and reinforces social and economic gaps. We want all schools to be good schools, and it must not just be a slogan in the debate. Many different measures are needed, but removing the market logic is a first important step. I support the Green Party's second reservation. Of course, we also support the joint reservation.
i-PTCveC5Ms5xox2TTAkLsRg	Madam President, I would like Last summer I and the government agreed on a number of important points which resulted, among other things, in me and the Social Democrats having written a number of motions. This reservation is based on one of the sports that is about banning profits in school, health care and long-term care. I am pleased that the Left Party and the Green Party also support our reservation, and I hope that more parties and Members will vote for it. Madam President, I would like Welfare should be general, open to all, needs-driven and tax-funded and should be of good quality. Our common tax funds should be used to improve school, health care and care, not to enrich venture capitalists. Welfare should be under democratic control and transparency. The market experiments carried out in welfare have made it more difficult for politicians to rule. The school should be equal and compensate for the students' different needs, background and conditions. Society has a responsibility to give every child good conditions in life, and an equal school is crucial to achieving it. Swedish school has become a market where profit hunting drains public resources, shifts focus from children's knowledge development and contributes to increased gaps between schools and between students. Today, Swedish schools are unique in allowing dividends on public funds. The prize hunt creates incentives for joy certificates, reduced teacher density and increased segregation. Legislation that prohibits the withdrawal of profits must be developed. The child's right to education is not a special interest. The large private school and care groups have lobbyists who move between politicians and business. A MP runs schools whose profits go to Islamic extremist parties and to his own porn club visits in other countries. We in the Swedish Parliament have the task of looking after the people's best interests, not what suits the friends in the school companies. We cannot rely on the School Inspectorate to be able to clean up the rogue actors. It is running away from our responsibilities as Members of Parliament and legislators. Madam President, I would like Inappropriate actors should not be allowed to take care of our children and young people. Ownership and management testing should be tightened up, so that schools can neither be run by nor receive resources from actors associated with extremists and criminal Islamists. The privatisations carried out in recent decades have led to an unequal distribution of care between city and country and between groups in society. Market forces have been given great leeway in healthcare. The idea was that market solutions would lead to improvements. Instead, they have put the diversity of care at risk by a few large groups, forced healthcare professionals to devote more and more time to administration and increased costs. Similarly, private elderly care has lower staffing and insecure employment for staff. This mainly affects the low-skilled and mainly women with foreign skills. Direct cheating companies have been exposed in the home service. This affects the care of our elderly. During the pandemic, we have noted that it was not the welfare capitalists who saved our elderly and caring. It was the state that paid several hundred billion while the entrepreneurs and owners continued to award bonuses. Care must be provided on the basis of needs, not on the basis of the possibility of paying for yourself. Madam President, I would like The government should come back with proposals and measures to prevent commercialisation and market management of health care and school. Publicly operated emergency hospitals should not be able to be sold or privatised. If Swedish welfare is to be able to have a full focus on good quality and equivalence for all, our common tax funds must be used to make school, health care and care better and not to enrich the owners. In this process, politics has handed over an increasing responsibility to markets, instead of this being a zone protected from market mechanisms, a zone where democratic, equal and humanistic values would be protected and not limited companies. Citizens have increasingly become customers who are made to choose from a plethora of performers. If you have the bad luck of choosing the wrong school or health center, or have parents or relatives who are unable to choose or do not even care, then the bad fortune falls on you. Freedom of choice has thus been privatised and reduced. I choose for myself, and you choose for yourself, and if you choose wrong, that's your business. Welfare – school and care – should no longer be goods and products on the market, but civil rights and fundamental social benefits that politics has a duty to safeguard. Market-based welfare took off when companies driven by the requirement to provide financial returns to their owners were admitted. Venture capital companies currently earn large amounts of money in Swedish tax-funded welfare businesses. Madam President, I would like No system in Europe can really be compared to the system that has been built up in Sweden in recent years, where purchasers of welfare activities after a procurement are given a certain amount of money to carry out the business. Venture capital companies should not be allowed to expand within our common welfare, as companies generally do in other markets, or be able to demand more money from municipalities or regions to increase their profits. The concentration of ownership in welfare capitalism is also very large because welfare has become a very lucrative market for shareholders. Madam President, I would like In conclusion, the interest in profit should be removed from the welfare as a whole. The welfare is there for most people, not for the few. The security and education of citizens is not something that neither can nor should be left to private capital, and the welfare capitalists have provided us with innumerable evidence in recent decades. This is also a question of democracy. When public activities such as health care, care and school are privatised, society is dedemocratic. When more and more community-supporting activities are run privately, there is ultimately nothing left for elected politicians to make decisions on, except trifles that matter nothing to social development and democracy. Instead, social development is managed by a few in the private business sector, whose guiding principle is to maximise their profits. The school, care and care are for the people, the majority, not for big business, the few. Welfare capitalism has no future in our welfare. I call for our joint reservation to be approved.
i-TCqm4oEaE6y1tahvRQJbUq	Madam President, I would like Today is a historic day for consumer policy, because today we are adopting a new law on consumer purchases – the latest one came to 1990. By implementing this new law, we also take care of two EU directives. Certainly, consumer law needs to be modernised, because the way we act as consumers has changed drastically. Digitization is progressing at a furious rate and can simplify our lives, but sometimes it causes us to tear our hair. We are also global consumers in a completely different way, and this cross-border way of consuming must be taken into account by law. Today we are taking major steps towards more comprehensive and better consumer protection legislation, and the law is appropriately proposed to enter into force on 1 May this year. The most important change in the new Consumer Sales Law is that the reversal of the burden of proof is extended from six months to two years. It may sound technical but it is about something as simple as important, namely consumer power. This change means that any errors that appear during two years after buying a product as a starting point shall be considered to be faults for which the trader is responsible. So it is the company that should prove that the headphones you bought had nothing wrong from the beginning. Legislation is now creating an important incentive to produce sustainable products and not build up planned ageing, which rogue companies can do to make money. With the law on their side, consumers should be more easily able to complain about bad headphones, the dress whose seams went up at the third use or the bag whose zipper broke. This is important because, as the vast majority of us know, we need to reduce our climate footprint. Let me take clothing as an example. A double life span of textile products could halve the climate impact of Swedes, and it is important if we want a planet to leave to our children and grandchildren. I know that this will make a difference for consumers, and I know this because both authorities and consumer organisations are in favour of this proposal. This is a crucial change in which we take a stand against the slit-and-slip society and for consumers and the climate. It is easy to see who is on the side of consumers here today. C and KD do not think that the consumer power needs to be strengthened, and they believe that we are overimplementing. However, we say that both consumers and the climate deserve better, and that is why today we are going to adopt a new consumer purchasing law. Madam President, I would like Digitalization has changed the way we live, and we stream and look for Pokémon as never before. Here too, legislation needs to be updated and a new EU directive implemented. An important part of this is the obligation to update the trader. The trader shall inform and provide the consumer with safety updates and other updates necessary for the functioning of the service. This is valid for three years or as long as the agreement is in force. An error arising from a digital content shall be the trader's responsibility as a starting point. On the other hand, the consumer must ensure that equipment is capable of performing the service and cooperate with the trader if there is a need for troubleshooting. Madam President, I would like Animals are our family members, and it is important that we have legal regulation for the purchase of living beings. The Government proposes that the purchase of live animals by consumers should continue to be subject to consumer purchasing legislation, but specific rules should be introduced. We do this because we know that you buy a dog or a horse from a breeder, not in a pet store. There are parties who say in an announcement that the Sales Law would be better suited as legislation. However, we believe that the Sales Law would give the buyer of the animal a far too vulnerable position, because in the Sales Law you can cancel your rights. Consumer protection is therefore weaker. The purchase of a beloved pet and family member must be more protected than that, and so we say that the mandatory rules of the Consumer Sales Law provide stronger and better protection. The right to compensation in the event of an animal's failure may then be greater. This can lead to suffering for people and the new family member if an injury is not compensated, so that the animal does not receive the necessary veterinary care, and at worst the animal may need to be killed. Anyone who has lost an animal knows what a tremendous loss it can be to the family. We therefore want strong consumer contracts that are regulated by a binding consumer purchasing law. It's the best thing for both humans and animals. However, we understand that living animals are not just any commodity. The condition of an animal can change. In the case of more expensive animals, we therefore propose a study rule. As with other large purchases in life, a consumer should carefully examine the animal, and unless the trader has gone against faith and honour in a reckless manner, error should not be invoked. Since animals are living beings, the reverse burden of proof is suggested to be shorter than when buying a commodity. An error occurring within six months shall be deemed to have occurred at the time of delivery. The Committee on the Environment and Agriculture considered the government's model to be wise. However, the Committee on Civil Liberties is today calling on the government to propose that more expensive live animals should be excluded from the scope of the Consumer Sales Law, something that several parties and referral bodies find deeply regrettable. On this basis, I would like to ask you to accept reservation 7. At the same time, however, I am looking forward to the fact that today we are pressing the buttons for increased consumer power and less climate footprint.
i-JQ9gP9Gxj2Au338ev1VwWB	Madam President, I would like We Moderates appreciate the government's initiative for a new Consumer Purchase Act and support much of the content. On three points, however, follow-up and some change are required in order for the law to achieve its purpose without affecting Sweden's consumers or Sweden's competitiveness negatively. With regard to the burden of proof on the trader, the Government proposes that an error which has occurred within two years should be a fault for which the trader is responsible, unless the trader shows otherwise or this is incompatible with the nature of the goods or the nature of the defect. This means that the government proposes to extend the burden of proof for the trader, from today's six months to two years. The EU directive requires the burden of proof to cover the trader over a year, and legislating for another year is therefore an over-implementment, which we in Sweden have become the closest EU champion on. It is also an extension compared to what the investigation wanted to introduce when the bill was presented, when it proposed one year's burden of proof for the trader in accordance with the minimum level of the EU Directive. While we Moderates are in favour of strengthening consumer protection, binding legislation must always strike a balance between the two interests at stake. Extending the burden of proof to two years may be justified in order to strengthen consumer law, but we believe that the consequences of the legislation need to be evaluated after three years in order to examine the potential negative impact on Sweden's competitiveness that over-implementing can have. Furthermore, the Government proposes in the new Consumer Act that the consumer should have the right to require the trader to correct a defect in the goods or re-delivery and that the consumer should have the right to choose between the measures. We believe that there is reason to strengthen the consumer's right in this respect, but we believe that the government's proposal is too far-reaching. We believe that the trader should be able to take the measure that can be implemented at the lowest cost as long as it is not an inconvenience to the consumer. Swedish horse breeding is well regarded in the world. Swedish-born horses are exported abroad where they reap good success, and breeding of horses is also one of the mainstays of the Swedish horse industry. Raising horses also means a great deal to society at large in terms of jobs, rural businesses, open landscapes and more. At the moment, however, breeders are in a very difficult situation with regard to one of their most central activities, namely the sale of horses. Swedish horse industry, especially the large horseback riding sector, consists mainly of people who use the horse for hobby or other recreational purposes. This means that the main market for Swedish horse breeders is among private individuals, while the majority of breeders are engaged in economic activities. For the sale of a horse between a trader and a private person, it is today the Consumer Sales Law that governs the purchase in the event of a complaint. The law is designed to protect individuals who, in trade with traders, can be very vulnerable. However, the current design may have disproportionate consequences for traders in trade in live animals. The problem is that many horse breeders are currently highly hesitant about selling horses to private individuals. Without a change, this means that Swedish farmers face a very real risk of losing their largest market: sales to private individuals. If the current trend continues, Swedish horse breeding will stop, and there is a risk of having a number of negative long-term effects such as reduced rural entrepreneurship, loss of revenue for the industry and job losses. Therefore, we now welcome the fact that there is a majority in Parliament for an announcement on a change in the Consumer Sales Law as regards the purchase of more expensive animals. By way of conclusion, I support reservation 5.
i-E85KrGJtBQc3XMwaL5rKgQ	Madam President, I would like I think we can all agree in this House that a cat is not a dishwasher and that a horse cannot be equated with a toaster. Yet that is exactly what our legislation does. In the Swedish legal system, animals are legally regarded as movable property, i.e. things. This does not correspond with how many people today view their animals, and it is also quite obvious that animals are affected by inheritance and environment in a completely different way from, for example, a mobile phone. It is therefore not reasonable to continue to equate animals with dead things, but the focus must be on animal welfare. Unfortunately, this is where the government's proposal for a new consumer purchasing law misses the target. Today's legislation on the purchase of live animals does not meet the animal welfare requirements that Sweden should meet. As the law is designed at present, its aim is to protect consumers' interests, not those of animals. Of course, this is good when it comes to other goods, but there is a strange order when it comes to the purchase of live animals. Since the consumer has the same rights in the case of defects in the goods, the reversal of the burden of proof and the time limit for complaint as in the case of a purchase of any other goods, there are some problems. What happens, for example, if after two years a buyer wants to complain about his injured horse and get a new one? The risk of prolonged processes where animals are at risk of being squeezed increases. The care obligation that applies when the buyer either wishes to cancel the purchase, to demand that an error be remedied or to receive a re-delivery often means in practice that the animal does not receive the care it needs, despite compliance with the Animal Welfare Act, because the buyer usually does not want to spend more time or money on the animal in question. A horse that is turned off and is not trained or competed with risks having its original injury aggravated, other injuries or impaired mental health. In addition, a seller may be forced to buy back an animal in damaged condition after many years and may be liable to pay damages of large amounts, sometimes exceeding the value. This uncertainty about the burden of proof and the time limit for complaints concerning live animals makes many breeders, especially small traders, reluctant to raise animals to sell to private individuals. There is a considerable financial risk of long liability and the farmer has limited opportunity to prove that an error is due to circumstances on the part of the buyer. These conditions contribute to the continuation of illegal imports of animals, as the demand for dogs in particular on the Swedish market is greater than supply. The importation of these animals often takes place from so-called puppy factories where the animals are treated very badly. It can also lead to financial difficulties for individuals, as uncertainties arise as to who should bear veterinary costs if the imported animal needs care. The investigation that forms the basis for the proposal for a new Consumer Purchase Act that the Government is now putting on the board of the Riksdag clearly describes the current problems. However, the government lacks an adequate solution to these problems. The purpose of the Consumer Sales Law is to level out the strength ratio between buyer and seller. The law thus focuses on the fact that a consumer is usually at a disadvantage vis-à-vis a trader. This is the case in most cases, but not when it comes to the purchase of live animals from breeders. Unlike large retail chains and other businesses, many breeders have livestock farming as a hobby, not as their main source of income. You are counted as a trader, but you do not have the advantage that normally applies. One who has planned to buy an animal for thousands of dollars has probably read about the breed and learned what it takes to care for that particular animal. He or she thus finds himself or herself in a position of knowledge equivalent to that of the seller and is usually also economically equal, if not superior. All in all, therefore, it is a good thing that this legislation is now being reviewed, as is happening in connection with the introduction of these two EU directives. However, it is not enough, as the government proposes, to keep the purchase of live animals under the Consumer Sales Law and only allow certain exceptions. Such a regime will continue to create problems with demarcation and also makes the already tight legislation on consumer purchases even more difficult to navigate. Instead, clear contractual terms between buyers and sellers are needed to avoid unnecessary suffering for animals. We therefore say no to the government's proposal to continue treating horses and dogs in the same way as toasters and kitchen chairs. Madam President, I would like Sweden's animal welfare must be characterised by high ambitions. The government therefore needs to take Parliament's announcement seriously and fall to little for the criticism that has been levelled at the proposal. If the Social Democrats share the view that animal welfare and safety are not a secondary issue, they must urgently come back with proposals for a change of legislation that fully meets the animal welfare perspective and reduces the risk of unnecessary processing. Mahatma Gandhi said: A nation's greatness and its ethical progress can be judged by how to treat its animals.
i-MrKLEPJ4Yioethwjtr96a5	Madam President, I would like The Center Party, of course, welcomes a special regulation on the purchase of animals. Year after year, with the support of other parties, we have pointed out that it is indecent that living beings who change owners should be subject to the same consumer protection rules as dead things. As has been said earlier, one cannot compare a horse, a dog, a cat or a bird with a sofa, a microwave or even a teddy bear, i.e. a mobile phone. The fact that living animals are living beings with all that they mean in terms of physical changes during their lifetime and interactions between psyche and physics has not previously been taken into account in terms of consumer protection. A new environment for the horse or the dog, the interaction in the pasture and the change in feeding is of course important for how the animal is feeling. Now it seems that the government, despite a proposal for a declaration where a majority would rather that the purchase and sale of animals are included in the Sales Law and not in the Consumer Sales Law, will get its legislation through today. I regret that, although what is now being decided is an improvement on what it has been like in the past. The Consumer Sales Law is mainly intended to protect the consumer from the stronger party, which is often the seller in its initial position, although consumers as a group are significantly stronger. However, consumer protection is needed in relation to the individual. In particular, when dealing with more expensive live animals, such as horses, dogs and cats, it is particularly important for sellers who, in themselves, are considered to be traders under consumer purchasing rights but have a very modest turnover in their activities. It is often not large companies and large breeders, but it is individuals who face a purchaser who is much more powerful. Madam President, I would like As has been said, the legislative changes the government makes are a clear improvement on how it has been in the past. The criticism has been heard and our announcements taken on board, but it does not seem to have understood that, in the case of trade in live animals, it is not the seller who is the weaker party who needs protection. Most of the time, as I have said before, it is the other way around. The buyer is the person who engages in trade, and the person who sells puppies after a rascal dog bitch does not want to end up in a situation where the buyer invokes a poorly adapted law to cancel a purchase that the buyer has begun to regret for various reasons. The draft law with amendments to the Consumer Sales Law risks causing animal suffering while the parties argue about how to interpret the veterinary examination carried out and agreed upon in connection with the purchase or have to deal with a situation that arises because it was not done. The purchasing law, on the other hand, is dispositive. The parties are therefore free to agree on the terms themselves or to make use of sales contracts developed by the industries. The LRF Horse's referral should weigh heavily as does the Veterinary Association. Both parties can be considered neutral and knowledgeable in animal husbandry. The first can do so because they have the interests of both parties to guard, and the second because it is the one closest to the animals and knows their health. Both are critical of the fact that trade in live animals is now included in the Consumer Sales Law. The government taking office after the elections, or perhaps even the one in office, must urgently address another proposal for an announcement in which, despite what has been done, a majority of the Swedish Parliament is not satisfied. The starting point shall be that all animals are covered without any distinction being made depending on whether or not the purchase price has been above or below one tenth of the price base amount. However, it is when the animal has a greater value that legal proceedings risk harming the animal, as was the case with the horse Galliano to which the LRF refers in its referral. The Veterinary Association, for its part, believes that their members are in danger of being put in an unsustainable position when they end up in the centre of such a conflict, i.e. a horse that could not be rode after it changed ownership and then ended up in a legal dispute that ended badly for the horse. There is no possibility in a simple examination of a veterinarian to detect hidden injuries or diseases that may occur, such as when the animal changes the environment, feed, stables and peers in the pasture. The government should have taken on the heavy criticism and chosen the line supported by the Center Party here in Parliament in a proposal for an announcement. Madam President, I would like The government also chooses to over-implement the Consumer Protection Directive when it wants the reversal of the burden of proof to apply for two years instead of the current six months. We want it to be possible within a year to point out a defect and get the goods replaced and that it should be refuted by the seller if the remark that the defect is original is not correct. When the EU's goods directive allows for a space of between one and two years, the government chooses two, and the strongest reason seems to be that Spain and France have done so, and that in the case of small-house contracts it happens to be two years old. This sofa is therefore equated with the water heater in the house and is content with it as an argument, despite the fact that the investigator has proposed the shorter period, which is already a doubling of consumer protection. An error discovered only after 23 months could hardly have been there in the first place. That is my assessment after hearing Sanne Lennström's argumentation. Rarely has one heard a weaker argument than this, and it is most surprising that no more parties than the Center Party and the Christian Democrats have paid attention to this and have reserved for the government choosing to over-implement consumer protection as it is now. Another obvious point made by the Center Party is that the right of complaint should follow the goods and not remain with the original buyer. The longer a product is used and the more it is used, the better it is for the environment. This is also why the Center Party wants to be able to offer a consumer first and foremost who discovers a fault that the fault of the product is remedied– repaired– before it is replaced, in relation to sustainability issues. Similar suggestions can be found in the Moderate reservation, where the starting point should be that the seller determines whether the goods should be repaired or replaced. We believe, like the Moderates, that this is not something that should be regulated by law, which one chooses to do. Finally, Madam President, the functioning of digital content depends entirely on the environment in which it has been installed. If the hardware or systems with which it interacts are changed, it must be possible to upgrade over a long period of time. This applies in particular to safety-critical systems and those containing sensitive data. Today it is possible to buy a smartphone that will not be able to be security updated after it has left the store. This means, in practice, that it is sold with open security holes from day one. It makes it difficult for an individual to protect himself and his information. The same applies to other types of hardware, including those purchased by public operators. Society imposes requirements on consumer safety in a wide range of areas, but not in the area of safety. It is time to change that and in consumer law and at least in the case of public procurement to require updating guarantees of three years or the entire life span of the product if this is shorter. Madam President, I would like The consumer area is developing rapidly, and we must respect the fact that it can be difficult for legislation to keep up with – mainly in the area of digital services and digital content, where technological developments are fast moving in different directions. Safety and protection against intrusion is important, as is protecting children from downloading content that harms their self-perception and gives them to those who want to exploit their situation and their young age. Madam President, I would like I am in favour of the Center Party's reservation No 8 on digital content, but of course I support our three other reservations – and of course also the majority of the committee, which opposes the regulation of the purchase of live animals being made in the Consumer Sales Law.
i-MU6CPrk6afCHLtZDHzBQXP	Madam President, I would like Live animals should not be considered as any goods, because they are not. They're alive, with flesh and blood. Then it does not work that the Consumer Sales Law equates a purchase of a live animal with the purchase of goods such as computers, refrigerators and clothes. The Consumer Sales Law forgets the animal, I would argue. It does not take sufficient account of the fact that a living animal is changing and strongly influenced by its surroundings. Therefore, these purchases should go under the Sales Law. The government proposes to introduce certain specific rules for the purchase of live animals by consumers. The specific rules proposed shall apply, in particular, to the purchase of more expensive animals, and for these purchases a duty of investigation shall be imposed on the consumer. The government also proposes to maintain a six-month presumption rule for the purchase of animals, while in the case of the purchase of more expensive animals, the presumption rule should be completely waived. It is a step in the right direction, we believe Christian Democrats, but it is not enough. The animal industry has long criticised the way the Consumer Sales Law treats live animals like any product. Animals are not just any commodity but living beings where psyche and physics interact and where different circumstances affect how they behave. Against this background, it is understandable that the government is proposing to introduce specific rules for the purchase of live animals. The Christian Democrats welcome the Government's proposal that the presumption rule should be agreed off when buying more expensive animals and that a duty of investigation should be imposed on the consumer. However, we are not satisfied but believe that it is not enough. In the animal industry, there has long been great dissatisfaction that the purchase of live animals is regulated in the Consumer Sales Law. When selling expensive animals, the balance of power between the parties is often not as clear as it is in a traditional relationship between the trader and the consumer. Moreover, the sale of expensive animals often takes place on a small scale where it is not always given in what capacity the parties act, as traders and consumers or as private individuals. The Christian Democrats' view is that live animals should not be included in the scope of the Consumer Sales Law but that the Sales Law should instead be applied to these transactions. This is a change that has long been requested by the animal industry through, among other things, the Swedish Veterinary Association, the National Federation of Farmers and the Swedish Kennel Club. The unpredictability resulting from the Consumer Sales Law has made animal industry increasingly reluctant to sell expensive animals to consumers, which is not good. The Christian Democrats believe that this is problematic because it can have significant negative effects on the animal industry. It is also problematic because it risks causing consumers to enter into trade in animals brought in from abroad in violation of an import ban or under other uncertain conditions. The Swedish Purchasing Act places higher demands on the buyer to find out more about the animal before the purchase. It is something that is desirable when it comes to living animals because it is not a commodity among everyone else. If the buyer finds out more about the animal before the transaction takes place, there will be fewer disputes, which will benefit both the buyer and the seller. Not least, it is for the benefit of the animal, who is often in danger of getting into trouble in long and drawn-out disputes. The most exciting thing that has happened today in this debate – it has been going on for a while – is that the Social Democrats have admitted that they have not been on the side of the consumer since 1990. They say that on the side of the consumer is only the one who believes that the burden of proof has been reversed for two years. Since 1990 we have had a law which says that the reversal of the burden of proof is six months, the Social Democrats have acknowledged that they have not been on the side of the consumer during this time. We Christian Democrats and the Center Party, which have proposed extending it from six months to one year, are all of a sudden the enemies of the consumer. I find it indecent to use such words in this chair. We can both say that we are looking after the consumer, but I think we also need to see that there is a harmony with traders and consumers and what the different parties can do. One year we think and the Center Party is fine. We think it could be better for the consumer, but we also believe that the trader could do that. I therefore support reservation number 3.
i-YKVUowmK63qstatnFzLM4A	Madam President, I would like We in the Green Party know that several of the changes that we have worked out together with the government in this bill reinforce the power of the consumer in several ways. It's good and important. However, we did not get through our desire to remove animals from the Consumer Sales Law and instead work out a special law dealing with the purchase and sale of live animals. It would have been absolutely best both for the animals and for the buyer. It is a pity that the government did not take advantage of the possibility of excluding the sale of live animals in accordance with the possibility provided for in EU Directive 2019/ 771. There are many reasons why live animals should be removed from the Consumer Sales Law. We've already heard a lot of people here today. Having taken note of all the referrals received on the proposal for a new Consumer Purchase Act, I see that the proposal now on the table has taken very little account of what various animal welfare organisations have advocated as changes. What we came up with when we deepened the issue is that there is a need for specific legislation in the area of trade in live animals. Therefore, a thorough investigation needs to be carried out with the aim of producing a legislative proposal that deals with the purchase and sale of live animals, where the welfare of the animals is in focus but of course also what the buyer's protection can look like. It has never been done before, and the effects on animal welfare on the purchase and sale of animals are tangible. The purchase regulation is designed for goods whose quality and characteristics can be measured and guaranteed in different ways. As I said, animals are living beings, and the regulation is therefore ill-suited to trade in live animals. A similar conclusion was reached when the Consumer Services Act was introduced. Animals are in themselves property and could therefore fall within the scope of the Consumer Services Act, but those rules are adapted for so-called performance services. Since work on live animals is characterized by a duty to show care rather than to perform a certain result, live animals were excluded from the scope of the law. For example, it is possible to fix a broken water pump on a car so that the car works again, but it is not the same way to fix an animal by, for example, removing an object that is stuck in the intestines with the guarantee that the animal will feel good again. A veterinarian promises to do his best and use established methods, while the mechanic promises to make the car work again. It is usually said that legislation should be predictable and that it will be precisely that by being uniform. The fact that the Consumer Services Act does not cover live animals is therefore an argument that neither the purchasing rules should. I have more short examples: it is not possible to declare animals in order for them to apply over time, as one thing can do. The replacement of one live animal for another is not possible either, as there are no equivalent copies. Nor can the characteristics of a living animal be guaranteed or presumed in the same way as for other goods. The limit for what counts as commercial animals should also be reviewed. Customs has requested that the limit for commercial animals be lowered from five dogs to two dogs, to make it more difficult for smugglers and so on. There are different ways to solve the problem. An investigator should be instructed immediately to investigate what a bill dealing with the purchase and sale of live animals might look like. I therefore call for the approval of Amendment No 11 in this report by the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs.
i-JVfvYwQVxFkd8FtUg2dzcm	Madam President, I would like To clarify my own brain, I would like to ask the Green Party representative why they support a reservation that actually means keeping live animals in the Consumer Sales Law. The whole speech by the honourable Member was that they do not think so. Explain to me how you can arrive at a position which is contrary to what the honourable Member says in the speaker's chair.
i-E2Q7jGbEfzMLHvLDdmbAok	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question, honourable Member. It is simply that we want to go one step further. We do not think it is enough to transfer animals to the Sales Law, but we want an investigation and a special law on how to sell and buy animals. We think that's how you'd end up most right. We do not see that a change in just going to the Sales Law would be enough.
i-FxTrcGPkqmKQymbXHW9esW	Madam President, I would like I have respect for the fact that in a vision one has the opportunity to see further and that one wants to go further in different political contexts. But not daring to take a step to get closer to the goal seems rather strange, to be honest. A majority in the committee says that we should review it and instead put it on the Sales Law. In any case, it would be better for the Green Party to put it on the Sales Law, even if it wants its own specific law; just as the honourable Member says, the Consumer Sales Law is not in any way in line with the ideas put forward by the honourable Member in the speaker's chair regarding the sale and purchase of live animals.
i-GXj5RQGdhRGFJmE1PhYmiK	Madam President, I would like Member! Like I said, it's about us wanting to go further. We see this only as an intermediate step with regard to the Sales Law. We therefore stand by the agreement we made with the government, but we are clear that we did not get what we wanted. After all, we have been involved in negotiating this bill, and somewhere there must be a form of dignity in it.
i-74fBD4LHgdQfFziFEXi5XA	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the opportunity to come and take part in the debate! This is the first debate in which I take part. I'm honored to be here. Last week we sat in this Chamber listening to President Zelenskyj speaking to us from a shelter in Ukraine. That, of course, was an illustration of the value of protecting democracy and maintaining this opportunity for debate and discussion. Right now Ukraine is fighting for its freedom and democracy. They are invaded by Vladimir Putin's Russia. Among other things, this fight is about what we are doing right now when we meet in Parliament in a peaceful way, discuss as we are doing today and resolve conflicts through discussions and votes and not in violent ways. That is the essence of democracy. I will take that with me into today's discussion. I would just like to say that it is a privilege and honour to be here today to debate with you. Madam President, I would like Now I go to today's theme: a new consumer purchasing law. It's a historic day. It has been said on several occasions in the speaker's chair. The introduction of a new Consumer Purchase Act is one of the largest developments in consumer law in 15 to 20 years. It will strengthen the protection of all of us consumers. The new consumer legislation means that Swedish consumers are given stronger protection when purchasing both physical and digital products. By making it easier for consumers to advertise goods, the new Consumer Sales Law helps to make products more sustainable for both the planet and the wallet. I will focus on three important changes today: firstly, how we strengthen consumer law in the digital forum; secondly, how we encourage sustainable products by extending the statutory guarantee; and thirdly, the part that makes it clear that the purchase of animals is not a purchase of any commodity. Madam President, I would like The current Consumer Sales Law was decided by Parliament in 1990. Since then, the pattern of consumption has changed drastically. The Internet has entered, we have smart phones and our habits have changed in a way that few could imagine in the early 90s. There was no Internet commerce, no streaming services and no social media in anyone's everyday life. Today, we see much of this as necessities. It is high time we took the Consumer Sales Law into the digital era and strengthened consumer protection. Perhaps the most important change now proposed is new rules for the purchase of digital content and services. More and more of what we consume are different forms of digital products. It concerns the purchase of individual music or film files, the use of streaming services and access to social networks. The introduction of this new law also introduces clear rules on the liability of digital content providers vis-à-vis consumers and on the rights we have in the event of errors in digital content. In addition, there are clear rules on the obligations of traders to keep digital content up-to-date and well-functioning after it has been sold to a consumer. More and more of the traditional goods we are buying today are largely dependent on a well-functioning software. The new Act also contains rules that traders are obliged to keep such software up to date in the same way as applies to digital content sold separately. These are rules that give consumers greater security. The life of purchased goods shall not be limited by keeping the digital parts that control them up to date. An important part of this legislation is that we now make it clear that the use of social media is also a form of consumption where, instead of paying with money, we pay with our personal data. Today, it is far too unclear what applies to the use of social media. The new rules make it clear that consumer protection rules apply when you agree with a company to use a service in exchange for their access to your personal data and data for commercial purposes. Madam President, I would like Another important difference since the 1990s is that we have understood to a greater extent the extent of the challenges we face when it comes to climate change that humanity creates. One of the three priorities of the government is that Sweden should lead the climate transition, both to create a long-term sustainable society with jobs in Sweden and to be an example in the world. To achieve this, we need to change consumption behaviour. We must get away from toil and toss and move towards more sustainable consumption. Too many of us have experienced that products do not meet the standards. It's both frustrating and environmentally damaging. This is an important reason for strengthening consumer law. With greater rights for consumers, it becomes less profitable to sell products that do not keep their promises. In the case of traditional physical goods, we want to extend the period when you have the right to have a product repaired or to have a new product if the company cannot prove that it is the customer who caused the defect. It acts as a statutory guarantee, and instead of being valid for six months today, it shall be valid for two years. It is not reasonable for expensive products – we are talking about mobile phones and computers – to crash within two years. We now want to make it easier for the consumer to complain about such goods. If a product breaks down within two years of normal use, the seller will have an obligation to replace or repair the product. This strengthens consumer protection and also discourages unsustainable consumption, because when companies have to take greater responsibility for keeping products, it becomes less profitable to produce products of inferior quality. This means that the new consumer legislation, which is now on Parliament's table, can contribute to a better climate by transforming companies into more sustainable production. Madam President, I would like Buying an animal is not like buying any good. An animal is a living creature. It is therefore reasonable to introduce in some parts a separate regulation for such purchases. We must also remember, then, that the purchase of an animal, such as a horse or a dog, is a huge financial investment for consumers but, of course, also emotionally. It would not be reasonable to completely exclude the purchase of animals from consumer protection rules. The rules now proposed by the government are both a duty of inquiry for the consumer and a time for the reversal of the burden of proof of six months. It will also be possible to cancel the reverse burden of proof when buying more expensive animals. This strikes me as a reasonable balance between the interests of the parties and a proposal that takes into account the interests of animal welfare. It is definitely a reinforcement in relation to what exists today in Sweden. Madam President, I would like With this new consumer legislation, Swedish consumers gain stronger protection when purchasing both physical and digital products. And with today's decision we take the Consumer Sales Law into the digital era. By making it easier for consumers to advertise goods, we contribute to the new Consumer Sales Law helping to produce products that are more sustainable for both the planet and the wallet. Finally, specific rules are proposed for the purchase of animals which take account of the fact that an animal is not just any commodity. All of this is important in order to strengthen consumer protection. It is also important to strengthen Sweden.
i-3Kwoa8VfrFTaXcDgRyrgCh	Madam President, I would like Surely it is a bit typical of the Social Democrats that when an opportunity is given to change and improve legislation, you always take the chance to do it a little bit. You correct a few small errors but keep many others. This is a simple problem to solve. Excluding the purchase of more expensive live animals from the Consumer Sales Law will provide a higher level of animal welfare and give us a clearer agreement on the purchase of animals, which benefits all parties. At this afternoon's vote, Parliament will in all likelihood support an announcement to the government to exempt the purchase of more expensive live animals from the Consumer Sales Law. That is a good thing, because today's legislation is not adequate and the proposals for exemptions that the government wants to introduce do not solve the problem. In addition, consumer purchasing legislation becomes even more complex. My question to the Government is therefore brief: When will the Government make the changes that Parliament wants to see? The proposal has already been clarified, so it does not have to be done again. Can we expect a new bill before the elections, or do we have to wait until we change the government?
i-4yfPpQcMfU9BJRq6KVqe9s	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question. I cannot answer this question today. We must first wait for the Riksdag to speak and then prepare it in good order. However, I can say on a general level that it is of course important that what Parliament announces the government be dealt with adequately and appropriately. We are now discussing animal welfare in consumer legislation and the Sales Law. I have to say that at times I am a little puzzled by today's speeches. It is mentioned that horses are not toasters and that dogs are not kitchen chairs, and on this I think everyone in this House is in complete agreement. However, I have to disappoint the speaker a little, because the Sales Law also regulates the purchase of toasters and kitchen chairs, and even with the application of the Sales Law, animals will be regarded as movable property. If this was the original problem, I do not know if the solution is correct. However, it is about who buys and who sells and how the interests between them should be regulated. The presupposi tion of those who are now announcing the government's will is that there will be fewer disputes and less suffering if we apply the Sales Law instead of the Consumer Sales Law. As far as I understand the investigation, there is no indication that there will be fewer disputes, and the amount of suffering animals is unlikely to be affected by this. But we eagerly await the Parliament's opinion that is announced to the government and manages it to the best of our ability whenever this happens.
i-RAa9RVynULXnnHWdrkJp8G	Madam President, I would like The government believes that if the consumer is unable to claim damages or compensation for costs from the seller, this will mean that animals will not receive the necessary veterinary care and may even need to be killed. That is a very strange argument, because if the consumer does not have the economy to take care of an animal, you might want to think about a lap extra before you get it. A dog, for example, usually lives between 10 and 13 years of age, and a cat can get much older than that. Who will pay if the animal is sick or injured after the complaint deadline? I think it is reasonable to demand that a buyer of an animal be able to ensure that it is cared for in the best possible way throughout its lifetime. Wouldn't the government agree with that? Madam President, I would like I would also like to say that it is very good that the Council of State here today makes it clear that his government will follow the decisions made by Parliament. I intend to take it with me for further debate.
i-Xzza7svQAkbA7r6Wrq987c	Madam President, I would like I assume that anyone who buys a dog or a horse will think carefully before doing so and provide the best possible care for the welfare of these animals. What is at issue here are things that have not been achieved through a duty of investigation and who should bear the costs if you have hired a veterinarian for permits that were unknown. Then the idea on the part of the government is that such totally unforeseen costs are better borne by those who should know them, namely the trader, than those who bought the animal. Here we obviously make different assessments. I do not think it is clear that the Sales Law provides for better animal protection. The Purchasing Act is a very old law that has not actually been specifically adapted for this purpose. But it may not necessarily get worse. And that is probably not what this is about, but how to regulate interests between traders and consumers. There the dividing line is clear. The Swedish democrats once again weigh on the side of traders. This has been done in the past when it comes to fair conditions in procurement and in the case of free-school businesses, and now it is a question of livestock farming. It may well be recorded in the Minutes which side the Swedish Democrats are on, namely the one who meets ordinary people, and that the Social Democrats are on the side of ordinary people. If this is the case, the discussion will continue.
i-Stf49VRQLLpdpya8YkXfMw	Madam President, I would like Welcome, Minister, to the House and debate with us in the Civil Committee! We'll get another one by the end of the day. As Angelica Lundberg pointed out earlier, the government is having a setback here and not just by the parties behind the proposed announcement. If I am right, the Green Party has announced a position that is not that of the government. I am a little curious as to how the Government is now reasoning and what action it intends to take. Of course, it is difficult to answer such a question so quickly after the debacle that will take place in this House this afternoon. I also note that the Government does not at all share the description of the relationship of strength between a buyer and a seller of animals. The buyer is regarded as a consumer and the seller as a trader. I would say that it is often just the reverse. It is the purchaser who is the stronger party and the animal owner who is at a disadvantage. That is precisely why we advocate the use of the Sales Law in those cases because it is disproved and can be used to create individual contracts. It can probably also be supported by various documents and templates that the competent consultation bodies, such as the LRF and the Swedish Veterinary Association, can be behind and help with. My question is how does the Government view the fact that it may well be the buyer who is the stronger party and trader in this case and whether he is willing to back away from that position. I would also like to hear what action the government intends to take in response to the announcement we are receiving here later this afternoon.
i-XNrppAHZKzucce8myQ6oSZ	Madam President, I would like As I said before, the Parliament has not yet given the government any information. It is something that will most likely take place this afternoon. Next, the government will embrace this and continue working in the usual way as we always do with announcements. I guess we'll just have to let things have their way before I say exactly how the government intends to work on that issue. I share Ola Johansson's description of what the discussion is about. It's about how to view the person who sells an animal in relation to how to view the person who buys an animal. In this respect, I believe that anyone who buys an animal in general is to be regarded as a consumer who needs certain protection and certain rights. The seller is a trader who has a better position, knowledge, knowledge, etc. The Center Party makes a different assessment of that relationship. That is what the discussion is about. I don't see much drama in us seeing things differently. However, I find it difficult to make the connection to the animal's welfare. It was not done in the speech, so I will not return to it. It seems to fall out of the multitude of disputes. My knowledge of the Sales Law is that it gives rise to as many disputes as the Consumer Sales Law. It's the same messy conditions that apply there. Let us remind ourselves that we have quite a few business lawyers who live only and only deal with disputes arising from the Sales Law, and that is no harm in that. To answer the question, I think we make different assessments of the relationship between seller and buyer where I see the buyer more like ordinary people and the seller more like a trader.
i-BUPZs4FGuvhPMCQVZtwYKf	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. I heard that the old comparison between toasters and horses has occurred in the debate since 2017 when we had the first announcement on this point. Only now have the government parties learned the differences between horses and toasters. That is something we welcome. We could also have rejected the bill and ended up in limbo so that we had still had a condition where horses and toasters were synonymous, but we do not. We are constructive and let the legislation through and talk about what it should be like instead. Of course, we are curious about what will happen in the future on this issue. Then I am also a little curious about what lies behind the government's proposal to over-implement so much with the reversed burden of proof that it not only doubles the time that is the minimum implementation of the Consumer Protection Directive but also doubles the doubling to two years. We see, like many other referral bodies, that it is an over-implementment and that it is doubtful what the additional year could possibly add to the improvement of consumer protection. A defect in a product is likely to be detected significantly earlier than within 24 months. What is it that says it will take 23 months to detect a defect in a product that you then want to complain about? That is something on which I would like to hear the views of the Government. Then I welcome the fact that digitalisation issues have been given greater scope in this case. It's about living things. Software is soft, but it is not alive, unlike a hardware, which one of course has the right to replace within a year. In the case of software, which is constantly updated, the Center Party has in a reservation advocated having a further extension of the possibility of in any case an update guarantee by the manufacturer.
i-4tcvanR6ryAQomYbdaM6Sp	Madam President, I would like The speech began with the question of the different characteristics of toasters and horses. I think we all know the difference. After all, we are standing in this House debating and not in a basic preschool. I really do not want to disappoint the honourable Member. If I sell you a toaster, the Sales Law will apply. If I sell a horse to you, the Sales Law also applies, at least according to your wishes but not at present. It is not a question of the qualities of the thing but of who sells or buys to whom. Even the proposed order can be met by this kind of, I suppose, humorous criticism. Finally, with regard to the reversal of the burden of proof, I can relate to what I said in my previous line shift. We strive to stand on the side of ordinary people in the meeting with parties that we judge to be the better informed or stronger on the market. We think it's a good way to stand up for ordinary people. You get two years that you can change your mobile phone or computer on if it fails instead of the six months that apply today. That is an essential improvement. There you can weigh it differently. If you go for a year instead, it is still an improvement, but it is not so great an improvement. It is a matter of taste if you choose to take the steps that are possible for ordinary people's interests or if you take some small steps, which seems to be the will of the Center Party.
i-Efkja86JtFp8vH86VSXNUH	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for the Minister's participation in the debate. It's always appreciated. However, I do not want to start with the animal discussion. I would like to discuss the digital content and the new part of consumer law. We have a reservation from the Christian Democrats that we think the computer is a personal property that is used both in the work and personally. It will be a privacy discussion, in any case I think, if you let the business community, or whoever has sold a digital product or service, choose for yourself how much you should go into my computer and what demands you make on the consumer. We think it is quite reasonable to give someone the task of looking at how it should be regulated in one way or another. What can be required of a consumer to agree to the relationship between the trader and the consumer in order to be able to claim that the product is wrong even if it is a digital product? The committee has rejected such a proposal from us. We have proposed that the Swedish Consumer Agency should be asked to review this and make recommendations on it. It is a rather obscene request from a party in order to be able to do it as well as possible. The alternative is that we have the whole sea storms until it settles in one way or another. I think it's a worse option. Can the Minister understand why such a reservation has been rejected?
i-H7x4WFJJnsGmMWR3ruUXnu	Madam President, I would like I can, of course, understand why the committee has rejected the reservation. It was the committee's best wish to do so, and I have no other opinion than this. With regard to the obligation for traders to update software – because that is what we are talking about – I assume that, in future, it will also be possible for consumers to renounce that possibility. It is perhaps not something I would recommend – these goods usually feel good to be updated from time to time – but there is probably no coercion there. If the individual does not want someone to enter and root in the software, there are certainly opportunities to solve this. This is my guess, but I will readily admit that I have not been so profuse in that particular question.
i-UV4ggww6XHu6YEJb425p3M	Madam President, I would like I would like to inform the Minister that this is not the case. It is clear that you should let the trader update the product; that is not the problem. The problem is when the product is actually wrong. If the consumer does not get what it wants and believes that the digital goods are wrong, this new Consumer Purchase Act has given the trader the right to request access to a personal computer and look around to see how it works, if it does not work and where the fault lies. I think it should be the case that the Swedish Consumer Agency is looking at what forms this could happen, what possibilities exist and where the limit is for what the trader could actually demand. The alternative is for the consumer to say: This digital product is wrong – please give me a new one! But that is not how the Consumer Sales Law is built now, but then you should try to remedy the error. If the fault cannot be remedied other than by entering the consumer's computer, the trader is therefore entitled to this, which I think is wrong. The whole Christian Democrats' reservation assumes that we must look to the consumer in one way or another and lay down rules and guidelines for what is possible and appropriate. I and the Member from the Social Democrats last time had a discussion about standing on the side of consumers. I think that I am on the side of consumers and that the committee is on the side of traders, which I find very strange in this situation. I think that everyone should be on the side of consumers in this case. This is new land; I understand that. We may have to learn from this. However, I find it very strange to say no to a reservation that is trying to improve a new law.
i-XeFNP3ptnAzHm6zvUhhY7S	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the clarification – I understand the question. Is it reasonable for a trader who meets a consumer who claims that a software is incorrect to have the right to enter the computer to clarify whether this is the case and, at best, to remedy the problem? I find it difficult to see how this trader would otherwise act, so this is probably a problem we have to live with. I do not find it unreasonable that there is such a requirement – otherwise it becomes almost metaphysical to argue that the matter does not work while the trader is not allowed to look in. A consumer may argue that the computer does not work, but the trader may not examine it. This is a tricky question, but I think the committee has made a very reasonable assessment of this issue. I thank you for this exchange of views and for the committee's assessment.
i-PmnxoZBEwLgK6bhqkdQpfR	Madam President, I would like The Moderates believe in the enlightened consumer, that free individuals should be allowed to make their own decisions about their consumption in a free market and that there should be secure legislation that protects the individual from deception and fraud. An important starting point for Moderate consumer policy is that consumers should be able to assimilate information that is reliable about the price and characteristics of products, as well as on production methods, safety aspects and how consumption affects people, the environment and the climate. By being up-to-date, a consumer has the opportunity to solve issues that arise in connection with consumption. An informed consumer should be aware of both his or her rights and obligations. The Moderates believe that it does not benefit either consumers or society at large if consumers lack knowledge of what is expected of them in a purchase. The Moderates therefore want to see that the Swedish Consumer Agency is given overall responsibility, from preventive work to supervisory responsibility for debt advice. By allocating responsibility to an individual authority, the chain of responsibility should be clearer and the opportunities for the responsible authority to work proactively and reactively should be improved. We want the Swedish Consumer Agency to develop a plan for how to increase the level of knowledge, how to make best contact with schools and young people and what other types of preventive measures are relevant. Budget and debt counselling is statutory, and all municipalities are obliged to provide advice and instructions on budget and debt issues to debtors. It has been shown that budget and debt counselling differs significantly across the country and that some municipalities even lack this function. Queues for advice also differ significantly between municipalities and the extent of support. We need to change that. The Moderates want budget and debt counselling to be more equal across the country. It is important that everyone in Sweden can get the help they need to get out of their debt traps. Perhaps the single most important factor for an individual to be able to plan his or her finances is knowledge. Therefore, well-functioning consumer education work is important both for society and the national economy as well as for individuals. Changes in society and the economy at large mean that new demands are placed on consumers' knowledge, both about their rights and about the private economy as a whole. In order to meet the increase in over-indebtedness, it is essential to point out to consumers that there are not only rights but also obligations. There is a risk that consumers will get a distorted picture of the legal situation only if they are informed of their rights. Over the past few years, the Swedish Consumer Agency and the Swedish Enforcement Authority have successfully implemented targeted measures to early strengthen young people's knowledge of the economy, for example through educations Ekonomismart and Koll at the cash register. The Moderates consider it urgent that work on consumer guidance should continue and develop. Most municipalities in Sweden have municipal consumer advisors. In recent years there has been a major structural change in their work in many places that has been positive. We see that municipal consumer guides play a very important role in preventive work and in consumer knowledge as a whole. Not least, we see a great need among new arrivals, where debt problems have become relatively common. Therefore, the Moderates want to highlight the importance of local consumer guidance continuing to develop. There is a value in having consumer assistance at national level, but only local actors have detailed knowledge of the local problems. There are, of course, many more areas in which we see it as urgent that there are changes, but today I choose to stop at that and conclude by calling for the approval of reservation 3.
i-5PHFsTFqzyTX9TkoTBXRkN	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation number 2. Everyone who travels collectively has probably suffered delays at some point. According to Swedish Public Transport, the problems are greatest in rail transport, where all actors are interdependent. Traffic is dense, and if there are stops anywhere, long queues are formed because it is rarely possible to overtake the trains in front. The poor maintenance of the railways as well as the lack of double tracks make cancelled trains and delays frequent. The operational safety of rail passengers thus leaves a great deal to be desired. In addition to being late or missing important meetings and times, having to sit on trains and train stations unnecessarily long or perhaps not getting away at all on their planned trip, the lack of information is something that many people experience as annoying. Last week when I went up to Stockholm, the train was two and a half hours late because of an accident that happened many hours earlier, in the morning. The fact that accidents happen is one thing, but the lack of information we can do something about. Only four hours after the accident, when I had already begun my journey, was I told that I would be late. First there was a ten minute delay, then thirty minutes, then an hour and finally I was two and a half hours late to my final destination. Had I received this information earlier, I could have chosen another route or a different route. Yesterday when I came up here to Stockholm, it was the same thing. The train was delayed from Nässjö, but there was no information about this either in the app, on the board on the platform or in the speakers. We were a number of people who looked inquiringly at each other when the train didn't show up as it should. And we are far from being alone in this. This happens far too often, and the lack of accurate information is frustrating. The old way of saying that it goes like a train is not very viable anymore. Punctuality is crucial for passengers to choose to travel collectively, and according to the follow-up carried out by the Committee on Civil Liberties of public transport passengers, a large proportion of passengers consider that the quality of information provided by companies is lacking, in particular as regards information on delays, other disruptions or the rights of the traveller.
i-RR4kG4J7z4qReJfYSaZnVs	Madam President, I would like For the third year in a row, when we debate the Consumer Rights report, I would like to raise the issue of telephone sales of lottery tickets. In 2018, the law on written requirements for telephone sales was introduced, but as an event, the Social Democrats' lottery sales are not covered by this requirement. If one is naïve, one might think that it is a coincidence that the very type of activity that the Social Democrats are engaged in is excluded from the law. For my part, I'm pretty sure it's not a coincidence. As early as then, 2018, the Riksdag, on a proposal from the Committee on Civil Liberties, addressed an announcement to the Government to review whether more goods and services should not be subject to written requirements for telephone sales. Of course, the government did not want to do this, which one can understand in a way because the sale of lottery tickets is the Social Democrats' largest source of income and generates nearly 100 million to the party each year. When nothing happened, the committee chose in 2021 to allow the Riksdag to issue a further announcement to the Government to pay particular attention to how telephone sales of lottery tickets and other games to consumers can be subject to a written requirement. Only then did the government react and set up an investigation. When the investigation then presented its final report, it was argued that a written requirement for the telephone sale of lottery tickets would have far-reaching negative effects on the non-profit organisations licensed for lotteries, without specifying who these non-profit organisations are using telephone sales and how they would be adversely affected. At least I've never heard of the local hockey club or children's football teams using call centers and calling around people to sell lottery tickets on credit as the Social Democrats do. Actually, I don't think that's going to happen. We know that the Social Democrats will suffer if they can no longer continue with unethical telephone sales and their main source of income will thus be regulated like any other telephone sales. We know it's an election year. We also know that the increasingly dirty election campaigns of the Social Democrats are to be financed in some way. The question is whether the Social Democrats know that all public power in Sweden is based on the people and that the Riksdag is its main representative. The government must therefore do what the Riksdag wants. Now the government has put forward a bill, a modernised consumer protection, which does not mention a word about regulating the telephone sales of lottery tickets in the same way as any other telephone sales. It is very remarkable that the government refuses to implement what the Riksdag has decided. Telephone sales of games and lottery tickets are often intrusive and aggressive, and given the current problems of gambling addiction, but also the fact that it may be difficult for many to say no to an intrusive salesman should of course also sell tickets that are at least subject to a written requirement.
i-GxjREMgbtHuAQtj28UwjqD	Madam President, I would like The fact that the purchase of live animals has been dealt with in a previously debated legislative proposal means that an issue on which the Center Party has long held opinions in the Consumer Rights report is finally being dealt with, albeit in a way with which we are not entirely satisfied. The proposal for a new Consumer Purchase Act also contained the right of complaint and thus concerned the duration of such a law and the measures it had to take to sell a defective product to a consumer. We believe, for example, that the trader should be allowed to offer the consumer repair as an alternative to a change of goods. We are also doing so for reasons of resource conservation. We note that, in addition to the government's trouble with the question of the purchase of live animals in a way that could be harmful to animals, the reverse burden of proof is being over-implemented, saying that it should be two years instead of a minimum year under the directive. The argument for that is not very strong. There will be a little five ants are more than four elephants here, but everyone knows that two years is more than a year. However, if it means a significantly stronger protection or a sensible balance between the trader and the consumer, it is rather unclear, and some answers have not been given, but just assumptions that this would be the case. It may be, but the question is, what is it worth? Madam President, I would like This time, therefore, it is not much more to say than that the Center Party is behind all its demands in the simplified motions – there are a few – and in this debate we refer to the parties' specific opinion on this very point in the vote. The Center Party also reiterates the requirement for a travel guarantee system that is really intended to protect both travellers and organisers when travel has to be cancelled because of circumstances beyond their control. It must include a fund solution that the organiser can first build up and then use to replace travellers as has happened before and during the pandemic. The issue has been raised in the civil committee, and it was finally the Center Party's proposal for committee initiatives that led to the ongoing investigation that will determine how such a fund can be built and managed. We welcome, of course, the fact that this is happening quickly, even if the reason for cancellations at the moment is paused. Madam President, I would like Another thing related to package travel is what happens at cancelled c uper and sports events that include arrangements with overnight stays for the participants. This has been brought to the attention of recent times, such as handball cups on the west coast from which I come. These have been defined by Kammarkollegiet as package travel, and this has meant that the organisers, who are often non-profit associations – those mentioned by previous speakers sell lottery tickets to finance their activities on a non-profit basis – are forced to issue travel guarantees to participating teams entering from different parts of the country. Of course, they should not have to do so when overnight stays are made in private homes and all work on the arrangement is done on a voluntary basis. We have pointed this out in the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, but as the pandemic is suddenly no longer the problem it has been before, perhaps the proposal ran into the sand. It was satisfied with the information that Kammarkollegiet gave when we discussed the issue in the Second Chamber Hall together with them and the National Sports Federation. However, the issue was highlighted in committee from all sides, and I hope that it will be possible to come back to the issue. Young people's sports at camps and other events should not be compared to a tour of Asia or a week at Mallis. The Center Party's reservation 8 concerns three proposals aimed at making it clear to consumers which products produce a climate footprint, which do not and – perhaps even better – who compensates for increased climate emissions. Foods shall be subject to a mandatory climate label that easily demonstrates the product's carbon footprint. We in the Center Party believe that more products should receive a climate declaration to make it easier for consumers to choose sustainable alternatives and compare alternatives. We believe that Sweden in the EU should work for the EU to develop a climate label for emission-intensive products and services to strengthen the information available to the consumer. Madam President, I would like It must be easy to do the right thing, and the best thing for the climate is whether each of us, as ordinary consumers, can contribute our purchasing behaviour to reducing emissions. I therefore request the approval of reservation 8.
i-E2cSQSAn3hYtRSkPeVBqFo	Madam President, I would like We have discussed a new consumer purchasing law in the previous case. It may seem superfluous to discuss consumer policy again, but there is one thing in this report that I would like to highlight, namely the sale of tickets by telephone. There a person can make a decision in one minute that can still have major consequences. The number of people who end up in Kronofogden's register due to the purchase of lottery tickets on the telephone is, after all, quite large. It is a situation where you may find it difficult to take the time needed to think through your choice, and therefore it should be mandatory to require written consent to extend the time a person has to think about his or her choice. In 2018, we made a tightening up of telephone sales, which meant a written requirement. A mistake in the work drew attention to the Riksdag last year and last year, when the Riksdag announced that the government will return with equal demands in terms of lottery sales by telephone or, for that matter, sales of package tours by telephone. We can think about why the balance was struck from the beginning not to include, for example, lottery tickets, but I must say that there was a mistake in the work. A special investigator has had a government mandate to consider, inter alia, whether the written requirement for telephone sales should be extended to include more goods and services. Just as the Member of the Swedish Democrats explained, it was not considered necessary. I therefore believe that we in Parliament should continue to discuss this issue and talk about what the citizens' opinion is, that is to say that we need to further strengthen consumer protection in telephone sales and limit the negative consequences of gambling. We believe that telephone sales of lottery tickets and other games to consumers should also be subject to the written requirement. That is why I am in favour of reservation 1.
i-YSuZPydP1GKhLxdbUM7FB7	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the opportunity to come and participate in this debate too! We in Sweden have a long tradition of protecting consumers' rights and promoting environmentally, socially and economically sustainable consumption. Through a high level of consumer protection, we ensure the ability of ordinary people to stand up to irresponsible entrepreneurs while at the same time contributing to more sustainable development. In many respects, consumer policy is about ensuring that what may seem to be self-evident also comes into play on the market. Products are supposed to keep their promises. You should get what you pay for, and marketing should be truthful and show real on the product's content. Unserious operators should not be favoured at the expense of companies that want to do their own thing. Thus, well-functioning consumer legislation is not only about strengthening individual rights in the market, but also about contributing to healthy competition and a healthy and well-functioning market economy. The starting point for consumer law is that individual consumers have a more vulnerable situation than the traders they meet and therefore have the right to proportionately stronger protection than when traders do business among themselves. Today, I will outline the government's priorities for consumer policy and work in this area and also relate to several of the motions that have been dealt with in the committee report. I will start by addressing the challenges posed by digitised markets, not least for consumers with a lack of internet experience. The importance of consumer guidance throughout the country is a matter which the government takes very seriously and which, not least, my own party has highlighted in several contexts. I would also like to mention the serious problem of over-indebtedness, where the government has taken several initiatives. Finally, I will talk about the climate. Accelerating the green transition is one of the government's priorities, and changing consumption patterns are crucial if we are to achieve the emission reductions needed to live up to the Paris Agreement and to have a planet that we can stand for in the future. The government's consumer policy is part of this work. Madam President, I would like As we all know, the consumer market is constantly evolving, including through increasing e-commerce, new payment solutions and intensive marketing, especially in digital channels. Changes bring benefits to many consumers. However, for consumers with a lack of internet experience and perhaps limited knowledge of the Swedish language or small financial resources, rapid development may lead to difficulties in taking advantage of rights and making informed choices. This, in turn, can result in consumers suffering financial damage or even incur greater debts than they can pay back. A high level of consumer protection and good opportunities for authorities to intervene in the event of infringements is therefore very important. The government has today proposed new rules that include the possibility of imposing fines for more types of infringements of the consumer protection regulatory framework, including in terms of marketing. The aim is, of course, to protect consumers against infringements of consumer protection and consumer protection laws. Today we have also just debated the proposal for a new Consumer Purchase Act. It was fun. Rules will also be developed when implementing a new EU directive on collective actions in the consumer field, and these changes will in turn also strengthen consumer protection. In addition, the European Commission has presented a proposal for an EU regulation on general product safety aimed at updating consumer protection in the area of product safety in the light of new technologies and increased e-commerce. Negotiations are taking place here, and Sweden plays a very active role. Madam President, I would like The importance of consumer guidance throughout the country is a matter that the government takes very seriously, and it is also addressed in several motions. I am well aware that an announcement has been addressed to the government on this issue. This is a voluntary activity for municipalities. It is particularly important for vulnerable consumers. It is not a matter of making operations compulsory, but from the government we will continue to pay attention to the issue and work to find other ways forward. The Swedish Consumer Agency is today tasked with providing the national information service Hello consumer, which is a good business. It receives about 100,000 phone calls annually and had nearly 2.3 million visitors to the website last year. However, the Swedish Consumer Agency is also tasked with identifying and supporting societal actors who, alongside municipal consumer guidance, have the potential to support consumers with special needs. This can be particularly true of civil society organisations. Madam President, I would like Countering over-indebtedness is another very important issue for the government and something that involves many in this House. The government has taken a number of initiatives to counter over-indebtedness. These include credit assessment requirements for smaller loans as well as authorisation requirements for consumer credit companies offering this type of loan. In 2018, consumer protection rules on high-cost credit were introduced and the requirement for the marketing of credit to be moderate. Furthermore, a ban on credit as a first option in e-commerce has been introduced. In November last year, the Government appointed an investigation to further counteract risky lending and over-indebtedness. It's a broad mission. The investigator shall, inter alia, review the credit market and propose appropriate measures. The issue of a national debt register is included, as are measures that can facilitate for already heavily indebted citizens. There are also ongoing negotiations on a new directive on consumer credit in the EU, and the work of the authorities on analysis and supervision is obviously extremely important. Madam President, I would like The revision of the travel guarantee scheme is ongoing in the EU both through an investigation set up by the government and at EU level, where proposals for revised rules are expected during the year. Consumer protection in relation to travel is essentially far-reaching and to a large extent regulated by rules at EU level. However, as we all know, many consumers, as a result of the pandemic, have had to wait a long time for repayments to which they are entitled, and some have been affected by the bankruptcy of travel companies. Finally, Madam President, it is about the climate. It is one of the government's top priorities. Consumer behaviour plays an important role in achieving more sustainable consumption. Proper information and labelling can make it easier for consumers to make more environmentally sustainable choices, but, of course, consumer information cannot lead to the much needed change. The government has taken a wide range of climate measures, largely based on amended legislation and economic instruments and measures that increase the use of renewable alternatives and drive more sustainable consumption patterns. Measures taken are also of great importance for the most important emission areas for consumers. It is about housing, food and travel. The growing interest of consumers in making more environmentally sustainable choices has led companies to make different claims about the environmental impact of products in their marketing. To examine that such claims are not misleading is important work for the Swedish Consumer Agency. As regards the environmental impact of consumption, new initiatives are also under way. Today, the Commission is expected to take a decision on a proposal for more consumer power in the green changeover. Later this year, more consumer-related EU proposals, including environmental claims and real right to repair, are expected. The Swedish Consumer Agency is tasked with promoting the dissemination and further development of information about environmentally sustainable consumption through collaboration with other actors who want to contribute to the dissemination of such information. Madam President, I would like We are all consumers, and therefore a high level of consumer protection benefits each of us. By creating transparency and fair competition, laws and rules also benefit responsible companies. Therefore, the government will continue to drive forward climate policy efforts and promote environmentally, socially and economically sustainable consumption.
i-TLz9UFLajA1TzqGSJJSW2v	Madam President, I would like Today, there is an exception to the written requirement for the telephone sale of lottery tickets for the very type of lottery business carried out by the Social Democrats. They are also exempt from the ban on selling lottery tickets and gambling on credit. That is why the Social Democratic Party was able to sell lottery tickets on credit to thousands of people already in debt, who then ended up with the k ronofog when they could not pay. On the contrary, all the fair promises of gain and happiness led to a real zeal, just as Social Democratic politics usually does. There were many fine words about democracy from the Government earlier in the speech. I would therefore like to repeat my question: do the Social Democrats know that all power is based on the people and that Parliament is its main representative? If you know about it, which, of course, I think you do-- why do you not act like that? It goes without saying to me that the laws that exist should also apply to political parties. Does the Government share that image? And if so, when will the government remove the special rules that it has put in place for itself?
i-KUBazRB7zGc6SDxfpZVpkq	Madam President, I would like These are big words about the government's sense of democracy and knowledge of Swedish government. I can assure you, Angelica Lundberg, that we have worked in this country together – most of us – for a hundred years of democracy. We have a good knowledge of how it works. We have, of course, dealt with the announcement mentioned by Lundberg. We've set up an investigation. It has not identified the problems that Lundberg sees. But when we talk about democracy, I read just this morning that your colleague Roger Richthoff, a member of the Committee on Defence, has devoted himself to spreading Putin propaganda. This is nothing new for the Swedish Democrats. His predecessor went to the Kremlin to get acquainted with Russian nationalists. Your party leader Jimmie Åkesson can't figure out who he prefers of Biden or Putin, Putin or Macron. He prefers Orbán to Merkel. I can assure you that this government is fully capable of managing the democratic order we see in this country. But can you explain to me why the recurring is that the Swedish Democrats feel compelled to express a fabless for Vladimir Putin?
i-J7A2qB9ArAE6uBcnZnV71H	Madam President, I would like I understand that the Government does not want to answer my questions, because this is, of course, regrettable and problematic for the Social Democrats. Instead, the Government is engaged in some kind of nonsense here. I am not going to drop to that level, Madam President, but I will continue to stick to what the debate is actually about: consumer law. The Social Democrats are today the only party selling lottery tickets. The party earns around 80 million annually on the sale of the A-lotts. Lottery sales are the largest source of income for the Social Democrats. I can therefore understand that the Government does not want to remove the exception from the written requirement in relation to the lottery sales of the Social Democrats; it rarely bites the hand that feeds you. Unfortunately, the exception also applies to the sale of tickets on credit. We heard earlier the Government talk about the problems of over-indebtedness. Selling games and lottery tickets on credit is prohibited in Sweden to protect particularly vulnerable groups against indebtedness. No other types of games may be sold on credit – except for the Social Democrats' lottery tickets. The Swedish Democrats were accused earlier in the debate of being on the side of traders when I argued for stronger animal protection. That's a very strange statement. But whose side does the Government stand on when he continues to argue that the exceptions should apply to the Social Democrats' lottery tickets? Perhaps he is on the side of the Social Democrats, but certainly not on the side of ordinary people.
i-AmWhhHghMV4t3hqJp98Mrm	Madam President, I would like The change of line began with me being confronted with a statement that we did not know about the fundamental function of Swedish democracy, and I had to say that we do so with a certain degree of emphasicity. I also indicated that there is another party that does not seem to show the same backbone on these issues, and I illustrated this by several examples. The last one was the member of the Committee on Defence who spreads Putin propaganda. On the substance of the matter, the Swedish parliament announced to the government, as its best opinion, that the government would investigate the issue of telephone sales of lottery tickets. This has also happened. The investigator does not see that there are problems that Parliament predicted. There are many organisations that conduct lotteries as licensing activities. We have the Cancer Society, Breast Cancer Association, Prostate Cancer Association, etc. It is the investigator's opinion that doing what Angelica Lundberg seems to want to do would adversely affect the activities of these organisations. This is all right. There's an announcement coming. We're investigating. We reflect carefully. This is part of democracy. It's not a problem we have. However – I have to repeat myself – there is one member of the Swedish Democrats who has spread Putin propaganda. His predecessor went to the Kremlin and became acquainted with Russian nationalists. Jimmie Åkesson can't figure out if he prefers Putin or Biden. It is not we who find it difficult to deal with the governance under which we all live.
i-QJNRMDRLgKJ7BeWxtG5QwM	Madam President, I would like My colleague Jon Thorbjörnson, who is responsible for this area, suddenly became ill. I thought it might be good if I read his speech. I have four minutes. I'll try to read quickly. Madam President, I would like I support the Left Party's reservation 4 in the report. It is becoming increasingly difficult and more complicated to be a consumer today. More technologically advanced products, more complex financial services and a global market offer many opportunities but also pose greater challenges for consumers. Despite the high level of consumer protection, consumers are constantly at a disadvantage. This applies both to the choice of products and to disputes. Advanced methods are used to get us people to consume as much as possible. Every day we are overwhelmed by advertising, which calls on us to consume more of goods and services. Marketing is often very aggressive and often addresses groups of consumers who are already economically vulnerable. Madam President, I would like It is therefore important that all consumers throughout Sweden have access to good support. The local consumer guidance is an example of excellent support, and all parties in Parliament seem to agree on this. Local consumer guidance is important and needs to be developed. Madam President, I would like Local consumer guides are becoming increasingly sparse in the country. Since the start of Hallå konsument in 2015, local support has decreased every year. At the time there was local guidance in 270 of Sweden's municipalities. Today, that figure is down to 179. In six years, one in three municipalities has closed the local guide. There are also several municipalities that do not run this in their own direction. For some consumers it can mean long journeys if they are to have a physical encounter with a guide. The introduction of Hallå konsument was a necessary and important measure, but the national advice can never replace the municipal one. They depend on and complement each other in order to provide good consumer support together. It was not meant that Hallå konsument would replace the locally based service, but Hallå konsument would be a complement. Almost 2 million people over the age of 18 have no local access to consumer guidance. It is a very bad development that we must break. Madam President, I would like The Left Party allocated extra money in the budget to the municipalities to give the Swedish population increased access to local consumer guidance. Being a consumer is not easy. Three out of four have problems each year with something they bought. It could be broken goods and poor services. Failed purchases cost Swedish consumers SEK 50 billion annually, according to the Swedish Consumer Agency. You can also work preventively in a completely different way. Locally based, for example, can reach out to schools and help shape and strengthen young consumers and provide them with security and knowledge of their rights and obligations. Madam President, I would like If you work on site in a municipality, you also have greater knowledge of local conditions and contacts with the local business community. You have the opportunity to follow up on matters and to have regular meetings with those who need support and help. All this work prevents people from having problems with their purchases, getting into legal conflicts or getting into debt. And in the long run it contributes to a better economy both for the individual and for the municipalities.
i-Psf4ATsuHyp85NYRGagMWT	Madam President, I would like Today, building properties in rural areas and other weak markets is accompanied by a great deal of problems. These include the financing of these properties, but also the rules on depreciation and write-down of these properties after they have been built. This problem makes construction all over Sweden more difficult. Above all, there is often a need for more housing for 55-plus, sheltered dwellings and rental apartments in a number of markets. In the end, it may be difficult to finance those construction projects. In this context, a broad review is needed to explore the conditions for building on rural areas. It is not just a problem in the situation we are seeing in Sweden today. Since 2020 we have a new regulation regarding the state credit guarantees for housing loans. This is an issue that the Swedish Democrats have been pushing for many years. And it is gratifying that we have had a positive effect from the changed rules on this. The new regulatory framework for state credit guarantees is based on production costs and not, as in the past, on market values. It is an important aspect in this context when building on rural areas and other weak markets. With the new regulation, we have also seen an increase of 50% in the credit guarantees allocated to this type of housing building. It is therefore a very positive effect, which is happy. We need to review and introduce more of the proposals of the study on improved housing financing. Among other things, there are proposals for state-owned market-supplementary top loans that could be obtained via state Almi and for a government loss guarantee. These are interesting proposals that have been put forward. I think that they need to be reviewed and perhaps also introduced in the future in order to improve the conditions for building in rural areas. We need to continue to investigate the problem of the value of a newly produced property falling as soon as it is built. This means that the value is below the building costs. The property value therefore needs to be written down, which means that many construction projects will never be carried out in weak markets. We therefore need a review of the depreciation and depreciation rules, the Annual Accounts Act and the K3 rules on this problem. We need to continue to look into this in order to come up with new proposals that will allow us to perhaps write off over a longer period of time or that in other ways will make it possible to get the funding together. Funding is difficult today in rural areas and other weak markets. We also need to influence the EU accounting directives, which are the basis for the problem of accounting rules. We are bound by a directive which makes it impossible for us in the Swedish Parliament to pass laws on changes in this area. There are therefore several areas that we need to work with to bring about a change and make it possible to build on weak markets under better conditions. Madam President, I would like In this connection, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 2 in this report.
i-2yLqRTGXMDcRYmCg4dWmjS	Madam President, I would like The government, despite high building figures at the moment, cannot boast that the building targets have been reached. There are still 207 municipalities out of 290 that report a housing shortage in some form. Although many believe that it is in the big cities that more should be built, the pace of construction and the supply in the countryside is what worries me most as a center party. In many smaller municipalities in the country and in the mills there is a need for housing, but there are obstacles that prevent them from building. The write-down requirement is perhaps the most talked about. If you have low property values, the entire cost must be included in future annual accounts, and such margins do not exist in a normal municipal housing company in a Swedish medium-sized municipality. Many testify to this. Rural areas are hampered by the fact that their qualities are not valued by the banks, nor by the credit guarantees previously in force to facilitate their construction. The Center Party wants to extend the guarantees so that more people can search and take part of them. We also want greater flexibility in terms of rural property values, both in terms of the requirement for direct depreciation and the possibility of continuing to make use of existing state credit guarantees. Madam President, I would like In the footsteps of the pandemic, one can hope that the view on community building will be changed so that the home environment and the closeness of the home is a place where you can take care of more of your work. The close local community offers workplaces, services and a small-scale business community. It is from this perspective that we want to see a new self-home movement emerge, where people with their own labour input, a small capital and a desire to own their housing can knock down their boposts. It is also positive that municipalities are now involved in identifying houses that have been abandoned, trying to get in touch with their owners and bring about a sale. A third factor is industrial construction, which has now taken off and is challenging traditional construction methods. It also means that problems such as workplace crime can be solved. Madam President, I would like We'd like to see a starting loan. We know that it is being investigated and perhaps will be proposed. However, we want to supplement the start-up loan with a housing saving according to a German model, which the state can support financially if it wants and which would give young people more quickly access to a cash contribution to a tenant-owner or a small house. Seven out of ten want to own their home, and in the long term it is also for those who have a lower income economically beneficial to do so. Ownership should not be a matter of class, but it has become so because of the current credit constraints and the lack of alternatives for housing savings. Rental rights should exist, Madam President, and be available to those who need them, but the lack of housing on the rent side is probably our biggest failure today. Black trade and exploitation of a weaker party always flourish in markets that do not work. There's gonna be an insider-outside problem, and we don't want to open lease deals to the criminal gangs. More and more cost-effective construction, but above all mobility and better use of existing housing, is the solution to the housing shortage. But there is no quick fix for better functioning housing markets as long as we so strongly defend the existing systems. That is why the reforms in the rental market that were about to be implemented with the January agreement were so important. More efficient and fairer leasing negotiations, free leasing in new production and a clearer reflection of the location, attractiveness and demand of the existing stock are changes that are needed – the sooner, the better. Instead of beaks and claws defending those with high incomes who are on attractive contracts with low use value rents in the inner city of Stockholm, the Center Party wants to look at those groups that currently find it most difficult to find good housing that suits their conditions. It is seniors, young people and students, and it is the economically vulnerable, poor households that cannot demand housing because of social problems, abuse or illness. The problems of overcrowding are difficult to repair afterwards. Children need to grow up in safe environments where they are seen, supported and can do their homework, stay at home and bring home friends. Many highlight Gårdsten in Gothenburg as a shining example. I'll do it again, but there are more examples. We must give people the chance to succeed and, at the same time, make housing careers in a homely environment that feels safe. Unfortunately, housing policy is not just struggling with system errors. Perhaps it is the lack of incentives for the construction industry to keep costs down and build quickly, cost-effectively and environmentally smartly that is holding innovation back. I might add that building subsidies as they have been designed are not a cost-pressing system but a system that helps to keep costs high. It is developed building methods, smart climate-friendly material choices and a transition to more industrial thinking in the construction industry that gives us reduced building costs. It is the Center Party's view that taxpayers' money should not be used to subsidise housing that can be built with market principles and normal yield requirements of the developers. I have also met those who now regret the abolition of investment aid for rental apartments. I can understand that this kind of sudden change is difficult to manage and that it can temporarily mean a stoppage in some places. However, I would like to say to them that I regret that, so far, these subsidies have been too general and mainly directed towards housing which would have been built anyway. For the Center Party to continue to support such a system of extensive subsidies, they must be directed specifically at the weakest markets and at those households in greatest need of housing. We therefore welcome the study on social housing policy presented today by Karolina Skog. However, we want to go further and continue to investigate how a new social housing sector could be created for Swedish conditions with other countries as positive role models. I can note that the concept is not equivalent here in Sweden, which is a pity. As a result of the simplified procedure, there are only a few reservations in the report. Of course, I support all our requests, including those which are simplified, but I only ask for the approval of reservation 2 on the revision of accounting rules, for which I argued at the outset.
i-G25CxLLiYjkqtAUztddY8Y	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by calling for our joint reservation 2 in the report to be approved. In today's Sweden, the housing issue is no longer about living. Instead, it is about investments and making money in one way or another, both on rental properties, as well as on residences and villas. If not before, you become very aware of this when you read the housing policy proposals of the right parties. It's about money and speculation, nothing else. However, around 30 per cent of Sweden's population live in rental dwellings. Unlike the image most often painted by the right parties, many have actively chosen to live in a rental apartment, the only form of tenure in which you can only live. You don't have to own it; you can just live in it without having to speculate. But for those who do not want to see their home as a commodity, it is very difficult to bring politics with them today. The tenants are dissatisfied with politics, we heard and read last week. And I understand them. The government's low ambitions combined with the right-wing parties' total lack of interest in tenants and their housing is the basis for dissatisfaction. Madam President, I would like It is unreasonable that housing should be treated as much as it is today solely from a financial point of view. It must be possible to find regulations and fair conditions that better reflect housing as a human right and not just an object in a market. The dwelling is, and should be, a social right and part of the general welfare. This must be made clear in Swedish housing policy. We need a national strategy to ensure everyone's right to housing at an affordable cost. For too long, the right to rent has been subject to exceptions to the policy. At the same time, owned tenure forms are increasingly benefiting from state privileges – lots of grants. A total of SEK 30 billion was distributed to homeowners only last year. It's going to be a reverse Robin Hood situation. You take from the poor and give to the rich! Those who already have much get more. Those who have nothing get nothing. Is it so strange, then, that those who can afford to choose to live in owned dwellings? They get a lot of money. But many poor and low - income people cannot afford it. Is it only rich people who should have a safe and long-term home? That's a reasonable question. If you listen to most of the parties from the right here today, you get the impression that this is unfortunately the case. With all this said, it does not feel like much of a surprise that the Left Party is the party that has the highest confidence in housing policy among Sweden's 2 million tenants entitled to vote. It showed the election barometer that the Tenants' Association presented last week. The tenants have, of course, understood who is on their side and who is not. Madam President, I would like Over the past ten years we have seen a development in Sweden where private property companies have bought up entire residential areas with a single purpose: to make as big and as fast a profit as possible. Behind the private hosts are often foreign venture capital companies. The business model is simple: The landlords renovate the apartments individually, after which they are emptyed so that the rent can then be significantly increased. These are so-called concept renovations. At the same time, neither continuous maintenance nor long-term renovation is carried out, which increases the profit margin of the landlords even more. The winners are the private property companies and their owners. The losers are the tenants – current as well as future. Madam President, I would like In these times, when each party and every other party seems to believe that market rents are the solution both to the housing shortage and to the unfair conditions prevailing in the housing market, it feels more important than ever to stand in this House and repeat some of the reforms that can truly create fairer conditions. And neither market rents nor social housing can do that. Instead, we must stop all sales of our public housing. We must reintroduce investment aid for the construction of new rental rights as well as for the renovation and energy efficiency of multi-residential buildings. And, of course, it is high time to begin the downsizing of interest rebates and to phase out the inefficient root subsidies. When other parties choose to phase out all subsidies to the rental market, the Left Party chooses a different route. We reintroduce investment support for the construction of rental apartments. Sweden needs more, not fewer, rentals with reasonable rents. Between 2017 and 2021, approximately 55,000 rental apartments were created with the help of 9.5 billion in investment aid. It is a very impressive result, for example, when compared with the root premium that has so far cost taxpayers more than SEK 140 billion. What did it deliver? Nothing – except to make the rich people richer. The Left also chooses to make a major effort on the adaptation of housing to climate change, as opposed to the current blue-brown budget. The reasons are two: Several hundred thousand homes in the million-dollar programme are in need of renovation and energy efficiency, and we do not believe that the tenants should bear the entire bill. In addition, society as a whole needs to make efforts to reduce the impact of climate change. When the state also assumes its responsibilities – politically and economically – major crises can be managed both efficiently and fairly. Madam President, I would like In our rich Sweden, homelessness and overcrowding increase. According to the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare's latest survey from 2017, they then live around 33,000 people in homelessness. Today there are even more. Thousands of employees have lost their jobs in the wake of the Corona crisis, and evictions of families with children continue to increase. This is done in a country where the Convention on the Rights of the Child is a law. Pensioners who have worked and worked their whole lives can't afford to live. Around half of the country's pensioners are poor pensioners and have a maximum of SEK 14 000 per month. That can't be reasonable. Young people can't leave home. As much as 27 per cent of Sweden's young adults live involuntarily at home with their parents. Several studies have shown that less than half of households in large cities can apply for a newly built rental apartment and have a reasonable standard of living after the rent has been paid. This is happening in one of the richest countries in the world. This is the result of the housing policy that is taking place today. Or should I say the absence of a housing policy? This must change. Madam President, I would like More housing must be built, but it must be the right type of housing. Above all, there is a need for more rental apartments with reasonable rents that people can afford. It should be housing that can also contribute to positive migration chains that free up the smallest and cheapest homes. This is the type of housing that new production will always find it difficult to produce. But with the help of the investment aid, we got a bit along that road. A total of SEK 2 000 less on average costs a three-roomer produced with the help of investment aid. It may not be that much for most people in this Chamber, but for ordinary people 2 000 crowns may be crucial. When the government takes greater financial responsibility for housing supply, it simply produces results. Madam President, I would like Today, too many landlords are unjustifiably demanding income for new tenants. This leads to an increase in housing segregation and makes it more difficult for many to get a first-hand contract. It is time for the government to come back with legislative proposals that mean that landlords, both private and public, should not be able to impose excessive income requirements that exclude large groups of people when renting housing. A strong public good is crucial for social housing policy and for managing the housing supply that is needed today. Public utility is shared by citizens and has the task of providing sustainable and affordable housing for all. The Left Party believes that utility housing companies should be run on the basis of social benefits and social responsibility objectives, not on the basis of market principles and return requirements. Madam President, I would like I would like to conclude by saying that the Left Party wants a housing policy in which the state, the region and the municipality together take more responsibility for housing that makes every kid have a home waiting for her or him when it is time to move away from home – or to the city where the jobs are. It is important that this is the case. We want to see housing financing that is more in the common and common interest that will be greater in order to build to lower rents and put pressure on the local, private market.
i-3FCksPgV6WKudhTKDzbbUf	Madam President, I would like Sometimes I get out on unknown ground to challenge myself. I did that the other day when I brought up a newspaper called Nya Aktuellt i Politiken. I see my Social Democratic friends are thinking about where this is going. I read a debate article in the paper from 10 December 2021 by Erik Nises, Social Democrat from Borlänge. He is developing his thoughts on social democratic housing policy, or what the rest of us have already discovered, namely the lack of new ideas and new solutions to current problems in the housing market. I quote from the debate article: a lack of building subsidies that only operate on the part of the housing market that the least number of citizens long for is not enough. ( In addition, the right-wing parties have now removed them from the state budget. ) But otherwise the Social Democrats basically have no housing policy. ..................................................... In the same debate article you can read that it's time for S to get a housing policy. I agree. The result of eight years of government cannot be proud as a social democrat. I think it is good if the Social Democrats find out what problems housing policy is going to solve. I am therefore going to line up some problems that I see in housing policy that the Social Democrats can take with them and try to solve in the new, innovative housing policy to be built. We have too low the rate of building new homes, which leads to a shortage in the vast majority of municipalities in our elongated country. 240 out of 290 municipalities have a shortage of housing. We have too few housing because many people live in the wrong type of housing. This means that many young people who want to leave home must remain at home. We have 33 000 people in Sweden who are homeless. We have credit restrictions that stop people from buying their own home. They are forced to stay in a rental apartment when they want a self-owned dwelling. They have the economy, they have the opportunity, but the credit restrictions stop them from making the purchase as you do once in life and getting a self-owned home. We have residential areas in alienation areas that neither of us can be proud of from a security perspective or a standard perspective. We have created an even more investigative process for planning or building permits. That is well-lawed, but I think we have a slight lack of consistency. We create laws and regulations that require so many investigations for a plan or building permit that it creates problems for those who want to build housing. Finally, we have construction prices that are increasing at an accelerated rate while accepting a construction process that does not take cost-effectiveness into account. To help the Social Democrats get a housing policy, as Erik Nises wants, we Christian Democrats can lend some proposals to the Social Democrats. We can agree on measures, and we can investigate and launch them together. We can review the credit restrictions so that ordinary people can buy a self-owned home on a regular salary. We can investigate and introduce housing savings so that young people can more easily enter the market for self-owned housing. We can introduce start-up loans that allow more people to buy their own home. We can introduce a planning bonus to the municipalities so that we get greater planning readiness around the country. We can introduce greater deductibility for renting part of a dwelling so that we use the square metres that are better available. We can review the requirements in virtually all areas so that a number of investigations do not have to be carried out. We can throw away the beach protection proposal that has now come in the trash. It is a product that will not solve any problems of housing construction. The Social Democrats can also take note of what is included in the report – a review of the accounting rules. In a market where the market value may be 50 or 60 % of the cost of production, the value of the property is currently required to be written down directly, which makes it impossible for many companies to build in these areas despite the need. If the company is allowed to write down the property for a longer period – for example seven years, as we have proposed – it will be easier to build even in weak markets where there is a need for new housing. I agree with Erik Nises: the Social Democrats need a new housing policy that meets today's problems. With those words, I support reservation number 1.
i-GxXZ17oqC9ZGjmwpLLUhiq	Madam President, I would like There is some sort of obsession in the Christian Democrats that everyone must own their homes. Everyone has to have a house or a villa. It's as if there are no conditions at all. Money and conditions don't matter. Everyone should have a villa. Everyone should have small houses. I've heard the Christian Democrats talk about it for a long time. It is an attitude or a policy that is very devoid of reality. Surely many have a lot of other dreams if they do not have to take into account money, life, work and other things. There is much you can do if you do not take into account whether you have the money to do so. Everyone has a lot of dreams. But we have to build our policy on the reality that there are many people living in this country who are poor– who are poor pensioners, who are newly arrived, who are low-income people, who are single – and who cannot afford to take a loan at the bank and buy a house. They can have a lease, but they can't buy a house. It is not because they do not dream about it, but because they do not have the financial means to own a home. For me, the constant disdain for rents, where 2 million people live today, is not all right. Many people live in rental apartments today. You have your home there and you build your family there. You go to work every day and you come back to your home. It's a lease, and it should be okay. When you remove all support for building more rental rights that all income earners have the opportunity to live in, what other suggestions do you have? All these people who don't have money, how can they afford to buy a house?
i-ER7JFbm6t5YRudm1ZDsxpG	Madam President, I would like Seven out of ten people say in surveys that they want their own home, and Momodou Malcolm Jallow says that I'm out of reality. My policy supports seven out of ten people being able to realise their dream of self-owned housing. I can't understand how it could be out of date. The problem is that an ordinary worker who has a regular salary and a dwelling that is a tenancy and wants to move to a self-owned home cannot do so because of the government's policy, which the Left Party supports. Credit restrictions put an end to it. Other parts put a stop to it. You do not want to build small houses in Sweden. We build under 10 000 small houses in Sweden for a year, even though seven out of ten want to live in small houses. How can it be less realistic than my politics? Momodou Malcolm Jallow has also not discovered that if you want accommodation for those who are vulnerable, those who have less money in their wallet, you should choose small houses. Small houses are ecologically best, economically best and socially best. Momodou Malcolm Jallow's policy should be that everyone should have the opportunity to make the housing trip that the rich get to make. But what Momodou Malcolm Jallow wants is to remove that possibility from the people who can do it and that everyone should live in apartment buildings. I believe that people should be allowed to choose any accommodation they want. If we allow more people to live in self-owned housing and provide more opportunities to buy their accommodation, there are rental apartments for those who actually want to live in rental apartments – and that at reasonable prices. Today, it is a market in the big cities that drives up rental prices, which means that ordinary people cannot live there.
i-81atuwfXgS1oQoy7nadykv	Madam President, I would like Again, reality-averted. Seven out of ten want a house. I can ask the students sitting in the gallery now how many of those who want to fly to the moon. Maybe everyone, or nine out of ten, says they want to. But are they in a position to do so? No. That's what I'm talking about – building your policy on a reality. There are economic conditions in this country that make it impossible for many to take out a loan and buy a house. I know that. That Larry Söder and the Christian Democrats do not understand this reality says very much about which people are sitting in this House. You were born and raised with privileges and do not have the reality and frame of reference that I am talking about. In Malmö, from which I come, there are people who are poor. They count crowns every winter to buy a jacket for their children. If you ask them if they want houses, of course they want them to. But are they in a position to build houses? No. And so you take away the little opportunity they have to have a home in the form of a rental right by removing all subsidies to build or renovate these homes. The right has nothing but a deep contempt for tenants and rentals. I think that's terrible. Just like Larry said, let people choose how they want to live! There are many people today who choose to live in rental apartments. Why are you making this so difficult? Why are you giving 140 billion to rich people who own a house here in Sweden and one in Italy, renovating their house in Italy and paying poor people for it? But the poor person in Malmö who wants to renovate his own apartment has to stand for it himself. Otherwise the rent increases, and you get evicted. It's not okay.
i-XsR36hLsRnpxhFk2fHWBTH	I would like to remind the honourable Member that we are speaking through the President and we are not using you and you are not using you.
i-FmnYXGueaPfmV3xzTmXJm4	Madam President, I would like I note that Momodou Jallow has no idea what background I am from. Momodou Malcolm Jallow doesn't know what I've been through in my life. Yet he is making statements here which in some way speak of my background. Momodou Malcolm Jallow is not even interested in what background I have– it is only the picture of the Christian Democrats that he wants to paint that is interesting to him. Momodou Malcolm Jallow is offered to take note of my background if he believes that my policy depends on my background. My policy is because people have a desire to own their own home. This means that you actually control your own life and where you live. Momodou Malcolm Jallow should want that too, for all the people in Sweden – whether you have little or a lot of money. But Momodou Malcolm Jallow instead has a policy that means that no one should own their dwelling, because everyone should live in apartment buildings. It's reality-averted. People should be able to choose their accommodation. We in this House should not decide what kind of living a person should have. That's what people should choose, regardless of background, Momodou Malcolm Jallow. Instead of basing your policy on prejudice, you should find out the facts first. Small houses are ecologically, economically and socially best. Look at the numbers and you'll see. Why does Momodou Malcolm Jallow mean that you should pay for an expensive new lease instead of building a property and having it over time? It's economically best, even for those who don't have much money. This should be the policy of the Left Party, if one had any difficulty.
i-2ZtdBE4L4vyMRxbCWLGzeT	Madam President, I would like In about half an hour, the Minister of Housing will present a new social housing policy. It will not be enough, and that is why we have tabled our proposals – I call for the approval of reservation number 3. In that reservation, we are talking about what is missing from the policy that will be presented today. Today's housing market, with high prices in the owned stock and brokering primarily after queue time in the leased stock, cements segregation rather than breaks it. The general housing policy has never worked worse before when it comes to providing the conditions for people with low payability to find a home. Today we have them – and there are many of them – who are homeless and fall between the chairs of the system that the government has built up. Therefore, the Liberals are now proposing a new form of housing, needs housing, which allows municipalities, through a social quota, to communicate a proportion of their housing to vulnerable groups – to those who now fall between the chairs. It is a housing reform that gives the weakest in the housing market a better chance of obtaining a dwelling. Dwellings shall consist of newly built needs dwellings or existing rental apartments converted into a special dwelling through a social distribution ratio in the housing agency. Once a dwelling has been converted into a needs housing unit, it must remain in the social housing stock so that we can continuously build up a new, strong social housing sector, which is currently lacking. Sweden today has all the characteristics of the bad social housing that has existed in many countries around the world. Stigmatized areas and properties meant only for the less well-off are one of the biggest failures in other countries' models for what they call social housing. But today we see the same problem in our millions of programme areas. We also have this here in our country. Instead, we propose a model where needs housing should be mixed with rental and tenant-ownership apartments in ordinary properties. Dwellings must be spread throughout municipalities but not built at all in any vulnerable or particularly vulnerable areas. It is therefore good quality apartments that are inculcated in our society – no slums and no slums. Housing should be of the same quality and meet the same requirements as any dwelling. The rent for needs housing shall be the same at the entrance to the contract as was previously the case for the apartment if it has been converted from a rental right to a needs apartment. In new production of needs housing, the rent is set at the same level as for similar needs housing in the area. For those who are unable to pay the rent, there must be support in the form of housing allowance, housing allowance and rent guarantees. Madam President, I would like The dwellings with the lowest rents are usually the ones that have been managed by the commons for a long time. Public utility needs to be better used to help vulnerable groups access attractive and cheap housing, to combat exclusion. We therefore propose that in each municipality, which is also responsible for housing supply, there should be a quota that means that a substantial proportion of rented apartments are converted into needs housing based on local needs and conditions. I will continue to explain and tell you about needs housing. Nowhere else in the Party's program is described policies that affect those who fall between the chairs. If there is, please bring it out and say it out loud! Those who do not have housing today and come to the City Mission or other non-profit organisations do so because the current system does not work. Yes, all the measures that we have heard my representatives here highlight are needed. More needs to be built, and it needs to be facilitated and so on. Yet, people will fall between the chairs for various reasons. Needs housing should not contribute to the increase in involuntary segregation in Sweden. Housing segregation is the main cause of school segregation and the leading cause of parallel communities emerging in suburbs. But by placing needs housing outside these areas, we create the conditions to really counteract the segregation of residents and achieve a better functioning diversity in all neighbourhoods. There are various reasons why people are exposed. But they have in common that they are in need of a dwelling and do not have the opportunity to have access to one in the regular housing market. Then we are talking about people who are at risk of acute homelessness, are exposed to or at risk of being subjected to violence, have a very weak economy, live in extreme overcrowding or have medical needs. In order for the system to be as transparent and fair as possible, national guidelines need to be developed for which priority should be given to the available needs. Decisions on the allocation of needs housing must be made through the municipal administration. The basis on which a person can be allocated housing through the system shall be taken into account the size of the family and the appropriate areas in relation to the applicant's needs and life situation. Lock-in effects occur in the system if you lock it to a certain life situation and a certain income. Taxes and laws need to be changed to facilitate people's pursuit of a good life, never to prevent people from getting a job or getting out of an addiction. A contract for a needs housing must never be lost because the life situation is getting better. On the contrary, each contract has a fixed time horizon. The tenant can thus feel safe in his or her right to stay. As a general rule, the contract should be valid for at least five years. It takes time to get out of an alienation and enter society. The housing needs are thus for those who are farthest from the housing market. Madam President, I would like The Government is today presenting an investigation into socially sustainable housing provision. Expectations have been and are great, as the need is acute and great. But the government is today delivering an investigation that is cowardly and inadequate. You don't dare take that additional step that will give those who fall between the chairs a place of residence. The investigator himself points out that the proposal is insufficient to overcome the housing social problems that exist. The study focuses on objectives and frameworks but presents almost no concrete measures. That is why we from the Liberals are putting forward this concrete proposal on housing needs. To dare to take on board this requires courage, Madam President. For those who fall between the chairs and end up outside the housing market, the Liberals have a message. There is a solution, namely a new form of social housing that we call needs housing. The government doesn't look after the smallest in society. That is why a new and liberal bourgeois government is needed.
i-MvSZiV5AUPCQ3wQKocL7fj	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the proposal as a whole to be approved and for all reservations to be rejected. Madam President, I would like Of course, we cannot have a debate in this House without highlighting the enormous suffering in Ukraine. Of course, the unjust war dominates both news reports and our thoughts. But it is also important that we maintain the direction of the democratic dialogue in here and that we continue to deliver a democratic and important discussion. Or Putin wins. That's what he wants. He wants to silence us. The Swedish Prime Minister has pointed out a clear direction and clear priorities here and now. We will support Ukraine, we will impose tough sanctions against Putin's regime and we will strengthen Sweden. Strengthening Sweden is important from a total defence perspective. It has to be done in a wide range of ways. A strong community of society and our trust in each other is one of the most important defenses, bulwarks, against totalitarian regimes and external threats. It is also important to resist the influence operations that are taking place against our country. Madam President, I would like We Social Democrats have pointed out segregation as one of the most important and difficult societal challenges, because it breaks down trust in our society. On this point, the Prime Minister has been extremely clear. We have to turn every stone around to break the segregation. Housing policy, together with active labour market policies and a functioning school, is one of the most important tools to overcome segregation. For us Social Democrats, housing is more than a commodity in a market. It's a social right. Housing policy is and should be an important part of welfare policy. We want the home to be the safe place in every person's life. But if we're going to be able to break the segregation, we need to do more. Sweden can do better than we do today. Since 2014, we have built 350 000 homes. But, of course, we need to move forward and raise our ambitions further. Half a million homes are due to start by 2030. Here the reintroduction of investment aid is a decisive factor. The investment aid has sustained construction in both recession and boom and has evened out the pace of construction. It is therefore very popular. Eight out of ten construction companies want to see re-introduced investment aid. Such strong support for such an important reform is something very unusual. Therefore, investment aid must be returned. Madam President, I would like Housing responsibility rests heavily on municipalities. We Social Democrats of course believe that each municipality must take responsibility for planning and construction, so that its inhabitants have good access to sustainable and good housing. We believe that this must be imposed on the municipalities. The fact that we distribute refugee reception evenly over Sweden's municipalities is a very important piece of the puzzle in being able to break the segregation. Therefore, the residence law has been good, as well as that we can exempt parts of cities from EBO. I believe that the EBO should be abolished in its entirety. EBO is indeed another one of those examples of crazy liberal ideas that have driven straight into the ditch. Of course, municipalities must also have more opportunities to make their land instructions conditional. Perhaps you can get regulated in the detailed plan what type of lease it should be. Another very important tool would be a new and modernised pre-purchase law. Another area to be discussed is the principle of equal treatment between leases. The differences in housing costs between renters and owners are currently unwarrantedly large. They're not supposed to exist at all. Furthermore, Madam President, we believe that young people's opportunities to leave home should be improved. There is an investigation that will be presented next week, which we look forward to. Unlike other Members of this House, we have not received a lot of information from people sitting in investigations so that we can saw them before they are presented. But we look forward to both the housing social investigation and the starting loan investigation being presented. The opportunities for older people to move around the housing stock and their accessibility should also be highlighted. More shelters are needed. In the debate on investment aid and state financing of housing, it is often forgotten that there is investment aid for retirement homes and the adaptation of homes for the elderly. It has increased the quality of life for many older people. It is gratifying that this support must remain. Madam President, I would like There is a part of housing policy that one cannot help but talk about, and that is, of course, the position of tenants. The Social Democratic Government has carried out a series of reinforcements of the protection of tenants in the housing market. Among other things, we have taken measures against the black trade in rental contracts, unauthorised subletting and the withdrawal of over-rents from second-hand tenants. We also introduced renovation support that all property owners of multi-family buildings could apply for. The aim was to reduce the costs for tenant-owners and tenants during renovation. But just like the investment aid, the renovation aid disappeared when the right-wing conservatives pushed their budget through and agreed to clear the housing policy area from money. Interestingly, some of the parties that are now fighting over the housing shortage removed one of the most powerful tools we had to sustain the construction, that is, investment support. It would therefore be reasonable for some self-criticism from these parties, for it is not good enough to say that it is the fault of the sossians every time the housing building sinks. In this case it is definitely not. We have also introduced the possibility to intervene at an early stage against poor management of rental properties. It is an important tool that I really hope will be used in the municipalities to stop social dumping. In addition, we have put in place reinforced property protection for tenants in the event of a ruined apartment. It is welcome and long-awaited by the tenant movement, and it will strengthen the right of tenants when they are at their most vulnerable, for example when the apartment has burned. Madam President, I would like Let me be clear about market rents. Market rents lead to an increased redistribution from tenants to property owners, resulting in lower daily economics, causing people to consume less. This, in turn, makes it even harder to find a dwelling. All of this happens without any more housing. We Social Democrats oppose market rents and believe that the Swedish rental negotiation model should be strengthened and developed. The problem in Sweden is the housing shortage, not the rent negotiation system. Madam President, I would like I will end by reminding you of the forthcoming elections. Housing policy is crucial for our country to work, for us to be able to break segregation and for every person to feel secure, to be able to go to work and feel the important trust needed to build Sweden strong. Housing is part of the common welfare policy, which is why we must jointly take responsibility for it. Madam President, I would like Moreover, I believe that profits in welfare should be banned.
i-7dF6mmTby8sabanXbbM2N8	Madam President, I would like It is gratifying to hear that the Social Democrats are against market rents. I know you are, but it was still the government of the Social Democrats that intended to introduce it. Now that you no longer need to take into account the January agreement, I hope that we can jointly find a good way to raise housing policy, especially rental rights and the common good. It is an important form of housing, and it is important that public good is strengthened. Today I read an article where the CEO of Sweden's common interest Anders Nordstrand said: It is unreasonable that we have such a significant competitive disadvantage through the LOU. ..................................................... Sweden's common interest has more than 300 members who together manage 900 000 apartments. A study commissioned shows that the Public Procurement Act, LOU, increases construction projects by about 10 percent for the common good. We agree that we want to strengthen the commons, but this makes it difficult for the commons to build homes that people can afford. Therefore, the Left Party believes that it is reasonable to exclude the commons in order for them to have an equal opportunity of competition with private ones.
i-69EmzgQU86v4JTctuVWt9L	Madam President, I would like The Social Democrats have no other opinion than that we should exempt public good from the Public Procurement Act.
i-Er6gNc6YAx3v8pR4Ho6u9Z	Madam President, I would like I'm glad to hear it, and I feel that this is going to be great. Another topical issue concerns the unjustified high income requirements for new rentals. This makes it difficult for poor pensioners and low income earners, among others, and children are evicted. It is difficult for people to achieve the unjustifiablely high income requirements that are imposed. It would be good if the government came back with a bill that means that landlords in both the private and the commons should not be able to impose excessive income requirements that exclude a large part of the population.
i-2KZUR9tZ4NpmGqNtAdJHeu	Madam President, I would like I thank Momodou Jallow for an important question. The major challenge with regard to income requirements is that if we legislate that the public good is not allowed to impose income requirements but the private sector is allowed to continue to do so, the housing market is segregated. If we go in and legislate on what the private may demand, we are approaching the issues of freedom of trade and property rights, and then there are problems with some of Sweden's convention commitments and so on. It is therefore important to find a balance. I share the description that this is a problem, but I think we should tackle it from elsewhere. A study was carried out on the housing allowance, and we need to improve it so that people enter the housing market. We have strengthened the housing allowance for pensioners, and it is possible that it needs to be done further. We also want to strengthen pensions with you. Consideration must also be given to what income is accepted. Today it is permissible to exclude certain incomes, and one might have to look at that. If property owners exclude a grant or grant, they must well justify why, for example, child benefit is considered to be an uncertain income. Finally, the most important thing of all. People should have good jobs, jobs and fixed income to meet these requirements. But those people who for some reason have had the bad luck of becoming unemployed or ill should have a strong welfare in their backs so that they can also be safe in their home. We cannot only tackle this from the point of view of housing policy, but there are, of course, things to do here. We must also find a good balance so that we do not dump everything on the commons.
i-PwT2ewA4ZjQywZXkyMARxB	Madam President, I would like I agree with Ola Möller that housing policy is important from both a welfare perspective and a segregation perspective, and I believe that we can jointly find ways of getting closer to a solution. To say that you can solve this is perhaps going too far. Ola Möller was evil at the fact that we are constantly blaming the Social Democrats. This may well be because the Social Democrats have ruled under 84 of the last 100 years, and housing policy is difficult to move. It takes a long time to change laws and regulations and a long time to build housing. It is therefore quite natural for the Social Democrats to take their fair share of responsibility. Besides, they've been in charge for the last eight years. My question concerns another aspect of housing policy. We know that seven out of ten want to own their housing and that less than 10,000 houses are built in Sweden every year. We need to take steps to build more small houses in Sweden, because many people want to live like that.
i-4Vgf3iEThX4M9CRj8hLkin	Madam President, I would like I share the honourable Member's view that a discussion in which we try to find common solutions and compromise and where both sides may have to accept things that they do not always fully support is an important way of addressing housing policy because of the long-term perspective. At the same time, it is interesting that the honourable Member argues that the social democratic housing policy would be worse than the bourgeois, because every time the KD governs housing production falls significantly. After all, the Social Democrats built as much in four years as the bourgeois government did during its eight-year period. So that criticism falls. It is fun with all the Christian Democrats' input to help the Social Democrats towards a better housing policy. The Christian Democrats therefore assume that the Social Democrats will continue to rule the country for 84 years, and that is a pleasure. In the case of owned housing, there is a lot on the land issue. Here we must work with the municipalities to enable better planning processes, and we must make more land available. We also need to think about the credit restrictions, which is an issue that is complicated for the simple reason that it is the exercise of authority that is taking place. It is not in here that we have laid down the credit restrictions and the mortgage ceiling, but it is an authority. I can imagine that the Moderates' group leader would be fairly quick to report to the KU the government that goes in and says exactly what levels the credit restrictions should have. I'd like to remind Larry Söder that a while ago, the Minister of Housing sparkled on that door. Many Socialist Members, including those who have signed up, have also raised credit restrictions as a problem. So I agree with Larry Söder's problem description, but you have to be careful how to do it.
i-TE61h6RRu43NtpSDmKXZ8n	Madam President, I would like My well-meaning towards the Social Democrats on housing policy is based on the fact that I do the same analysis as Erik Nises in Borlänge, that is, that the Social Democrats have no housing policy. The only thing that can be included is investment support, which I presented in the speaker's chair on the basis of a debate article in Nya Aktuellt on the 10th of December 2021, if I remember correctly. That's where the goodwill comes from. The more parties in the Swedish Parliament who have housing policies that correspond to the problems we have in society, the better it is, because then the talks can work across party boundaries. I have still not received so many answers about how the Social Democrats want to solve that we will build more small houses. One option that can be discussed is the Christian Democrats' proposal for a municipal planning bonus, where bonuses are given to municipalities that have better planning readiness, including small houses, to increase incentives in the municipalities to build and plan small houses. We can see that the problem in the municipalities is usually not that one does not build there but how one prioritises. It is in the large areas where rental properties exist that it is planned to build, and the small building areas that exist come further down when one prioritises. Often you don't get there, but we want to try to turn that thing around. I think the Social Democrats would also benefit from seeing that seven out of ten want to own their own home, and then more than 10 000 houses should be built in Sweden. My goodwill applies to Sweden's best, and I think that Ola Möller should be happy about this.
i-4m99QwanQgav5CVm32SNtL	Madam President, I would like I think someone who's a viral reviewer or something like that will have to check the number of 10,000 small houses, because my memory tells me there's more. It also increased significantly last year, but from too low levels. There I made some suggestions to the honourable Member on how to do it. We had a building bonus during the previous parliamentary term. It was abolished in the budget that M and KD got through together with the Swedish Democrats in 2019, so it is a little strange that the Christian Democrats are now standing and saying that we should have a build bonus back. We were very grateful to have it. I was a municipal councillor at the time in Helsingborg, and we liked the construction bonus. We also had a good planner there. It is sad that there are people I know who we are talking about in this House. I do not want to review Erik's debate article, but it is de facto the case that we had the renovation aid and investment aid. We have done a large number of measures for tenants, we have made it better for tenant-owners to handle their issues and we have also made a number of additional investments where we have reviewed rules and the like. We have a housing social inquiry that is being delivered today, we have a question about starting loans that come and so on. The image Larry Söder and, unfortunately, Erik have is not correct. It's not correct. In addition, we have continued with a policy of, for example, abolishing the Public Procurement Act for the common good, and I hope that the Christian Democrats will also be able to support this. Unfortunately, Larry Söders and, in this case, Erik's ignorance of Social Democratic politics is the same. I hope Larry, instead of reading New News, as he called the newspaper, reads News in Politics, as I think it is called. I think the ignorance of the newspaper title is as great as the ignorance of the housing policy of Larry Söder.
i-SYVDVCrqxyLS5fn7LNGmh5	Madam President, I would like We Moderates want to get Sweden in order. This requires a policy aimed at contributing to a secure society in which the individual has the opportunity to shape his own life and make a class trip, so that it becomes more important where he is going than where he comes from. For this, a functioning housing market is a prerequisite. A functioning housing market enables young people to start adult life, for parents to buy a small house when the family has grown and for those who want to leave home to study or try a new job. Madam President, I would like Today, this is not a matter of course. The Swedish housing market is fundamentally dysfunctional. Instead of offering opportunities, it hampers both individuals and the economy as a whole. Businesses are finding it more difficult to hire, and growth is being held back, while overcrowding and social problems are increasing. The Swedish housing market is characterised by long queues for rentals, high demands for buying a home and complicated rules for building. A better functioning housing market requires an efficient planning process, accessible land and flexible building rules. Then both the time from idea to migration and production costs can decrease and the supply of housing can thus increase. We Moderates want to contribute to a housing market where opportunities are at the centre. We protect property rights and want to strengthen the individual in relation to the public, so that the individual gets more advice over his or her property. Madam President, I would like There is a need for a broad review of the overall national framework for housing construction in order to speed up decision-making processes, increase flexibility and reduce production costs. Sweden has the highest construction costs in Europe. This is explained, among other things, by high wage costs and high demands on what is being built. At the same time, construction costs represent just over half of the total cost of production. In addition to the construction costs, there are costs for VAT, land acquisitions, municipal fees and also the costs of the developer or the client. Generally speaking, the profit margins in the Swedish construction industry are not higher than in the rest of Europe or in the business sector as a whole. At the same time, there are many studies that point to low productivity in the industry and that increased international and domestic competition could increase the efficiency of the industry and thus enable increased production. In the Swedish Competition Authority's report "Better competition in residential building" from 2018, the Authority identifies three areas that stand out to adversely affect competition and thus the efficiency of the industry: the building materials industry, the public procurement of residential building and the municipal special requirements. The material costs represent about half of the total construction costs. The costs of materials have increased rapidly over a number of years, and the Swedish Competition Authority notes that this is the main reason why the total construction costs have also risen. The rapid increase in costs in the construction materials industry indicates that there may be competition concerns. In April 2020, the Government commissioned the Swedish Competition Authority to investigate precisely the competition in the construction materials industry, including in terms of market concentration and price formation, and in December last year the result came. Competition in certain parts of the construction materials industry is inadequate. The problems are multiple and exist at different levels. These are high market concentration in key material markets, procurement in a manner that restricts competition and cost-driving discounts and remuneration conditions. These are some of the shortcomings identified by the Competition Authority in the report and which need to be addressed. Madam President, I would like The municipalities of our country also have an important role to play in increasing housing construction, while at the same time safeguarding municipal self-government, without government pointers and from above that risk undermining the acceptance and tolerance of the inhabitants of the municipality for the construction that is so badly needed. The State, for its part, should not hinder the construction of housing, but should facilitate as much as possible. The state can motivate municipalities to build, for example by linking infrastructure investments to residential building, which we Moderates are very positive about. Madam President, I would like We Moderates have no reservations in the report, as the proposals that we have put on Parliament's table are dealt with so-called simplified. The committee motion that we put on Parliament's table – Reforms for increased construction and a better functioning housing market – with 70 sharp proposals, however, shows what policy we want to pursue in a moderate-led government after the elections this autumn. In order for us to get Sweden in order, which is long-awaited by many, we also need to get order in the Swedish housing market and Swedish housing policy.
i-56xXTLDjRcLksZADVTJTPM	Madam President, I would like We are dealing with a motion for a resolution on energy, and I would like to begin by calling for reservation 1 on the objective of fossil-free electricity production. At the same time, I am pleased that we have received a majority in the committee for two proposals for announcements to the government, on the one hand on a strategy for district heating and cogeneration and on the other on the protection of hydroelectric power. Energy is and has always been an important area for Swedish society and for Swedish welfare. We have always been very dependent on having energy production that we can rely on for our households, for our livelihoods and for our safety. Sweden has and has had a unique opportunity to produce its own energy in sufficient quantity and at good prices. It has benefited our economy, our jobs and our welfare. It's no longer obvious. We come with our industry and our people being good at quickly working out the green transition and electrifying to have to double the energy production for the energy needs we will have by 2045. This is obviously positive, but it also places great demands on an energy policy that can deliver. Madam President, I would like Then we consider moderates that politics must be based on facts and on promoting all types of fossil-free energy production, while taking into account other important elements of social planning, such as municipal self-government, the development of new electricity infrastructure and the protection of important natural values, and that, of course, we must be able to have a military defence that can operate and defend the country. We left the energy agreement because it was not sustainable with the greatly increased need for electrical energy. It is also no longer sustainable to build an energy agreement on fully renewable energy production. That is why we support the motions which, instead, want to see the objective of fossil-free energy in order to ensure clearly that regulated electricity production, which today mainly consists of water and nuclear power, is sufficiently included in the energy mix. Madam President, I would like Only in this way can we ensure that our electricity is in sufficient quantity and strength when we need it. This is also the line that we pursue and want to pursue at EU level, both that Swedish energy policy is just Swedish and that nuclear energy is also part of taxonomy and thus counts as climate smart. It is fossil fuels that are the main problem in the threat to the climate – oil, coal and gas. It is, in fact, these fuels that pose the threat. They are also the ones to be reduced in the energy mix, not the fossil-free parts. Many EU countries have problems here. Sweden is a relatively small country, and our prosperity is largely based on trade with other countries, mainly the EU. The fact that we can contribute with goods and services produced free of fossil fuels is important for us, and it is also important for the European Union. The fact that some parts of the year export wind power to the EU – often at very low prices – is obviously a climate benefit. But we must ensure that electrical energy is available for our fossil-free production in our mines, in our heavy industry, in our companies and for our transport. This is the main task of Swedish energy policy. Madam President, I would like Of course, we still need energy efficiency. But that is not where the big challenge lies. It lies in the massive electrification of society. That is why we need to demonstrate clearly a roadmap for next generation nuclear power. There are technologies today that did not exist during the large expansion of nuclear power in Sweden, and it had to be used for the sake of the climate. There are also small nuclear power stations that can be better placed than today where they are actually needed without substantial expansions throughout the country specifically for those that it has in previous extensions. We need to work out licensing processes for the new technology, and we need to grant more companies permission to build and operate nuclear power than the companies currently licensed, because there are more people who want to invest in nuclear power. Madam President, I would like We must also protect all the other types of energy. Swedish hydropower must not be treated rigidly, but must be protected and modernised in many places. Only by diversifying electricity production can we meet the challenges of the future in terms of production and climate friendliness. We need further wind and solar energy as part of our energy mix. There are great opportunities to expand to reach the goal of one third of the energy mix being solar and wind to make the energy mix as stable and cost-effective as possible. Madam President, I would like Furthermore, I want to beat a blow for the Swedish production of peat. It is part of energy production that is treated rigidly. The peat is needed to start combustion processes in an environmentally friendly way. And it is important that we have our own Swedish production. Replacing domestically produced peat means imports of peat from Belarus and Ukraine, which means that neither the environmental sustainability nor the ability to actually import can be guaranteed. Nor must we forget biogas and hydrogen as an important part of the diversified production of electricity that we want to see. Here too there is a lot of development that can be of great benefit to our energy mix in the future. Sweden has a unique opportunity to actually be one of the world's most forward-looking countries on various trades in energy technology and energy production.
i-8owCFQq4CN9vyDAaArqivu	Madam President, I would like We are debating energy policy here today, and there are a great many motions in this area. This is an issue that interests a great many people. Today, the question is a lot about which way to go. Are we going towards renewable energy sources, or are we not going to do that? Sometimes you can think about that when you hear the debate. Exercise demands are very much about the overall focus of energy policy, energy efficiency, nuclear power, energy research and different types of renewable energy. In most cases, the motions in committee are rejected and will not be decided in plenary. And these more than 200 requests for exercise from general exercise time are currently being dealt with in this Chamber. I would like to start by mentioning two areas where the committee has proposed announcements to the government, that is, where it wants the government to act. The first concerns the role of hydropower in the future electricity system. There we Social Democrats, together with some other parties, have a reservation – reservation 21 – to which I call for approval. Then there are further reservations, which I naturally support, but I do not support them. Any other reservations I would like to reject. As regards the role of hydropower in the future energy system, the Maritime and Water Authority has been tasked with reviewing both regulations and guidance so that the possibilities for exemption and explanation of water that is heavily modified are fully used. In addition, I think that we in this House should note that, in its electrification strategy as late as February 2022, the government stated that it is extremely important to analyse the importance of hydropower in the electricity system. As stated in this strategy, the analysis should include the conditions for increased impact as well as technical, economic and environmental conditions. The analysis should also include potential for pumping power and the identification of possible efforts to realise more fully the storage and flexibility potential of hydropower. That's one thing. The second proposal for a notice calls for a strategy for power and district heating. There I really share what the motion is about, namely the need for sustainable long-distance and cogeneration production. Remote and combined heat and power are very important parts of the energy and important pieces of the puzzle in the transition we are currently in. Against this background, it is positive that the government, once again, presented in the electrification strategy measures to take a holistic approach to the long-term role of remote and cogeneration in the future sustainable energy system and to develop a long-distance and cogeneration strategy within the framework of this work. The reason I mention this is because there are things going on here. Yet the opposition joins forces and proposes an announcement to the government. I would like to say that these two committee initiatives are somewhat opening doors in a work that is already under way. Madam President, I would like In the security policy situation we are currently in, with a war going on in the middle of Europe, there are more and more people who are worried about energy supply and about high electricity prices – and perhaps especially about nuclear power. However, based on the recent debate and the motions on the table today, this does not seem to concern the Moderates, the Christian Democrats, the Liberals and the Swedish Democrats. In Finland, which is currently often used as an example in the debate on security policy, the Pyhäjoki nuclear power plant – which is only 150 km from Skellefteå – has been decided to completely free itself from Russian energy production and thus to stop the construction of nuclear power. From the opposition we hear one proposal after another for small modular reactors in Sweden. I wonder how this is being discussed in the context of security policy. I would personally be very concerned if there were lots of small reactors scattered across Ukraine now that the bombs are falling. I think that should be taken into account. It is also a fact that new nuclear power is very expensive. Just look at Finland's new reactor, which has just been put into operation – it has been named the second most expensive building in the world, which is perhaps nothing to be proud of. The nuclear power we have today plays an important role and will be important in the Swedish electricity mix for many years to come. I want to be clear here: the nuclear power we have in Sweden today will not be shut down until we have other alternatives in place, but at the same time we should not have any illusions that nuclear power is a power race that gives low electricity prices. That is not what it looks like. It is also a fact that Sweden receives about 45 per cent of its electricity from hydropower. It is a force that is both planable and adjustable. But planning is a function, not an energy type. We can also build planning with renewable energy storage and more flexibility. We see a new development of wind power, for example, combined with hydrogen storage, which is very interesting for the future – and this can happen here and now. Madam President, I would like The state will always guarantee that Sweden and its citizens will have a secure electricity supply. We are doing this right now, for example by the fact that Svenska Kraftnät plans investments of SEK 100 billion by 2030. In addition, work is under way to halve the construction time of new electricity networks until 2025. So a great deal is happening here, and that is absolutely necessary. Now we see a great willingness to invest in renewable electricity production from the market. Can Moderates, Christian Democrats, Swedish Democrats and Liberals still not be a little contented with the fact that the market, which is otherwise very popular, shows the way and is so clear? Instead, they argue in a way that can easily be interpreted as the Moderates having ended up in the union of nuclear socialists. Madam President, I would like The target of 100% renewable energy is precisely one target. We need renewable energy – and much more of it. However, I note that we have motions on the table that are about removing the target of renewable production, which would directly hamper the transition we are in the midst of. We need to expand our energy supply considerably in the coming decades. Here we need to work on a broad front with all the parts that are lifted in the electrification strategy and enable more electricity generation, especially in southern Sweden. We also need to make a very large extension of the electricity grid so that we can get electricity to the place where it is needed, when it is needed. In fact, most studies show a trend that the cost of renewable electricity goes down as the technology develops. At the same time, we see that the costs increase if we go in with more nuclear power. The government's electrification strategy is very good. It provides answers to several of the questions we now face, such as the need for a more proactive deployment of the electricity grids, the important utility of the district heating sector for the electricity system and the need for a strategy for long-distance and cogeneration. It also includes a national pool of powers for electrification, as well as measures for developed revenue regulation, delivery security objectives, joint monitoring and planning of electricity needs by public authorities, and the issue of skills provision, which I discussed earlier. A total of 67 measures are involved, and there are 67 measures that give answers and point out a clear direction that I believe most parties in this House are supporting. We do not only need to produce more electricity; we also need to work on improving the efficiency of our use of electricity, i.e. energy efficiency. The government made a proposal for substantial support to work with this – which, unfortunately, KD, M and SD rejected. Finally, Madam President, I would just like to say that we were a few colleagues who visited Scania last week. It was Bil Sweden who arranged the visit, where Scania, AB Volvo and Volvo Cars participated. On the basis of the discussions we had there, I can say that there is crystal clear clarity on the part of the industry: we want renewable electricity here and now. We do not want to wait 20 years for new nuclear power, but it is here and now the investments have to be made. Why do the Moderates not take on board the views and views of the industry, which are so clear? Instead, M wants to remove the renewable energy target that Parliament has decided on. No, we need to look to the future with new technologies. We also need to build more wind power and solar power here and now and at the same time acknowledge the possibilities of storing electricity in hydrogen. It creates a genuine opportunity that in turn provides the conditions for more business start-ups. This is how we Social Democrats tackle the climate challenge and make sure to create thousands of new jobs across the country – and also solve the issue of our energy policy.
i-KGZAnFcep9LtXhhWy3fDDX	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by stressing the importance of protecting hydroelectric power. It is possible that the large hydropower plants are protected and that maintenance is looked at properly there, but when I see the massive demolition of small-scale hydropower that is going on in the country – with the good memory of our county boards – it makes me very upset. Not only can you destroy the entire water flow in Central Sweden, from which I come – you can also completely destroy a small-scale hydropower that we can benefit from in the event of conflict and energy shortages in general. Then, Madam President, it scares me enormously that Mr Jonsson has completely gone to Putin's narratives on how dangerous nuclear power is to Swedish security. After all, nuclear power is not the danger; it is a dictator in Russia who is the danger. There is much in our other energy types that could also be a huge danger if you put a bomb there or if you were to send a nuclear charge on Sweden. It actually scares me, Madam President, that the argumentation technology is being bought entirely from Russia. It is a huge dilem if we are to adapt our energy policy to how a dictator in the East views Sweden and Swedish energy policy. Then it is almost self-goal to call ourselves nuclear socialists. I'm definitely not a socialist. If anyone is intimidated by socialism, it is me, but apparently so is Member Jonsson. Well, then, nuclear energy is what we need to look at.
i-5kXEZphqn4oFxqDMihy8mu	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lotta Olsson, for comments and questions! As far as hydroelectric power is concerned, I note that we have an electrification strategy, as I mentioned in my speech, which focuses on these very issues. It is extremely important not least for southern Sweden. I think we share that view. As far as nuclear power and our security policy are concerned, it was a question that I raised in my speech: whether these aspects are included in the security policy context, as I put it. On the basis of the question put by Lotta Olsson in this debate, I note that they are not taken into account. However, in a security policy situation that may worsen for Sweden, it is clear that we need to take into account the effects that could have if Sweden were to encounter an increased level of conflict. Can we have nuclear power in operation, yes or no? We have had various types of safety exercises in this House where, as an example, some nuclear power plant has been shut down. I do not think that wind power needs to stop spinning because we have an increased security policy threat to Sweden. On the other hand, nuclear power is more vulnerable. Small modular reactors, which are proposed to spread out near cities, industries and so on, I see as a worrying development when the security policy situation looks as it does. Do the Moderates not take account of those aspects of the proposals it makes?
i-7Uu9YcmSWM7Zpy1cZEK3oA	Madam President, I would like This shows very clearly the views of the Social Democrats on nuclear power. We are putting heavy blankets on the issue of security policy, and we are also putting heavy economic blankets over it. When you look at other power like hydropower or wind power, you don't see it in the same way at all. Nuclear power must, of course, carry itself. Nor have we said that we should pay for nuclear power, but on the contrary that it should fund itself. But then you have to look at who can produce nuclear power and actually give it the opportunity to do so. As far as defence is concerned, the wind power, wind farms and the ability to defend Sweden based on the fact that we are raising wind power is an issue that is very often raised. I do not want to go into what could be done, but I think it is terrible that you have a nuclear phobia and do not look at all other safety aspects in the same way. Of course, we need to make sure that we do not put up dangerous things that might be counter-gag for us in war, but I think that the Social Democrats here clearly show that nuclear power is not something they want. Then I think that the Social Democrats are also obliged to answer: what should balance up sun, wind and water when the sun is not shining, when there is not enough wind and when there is not enough hydropower? Or should we close our green mines and green industries when electricity is not enough? I believe that Volvo and Scania want guarantees that there is actually enough electricity when needed. Then it is not really green or completely renewable electricity, but fossil-free electricity that is requested.
i-CjrHNAMvPgtToFYG5r3f5x	Madam President, I would like I note that the Social Democrats have been a driving force and have provided the conditions for us to have the nuclear power we have in Sweden today. We also need the nuclear power we have for the foreseeable future, until we have other forms of energy that can replace it. With regard to the reactors that have now been shut down, wind power has increased production three times as much as it did. What I get worried about is when you lock yourself in a corner and only talk nuclear energy when we have energy in the form of sea wind power that can solve the situation here and now. In fact, Lotta Olsson and her colleagues around the municipalities in Sweden have helped to say no to about 60 terawatt hours of sea wind power that could have increased Swedish production of electricity enormously. I also note that in 2010, under the alliance government, we imported 2 terawatt hours of electricity net. In recent years, we have net exported 25 terawatt hours of electricity each year. The wind power that we are now seeing is being built in Sweden and the proposed sea wind power around our coasts has enormous potential and enormous opportunities to store the energy in hydrogen to get a regulated power from the sea wind and the wind power on land. Large companies, industry and the market say that they want more production here and now and point to the sea wind as the great opportunity linked to hydrogen. Yet you lock yourself in and talk about nuclear power that is to be realized 15, maybe 20 years ahead of time when efforts are needed here and now. I can't get that equation together. That's why I'm asking questions.
i-5SfvF3sUYE1kz2PsmM5KDK	Madam President, I would like Sweden has made a fantastic journey where we have reduced our fossil dependence significantly over a long period of time. This has been made possible by the large-scale expansion of hydropower and nuclear power, which has reduced our fossil share in energy supply from almost 85% in the early 70s to just over a quarter today. This compares with the fact that the share of fossils in global energy supply remains at levels around 80 percent. There has not much happened in the corresponding period, almost half a century. Sweden is now facing an extensive electrification as the remaining fossil energy share is to be phased out. It is an expression that has become something of a mantra in energy policy when these issues are discussed. A very large majority in this House is in no way opposed to this. On the contrary, electricity is viewed positively as an enabler and energy carrier in order to phase out the fossil share and significantly increase our electricity use. But just as energy supply does not become stable and secure just because it says so, electrification will not take place simply because it is repeated enough times. The development of energy policy is rather bleak. We see shortcomings in the transmission capacity that hinder growth around the country, with extensive lead times in the licensing processes for both new and old electricity grids. The good margin we have had in the balance of power has now eroded completely. Instead, we now have chronic deficits that increase our dependence on our neighbours' fossil fuels, which has contributed to electricity prices now reaching new record levels on a regular basis. The solution of the government and the Social Democrats to this was to launch their paper tiger called the electrification strategy, a product which was neither discussed nor negotiated with any other party and which is characterised by the lack of concrete measures and, above all, by the fact that it is only after the election that any kind of delivery should take place. It is a product which clearly seeks to compensate for the fact that it has been sitting on its hands for most of its term of office and that it has failed in the field of energy policy, despite the fact that it has been repeatedly signalled that it is going in the wrong direction. Madam President, I would like The Swedish democrats have during the entire term of office raised the point that the entrance to Swedish energy policy must be to set targets for what we want our power system to be characterized by instead of, as the government, setting targets for what it hopes will contain and disregard the reality. We cannot afford to exclude any fossil-free power source, especially not the only planable one that we have expanded large-scale in southern Sweden, if we are to succeed in electrification and be able to have a reasonable price of electricity all year round. The Swedish Democrats, together with other parties in the opposition, have previously received proposals in this House that state support for energy research should also be able to go to nuclear research. When the Swedish Parliament adopted the budget from the Swedish Democrats, the Moderates and the Christian Democrats this year was again made clear, and at the beginning of this year we could see a historical grant directed towards an application for what will eventually become a research reactor. This clear political signal has led several stakeholders to want to invest in nuclear power and then in small modular reactors. There are now several promising engagements in Sweden. But there are still several regulatory obstacles as the entrance is that we should not build for more nuclear power. It is stopped by not changing the legislation, which is necessary. You don't make sure you create the opportunities. It is essential to make a distinction there. When all fossil-free power is needed, it cannot be prohibited in 287 of the country's 290 municipalities. Today, as I have said, lead times are unreasonably long when it comes to the development of electricity networks. Unfortunately, there has been a recurring feature and subject in this type of debate. It will continue to be ten to twelve years in order to have new network concessions. It is a major obstacle to electrification and has a direct negative impact on our competitiveness. It is clear that too few initiatives have been taken to address this problem. However, it is not only new network concessions that take time. A well-known example of this exists in my constituency. This concerns the double line between the mainland and Öland. It's the only power line there, and it's been there since 1928. Since 2017, an extended network concession has been sought. The Energy Market Inspectorate has to test whether the management is reasonable and whether to get a renewed concession. The process has now been going on for five years. Despite the fact that management has been around for almost 100 years, it has taken five years, and it is far from being in goal. Additional evidence has been requested on how to deal with people's concerns about birds flying into the power line. It has also been included in the documentation for how the children's perspective should be taken into account. The latter seems rather strange, since what has been said is the only electrical connection that exists between the mainland and Öland. The alternative would be to have no electricity at all on Öland. It is not clear that there is necessarily a need for more administrators. Rather, there is a need for more efficient management, along with the need to make it easier to obtain an environmental permit for licence testing, whether for electricity lines, a mine or to break limestone. In this report, the Swedish Democrats, together with other parties in the opposition, propose that two further announcements be made. One of them once again concerns the hydropower and the state processes. It is clear that Parliament's previous decisions and will orientations for hydroelectric power have not had any effect in practice. The government must use all the tools contained in the toolbox – regulatory letters, government dialogue and investigative tasks – in the governance of these authorities to ensure that the will of the elected assembly can have an impact in reality. It is another announcement added to the already existing ones in this area. Only the other week, Parliament focused another on the same theme. It was linked to the national plan; it must be ensured in the trials that are taking place that all the exceptions that exist under EU law are used. In the case of cogeneration, too, the committee proposes, in part on a proposal from the Swedish Democrats, an announcement. The competitiveness of power and district heating needs to be strengthened. We have highlighted this repeatedly during the parliamentary term. This has certainly been highlighted in the Government's electrification strategy, but in action it has always helped to undermine the competitiveness of power and district heating by introducing new taxes during the term of office. This proposal for a notice clearly highlights the need to include issues of taxation, building rules and EU rules. Hopefully in the future we will be able to see that the waste incineration tax is also removed. It would be for the second time, but it can hopefully be final so that we do not have to see any such come back. It is not exactly by chance that it is in areas related to planned power sources, security of supply and licensing processes that announcements have been made during the term of office. This is particularly the case in these areas. There is a lack of understanding that electricity must be produced to a greater extent when it is in demand. At the same time, there is a lack of an energy policy agreement. Much more is needed than a one-party government to present its own proposals that have neither been negotiated nor anchored with any other party. After the elections, there must be a change in this area if we are to succeed in electrification. Madam President, I would like Having said that, I would like to call for reservation 1 in the report.
i-F2GycZELvvZLbeRAYH4Bt9	Madam President, I would like Winter has meant strong increases in electricity and fuel prices – typical energy issues. Both households and businesses have been severely affected financially. The main reason is Russia's warfare in Ukraine and the run-up to it. High fossil gas prices on the continent have spilled over on Sweden, and high crude oil prices have caused fuel prices to flash. Now, efforts and measures are needed to deal with this and to ensure that the effects are not repeated. These are measures here and now to mitigate the problems, but also to ensure that, in the long term, the problems do not come back. We will make ourselves independent of fossil and Russian energy, so that such action can not have such major consequences for Sweden. I will start with fuels, which are also part of the report, although we talk a great deal about electricity. The Center Party wants Sweden's production of biofuels to increase. This also applies to electrofuels, which are really in the pipeline. It is for the sake of the climate but also to create jobs and green companies in Sweden and at the same time reduce import dependence, not least of Russian energy. Madam President, I would like Europe currently imports fossil fuels worth EUR 1 billion a day from Russia. It's completely insane, and it's funding Putin's warfare. If we make more biofuels here, we make ourselves more independent of fossil energy. We need to create stable conditions and long-term rules of play for that. A Biofuels Commission is needed. Just as we have now had an Energy Commission and an electrification strategy, we need such a Commission and such a strategy with regard to biofuels. But the biggest challenge here and now, when it comes to phasing out fossil fuels, is the monumental turnaround that several parties in this House have made. From one day to the next, we want to scrap the system of using renewable energy, i.e. the reduction obligation, in favour of fossil energy. This type of policy leads to uncertainty, and it will only be more expensive for consumers. When you increase the political risk, it costs more to invest. The right way to handle it would have been to create more stable prices, more predictability and more jobs here. Instead, the choice now is to try to increase the costs for consumers in the long term. It is not sustainable policy. Of course, this action also spills over to other sectors, not least in the energy sector. The more polarised the debate we have and the more rapid the turnarounds there are, the greater the uncertainty for companies, those who are going to invest. In order to reduce these risks, I would like to endorse reservation 30 of the report. That is precisely where we highlight the importance of long-term rules of the game for biofuels. I'm going to the electricity. As early as last autumn, the Center Party in our budget, as the only party, anticipated high electricity prices for companies and for households who do not live in apartments. We also raised it and put forward proposals to support energy efficiency and ensure that this does not happen. It is incredibly important that the government now listens to it and puts forward proposals in our amending budget so that we do not end up in the same situation again. We cannot do aid packages and pamper a thousand to a car owner or a hundred to the one who has received high electricity bills. It is not a responsible and sustainable policy in the long run. Of course, we need to solve the problems here and now. But we must also equip ourselves for the future, and that is completely lacking in the government's action plans. We need to build more production. Of course it is an important part of the solution. We need to build it quickly and make sure it comes to where it is really needed. There are investors in line, which we are grateful for. There are an incredible number of applications for new production, not least in southern Sweden where it is most needed. Here we are waiting for the government to give us a message. We are waiting for a number of different things that need to be done when it comes to, for example, regulatory simplifications and permit processes. But there is also a need for new legislation. It needs to be more profitable to have a power plant in your backyard. It must be as attractive to have an energy-producing plant in your backyard as it is to have a battery factory. Municipalities compete for battery plants, but they want to see the electricity production to the battery factory elsewhere. This is a completely unsustainable scenario. We need to resolve the replacement issues, but also the issues of compensation for the electricity grids, which is a huge problem. Landowners get a spit styve and get rid of their land forever instead of, as when setting up a wind farm or something else, actually renting out the land. New legislation is needed here. There are a number of different things that quite a lot of people in this pulpit have said so far and which I am absolutely convinced that several parties will say next. Then I think it's a shame that we should stand here and fight about who's best and why the others are wrong. There's a lot that we should be able to do together. We made a deal in 2016. I think it's a shame that parties dropped it off. Now is the time to make an energy agreement 2.0. Forecasts indicate a doubling of energy consumption to 2045, maybe 2050 or there somewhere. There is then a need for consensus to reduce the political risk. We need to rearrange the electrical system. We also need to streamline licensing processes, and I believe that everyone agrees on this. The Centre Party's goal of halving time has been made its own by the government. It's a welcome start, I guess. We need to simplify for those who want to set up their own solar power plant or perhaps even their own wind power plant, which is actually possible nowadays. We need to strengthen local production and increase acceptance, no matter what is being built and where it is to be built. We need to strengthen cogeneration. The Swedish democrats, with whom the Centre Party does not always agree, have a similar policy. We need to remove the tax on bio-oils and strengthen competitiveness. There is still a lot of capacity that is not used in cogeneration, even though we have the prices that we have. Action is needed here. We need to protect the hydropower. It was the committee initiative of the Center Party that went through a week or so ago in this House. Despite the fact that the Social Democrats say that it is important that we live up to the legislation and that there are things going on, the court proceedings, which often run the risk of driving out hydropower, have already begun. It is an understatement to the government that they say that they should take action but begin trials in the court before the measures are taken. In fact, what we decided in this House a few weeks ago was not to stop the trials but to postpone them until we have sensible legislation in place. I also believe that we are in fact fairly in agreement between most of the parties. We need to strengthen the electricity grids. The regulation of electricity networks needs to be reviewed, Madam President, and the tax burden needs to be reduced. We need important system services and efficiency, and flexibility needs to be upgraded. These are things on which we are fairly agreed. Why don't we just sit down and figure this out? It is a high tone in the debate, where it is about either wind power or nuclear power as the solution to everything. Except that it is false, because neither wind power nor nuclear power can solve everything, it creates polarisation and higher costs. Households expect that the winter situation will not happen again. We will not solve this with the debate we are having at the moment. Industry expects a long-term perspective in its transition. The climate does not care about a high tone and a polarised debate. Political risk, which we are involved in creating through the debate we are now having, is reflected in higher costs for industry and for households. It is totally unacceptable to me as a center party. Now is the time for us to sit down and solve the problems. We have an obligation as politicians to do so. We in the Center Party have done it many times before. Come now to the negotiating table, other parties! I am convinced that we can solve this for the good of households, companies, the climate and Sweden.
i-8iYHocdyu7Adi2XoipeDoC	Madam President, I would like Is there anything that would be more relevant than energy policy today? Yes, they are undemocratic countries, their dictatorial and authoritarian leaders and the war in Ukraine. The committee proposes that the Riksdag should make two announcements to the Government in connection with two motion requests, on the one hand concerning hydroelectric power and, on the other hand, on long-distance and combined heat and power. As regards hydroelectric power, the committee believes that Parliament should supplement a previous announcement on small hydroelectric power, so that it is made clear to the government that both small and large-scale hydroelectric power should be protected and developed. I guess that's okay. As regards long-distance and cogeneration, the committee notes that a strategy has been announced in the Government's electrification strategy. However, the committee stresses the importance of the strategy including issues of taxation, building rules and EU rules on biofuels. I'm not going to move on to that. We support the reservations and are pleased with what is going on. When it comes to wind power, there is a lot going on, and it is on the lips of many and in discussions. There is no doubt that wind power is the fastest and cheapest mode of production in Sweden today. Regardless of the positive signals of wind power expansion, there are some worrying clouds above the spin. We had Säpo visiting the committee on various security issues that may appear with us politicians linked to our mission. Helena Lindahl was ahead of me and asked some questions about the Chinese' willingness to invest in wind power with us and about security issues around this. I followed up on her question and asked a follow-up question that was quite clear and precise. We are now getting a picture that we had not believed ten years ago of dictatorial and authoritarian leaders in undemocratic countries and how they can act. It is like ten years since these countries began their course of investing in the social function of electricity supply in our country. Then of course I'm talking about China. The question I put to Säpo was: Have we been naive when we let it go this far? The answer from Säpo was: Yes. Not only do foreign investors become owners of production, but they often also mortgage production for decades to come. Are we missing something here? I would like to put that question to us as a legislative assembly. As one of the largest energy companies, which is also owned by the state, Vattenfall should, in my opinion, take the lead in the transition to renewables. The company is already working on renewable production, but with the unique position that the company has, I think it needs to do more. Vattenfall's ownership directive should be formulated in such a way that it contributes to the objectives of Swedish energy policy. Vattenfall's mission is to generate a market return by conducting energy business. The company will also be one of the companies leading the development towards environmentally sustainable energy production. I and the Left Party believe that there is a contradiction between the requirements for market returns and being one of the companies leading the development towards environmentally sustainable energy production. It therefore needs to be made clear that Vattenfall will increase its investments in wind energy even if it is done at the expense of the return requirement. The government should therefore commission Vattenfall to build more wind power. The government should also come back with proposals on how the return requirement for Vattenfall can be lowered in order to facilitate investments in Swedish wind power. The Left Party therefore advocates a reduction in Vattenfall's yield requirements, with the counter-requirement that the money be invested instead in the expansion of Swedish wind power. It is excellent, Madam President, that I support our reservation 26. We are, of course, in favour of all our reservations, but, as is customary, I am only in favour of one. In October 2021, the investigation submitted a report entitled A legally secure wind test, SOU 2021:53. The report describes, among other things, the existence of so-called wind farm plans, i.e. a kind of thematic addition to the municipalities' outline plans. The opinion of the study is that the previous support for wind power planning has been of great importance in increasing knowledge and getting municipalities to plan for wind power. The investigation also notes that the identification in the master plan was of great importance for the examination of the permit prior to the introduction of the municipal veto right. However, the requirement for municipal power has reduced the value of identifying areas for wind power expansion in the master plan in both theory and practice. In theory, this can be done by municipalities being able to decide at any time during a review process not to support a wind power establishment regardless of what is stated in the master plan. In practice, it has also been shown that municipalities have not approved projects although these have been planned in areas that have been identified as suitable in outline plans. The investigation also presents the pros and cons of a model that makes municipal wind farm plans legally binding. It is a model that draws inspiration from the trial according to the Planning and Construction Act but which nevertheless constitutes a special regulation of wind power. The binding plans would remind us of today's wind farm plans, which are thus thematic additions to the outline plans. However, unlike these, they must be binding on both the municipality and others. In conclusion, the study's proposal means that municipalities continue to have the right to say no to wind power. However, unlike today, the municipality will provide information early in the process, and the scope of the municipality's decision is limited to land and water use only. The licensing authority then examines whether the wind farm can be granted a permit taking into account, for example, natural environmental interests. The report of the inquiry was sent out for consultation in the autumn of last year. The Left Party's view of the municipal veto has been known since before, and the government intends to come up with a bill early in April 2022. However, it does not come to our committee, which is why I mention it here. We realise, of course, that there is no support for abolishing the municipal veto. But compensation for municipalities when wind power is established must be provided, otherwise we miss the rate of renewable expansion. There should be something about this in the context of the wind energy review. Madam President, I would like There is so much that will depend on how we rig up our energy system for the next decade. We have only received a foretaste of the electricity prices that we can be infected with if we do not expand our production and transfers within the country. We must ensure that we, as politicians, are courageous and make decisions that safeguard the function of society, as the supply of electricity is. We cannot allow foreign companies to colonise Sweden in a way that undermines first and foremost the plans that our heavy industry so well wants to do for the climate, but also to secure the future for themselves of course. Climate targets are important and should be achieved with instruments as a tool. But if the tools only lead to poorer consumers and the closure of industry, what have we won on the journey? The fact that foreign investors see the opportunity to invest in electricity generation in Sweden is probably all right, if that means that it secures the system and electricity prices in the country. That's the condition. But if investment leads to the reverse, I think we should step back and rethink. Madam President, I would like The Left Party sees electrification that society faces as something very exceptional, large and important. This applies above all to the climate, but also to well-being. It, in turn, depends on our industry being strong in the greatest transition since the entry of the steam engine into society.
i-XrKuRMiziTeJzcX3VmJNu6	Madam President, I would like I'd like to ask you a little bit about the municipal veto. The left side now seems to want to go on the line that maybe you should nibble a little on it. It may be that a municipality has a very bad economy. The people there don't really think it wants a large wind farm. But now I'm a little conspiratorial here... think it's a nice penny coming to the municipal treasury. Sounds like that's how the money's supposed to come. It is not for individuals who happen to have their house there or happen to live in the area, but it should go to the municipal treasury. I think it is a dangerous way, in general, to plan for society. Nevertheless, you should always try to have a consensus with your citizens. That is also why we have a very strong municipal self-determination. Madam President, I would like If we are toying with the idea that we should have, as we advocate, small modular nuclear power plants, are we going to run over places where we do not want them either? In Oskarshamn, Forsmark and around Ringhals, the population is very positive about nuclear power. If you were to find a municipality that was really against it, would you be able to put a nuclear power plant in the middle of the village without asking the municipality at all? It's got to be the way it's supposed to beat if you're going to see the power beat as equal. I would like Mr Lahti to develop it, Madam President.
i-UAR93E24S4GmyBcK5PLeGT	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lotta Olsson, for the development of the situation! I agree that things are not as good as they are today. I am thinking above all of wind power. A municipality can change its mind. Someone has come up with a proposal for design. Maybe they've been pumping money for five years. Then there will be a new management in the municipality, and it will change its mind and say no. It won't hold. It's a bad way to use the municipal veto. As I said, I realise that there is no support in Parliament to abolish the veto, and then there is still. But at least this leads in the right direction. The municipality has responsibility for much of what is happening in society, but it does not get anything for it itself. The compensation for the landowner's robbery is good for wind power. Those who own the land receive a good compensation. I guess the voluntary community episode is like that. It depends on how they succeed in their negotiations with the company. It gives a little to the surrounding society. We believe that the municipality should receive compensation if it provides the environment in its municipality for such a socially important function as electricity generation. If today we were to find ourselves in the unfortunate situation of starting to build small modular reactors, would a municipality be able to change its mind? It says, "We're going to build here." Then there will be a new management in the municipality, and it says: We do not want it. It's just as uncertain. I think what's in place today is good. It is only necessary to introduce some form of compensation to the municipality. It is much easier to try to tell municipal politicians in the municipality: We now run two preschool classes or something with the money from the establishment of wind power.
i-YEjSZ6CMTc5VdmDw8m9FnQ	Madam President, I would like Then it is not the municipal self-determination that Mr Lahti is after. It's actually the handling out in the municipality. It says, "We want it." Then it says, "We don't want any." It costs a great deal in both investigations and infrastructurals, and then backs up. It is a completely different matter from saying that you from the state can go in and rule with your whole hand. At the same time you should know that we have a rather dark, or bright, green history in Sweden. We who are old enough remember the debate in Norrland when the rivers were extended. It has never been free of charge in either nature or other way when you have built up power. That's when you ran over the population. Maybe it was good for all of us who can get electricity today, but it was pretty boring processes. I think it would be extremely sad if we were to get in that position now instead of finding win-win concepts. I also think it is a little populist to keep mentioning that this applies to moderate municipalities. We know that even the current Minister for Energy in his municipality has voted against a wind power establishment right where he lives. This is how it works many times: It's great if you set up wind turbines in Birger Lahti Norrland, but how if you come near me! That is often the way people think. I don't want to draw a map of Sweden for where wind power should be, but I think you could be smart and look in areas that are already in use – for motorways or otherwise. How do we smartly get a win-win concept and not go against the entire population and just push wind turbines out of state power? It's distasteful to me.
i-5tnJd7MnmsPV7u3gk9ZM2k	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lotta Olsson, for the line shift! I agree that we do not have the optimal way of selling in the arguments. But one thing I am quite clear about is that in Sweden we need to expand electricity production, and that much, within a decade. It will be very difficult for me to try to convince some villagers in my municipality if at the same time there is a municipality – perhaps moderate – close to the coast that will get a wind farm at sea that you hardly see and say no to it with reference to the municipal veto. Then it will be very difficult for me to try to convince those who get a wind farm in the corner. But I know one thing: Somewhere it must be built whether it is at sea or on land in Norrbotten. It is not possible if everyone has the NIMBY effect, and it only gets bigger if we do not have compensation for the municipalities. It is not entirely against the will of the municipalities either. We cannot have a study circle for every time we do something that is a social interest or a social function. But there are politicians in the municipality who are elected, and if they agree, you probably don't drive all over the population. I also think it will be easier if you have a good remuneration for the municipalities that lease land and environment to wind power establishment.
i-4Pd5SYXeLgdCEaHhkyy8rj	Madam President, I would like The report is not only about electricity but also about biofuels. I was going to ask Birger Lahti some questions about that. The Left Party has, in a very short time, gone from advocating a rather strong reduction obligation to wanting to scrap it in practice and lay down itself at the EU minimum level – with an increased share of fossil fuels as a result of course. As a result, I have three questions for Birger Lahti. We have rather tough sustainability requirements for biofuels that are not at all on fossil fuels. If we reduce the renewable share of sustainable biofuels and replace renewables with fossil fuels – how does Birger Lahti view the security policy implications of this? So we will use more oil, and we know that the major oil nations in the world are countries such as Russia, Saudi Arabia, Venezuela and many others. There are also some more or less kind ones, but they are not very many. How does Birger Lahti view the climate consequences of replacing renewables with fossils? The Climate Policy Council has said that this is perhaps the most important measure we have to reduce emissions. If so, what does the Left Party intend to replace this with? There will be very big changes in an extremely short time. This is something that's happening here and now. Should you do as the Left Party proposes, we are talking about 55 million tonnes of increased emissions by 2030, and it is just as much that is released throughout Sweden in a whole year. Finally, how does Birger Lahti see that this would affect the possibilities for Swedish production of biofuels? All the plants that are in the pipeline then have completely different rules of play, and their investments are, of course, threatened.
i-UzQoA5Qszu7vtpVzNijTkp	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the questions, Rickard. There were four questions and not three, but I hope you can count the answers. Let's start with the first – the reduction obligation. I understand that our proposal does not fall into the good hands of everyone, but in the short term we must do something. It doesn't work when people get poor and people say they can't afford to drive to work. We have to do something, but I understand that all the signals we give don't hit right all the time. The reason why members of the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture raised a motion that we should be careful with the reduction obligation, I think, is linked to a concern for Swedish forestry, which had that entrance. That's why you ended up there; it's no harder than that. As far as safety is concerned, I had hoped that the Center Party would vote in favour of a proposal which the Green Party submitted to the committee on an initiative and which we followed along with. It is about stopping all Russian imports of fuel, including liquid motor fuel coming from Russia. I'm afraid the Center Party didn't agree with that. However, I agree that all the measures proposed in the short term are not good. They're not gonna hit it right; I get that. But we need to do something in the short term. And then this is what we can do to reassure the people who every day signal us that they can't afford to refuel their car, that they can't come to work and that they've quit. The signals to them are: We do something in the short term. But I agree with Rickard Nordin that this is not going to last for the long term. We must have something to hold up, and I think that Mr Rickard had good entrances to the speech. As far as climate issues are concerned, it is clear that we need to get something that reduces long-term dependence on fossil fuels. There is perhaps the answer to the fourth question, which was asked in addition to the three: It is clear that domestic production will be good. I'll continue in the next line.
i-Dok52ykJxtD7jVj4cDBfHY	Madam President, I would like In the short term, we need to take action, Birger Lahti. I absolutely agree with that. The Center Party has put forward a number of proposals both to lower the price at the pump and, perhaps above all, for those most affected – green industries and hauliers. The problem here is that the Left Party and other parties proposing a reduced reduction obligation do not seem to have understood how the market works. Fuel companies have already purchased these volumes of renewable fuel, so reduced ambitions make no difference here and now. It does not lower the price unless one wants to go in with some kind of state price regulation. I know that the Left Party wants – they want government price regulation, SEK 18 at pump and so on – but it is legally impossible to do so in practice. The same was true of the Green Party's committee initiative. They wanted to stop fossil fuels, and they wanted Sweden to unilaterally suspend imports of oil and gas. And that sounds great-- I think so too! The problem in that case is that we have renounced our trade policy to the EU, so we cannot legally make those decisions. I find it a little strange that people want Parliament to make decisions that are illegal. We in the Center Party cannot do that, but if the Left Party wants to stand up to make illegal decisions, it is up to the Left Party. On the other hand, we agreed to push this forward in Brussels. We want Sweden to push for the EU to stop fossil oil and gas. It is a matter of course for the Center Party and something we are already running. What is interesting is that this would further increase prices. In addition, if renewables are removed, prices will increase even more. It would therefore have a reverse effect in this context to remove renewables. Perhaps it would increase prices even more when we reduce oil supply on the market at the same time. But it is good that the Left Party sees the need in the long term. This is not the proposal of the Left Party, but I am pleased that Birger Lahti sees it and not least because he highlights the Swedish forest, which has enormous potential. I know that Birger Lahti knows about this from his home country and that he knows that there is a lot to do here. I think the Left Party can read about how the market works, but otherwise it seems pretty good.
i-DexxXLNboz67M7CpzrzVnE	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Rickard Nordin, for the questions and the debate! As far as the reduction obligation is concerned in the future, I agree. But today, with the picture we have now, I am not so sure that what we are importing into Sweden is as sustainable as they claim. On that question, I think I have too little answer to give my word that every litre we take into the country is sustainable. However, I agree with what Mr Rickard said that this would apply if we were to have our own production. Then we would have jobs in place near production, and we would be watching what we were involved in. That would certainly be a good thing, but then the debate on forests must also be balanced. As things stand today, it is a confusion of wrong information and misinformation and a lot of opinion here and there. As far as the future is concerned, I very much hope that we will find something else that will benefit the countryside. Today we see a lot of talk about electrification. If there is a single charging station in an entire municipality, it is not anyone here to try to get someone to buy an electric car even if the person could afford it. There are also no cars on the shelf. They say, "Come back in a year." Maybe we'll have a car you can buy. In the short term, I'm glad Rickard Nordin agrees with the picture. Something we need to do to reassure these people. Some are desperate; they say that one third of their income goes to refuel the car the times they need to refuel. There's a lot we agree with. I also admit that I had a bad track of what was going to happen today. We're trying to slow it down if it's in stock. The fuels we were supposed to bring in were no one here. In fact, the requirement of the Green Party was to push forward in the EU. Rickard Nordin himself says that we are good at making decisions on EU rules – always to our disadvantage. I think there is something in that too. I don't think we're taking the fight in Europe that we should be taking.
i-GZWx1B3swZCvdqssenGM6E	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating energy policy. There are quite a few motions in this report. I am going to support reservation 1, which is that we should have an energy target that is 100% fossil-free. At present, there is an energy agreement that points out that by 2040 we should be 100% renewable. This is the wrong signal policy. In essence, I still believe that the political parties in this Parliament agree that it is the oil and coal that are the enemies. They're the ones who should be pushed away. Therefore, it is very important to give the right signals to all the actors out there, that is to say that it is a fossil-free production we shall have in the future. I know that we do not have an explicit ban on the construction of new nuclear reactors. I also know that we no longer have an excise duty on nuclear power. Yet many feel that there is a stop around 2040, despite hearing from various political parties that it does not mean a stop date in 2040. I'll tell you a little story and make a comparison. Snails ask their partner out at a restaurant. When the menu comes in, the skimper reads this carefully and then says to his partner: I'll just have a small simple omelette. What do you want? If you were the invited partner, would you feel valuable and appreciated? No, of course you wouldn't. I believe that there is a similarity between this and how nuclear power has been treated by the government. Our energy companies will have to come up with proposals for new production, we can hear the new energy minister say. But there is a ceiling on the number of reactors. You're only allowed to build in three places, and you're expected to be phased out in 2040. Is it a party that you feel you want to participate in? No, I don't think so. We Christian Democrats believe that this objective of changing the energy target to 100% fossil-free is also to send a signal that nuclear power will be a piece of the puzzle in the future energy mix. It will not be the only piece of the puzzle, but it is necessary. Here, the legislation needs to be reviewed so that nuclear power has the chance to contribute. Madam President, I would like We should have a fairly broad consensus on energy policy. Several parties have said so. There is much that we agree on. There are some basic questions and some basic hygiene factors. We agree on the oil and coal. We have heard about the role of cogeneration. There's a couple of things. I see that if we can put aside party tactics and game theories, we have a common goal. More – not less – electricity will be needed in the future. We should have an identified planning target of about 300 terawatt hours by 2040. There are a few different scenes for this, but they all come together in the heat of it. How, then, is this to be done? We currently produce around 160 terawatt hours per year and use 140 terawatt hours. There are various organisations that have carried out different surveys. Some have done this with the help of scientists. The most cost-effective thing that Sweden could do is to use at least one third of nuclear power, at least one third of wind power and at least one third of hydropower, solar energy, bioenergy and so on. This is the most cost-effective that Sweden could have in the future. This requires that these three legs have their planned plans. With regard to the first thing I mentioned, nuclear power, we believe that it should be a roadmap for next generation nuclear power. Many believe that we want to build old reactors in Sweden, but we do not want that. There is a lot of research here, and just as with renewables, there is research going on. If we are going to look to the utmost right now, we are going to build the technology that is current here and now and not wait for what will come in five or ten years. Christian Democrats would like to see the construction of Ringhals 5 and 6 started. The First Promise Government put a wet blanket over these plans and stopped them. Resume this, and we can quickly get production started! It is also about the provision of skills, as some of my colleagues in the Committee on Economic Affairs have mentioned. Here we have been clear from the Christian Democrats, the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats that this should also go to nuclear research, which is something that has not been given for many years. We had a very high level of expertise in Sweden – we were the best in the world. Unfortunately, we are no longer. Nevertheless, the government has now provided funds – albeit a little bit it is a step in the right direction – for the Anita project, for example, which is a centre of excellence that will gather the valuable information that a country needs in order to be able to assume its responsibilities fully. The more such initiatives, the more the Christian Democrats welcome it. The Christian Democrats also see that hope is increasing. The EU makes many wise decisions, but sometimes it forgets. Often we say that Europe may not be the ones who always think of the welfare and woe of all countries. But what if each country would have its own standard for what an A4 paper should be like or how a puncher should put the holes? It may be a little silly, but it is a useful reminder that common standards are smooth. Nuclear power would be well served by simplified licensing processes, type approval and standardised components. That would be beneficial. Then it would not be so terrible costs or take so long. The second part of the third part of which I divided this into is hydroelectric power. It's part of our base power. In this report we have said that we are facing a moratorium! Postpone any review of the environmental status of hydroelectric power until all necessary measures are in place, including to protect hydroelectric power. In order to reduce the negative impact of re-evaluations on hydroelectric power, we believe that the full exemption granted by EU law should be used. This is a very important issue so that small-scale hydropower does not run the risk of being driven out. An announcement has been made about this in Parliament; now it is up to the government to actually implement it. Unfortunately, I don't believe it until I see it. The last third is wind power. It will be needed, because we will need all the parts. However, it will not be needed everywhere. Keep the municipal veto! Citizens must be brought with them in order to be able to develop and deliver responsibly. We believe that the electricity market also needs to be reviewed here. Who provide support services, and who do not? Then we have many other different parts. We have solar energy. It is on the rise, and that is where we need to make things easier. We have combined heat and power and district heating. Now we see that this is part of the electrification strategy, and that is a good thing. But the other day you got a punch again: the tax is raised again. It does not really feel like the government wants to make it easier for cogeneration and district heating to remain. We may be able to discuss this further, but it is precisely these parts that need to be addressed. We have been concerned about Russian natural gas and Nord Stream 2 for a long time. Now the reality has changed rapidly, and our desire for Germany to start working to make itself independent of the Russian gas has been answered in a nasty way. But it's still to be done. This is a reminder that energy policy and security policy go hand in hand from a preparedness and security perspective more than they have done so far. Here Sweden has probably been a bit naive. Madam President, I would like I shall conclude by saying that households should not be forced to bear the responsibility for the government's failed energy policy. Right now it is expensive to be Swedish. Swedish families should be compensated with some kind of subsidy, but it is unreasonable price levels right now and we need to take responsibility for real. That is why we Christian Democrats believe that comprehensive reforms are needed. Pay back the electricity debt to households, increase the self-sufficiency of electricity, take control of investments in the electricity grid and also make the core network a national interest! Sweden is well placed to become self-sufficient in clean electricity, but then Sweden deserves a new energy policy.
i-GWnRPkY2CLxyvCysi3sBMd	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Camilla, for your speech. In parts it was very interesting. Like Rickard Nordin, Camilla argued that there are similarities in energy policy, and I think we should take note of both Mr Rickards's and Mr Camilla's comments. We need to look not only at the differences but also at the similarities. A reflection that I have and which I have a direct question about to Camilla is about the electrification strategy with 67 measures that have now been presented. How do Camilla Brodin and the Christian Democrats view the electrification strategy? My view is that there are great similarities there too. That is one question. The second issue that I would like to touch on is that there is much to come up about what we can do in the short term and in the long term. In the long term, there is a lot of discussion about nuclear power and about building small modular nuclear reactors and what it should look like, although we do not have the technology completely clear there. As in the speech I made and at the turn of the line with Lotta Olsson, I would like to ask the question: Are there any thoughts on the part of the Christian Democrats from a security perspective how it can strike in a potentially deteriorating security situation for Sweden? If Sweden were to be attacked militarily, which of course must not happen, Swedish nuclear power would be shut down. It is a problem compared to wind power that can continue to spin. How do Christian Democrats reason there?
i-SNgHeBweX2UE83vqQMNfd8	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Jonsson, for the questions. I understand that there are two issues: one on the electrification strategy and one on the security situation. Let's start with the electrification strategy. It was long awaited by many and was a product of the January Agreement. It consists of 67 points, and we were not there at all, if you say so, in its production. We had it introduced to us. Had you wanted to have politics with you from the beginning, you might have been able to talk a little, but we have to put that aside and discuss it further at a later date. Much of what's in there is an investigation mission that the government gives to itself. It's gonna be exciting. You only see a starting point and you think you should investigate it. Yes, it's great, but come back when there's something concrete! It is also said that we should not get caught up in the different types of energy, because there we know that there are slightly different views among the parties. Despite this, however, the sea wind is specifically pointed out and combined heat and power. The district heating strategy has been in our policy for quite some time, so it is a welcome message. I believe that quite a lot of people in this House will be able to fully agree on this. I think there's a way there's potential to move forward, but in some other ways I think it's going to be a little bit more tricky. We must have the same picture of reality from the very beginning in order to get there. Then there was the issue of the security situation. I believe that the security situation associated with energy policy is one of the most important issues ahead. I think it is worrying if we do not have enough electricity to feed our citizens responsibly and continue to sit on the knees of Putin.
i-G6PgkWcs8wNfqoq2WGD1Uf	Madam President, I would like The last thing Camilla Brodin mentioned, I share her view. Of course, we're not supposed to sit on Putin's lap, but the question was a little different. When it comes to nuclear power plants, which are protected objects, on Swedish soil and in a deteriorating state of safety policy, I wonder whether the Christian Democrats in that context see a challenge in building even more nuclear power or not. To be more specific in the question: Do you include this aspect when you look at it? At the same time, when we are on this subject, I would like to say that we have done some things from the Social Democratic-led government in these years. The impact tax has been removed, and we have made measures in the waste fund to get the more bearing on the cost of that part. Nevertheless, there has not been a queue to build nuclear power in Sweden. However, it is a long queue to get to build wind power on land and at sea. As we could hear in a previous post here, there has been very extensive no from the municipalities to approve sea wind power up to 60 terawatt hours, and this has also been the case in municipalities where the Christian Democrats are in charge. The question is also there how Camilla Brodin and the Christian Democrats view the energy supplement that could happen here and now and not 20 years ahead in the form of nuclear power. How do we get to this, and how do we get the municipalities to actually feel that this is a good way to go to get the needed supplements for Swedish electricity mix?
i-XiDKiVbBa6NjCDo2hk3p4Y	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mattias Jonsson, for the questions! I'm going straight into what's going on with the sea breeze. We have several projects that have been applied for that started in 2003, and we have some project from 2005. They are still not in use or not in full production. It takes a long time, no matter what kind of power it is. But you shouldn't forget what we've done historically. We built 12 reactors in 13 years. If it went well then you can do it again, but then you also have to make sure that you have standards and so on. If we roll over to this with the municipal veto, I don't think you can run over the municipalities. You have to bring them and the citizens with you, no matter what kind of energy you're going to build up in order for it to be accepted. We have heard before: there is no one who really questions the existence of nuclear power plants in Ringhals, Oskarshamn or Forsmark. But there is quite a large and increasing resistance to wind power. Why does it look like that? Yes, it is because you feel run over and because you have not received any compensation. You may have lost half the value of your house and so on. It's not okay. Here politics must be stepped up, and it must be done responsibly. We have been involved in making decisions and in saying yes. Look at what it looks like outside Sölvesborg! Who's in charge there? Yes, it is the Swedish Democrats who have the KSO post there, and then it is the Christian Democrats and the Moderates. Saying we're just saying no is wrong. We don't. Of course there will be wind power. We will need more of everything if we are to succeed in the climate challenge, but then we need to step up and put this a little aside and instead realise that we need everything. I hope that the Social Democrats too will come to their senses and will be on that journey in the future.
i-3DHPsQtRTbwUgKpRSoGm3u	Madam President, I would like As both the President and the honourable Members can say, the lights are on in this House, there is a pleasant indoor climate and, after all, we do not have a shortage of electricity in the sense that we have power cuts. On the other hand, we have many symptoms that things are not right. For example, for a long time we have had sky-high electricity prices, and industries cannot be established or, for that matter, switch to meet the climate challenges. The symptoms are numerous and show the serious problems we have in our electrical system. These are signals that we politicians must both react to and act on. It is important and crucial that we remedy the underlying problems rather than trying to make up for the symptoms. We have a government and several parties who, with the stubbornness of a fool, are trying to convince themselves and everyone else that we have no problems. You can make up a pig, but it's still a pig, to quote a Social Democratic minister. Madam President, I would like It has not escaped anyone that we have at times had sky-high electricity prices with large differences depending on whether you live in northern Sweden or in the south. Currently, households in southern Sweden have more than six times higher electricity prices than households in northern Sweden. That's crazy, to say the least. There are many factors affecting the price of electricity. Among other things it is affected by Putin's actions in the gas market but also by weather and wind. That's where the government's reality statement stops. But if we are to look at the whole reality, we can see that this government, together with the Center Party, the Left Party and the Green Party, has decommissioned fully functioning nuclear power plants in southern Sweden. They let it happen even though we warned against the consequences. The serious weaknesses in southern Sweden's electricity grid, where the high unpredictable prices are the most obvious symptom, are due to the closure of several reactors. In addition, it is extremely clear that when Ringhals 1 and 2 were closed, southern Sweden's electricity prices were linked to the continent. Before that we usually had the same prices all over Sweden. If we had kept the nuclear power plants, we would have been able to supply fossil-free nuclear power to customers in southern Sweden. We could have exported more and thus made climate benefits both at home and on the continent. It would also have made it possible for neighbouring countries to reduce their dependence on Russia. Of course, with the current world situation, it would have been very welcome. Madam President, I would like Sweden's electricity consumption appears to have to at least double within 20 years, not least in order to create the conditions for industrial change and growth. To enable the transformation of the industry and transport sector, more fossil-free electricity is needed. There are only three fossil-free forms of energy that can be expanded on a large scale. It's sun, wind and nuclear power. Nuclear power is the only thing that can be planned. It therefore has a special position. Anyone who does not want to expand nuclear power when the need increases must instead propose storage, which is not available on a large scale, and user flexibility, i.e. that users adapt their electricity use and thus their everyday life to the weather. Therefore, the Parliament's energy policy objectives must be changed. The goal should be that the energy we use and export should be fossil-free. The reference to renewables in the current energy policy objectives must be removed, as it does not mean nuclear energy. Madam President, I would like In this Parliament, the Liberals and three other parties have clearly said that we must protect the Swedish energy mix with both nuclear power, hydropower and renewable energy. If, and I say, you protect the Swedish energy mix, you cannot create different rules for our energy types. We cannot give subsidies to wind power and, at the same time, pull away the carpet for nuclear power. If you protect the Swedish energy mix, you want to create comparable rules of play, so that the market chooses how, where and when you build and with which technology. However, since there are parties in this Parliament that do not see nuclear energy as a natural part of the Swedish energy mix, it is necessary to create unhealthy benefits for other types of energy. It creates far-reaching problems in our energy system – problems that we see today and problems that we will see for many years to come. Madam President, I would like The argument box is failing for the opponents of nuclear power. At first it was that we have no custody; now that question has been resolved. Then there was the import of uranium from Russia; and it turned out, as we had said, that we have no dependence on Russia. And even the argument that no one wants to build because it's so expensive was crushed just a few weeks ago. A Swedish player with money in his back is more than happy to build nuclear power in Sweden. Then what's the problem? Well, we have several laws and regulations that basically make a new building impossible. In addition to changing the Parliament's energy policy objectives, we must: Remove the ban on building elsewhere than at existing nuclear power plants. In practice, only Vattenfall and Uniper can build there. Remove the restriction on more than ten reactors. Modern reactors are smaller than existing ones and therefore more are needed. Make sure the Radiation Safety Authority prepares to receive an application for a new reactor. They immediately need to develop a fast track to approve reactors that are type-approved in countries comparable to Sweden. These are some of the things that need to change. But as long as the Social Democratic Government is in power, the resistance to nuclear power will continue, and the Swedish energy mix will not be safeguarded. We need a change of power to a liberal and bourgeois government in order to create the right conditions and comparable rules of play. Madam President, I would like There are two problems with Russian gas: it is Russian, and it is gas. Russia's invasion of Ukraine shows that we need to fundamentally change defence and security policy, but also energy policy. Energy policy must again be based more on security policy considerations. The fact that energy policy is a security policy is nothing new. The expansion of hydroelectric power and, in particular, nuclear power during the post-war period was done to avoid dependence on imported fossil fuels from, among other countries, behind the Iron Curtain. Europe's great weakness is that the energy policy pursued, and the resulting high dependence on gas, have given Putin power over both electricity and heat supplies on the continent. We need to make possible independence from Russia. We must create the right conditions for Europe to cut ties with Russia. Of course, Swedish nuclear power has an important function. With safety policy considerations, it should therefore be obvious to all parties that new nuclear power should be built in Sweden. But above all, Swedish electricity exports are important for Finland, the Baltic States, Poland and Germany to be able to get rid of their dependence on Russian energy. According to current EU rules, Sweden must always keep at least 70% of the capacity in the cables available. We don't. Swedish power grids must immediately take the necessary measures to achieve this. Our goal should be set higher. Electricity exports should be able to go full whenever the need exists. Sweden also needs to act to bring about action within the EU and in other EU countries. Germany's plan to close its three reactors on New Year's Eve this year must be stopped. The remaining reactors produce more electricity than the Baltic States use or almost as much as the Danes consume. Germany should also start the reactors it has closed prematurely. This applies in particular to the three which closed as late as two months ago and Philippsburg 2, which were stopped two years ago. These four together have the capacity to produce electricity corresponding to Hungary's needs. These are some measures we need to implement in order to create the right conditions for Europe to cut ties with Russia. Madam President, I would like Finally, the energy system is and must be for man and to meet his needs. Today's energy policy obliges people and businesses to set up their lives and activities according to the weather. In the long run, this means fundamental changes in people's everyday lives and in the competitiveness of companies. Of course, I support all our reservations, but for the benefit of time, I only call for reservation 16, which deals with licensing processes and new nuclear power.
i-Coo1qkc3dBhFbZ3Yvn84SB	Madam President, I would like We are going to debate energy, but right now, of course, everything is being overshadowed by the ongoing war. Putin attack war is unprovoked, illegal and in every possible way terrible. The West must do everything in our power to end the murder. After all, there is a connection here with what we are debating today, energy policy. It is because every day the EU buys fossil energy for the equivalent of SEK 6 billion. Europe and Sweden are deeply dependent on Putin's coal, gas and oil. For every penny spent and sent to Russia, Putin can add additional money to its rapidly expanding war fund. It is absurd in every way that we have put ourselves in this dependence. It's direct support for Putin and his illegal war. In addition, Europe and Sweden are dependent on Russian nuclear technology. Half of the enriched uranium imported by Sweden comes from Russia. Of all new nuclear power plants built in the world since 2018, every one, except a few, has been built in China by Russia. The state-controlled company that operates this is Rosatom, who is also responsible for Russia's nuclear programme. That is why the Green Party says this: Introduce a principle of energy solidarity in Sweden and the EU. This principle shall consist of three parts. Firstly, ban all Russian energy imports into the EU and Sweden immediately. Secondly, in order to contribute to the transition that now needs to take place in those countries that need energy most, spare as much energy as possible in Sweden by saving energy and energy efficiency. Thirdly, with exactly the same aim: to expand renewable electricity production as quickly as possible. For these reasons, we in the Green Party have made a sharp proposal here in Parliament to strangle all Russian energy imports. But what did the Riksdag do? What did you do? Yes, you voted down the motion. Six out of eight parties in this House voted against the proposal to strangle all energy imports into the EU and Sweden. Moreover, this happened only an hour before President Zelenskyj in this House appealed to us to stop buying Russian energy. Then you voted down a proposal to do just that. It's a shame. For us in the Green Party, work to free us from Russian energy has been going on for many decades. Unfortunately, most parties have opposed us. Let me take some examples from a party belonging to those who most defend the fossil economy, namely the Moderates. Firstly, the EU has had a process of classifying different types of investment on the basis of whether they are sustainable or not. This is one way to steer financial markets and their investments and to bring funding to the technologies that are sustainable. What did the Moderates do? Well, they went to battle for nuclear power and fossil gas to be classified as sustainable according to the EU's new definition. This is a decision and a line that directly benefits Putin and Russia. Secondly, we in the Green Party have pushed through a change that means that we will phase out fossil gas and coal from the Swedish heating sector. By removing the fossil fuel subsidy imposed by the Alliance Government, we have now phased out almost all coal and gas from Swedish heat production. This was the Moderates strongly opposed when we pushed it through. Thirdly, we can look at the transport sector. For a long time, the Moderates have been running a line of making it cheaper to buy petrol and diesel, which, of course, originates in oil. Now they have gone further than that and want to significantly increase the share of fossil fuels in the fuels that are refuelled in Sweden. Both of these lines constitute aid to Putin. Fourthly, the Moderates are very committed to stopping the option that exists, namely wind power. In the municipality by municipality, the Moderates ride out against new wind power projects, corresponding to a total of 71 terawatt hours in recent years. For those who do not know these concepts, I can say that this corresponds to much more than all the nuclear power we have in Sweden today. How, then, did the Moderates justify their refusal to support the Green Party's proposal to strangle Russian energy imports? Well, they said you do that because you don't want to legitimize the Green Party's policy. It simply chose to turn the crisis and war into a question of party politics and tacticalism and part of its own cultural war, which it is engaged in. You want to distance yourself from the Green Party in every way. That is why we cannot support an initiative by the Green Party. There are several examples of the pro-fossil struggle that the Moderates are pursuing. I could also take many examples from other parties. Most parties in this hall may not pursue such a dangerous policy, but it is politics that way. The environmental party is now the only climate party in the Swedish parliament. It's quite obvious. It's as simple as that. Let me round off by arguing a little for the reservation to which I shall apply. It has more climate focus than security focus, but it's related. Of course, we support all our proposals, but for time winning, I only agree to reservation 12. It is about the fact that we need to get steering speed in Swedish climate policy. First of all, we need new climate targets. We need a carbon budget that regulates how much Sweden emits on the total. The most important tool to achieve this is to completely phase out fossil energy. As I said, this is important from a security policy perspective, but also to get the momentum in Swedish climate policy. Therefore, we propose a sunset law that involves a gradual phasing out of all fossil energy in Sweden by 2030. It will be necessary for Sweden to live up to its part in the Paris Agreement.
i-NWNEYProXKgK5nos6bNZjn	Madam President, I would like The Social Affairs Committee is now dealing with ageing issues. We all get older every day. My getting older is the proof that I live and collect experiences and knowledge. More and more people live longer and have thus accumulated a lot of knowledge and experience. But sometimes it's like life experience is something good up to a certain age but then it becomes a burden to have many years on your neck. That is why we need to pay attention, make visible and counteract ageism when it occurs. Madam President, I would like With aging, there is also the risk that we will suffer from illness. This means that we need health care, emergency interventions, treatment and rehabilitation. Sometimes we also need care in different ways according to our needs. The joint financing of health care by the public sector is essential. It is the core of well-being that care and care are there when we need it. It is essential that we continue to see people as the people they are, even when they need health care or care and at the same time they are full of years. It is not possible to generalise what young people need, nor what older people need. We are people with different needs and interests throughout their lives. Madam President, I would like Dementia and Alzheimer's disease are among those that were often perceived as natural parts of aging and had to be reckoned with in the past. It's not like that. If dementia, Alzheimer's disease or other cognitive illness affects you, you need care based on evidence and proven experience. Care should also be person-centred. The committee has assembled itself in an announcement to the government calling on them to develop a new national strategy for dementia and other cognitive diseases. I am very pleased with that proposal and hope that the government will address this work as soon as possible. The proposal is based on a motion of motion by us Christian Democrats and one by the Moderates. The aim of the strategy should be for these diseases to be diagnosed early, to be treated and, in the long term, to be prevented. The strategy should also include social support for patients and their relatives. ..................................................... Let me highlight a few things that need to be developed in order for us to have good care for people affected by dementia and other cognitive diseases. An expanded primary care where you are entitled to a fixed-named doctor's contact is of great importance in this case as well. You should know the name of your doctor, and he should have a reasonable number of patients, so that you can make an appointment when needed. If you get the possibility of continuity increases the chance that you as a patient dare to mention what feels strange but that you do not understand what it is. If there is continuity also increases the chance for the doctor to start an investigation in time to find out what it is that has emerged. If, after an investigation, you are told that you have a dementia of some kind, it is important to immediately get a follow-up and feel cared for. It is a revolutionary message to know that you have, for example, Alzheimer's disease. It's a chronic and fatal disease. What treatment can be given, and what effect does it have? What can I do to make myself feel better? At that stage, meeting a counselor and perhaps an occupational therapist could be worth gold. Dementia nurses are in some places, and this is a highly appreciated function. You get help to deal with the first time after the announcement and make yourself and perhaps also close relatives more prepared for the disease that will gradually develop. These are examples of what may need to be included in national guidelines for dementia. It is important that they are developed in broad collaboration between patient organisations, professions, researchers and authorities. Madam President, I would like There are further announcements in the report by the Committee on Social Affairs. We Christian Democrats are all behind it. This includes a national strategy to combat involuntary loneliness among the elderly, to strengthen the prevention of violence in close relations among the elderly and to review how the case prevention work can be strengthened. From the Christian Democrats' side, we would have liked to have seen the agreement of reservation 8 as well. It is about the importance of strengthening care for the elderly through increased access to health care. However, we have not obtained a majority in favour of it. That is why I am in favour of reservation 8 from us Christian Democrats.
i-GWYPu8X8manuMpPC3HyoMe	Madam President, I would like I'm in favour of reservation 14. Madam President, I would like Regardless of age, we want a healthy and good life all the days of life. What we mean by that is obviously different from the individuals we are. To feel secure, have an active life, have loved ones and be able to live at home as long as you wish and can – I think most people want it. But unfortunately, it's not always life gets like that when you get year-rich. Then maybe we need a little more help, and then it'll work. It must be easy to get help. Madam President, I would like The government has in the budget for this year made major financial investments with both general and targeted money in order to improve elderly care. Investments have been made in pensioner organisations, which is very important, and a national centre of competence for elderly care at the National Board of Health and Welfare has been set up. From July 1, 2022, there will be a permanent care contact in the home ministry. Later in the spring, we will examine in our committee a proposal that the permanent care contact the following year should have the professional title of assistant nurse. The 29 welfare proposals presented in the final report of the Welfare Commission at the end of last year are also being prepared. Priority areas are welfare management, the use of our public resources, sustainable skills provision, a good working environment and the opportunities for digitalisation in welfare. In December 2019, the Government decided on an Elder Research Council to include researchers with special expertise in elderly care. These are good things, but I'm sure there's more to it. The National Board of Health and Welfare has the task of examining annually what the elderly think about care for the elderly. The responses have just been collected and will be reported in week 25. A basis has also been developed that should be a support for relatives who care for relatives. We will eventually have an elderly care team, which is very welcome, and next summer the nurse will become a protected professional title. Another important initiative is the Elderly Care Lift, where the government finances the cost of the time an employee is away due to studies. It provides the opportunity to increase the skills of the staff, while at the same time giving the employee greater opportunities to study. Without competent staff there will be no safe and good quality either in home care, in particular housing or in home care. We also need staff with the skills to work preventively. Madam President, I would like Our health and care personnel are doing a fantastic job. I've met so many nice people who work there. But they must be appreciated more in terms of pay, good working environment and good working hours that are compatible with social life. It shall be terms of employment with full-time as the norm and the right basic staffing. Shared tours and minute-controlled schedules are to be removed. Let the staff have more time to do their jobs as the professionals they are. We need to get rid of unhealthy schedules, and skills development for all staff must take place on a regular basis. As obvious as it is in male-dominated workplaces that you get real work shoes and clothes that are adapted and suitable for work, it should be in women-dominated occupations. It prevents accidents and occupational injuries and reduces sick days for bad backs and hips. It also reduces the risk of bringing infection home or to the workplace. Getting a contribution of 500 SEK every two years is not the same as getting free work shoes. If you want to know more about this fight you can go to Kommunal's website. We need to do this if we are to retain health and social care staff, be able to recruit competent staff and be attractive employers. Here municipalities and regions have a great responsibility that cannot wait, for the state has made many efforts with various state grants that can be used to develop working time models and counteract shared tours. It is both general and targeted money to train and hire more staff and create more meeting points for older people. Madam President, I would like No elderly person who needs help should feel insecure. No older person should have to feel alone. No one should be subjected to violence. No one should suffer from malnutrition regardless of age. We must also prevent and prevent falls. How do we discover what is happening, and how do we prevent it from happening in the future? I do not think it will help with even more national plans, strategies and guidelines, because the risk is that it will only increase the administrative burden on already hard-pressed staff. But we have a social services law for care that focuses on the elderly. This law is clear and good, and we should press for it more and, above all, inform more people about it. Here it says that older people should live a dignified life and feel well-being. It also says that anyone who needs support and help will get it. It also says that the Social Welfare Board should work to ensure that older people have the opportunity to live and live independently under secure conditions and have an active and meaningful life in community with others. As an elderly person, getting a little more time with the staff, getting a firm care contact, having the opportunity to contact an elderly nurse with specialist skills and being sought by an aid assessor makes a bigger difference than more guidelines and national plans.
i-9GD7pJhMN71QZf3aS9wL5W	Madam President, I would like I thank the honourable Member for his speech. I am pleased that the honourable Member raises several questions about working conditions because they are so keen, and here too little has happened even though we have been paying attention to them for many years. The budget includes, among other things, the budget complements Parliament made about removing shared tours, and this is something we need to work with together. Let me raise two points. This section deals with ageing issues that both municipalities and regions are working on. One issue for the regions concerns the announcement we will hopefully get through on a strategy for dementia and other cognitive diseases. Madam President, I would like I heard the honourable Member say that guidelines are uninteresting. But they come from the fact that every patient association I've met, three just in the morning today, tells me how different things are in the country. They say it's a postcode lottery. There is talk of rehabilitation, but in northern Sweden you do not even have access to it. The help you get depends on where you live. Is it not the case that the need for guidelines arises because we cannot provide equal care? Then we have to choose whether to establish it or to try to remedy it. How does the honourable Member view the shortcomings we have in equality, not least when you are affected by dementia or other cognitive impairment? It's a big disease that affects a lot of people. My second question relates precisely to working conditions in the care of the elderly, but perhaps in a slightly different sense. There is a need for more managers, which is perhaps surprising. However, in women-dominated occupations, 30 to 50 employees per manager are common, while a manager in a traditional male profession has 5 employees. I think it is a gender equality and quality issue that you as manager have a reasonable number of employees. I think it gives birth to good development. How does the honourable Member view the Christian Democrats' proposal here?
i-LGLsgJgXfua2pAPEYJ5bLH	Madam President, I would like I thank Mr Ankarberg Johansson for the questions. I agree that we need to do much more. No one should feel that they do not receive help and support whether they are home care, nursing homes or health care. We've been working hard on it for many years, but unfortunately we haven't really been able to do it everywhere. I fully agree with the need for more equal care, but I believe that more staff with the right skills will provide the best conditions to go further. Regardless of the guidelines, it is the staff who will carry out the tasks. Maybe there's a little difference in how we think here. I think first-line managers are an important issue to raise. As the honourable Member said, they have far too many employees to take responsibility for. It doesn't make any sense. This is not the case in male-dominated occupations or workplaces. But there is something that is pleasing. The elderly care lift did not think about the managers in the first line, but we changed it in the second round because we saw the need for them to have the opportunity for skills training but also other initiatives that would make it a little easier for them.
i-1GPgqPRDNuaqhFJ3TYroQ	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr President, for your answers. Let's start with the bosses. It is important to work with this in every municipality. We Christian Democrats believe that the state plays a role precisely when money is given – that it is said that one condition for them to be able to take part of it is that they work for fewer employees per manager. I do not think it is appropriate for the state to decide how many or how it should be done, but it must be done in one direction so that you can see that there will be fewer employees per manager. It is important to do this not least in the care of the elderly. It is a gender equality issue and a quality issue. I hope that we can find joint proposals that will make us more successful on this issue in the future. With regard to the second part, how equality is to be achieved, it is stated in every law that good care is to be provided on equal terms. The Social Services Act is also built that way, but still it does not. The solution is not to think that more staff alone is enough, even if we agree on that. We in the Christian Democrats, together with the Moderates and the Left Party, have ensured that 4 billion are given annually to elderly care. I am very happy with that effort and that it is durable. It's needed. We must also ensure that patients know what to expect. Today, when you suffer from dementia, it is almost always the case that you get your diagnosis, not always as early as you should, and then you stay in a void where nothing happens. It's completely quiet and empty. The patient goes home with one of the heaviest information you can get, about a chronic and also fatal disease. A lack of resources is absolutely certain, but also a lack of knowledge of what should be done. This is what the proposal for a notice aims at, that care needs to be strengthened immediately. Not least, the cross-professional teams needed at that stage must be used – curators, occupational therapists, dementia nurses and many others. It provides better care. If patients and relatives can feel better for longer, it is of great benefit to all. We should do this a lot more.
i-RRQDJe1b37BEGZd8CGeFnM	Madam President, I would like Thank you, honourable Member, for further comments and answers. I think we agree on many things about the problem of dementia. We need much more knowledge and competence. Guidelines in all honour – I still think it's about competent staff and attractive employers so that more people stay in their jobs and also choose to train themselves and perhaps get more focus there. If you ask young people today, they don't say that it's their big dream to work in the care of the elderly. They have other dreams. But there are many who really love their job, working with older people, and we need to make sure that they stay and become good role models for young people so that they want to go there. There is usually a lot of criticism when we make targeted initiatives, but we think it is good and sometimes necessary to do them so that we see that they get where they are most needed. There was some more question I was going to answer. Madam President, as far as the chief executives of the first line are concerned, I very much share the honourable Member's views. We must be much better there and, above all, ensure that they have time for the individual employee but also for the elderly. Then I think of all the relatives who will help the sufferer of dementia. They often find it difficult to know where to turn. That's where we can improve.
i-XAKVLKJkh3YQgQyefN9Vt9	Madam President, I would like In fact, my colleague Mats Sander would have had this important debate, but Mats is at home and has a cold. It's boring and it's a shame. I am pleased and pleased, however, that the report which I am now privileged to debate contains no less than five proposals for announcements and calls for the government. These are five proposals for announcements for which we Moderates have been the driving force and which we are now, of course, behind. Of course, we Moderates also support all the other proposals we have put forward to develop care for the elderly and create better conditions for older people to live good and independent lives. But, Madam President, for the benefit of time, I am content to ask for the approval only of reservation No 29, which deals with both prevention and early detection of involuntary solitude. Madam President, I would like Loneliness was a theme that Bojan returned to on his blog. Bojan was Dagny Carlsson's blog signature. That's how she became known to all of us. Dagny Carlsson – the 100-year-old who started blogging. It's a matter of not being old to himself, was one of her expressions. She wrote about life, what she did, what happened, how she appreciated being healthy and how important it was that the food looked good and tasted good. She wrote about how hesitant she was to start exercising balance but how fun she thought it was once she had started. And as I said, she wrote about loneliness. On January 28, this year, she wrote, "Loneliness is terribly boring, I'd rather have a little fun as long as I live." Now that Coronan's calmed down a little bit, I hope my friends visit again. It's really boring to lie alone and just look at the ceiling. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like This is an attempt at tribute to Dagny and to life. Dagny was privileged to be healthy throughout the body, but perhaps especially in the bud. She had started to plan her 110th birthday party but unfortunately she did not get there and passed away on March 24th, 109 years young. She used the blog for almost ten years to inspire her surroundings with her spark of life, her love of life and her willingness to tell. We all have a lot to learn from her. Few are allowed to live as long and as healthy a life as Dagny had. Most of us suffer from diseases that affect the content and limit the length of life. For many it is cognitive illness and cognitive failure that shortens and restricts life. Getting a cognitive disorder in the brain that leads to dementia is not part of the natural aging process. It is diseases that affect the brain and parts of the brain that control our minds, our cognition. The senses gradually weaken, and dementia takes over. Dementia means without a mind. These are diseases for which, unfortunately, there is no cure today. There are no curative medicines, only symptom-relieving. And it is very much, as mentioned in the line shift just now, also the diseases of the relatives. Family members often feel left out and sometimes completely forgotten. Madam President, I would like We Moderates feel that efforts are needed to improve care and care for people with cognitive diseases. Today, these diseases are one of Sweden's most important public health problems. 20 000 Swedes are affected every year. I am very pleased that a majority in this House now supports, among other things, the proposal that we in the Moderates have put forward to develop and implement a new coherent national strategy for cognitive diseases. We want to strengthen the ability of primary care to make early diagnosis. We are looking at a system of fixed medical contact and interventions within the framework of a healthcare team. We see the need to establish a medical specialty that includes basic aspects of cognition and acquired cognitive impairment. We are also hopeful about the research and believe that one day it will deliver effective and perhaps even curative treatments. Before we get that far, it is important to take advantage of and convey what we have continuously learned. We want to highlight the preventive measures that research has identified to give the individual better opportunities to prevent cognitive diseases, to increase the possibility of living a long and valuable life, as Dagny did. Madam President, I would like Let me now briefly touch on the other four announcements that we Moderates and a majority here in Parliament are now proposing to the government. Involuntary loneliness creates ill health and exclusion. With a national strategy to combat involuntary loneliness among the elderly, we want to take a concerted approach to harness all the knowledge and all the good forces that exist. It is about strengthening the quality of life and preventing ill health. Joining a context, doing social activities with others, having people around you who care about you and doing meaningful tasks enhances people's quality of life and contributes to better health. In healthcare, both primary care and inpatient care need to be better at developing their tools to capture involuntary loneliness. The same goes for municipalities, of course. It is really important to review what various actors can do. And it goes without saying to us Moderates that the public needs the non-profit organisations, civil society, in order to reduce involuntary loneliness. Madam President, I would like One form of crime that is mentioned too little is violence in close relationships among the elderly. Research shows that physical and psychological violence is relatively common in homes and indeed also in retirement homes. Many suffer in silence. The knowledge of staff is often limited and in many cases there are no action plans. This violence can also be a risk factor for the working environment and staff. We therefore believe that the knowledge needs to be increased on how these crimes can be prevented and handled in healthcare and care. We therefore want to give the government the task of reviewing how the prevention of violence in close relations among the elderly can be strengthened. Madam President, I would like Falls and falls are by far the most common cause of hospitalisation. Every year about 70 000 people fall so badly that they need to be hospitalized for treatment. Fifty thousand of those who fall are 65 years of age or older. And according to MSB, the socio-economic costs of falling accidents amount to breathtaking 22 billion a year. So that is more than the cost of road accidents. The share of falls is highest in the age group 85 years and older and more common among women than men. We know many of the causes, and there is much evidence. The Moderates therefore propose that the Government give the Swedish Public Health Agency a mandate to develop national guidelines regarding training for seniors based on all the evidence available on balance training and strength training and their health effects for seniors. Madam President, I would like We all know the importance of food and meal too. It's central to our lives. We choose food based on the season and the feast – the taste, the smell and the community. As I said, Dagny wrote about the food. Food should taste good, and it should look appetizing. At the same time, we all know that far too many seniors suffer from severe malnutrition. There are several reasons why this can go so far. Here, therefore, it needs to be strengthened. As I said, malnutrition among seniors is a well-known problem that affects far too many people, and it is a problem that will increase if we do not act. We therefore want to give the government the task of giving the appropriate authority the task of developing the basis for a zero vision of malnutrition among the elderly. Preventing malnutrition is vital.
i-U3StfQnE31jJ3ZigszHrXU	Madam President, I would like We can all agree that the elderly deserve the best care and care in the autumn of their age. We must never forget that they have worked hard to build our welfare system. And the least we can do to honor this is to make sure that these things also work in the best possible way. A country's most important task is to ensure good welfare and to take care of its citizens. This is where we broke. The Coronapandemia has exposed major weaknesses and shortcomings in Swedish care for the elderly. The Corona Commission notes that the strategy to protect the elderly has failed. The ones we were supposed to protect most of all, we betrayed the most. The serious thing is that these were long-known structural deficiencies. As a result of these shortcomings, care for the elderly was completely unprepared and ill-equipped to deal with a pandemic. Social change, combined with an overly weak ageing policy, has resulted in anything but a safe and dignified care for the elderly. Madam President, I would like What must happen now is that Sweden must change and create a society where everyone can age in security and with dignity. The committee today proposes five announcements to the government concerning, among other things, a dementia strategy, involuntary loneliness, violence in close relations among the elderly, case prevention and malnutrition. All of these areas are important and a piece of the puzzle by many to ensure a good care. Madam President, I would like An announcement is about involuntary loneliness. This is an issue that has been raised very much in view of the isolation that many older people have had to deal with during the pandemic. In addition to the restraining order, joint activities on accommodation also ceased. We know that involuntary loneliness can lead to both physical and mental ill health. This is a problem for many older people today, whether they live in a municipality or in their own home. Some efforts have certainly been made to counter this. However, we believe that more concrete measures are needed, and so the government is now being called upon to mandate the appropriate authority to develop a proposal for a national strategy to combat involuntary loneliness among the elderly. Madam President, I would like Older people who are troubled by loneliness usually feel sicker and tired and eat more medicines, which leads to an increased need for care. According to the Heart-Lung Fund, loneliness is a chronic stress that can give physical expression such as reduced appetite and can lead to malnutrition. And malnutrition is a common problem especially among older people. We believe that it should be a matter of course that even in older days you can enjoy tasty and nutritious food. We know that the quality and way in which food is prepared are very important for the well-being and health of the elderly. Although we welcome the support provided by the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare and the Swedish Food Safety Agency, we believe that more measures are needed to combat malnutrition among the elderly. We therefore also agree with the proposal for a declaration that the government should give the appropriate authority the task of developing a basis for a zero vision of malnutrition among the elderly. At the same time, I regret that there is no majority to decide that night fast should not exceed 11 hours. We believe that there should not be too long between meals, and there may be a problem during, for example, night fasts. The elderly often need to go to bed early in order for the staff to have time to lay them all before the night staff picks up. Therefore, there may be many hours between meals. Madam President, I would like People in Sweden are getting older. And it is positive that life expectancy is increasing. Now it is up to us to provide tools for people to live their lives. Already in 2011, we highlighted the issue of falls and prevention. And today there is a majority in favour of another proposal for a declaration on prevention, follow-up and evaluation. New methods and measures should be considered and prevention should be strengthened. Fall accidents are also associated with what I have talked about before – food, meals and night fasts. Therefore, these issues play a major role in reducing the risk of falls. As more and more people grow older, we must ensure that more and more people stay reasonably healthy and alert, otherwise we will have great difficulties in maintaining good care in the future. Madam President, I would like Finally, the issues we are discussing here today are incredibly important, and it is good that we are now getting some announcements through. But we will have to do more, and there needs to be a real focus on these issues. This is why we believe that Sweden needs a purely senior minister who spends all her waking time working on these issues and who can take a broad interest in older people's politics in Sweden, so that what happened at the beginning of the pandemic will never have to happen again. I'm in favour of reservation 38.
i-G8ecSMzzdD4oXvrDb39cXj	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating issues relating to the elderly, and we are pleased to note that the committee has found a majority for no less than five announcements. There are five announcements that the Center Party has been behind and which deal with issues that we have been pushing in different ways throughout the term of office. They are about dementia, involuntary loneliness, violence in close relationships, fall prevention and malnutrition. All five are very important for the work to strengthen elderly people's health and shift their entry to health care, but also for the work to strengthen their families. Madam President, I would like Sweden has an ageing population where more and more people are reaching an increasing age. The fact that we have a population that is getting older is proof that we have come a long way in Sweden in terms of health, care and research. It is also a proof that our lifestyle, society and jobs are quite healthy. But an ageing population also presents challenges. It places new demands on everything from healthcare and care to housing – challenges that we need to address and solve in order for our elderly to age with joy of life and security. Madam President, I would like During my time as Vice Chairman of the Municipal Executive Board of Östra Göinge, we developed a strategy called The Good Ageing. During the work on this strategy, I participated in several interviews with our older municipal citizens to talk about what the concept of good aging means for them. In my memos from these interviews, I wrote: Older people today are used to being active, independent, social, mobile and involved in society. The clouds of concern that our elderly see for the coming years lie primarily in loneliness, loss of empowerment and loss of independence. Many also worry about not being able to get the help they need. In order to avert these fears and meet new expectations and needs, we really need to take a new approach and dare to strengthen our activities aimed at the elderly. The memorial notes from somewhere 2014 or 2015 are still very accurate today. I think the worry clouds look about the same, and we still need to dare to take a new approach and invest in our elderly care in different ways. Unfortunately, I lack the boldness of the report we are debating today. Certainly we move our positions forward in a couple of areas, but the real changes we so well had needed are actually shining with their absence. We had to strengthen the medical skills and presence in care for the elderly and home care. We would have had to make strict legal requirements for coordination and cooperation between municipalities and regions in order to ensure the availability of doctors. Similarly, we would have had to decide to strengthen prevention by saying yes to the Center Party's proposal for an older health care programme that had created a whole and equality for our elderly throughout the country. We have many times the same intentions and the same goal, but we do not quite dare to take that step of actually creating the whole. Madam President, I would like The issues we are debating today could be divided into two categories: prevention and health promotion, and what is more about organisational issues for elderly care or municipal health care. However, what applies to both categories, as well as to the policies and proposals of the Center Party, is that it is always based on the elderly and how we can respond to the needs of our elderly. Unlike, for example, the left wing, which wants to restrict our older people's choice and freedom, we want to move decisions closer to the older ones and give them more power over everything from their own health to which home care or health centre they want. By giving more power to our elderly, we lay the foundation for good ageing. But – and here comes a big but – if you, as an elderly person, are to maintain power over your life, society must create the conditions for it. We need to do more about prevention and more to strengthen care for the elderly. Madam President, I would like In Sweden there are unique health care systems in the form of, for example, child health care, school health care and occupational health care. Through this preventive work, our maternal mortality and infant mortality are among the lowest in the world. There is also knowledge of how to create good health and promote it in older people, but it is an area where there is a lack of national coordination. There are several examples of local programmes where good results have been achieved with relatively low costs to make the best use of society's common resources. This is why the Center Party has put forward a proposal for a national older health care programme with preventive work for the elderly. This may include information about eating habits, exercise and support to prevent falls. A systematic prevention work benefits the individual in terms of improved quality of life and health and can bring huge social benefits. The older health care programme, like the paediatric health care programme, would also include a general vaccination programme. Had we dared to come forward with a decision on an older health care programme, we would have laid the foundations for a safe ageing where we could have caught up with ill health at an early stage and at the same time given our elderly power over their own health. Madam President, I would like The pandemic has really put its finger on shortcomings in care for the elderly, which we must take very seriously. It is clear that we need to have a stronger organisation and a greater focus on quality and medical content. We cannot accept that elderly people in municipal health care are denied oxygen, are denied medical contact and are denied breakpoint talks or that family members are not allowed to attend during the last hours of life. We must be able to organise ourselves better here. A pandemic cannot and must not create such consequences as it actually did. Madam President, I would like It's no longer enough to dupe a little here and patch a little bit there. What we have to do is invest in the close care, which means that we move the focus from hospital to primary care and care for the elderly. There we ensure that every elderly person has a permanent doctor who will act as the spider in the net, and we ensure that nurses and nursing staff working in the care of the elderly receive the medical support they actually need to provide more advanced care at home. Madam President, I would like About two weeks ago I visited the health centre in Borgholm. The municipality of Borgholm and the health centre, led by Åke Åkesson, are really an example in so many ways. Here is really the close care for real. Here you put the elderly in the center and organize around him or her. Home care nurses can always get hold of the patient's doctor, resulting in fewer inlays, more advanced care at home and more satisfied older people. Older people do not have to go back and forth to the hospital to get care because this care can be provided at home. Home monitoring of heart disease has also been developed, for example for heart failure patients. The elderly person weighs himself at home. The result of the weighing comes to the doctor, and then the medication is adjusted accordingly. The primary care that exists in Borgholm and the cooperation that exists between the municipality's health care should exist throughout the country. You really are an example. Madam President, I would like Precisely the cooperation between primary care, the elderly's permanent doctor and the elderly's care is a key for us to be able to move forward. Should we be able to create a safe health care at home where healthcare professionals can perform more advanced health care, this cooperation must work; it is like A and O. Why should an elderly person who often just wants to be at home and receive care there – and who feels good from being cared for at home – have to go to the hospital to get, for example, drips or antibiotics intravenously when it is just as safe and safe to do so at home? Unfortunately, it does not work that way today throughout the country, and many times it is due to a lack of access to doctors. If we nurses are to be able to perform that kind of medical intervention, we must have access to doctors. This is why the Center Party has proposed a legislative amendment that ensures that all municipalities have a binding cooperation agreement with the region on how people who live in special housing or receive home care should have access to medical care and medical treatment. Madam President, I would like Another part of elderly care that is very important and that has been up to date in the debate is the leadership and continuity of municipal health care. The Center Party wants to see clearer guidelines on how many employees you should have under you as a leader or manager. We also want to see leadership training that leaders in the welfare sector and municipal health care should be able to go to get a better working environment and a clearer leadership in municipal health care. The last part I would like to mention concerns continuity and the importance of having continuity that is to the advantage of the elderly. Continuity is measured during a two-week period where you look at how many staff will then come home to the patient. It is not good enough that today we have a variation between 7 and 24. It is a sign that the lowest level of care for the elderly actually needs to be raised. The Center Party wants to see a strong commitment to continuity and to introduce a continuity goal of a maximum of 10 different people during a two-week period. I am, of course, in favour of all the proposals and motions of the Centre Party, but in order to gain time, I am only in favour of our reservation on leadership, namely reservation number 15.
i-87R6bcTJWmcKncvJsrUXyh	Madam President, I would like Much good has already been said from this speaker's seat. I hope that the 2% for defence that we have all supported does not go out on this issue. That's how I want to start. For a long time we have pointed out the risk of dismantling and fragmentation of Swedish welfare. Today, we are not alone in finding that the coronapendemy clearly highlighted the shortcomings that this has led to specifically in the care of the elderly. It was no coincidence that, during covid-19, it was as it was in the care of the elderly, Madam President. Cuts and privatisations have led to severely undersized care and care. Developed, well-functioning care for the elderly is also a prerequisite for women to be able to participate fully in the labour market and not have to look after their relatives, lose pension points and so on. We can see that this is quite common in various studies, Madam President. Old-age care needs to be trusted, doesn't it? This is particularly true for those who need support, care and care, for staff who have good working conditions and not least for their relatives. I'm going to talk a little bit about the consequences of freedom of choice. Freedom of choice is great; I have absolutely nothing against it. But safe care for the elderly is not something I think of when I see that the care company Attendo a few weeks ago was reported to the police by Uppsala municipality after suspicion of a large amount of fun in home care. Last week the municipality of Uppsala, which is a large municipality, concluded the contract with immediate effect. Now 500 older people have to get new home help, and 200 employees are at risk of losing their job. It's totally indefensible, I think. In 2020, the same company received 130 million in state aid to cover the costs of protective equipment, cohort care and wage costs due to high sick leave. Then I intend to lift the Sabbatsberg village, which also the media have examined relatively carefully. The family members were told that they had cohort care, and it was also written on their website. But there was no cohort care. It became a boring story, if you say so. At the same time, bonuses have been awarded to managers – 5 million. Other employees in care for the elderly, including within Stockholm Municipality, received a lump sum of SEK 5 500 for having worked so hard. But in this company the employees received SEK 0. In itself, after a while when the media had drawn this story a little too long, the company skipped the bonuses so that it would feel okay for the company's opportunities to continue in the future. The task of care for the elderly is, among other things, to protect the elderly and to provide reasonable working conditions for the staff so that they can carry out their work. In our motion, we want the government to make the necessary legislative changes to ensure that private healthcare companies that receive state support are not able to award bonuses to managers at the same time. We don't think it's okay. Where's our money going? We'd like them to go to them on the floor. We also say that the government should recover state aid to private health care companies in each case of bonus dividends. I therefore support reservation number 4. We want to strengthen staffing in the care of the elderly and the conditions for increasing the number of permanent contracts. It's really important. The elderly care has been very dependent on Springvikari, if you can put it that way, that is, hourly employees. It wasn't fortunate, you might say, during the pandemic. Therefore, in the 2019 budget exercise, we proposed a model for work-integrated learning with half-time study grants and half-time salary. In the spring of 2020, the Government also presented a similar proposal, the so-called elderly care lift, which will strengthen skills in municipally funded care and get everyone to learn. It is extremely important that we have an elderly care that is equipped with trained nurses, nurses and, as the Center Party mentioned earlier, of course, also health-care-trained staff. We will talk about this later in other meetings in this Chamber, Madam President. But this is quite exciting, for now there will be a need for 14 000 nurses and carers for municipal care. Then you have to have a good working environment for them. It is absolutely A and O. If we are to get this good care, we must give them good wages, good conditions and secure employment in different ways. The number of people living in special housing, Madam President, has decreased in municipalities. Instead, municipalities are investing in people living at home for as long as possible. That more people should stay at home for as long as possible is a good thing if they want to stay at home for as long as possible, but if you see it as a saving measure, it can turn completely wrong. Older people should be able to live at home as long as they want and as long as possible. But when they need to leave home, they need to be allowed to do so. You must also be able to follow what is happening in the municipalities, and you have had quite poor opportunities and opportunities to do so – see what rejections have been made and so on. We'll have to talk about that some other time, I think, because time is running out here. This whole accommodation thing is interesting. I am 66 myself and would therefore be covered by this: a varied range of accommodations for people over 65 years of age, especially this group of older people. We're talking about older people as if it were a giant lump of people who were exactly the same. You can get older very quickly. Perhaps too much parliamentary work can get you very old quickly. But it looks completely different. I think that is often the mistake we make when we talk about older people: We talk about them as if they were a homogeneous group. They're not. It's very different. It is important that municipalities develop different types of housing for older people who need it and who do not want to live at home anymore. There are, for example, senior homes, which some municipalities have run, which include open activities even for people living outside. It's a little fun when it gets mixed and not the same people who meet each other all day. People who live nearby can get there, and you can have cafes, lectures and so on. I believe in more of that. A very small proportion of people with dementia have access to daytime activities – less than 15 percent, we read. We thought that was extremely little, Madam President. There also needs to be a varied range of activities for people with dementia so that they can participate in different activities. It is important for the person himself, but it is also important for the relatives. At the same time, it is also important to listen to the relatives and the person it is about. There must be conditions for people who can no longer live at home to move to a group home instead. We also want to investigate support and relief for relatives and how the range of day activities can be developed so that more people with dementia can stay at home or move. In February 2021, the Social Affairs Committee submitted proposals for a notice to the Government on the follow-up and evaluation of the additional financial support for elderly care. Remember that, comrades? In any case, Madam President, like that proposal, we would also like to stress the importance of ensuring that funds intended for the care of the elderly actually go to the care of the elderly and its activities. We would like to have hearings with the relevant authorities and stakeholders to discuss this issue. For the gain of time, I only ask for reservation 4, as I said earlier. We also support the other reservations and specific opinions that we have put forward.
i-Gd2C37tDPcpNQ9tFb4exeP	Madam President, I would like I am the oldest, the year-rich, in this House. I am the spokesperson for the Liberals on issues of year-rich – not just care for the elderly but right over. In the six minutes that we in the Committee on Social Affairs have agreed to stick to in this House, there can only be a few downfalls on my part. I think it is very good with the five areas where we propose announcements that strategies for how to act should be developed. This is because the care of the elderly and the different interventions in the five policy areas are very different. There is no knowledge of each other's ways of working. It will therefore be good for the responsible authority to compile the entire knowledge base and see what can be developed as guidelines for the whole country. I am convinced that, out in the care of the elderly, the knowledge is very different in terms of which actions may be appropriate. I therefore believe that this is excellent. Then I hope that the competent authorities will also develop the health economy. WHO has shown that the ageist view of year-long people, which is unfortunately very pronounced in Sweden, leads to costs in health care and probably also in social services. I hope that the research units that we have in the field of older people in Sweden can be given the task of trying to calculate what it costs to do wrong. It becomes so clear when we look at this with the prevention of cases. It kills 1,500 years of people a year because of falls. This is very much preventable. Part of the prevention involves prescribing suitable medicines, i.e. medicines that do not cause dizziness and lead to a risk of falling. Hip fractures cost 700 000 SEK per individual during the first year. If we can prevent these cases and reduce the misuse of medicines in the group, we may be able to afford what we discussed in this House a week ago, namely orphan drugs for people with rare diagnoses. We have money in our healthcare system, but we have to use it properly. Here comes the strategy work in as a very important part, as I see it. When it comes to developing a national strategy for dementia and other cognitive diseases, we have good evidence from the National Board of Health and Welfare and from the National Centre of Competences relatives in Kalmar, but when you go through it you see that it needs to get better muscles. It is perceived as recommendations. I would like to ask for reservation 25 in paragraph 10, which concerns the right to day-to-day activities. This is very important. Being a carer is a job seven days a week, 24 hours a day. Then the right to day-to-day activities means a lot for family members to continue to stand up as they do. In a strategy like this, I mean that family members should be seen as part of the team, with aid officers, doctors, nurses and possibly other groups needed to meet the needs of a person with cognitive symptoms and disorders. Health care now turns to using cognitive disorders and not dementia because dementia has in some way been so adversely burdened. This issue of loneliness is also important. It is about how civil society has worked here and to see how the money that has been given can be spent in the future. Here, such things come in as meeting places in the municipalities, so that the people can get a new network when the old network has thinned out. I would also like to mention this with malnutrition. It is also linked to the risk of falling. If you're malnourished, you're more likely to get dizzy and fall. Some of the strategies are thus interlinked. As I wish to keep to the promise of six minutes' speaking time to the Committee on Social Affairs, I will conclude here. With the great interest in this area – 355 motions, 78 of which are dealt with in a simplified way because, unfortunately, nothing has happened in these matters – I think we in Sweden dare to be year-rich even if we become dementia. Now it was nine ten seconds overlay. I'm so sorry.
i-5jN1jpJgNWkrUQtoJ7G3zh	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by saying that I naturally support all our proposals, but in order to save time, I only ask for the approval of reservation 19, which deals with housing and housing issues. What, then, are the foundations of a richer life for the elderly? Bette Davis is said to have said, "Old age is nothing for weaklings." And maybe it's true. But I think we can be calm, because 70 is the new 50. But let's pause for a little while and think about what I'm really saying. If you just look at the health and functioning of those who are 70, that is true, because it is much better today. But if you look at other aspects, such as experience, the difference between a 50-year-old and a 70-year-old becomes something completely different, as well as when it comes to thoughts about the future, life satisfaction and maturity. When we exclude such examples, we ignore the fact that there are major differences between a 50-year-old and a 70-year-old, not just because of the fact that you are in completely different phases of life. I could cite musical taste as an example. The 70 today was 20 years old when Michael Jackson had four hits the same year. The 80 today was 20 years old when Bob Dylan released his debut album. The 90 - year - old was 20 years old when Snoddas sang Flotter Love on the radio show Karusellen. That's how different it is. Yet, when individuals have passed a certain age limit, they are treated as listening only to a certain type of music. Many times it is accordion music. It is precisely this: When you talk about the group older, you often see it as a very homogeneous group. In fact, it is individuals who have lived for a very long time. They have had time to develop their individuality. They have different interests and experiences. Probably it is in this group that individuals are most different from other age groups. This is indeed a wealth for society. These individuals bear a knowledge and experience that we should safeguard and take advantage of, for it enriches. The sweeping descriptions of the elderly are clearly problematic, but it is also the many times uniform solutions that we have, where the individual's own will and creativity do not fit. It becomes in some way that society is created, constructed, so that one more excludes than takes advantage and supports. We think it needs to be exactly the opposite. An important task for society, therefore, is to ensure that year-rich people can continue to live their lives as they wish and that they can share their experience and knowledge as much as possible. It is important for society to be better at taking advantage of this. It is about the time and place for interpersonal meetings, relationships, reflection and ethics in everyday life. But for some individuals, interpersonal meetings often shine with their absence. This morning, when I attended a seminar organized by Acko and Dag, it became clear how we ask the elderly: What do you need help with at home and in personal hygiene and action? But we completely forget to ask: What do social contacts look like? What support do you need there? This is something that we have basically completely forgotten. We also need to remember to think about how we actually build our societies. We see living city centres as a very good policy for the elderly. It's about being able to do your everyday business in close proximity. There you can do your postal business. You can go to the bank, go to the pharmacy, buy food, go to a café or cut your hair. These are things that often bring health benefits. Turning stores back in the city centres and moving out to external shopping centres, where individuals who don't have driving licences can't come, it's a big loss. It also means that people can meet to a lesser extent and get to know each other. For those who live alone, the conversation with a salesman may actually be the only thing you have. How we build housing is also an important issue. We would like to have more special accommodations, intermediate homes, collective houses and community accommodations. The last thing is a thought that is very close to my heart. There are half of the living seniors, that is, 70-plus. In other apartments, young adults aged 18-25 live, some who have just been granted a residence permit in Sweden. It's good to be able to move and live where you want, but sometimes it's hard. You can be older and tired or have a little pain in your body. You may not have alert relatives who can help. I would particularly like to take this opportunity to highlight the Green Party's proposal for relocation aid, which we believe can be very useful in meeting the individual's own will. Madam President, I would like To reduce ageism and see everyone as individuals as well as to facilitate interpersonal meetings is, I think, the most basic pieces to create a richer life for the elderly.
i-U55wvEdWYARAXfuxuxiDs7	Madam President, I would like We're approaching the election and the election movement. Then the political winds in Sweden blow stronger. They don't blow so little in our committee, the Justice Committee. There we are discussing the issues which are high on the electorate's agenda, which are high on the media agenda and which are high on the politicians' agenda. We who sit on the Committee on Justice think that this is very exciting and fun. We love the debate. It is clear that these issues need to be debated very much right now. We have a situation in Sweden that is totally unacceptable, with shootings at a very high level. Of course we have crime types going down. When it comes to a large part of crime, it points in the right direction if you look back. But that is not an answer that impresses voters. When we very often have shootings in our country, it does not impress us to say: Yes, but the apartment breakups go down anyway. It's kind of like going to the doctor because you have pain in your ankle and the doctor would say: Yes, but at least you don't have pain in your wrist, which you had when you were here ten years ago. That's not good enough. For me as a social democrat, it goes without saying that I want to work for a society where you feel safe. You're supposed to feel safe at work. You should feel safe about getting the medical care you need when you're sick. But you should also feel safe in your residential area, in your home and when you're out in town, whether you're a man or a woman. It's a question of justice. When we discuss these issues and heat arises, we sometimes give voters the impression that we basically hate each other in committee, that we cannot cooperate and that we cannot listen. I would like to distance myself from that. I'm happy to go to Parliament. I am happy to meet my colleagues in the Committee on Justice, regardless of their political colour. We have a good time, but we also have a good exchange of each other. It is exciting to hear different Members from different backgrounds. We have police officers and other people on the committee. Above all, many of us are travelling in the country, and we take the impression of those we meet. So we have very good discussions. How disagree are we? I think it is time to call that debate, which is often very polarised. I've been counting. The report we are discussing today deals with procedural issues. These are important and central issues when it comes to law enforcement. It's about a search warrant. It's about camera surveillance. We have 150 proposals that we are considering today. We agree across block borders that we should not proceed with announcements to the government in relation to 138 of them. Of the twelve remaining announcements, the Social Democrats are in on five. Of the 150, then, there are, in the end, seven announcements that I and my Socialist colleagues do not support. What, then, is the reason why we do not support these announcements? Often it is that the government is already making legislative proposals in these parts. There's already an investigation going on. If this is to be translated as a percentage, we will land at 96.3 % where we have actually found a consensus in committee, across the block borders. But, of course, it doesn't give any headlines. At Journalist College, you used to talk about there's no news about a dog biting a man, but if a man bites a dog, that's news. Surely that dog is found in the final percentage, and that is what you focus on, not least in the media. Madam President, I would like I see that we are moving together, and we have been doing so for a long time in the Committee on Justice. Since Morgan Johansson became Social Democratic Minister of Justice, there have been some sixty penalties. We have changed the content of the law book in essential parts. We have made it considerably more difficult for organised crime in Sweden, but much more needs to be done. If we look at what has actually been done, we have made it easier to use more cameras in law enforcement. We have facilitated and enabled secret data reading, and we have also facilitated interception. These are important parts of working against organised crime. For example, it should be easier to deal with crime profits. It is in progress in the Confiscation Investigation, which comes up with its proposals. The preventive wiretaps have been discussed. It's also happening. In addition, we have the Biometry investigation, which recently received additional directives. So there is a great deal going on, and although this is not part of today's debate, I should like to mention the objective of the 10 000 new police workers to whom we are heading by leaps and bounds. We are discussing these issues here today, but even if we sum up all the issues on the table of the Committee on Justice, there can be only half of the solution. If we are to find the whole solution to security issues and crime, we must also work preventively. Then we must involve both the school and how we can use civil society. We simply need to ensure that young boys, as is often the case, are not in line with the criminal networks and in the crime that is so much freedom for so many people in this country. With this, I would like to vote in favour of Amendment No 27.
i-YCLWHu7iXjArmvfZdyRTL7	Madam President, I would like I want to hear what Gustaf Lantz said about the elections approaching and that there are a lot of issues in the Committee on Justice – that is – and that we love to debate. Then I thought, do I love to debate this? No! I actually hate to debate this, because I think it is so terrible with all these crimes that are happening in Sweden. I'd be pretty happy if I didn't have to debate it at all. So I don't love to debate this. I hate to debate all the shootings that occur in Sweden, precisely because they occur. I realise that it is necessary to debate this, but I would like there to be no such serious crime in Sweden that we need to stand here again and again and talk about the seriousness of crime. Unfortunately, however, it is necessary. So today we are going to debate the motion report on procedural matters. I shall begin by requesting the approval of reservation 32 on anonymous witnesses. We Moderates have many good proposals, and we, together with other opposition parties, agree to eleven announcements in this report. These include reliefs in camera surveillance, secret coercive measures, crown witnesses, witness protection, and more. There are some who believe that these announcements are of no particular significance, but that is quite wrong. If you hear Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson bragging that the government has made 50 to 60 sharpenings in the field of justice policy, as Mr Lantz also mentioned, you should know that the majority of these sharpenings have come about thanks to announcements from the Moderates and the other opposition parties. Of course, Morgan Johansson does not talk about this, but he pretends that it is his own proposal. We Moderates have many tough proposals in terms of strengthening justice policy. It's not funny, but it's absolutely necessary. The government boasts of its actions, but it is quite clear that this is not enough because serious crime is increasing and getting worse and worse every day. Ordinary decent people are afraid in their own residential areas. They do not dare testify or report when they are victims of crime. Business owners close their stores, because criminal gangs just walk in and clear and take what they want without paying, and they threaten the shopkeeper if they dare to report. Criminal gangs are forcing children to run criminal cases. The police have stated that it is about hundreds of children, the youngest eight nine years of age. Eight nine years! That's fucking crazy! What has become of Sweden? Eight-year-olds forced to run errands for gang criminals! A few weeks ago we visited Moderates in the Committee on Justice, Denmark. There they use Sweden as a deterrent, and it actually felt very sad to sit there and hear what they thought about our country. We want the level of use of secret coercive measures to be reduced so that the police can use them in more cases. It's about secret wiretaps of cell phones and secret camera surveillance. Today, the limit is set for crimes with a minimum sentence of two years in prison. We want to lower that limit to one year in prison. In addition to that, we want to lower the threshold of secret room eavesdropping, what is commonly referred to as bugging, from the minimum sentence of four years in prison to two years in prison. Madam President, I would like Detention is important in order to investigate serious crime successfully. It is very important that suspects are detained when necessary and not out at large and destroy the investigation. Today, if a person is suspected of a criminal offence with a minimum sentence of imprisonment for two years, compulsory detention applies. This border we want to lower to one year in prison, simply for more people to be arrested. If more people are in custody and are in prison during the investigation period, we have much more opportunities to get a good investigation that can lead to convictions in more cases. This would mean that persons who commit aggravated assault, robbery and extortion, for example, would be required to be detained. We also want to remove the time limits for detention that were introduced last year. Madam President, I would like The first quarter of this year will be the bloodiest ever killing shootings. By 23 March, 16 people had been shot to death, and the quarter was not yet over. In just one week in January, seven people were shot to death. So many people have been injured that you can't keep track. Just a few days ago a person was shot in a gym with a lot of people around, in the middle of the day, in the middle of Stockholm. This really doesn't look like anything! Although the government with Morgan Johansson at its head boasts about everything it has done, it gets worse and worse. Madam President, I would like Preventive coercive measures are very important tools for combating gang crime and preventing and preventing crime. This possibility exists today in the case of terrorist offences and espionage offences, but the requirements need to be lowered so that these preventive coercive measures can be used more frequently. The requirements must be lowered for the secret interception of mobile phones, the secret reading of computers and the surveillance of secret cameras in the case of active gang members before committing crimes – therefore for preventive purposes. Among other things, Encrochat has proven how important this is, which is based on the fact that other countries have this opportunity. According to the Swedish Correctional Service, approximately 300 gang criminals are behind bars in Sweden thanks to other countries' rules regarding preventive coercive measures. The head of the Swedish police believes that the situation of gang crime is particularly serious in Sweden and that we need legislation on preventive coercive measures. The government has set up an investigation into preventive coercive measures, but it has no clear directive that it should produce proposals to introduce coercive measures, but it can actually end up with the investigation proposing that they should not be introduced. We Moderates, together with SD, KD and L, recently submitted a proposal for a committee initiative in the Justice Committee for the government to come back with a proposal for a temporary legislation on preventive coercive measures pending a long-term regulatory framework. It is urgent, it is not possible to wait for several years before Morgan Johansson makes a bill, if he does at all. The draft committee initiative is now being prepared in the Committee on Justice, but the Social Democrats will vote against it. Madam President, I would like An anonymous witness system needs to be introduced in Sweden. This is the view of the Police Authority, the Swedish Environmental Crime Agency and the Victim Support Service, even if they would only be used in a few cases. The Prosecution Authority is also positive as it calls for a new analysis. The aim is, of course, to break the culture of silence in gross gang crime. The police also believe that anonymous witnesses would be a more resource efficient and less interventional alternative to changing identity altogether. The Economic Crime Authority believes that it is possible to design a system without compromising legal certainty, and we agree with the moderates. There are anonymous witnesses in Norway, Denmark and Finland, for example, and no one can claim that these countries do not have legal certainty. We Moderates want to introduce anonymous witnesses, but the government doesn't want that. The government's justification is, among other things, that it is complicated. Yes, it certainly is, but if Norway, Finland and Denmark can, then Sweden must also be able to do so. Another reason given by the government is that anonymous witnesses are rarely used. Well, that's actually the point; they're rarely used. Here I would like to mention the report presented by the Crime Prevention Council in 2021 on firearms violence in Europe. The report shows that on the issue of deadly violence with firearms, Sweden is currently very high in the European order of precedence, with about 4 deaths per million inhabitants. Europe's average is about 1.5 deaths per million inhabitants. No other country in Europe shows increases comparable to that in Sweden. The report also shows that, for Finland, killings in criminal environments in Finland have been very rare throughout the period studied, 2001–2018. The government thus chooses to compare a country where shootings are very rare with Sweden, which is very high in terms of shootings. It's unserious of the government. One can also wonder why Finland, where shootings are very rare, has nevertheless recognised the importance of anonymous witnesses. It goes without saying that the answer is that the possibility of using anonymous witnesses is a necessary tool for the police. Madam President, I would like Now I've been talking for a long time, but let me finish by hooking on Gustaf Lantz. It's nice that we can hang out. Gustaf Lantz is a very nice man, so I would love to spend time with him. But we do not agree that we have a consensus. Magdalena Andersson says that her government will turn all the stones to fight serious crime. That's not true. She doesn't want to introduce anonymous witnesses. She does not want a temporary law on preventive coercive measures to be drawn up. She does not want to lower the limit for compulsory detention or remove the time limits for detention. Magdalena Andersson only utters empty words, and it is the victims who pay the price.
i-PWKZHr5GX9YiU9ZyPvQ3zc	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 29. Today, Parliament will address a total of eleven announcements to the Government in the area of procedural law. The Swedish Government has record-low support in the Riksdag, and this is evident again today when several of the opposition parties will go against the will of the Social Democrats. When the government acts as a brake block, the opposition in the Swedish parliament takes command. To those of you who are listening to this debate, it may be worth recalling that much of what the Minister of Justice takes credit for current punitive measures and legislative changes is politics that has been run for a long time in Sweden's parliament by, among others, the Swedish Democrats, in many cases for over ten years, but they only become reality now. Proposals are presented in the Riksdag. After many ifs and buts are directed announcements, and after long investigations they become in the best of worlds eventually reality. As I said, the Parliament must address a number of announcements in the area of procedural law. This is an important step along the way, and given the previous government approach, it is not at all impossible for us to see the government acting again in the near future on behalf of a majority in the Swedish Parliament. Unfortunately, the government often does as much as it can to delay or weaken opposition proposals. In some cases, the Riksdag has issued announcements up to three times in the area of justice policy without the government having acted. In our view, this is nothing more than a mockery of Parliament and the democratic process. Madam President, I would like We can start by raising the issue of camera surveillance. For the Swedish Democrats, this is a question of freedom. We would really have liked to go further, including on sound recording, but at least we are gathering support in parts of the area that will really make a difference – in these cases for health workers and for all the municipalities and regions of the country and therefore their citizens. Threats and violence have become more common also against health professionals. These developments must be broken, and health professionals must be guaranteed that they can work without fear of being affected by violence and threats at their workplace. According to our proposal, healthcare should be given an opportunity to introduce camera surveillance of health facilities. The government says no to this, but the opposition takes command and makes an announcement. Similarly, it is not allowed to direct cameras over a larger area from, for example, bus stops – this in combination with the fact that the processing times at the Swedish Data Protection Authority are often very long. It would therefore be reasonable for municipalities and regions wishing to use camera surveillance to avoid applying for authorisation because it is the municipalities and regions that know best which places are considered appropriate. Here, too, the government says no, but here too the opposition takes command and makes an announcement. Madam President, I would like If I were to stand here and describe every announcement, I would well pass my written speaking time, and I will therefore try to keep to a small number of them. I would therefore also like to raise the issue of secret coercive measures. At present, secret coercive measures are granted against a specific telephone number or location. This means that criminals create a pattern in which they switch mobile phones or places where crime is committed or planned. As the possibility of obtaining a permit for new coercive measures is time-consuming, the work of the crime prevention authorities is hampered by the current legislation. By linking secret coercive measures to a person rather than a specific telephone number or place, this can be facilitated. Any integrity aspects should of course be taken into account, but this should definitely be considered subordinate to the societal benefits of a regime with the possibility of linking the permits to a specific person. After all, Sweden is in a situation where we have about one shooting a day and one shooting a week – most recently in a gym in the middle of the day in central Stockholm. There is a 147% increase in shootings since the Social Democrats took over government power almost eight years ago. Society should make use of all means at its disposal and create new conditions for halting this development, and police tools against criminals should be higher in line than the possible integrity of criminals. A large proportion of opposition parties are on the train and address an announcement to the government. Madam President, I would like As I have said, the opposition parties have a lot of announcements – too many to go through in a single speech, so I will go on to highlight proposals which the opposition unfortunately cannot hear here and now but which it is not impossible for us to agree on in the future. I will begin with the question of a reduced limit for compulsory detention. Organised crime is exacerbated by the rapid return of serious criminals from detention to their former circumstances. One measure that the Swedish Democrats, the Moderates and the Christian Democrats want to implement is to reduce the penalty value for acts that lead to mandatory detention from today's two years to one year. More criminals who commit serious crimes would thus remain in custody. This would not only improve the view of the judiciary, but also prevent the recurrence of crime by these individuals and make society more secure for all citizens. The freedom of its law-abiding citizens must weigh more heavily than that of criminals. Unfortunately, the other parties say no to this. Madam President, I would like The motion for a resolution also includes the proposal for enhanced witness protection, which has gathered broad political support across party boundaries. Unfortunately, only the Swedish Democrats, the Moderates and the Christian Democrats want to introduce a system of anonymous witnesses. The measure is being requested by both the police and the prosecutors and would undoubtedly have allowed more people than at present to testify, which is one of the most important measures in the fight for more gang criminals to be convicted. Threats against witnesses are common in gang environments, and several times threats have also been carried out. In 2018, for example, a 40-year-old man and his wife were killed after the man in an interrogation told the police what he had seen. The government is not doing enough to protect witnesses. If it is an important and concrete measure we are going to take to get more people to testify, it is the opportunity to testify anonymously. This is extremely important, but the government also says no to it. Madam President, I would like When the opposition is in the driver's seat for tightening up penalties, for legislative changes and for new tools to the police, the government sits in the gallery. Uncertainty is the great issue of internal freedom of our time. Crime must be combated, and society must be more secure. Today's development is not good enough. Unfortunately, it is a total disaster. The Social Democrats cannot explain in any way the 147% increase in the number of shootings since they took over government power almost eight years ago. In 2010, 9 people were shot to death here in Sweden in a whole year. The first quarter of this year, we have already passed twice, and further development will go far beyond the gloomy record of 47 shootings per year in 2020 and 2021. The Riksdag thus addresses eleven announcements to the Government. That is good, but much more needs to be done. Above all, Sweden needs a new government.
i-GNXVMrHCWvS7616RFdnwyF	Madam President, I would like We are dealing here today with the report on procedural matters, and it deals with a very large number of motions covering a wide range of subjects. I will concentrate on a couple of announcements concerning the victim's perspective. Last year, one in three entrepreneurs in Sweden suffered from crime. It was about everything from systematic theft to threats and fraud. Of these crime - stricken entrepreneurs, two out of three chose not even to call the police afterwards — or even more. More specifically, 70 percent did not press charges. These are worrying figures, to say the least, and unfortunately the figures have been pointing in one direction for several years – the wrong direction. This is shown in a recent report from the Entrepreneurs. When you look at why it looks like this, why so many entrepreneurs do not report crimes, you get the answer that it is no idea. There's no point in reporting a crime. It only takes a lot of time, and the matter will still be closed. Often it is written off directly, so-called direct write-off. Madam President, I would like Of course, every crime committed must be taken seriously by our law enforcement authorities, and any victim who is subjected must, of course, be listened to. It is not only reasonable but absolutely fundamental in the rule of law that no matter who the victim is and regardless of the type of crime committed, it should be investigated and hopefully also prosecuted. For those who listen to entrepreneurs from cities and rural areas, something I did the other week on the Swedish Business Federation's entrepreneurship days, there is unfortunately a disillusionment. There's no point in filing a report. The police's discharge decision comes faster than a letter in the mail. There are, of course, police reports where someone feels that they have been the victim of an injustice but where it is clear from a quick look at the report that the person has not been subjected at all to something that is criminal. Then it is of course justified to write off the case directly. However, when a case is dismissed directly despite the fact that a crime has occurred and despite the fact that there are suggestions to continue, confidence in the judiciary is undermined. Unfortunately, it was such a lack of confidence that I heard from the entrepreneurs I met the other week. In the long run, this is serious for our whole society. We in the Center Party believe that it is extremely important to counteract such tendencies in our law enforcement agencies, and we want to speed up the investigation that is now carrying out a review of the regulatory framework for, among other things, direct depreciation. This is to enable more crimes to be investigated and cleared up, especially in cases where there is a clear interest in crime victims. This is crucial for us in Sweden to be able to feel trust and security. Madam President, I would like I am happy to talk more about the position of victims and what we can do to strengthen them in a stressful situation, as it is almost always for those who have been victims of crime. In particular, I would like to say something about what we can do for those victims who, if the investigation by the police and prosecutors is solid and successful, will eventually end up in the courtroom. There are several measures that society can take to make the victim, who in the courtroom becomes a plaintiff, feel safe all the way. In most cases, a conviction in the district court does not mean the end of the proceedings for the victim of a crime. Many who are convicted in the district court choose to appeal, and then a new process awaits in the court of appeal – so also for the plaintiff. Even if the plaintiff rarely needs to undergo further hearings in the Court of Appeal, he may still need to be present there, and regardless of whether physical presence is required, the plaintiff is very much affected by the outcome of the Court of Appeal. The cost of public assistance has skyrocketed over the last decade, in principle without functioning control mechanisms. This is stated by the Swedish National Audit Office in a recent review. Instead of ensuring effective cost control, however, the government has chosen a seemingly easy way to reduce some of the costs, namely to significantly reduce the possibilities for the victim to be supported by a plaintiff in an infringement. Almost four years ago, rules came into force whereby a plaintiff's appointment should not automatically remain in breach. A plaintiff has an important role to play for the victim, who, in addition to dealing with a psychologically stressful situation, should understand and be able to defend his or her rights. This is particularly important in cases involving sexual offences, violence in close relationships and honor-related crime. But even in cases involving fraud offences, for example, the plaintiff can have a tough time, and it can be difficult to understand how damages can be claimed. The Government has commissioned the Swedish National Courts Administration to evaluate the amendment of the law that was implemented in 2018. But we in the Center Party want to press for this to happen urgently, and we want the government to take steps as soon as possible to strengthen the right of plaintiffs in violation. We appreciate the fact that all parties agree with us and have agreed to this announcement. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to say something about our special courts, namely the Land and the Environment Courts. These courts often get extremely complex and extensive cases on their table. Unfortunately, we have seen how the legal processes in such cases are slowing down in a completely unacceptable way. In these courts, there are often trials of permits relating to the possibility of carrying out or expanding activities that form part of our basic industry, such as mining or lime mining. Now, most recently in the case of Cementa, we have become aware of the enormous impact such court proceedings can have on how issues related to our basic industry should be dealt with. It is therefore extremely important that these special courts be given the resources they need so that they are able to deal effectively and legally with even extensive and complex cases within a reasonable timescale. I would therefore like to ask for the approval of reservation 39 in paragraph 41.
i-XBu3FsDgoQVXxMkEMRuReL	Madam President, I would like Sweden should be a safe country to live in, whether you live in the countryside, in a city or in a suburb. One of the most important tasks of the state is to maintain security through a well-functioning judicial system. We Christian Democrats see that the development of serious crime requires an update of today's legal system. We are prepared to make the necessary changes in order for justice systems to be able to combat crime effectively. We want Sweden to be much better at combating various forms of crime and thereby restore security for our citizens. The challenges of combating mass crime, housing offences, serious organised crime and gang crime remain. As an individual, one should always be able to rely on the police and other parts of the judiciary to have the resources and tools necessary for them to do their job: to prevent, prevent and prosecute crimes. A judicial system that stands up for the most vulnerable is a prerequisite for a good society that holds together. Today's S-government, despite great pledges, has not been able to solve the problems fully. We Christian Democrats are prepared to take up the task in a future government position. It is indeed time for a new government in Sweden. The matter we are debating today, like many previous cases in the Committee on Justice, also gives rise to announcements to the government; today there are eleven. This shows that changes need to be made to provide the justice system with the tools needed to restore the security of our society. For us Christian Democrats, it is self-evident to meet these needs on the part of the legal system. Madam President, I would like I would like to touch briefly on some of the announcements made today. Two concerns extended possibilities for camera surveillance. This applies partly to camera surveillance in the healthcare sector and partly to changes in the requirement for camera permits for municipalities and regions. Although a new camera surveillance team entered into force on 1 August 2018, there is reason to allow for further use of cameras. When criminals threaten healthcare professionals and other persons in their professional activities, it is an indirect threat to the functioning of the entire social system. This is totally unacceptable. Hospitals should be facilitated to maintain a high level of privacy protection for patients and staff, and to set up cameras capable of recording, for greater security and law enforcement. Camera surveillance is also an effective tool to increase security and secure evidence related to crimes committed on the street. Based on my own experience as a former municipal politician, I believe that the possibilities for municipalities and regions to conduct camera surveillance in public places and other places to which the public has access should be strengthened. Municipalities and regions should be given the same general powers as the police have to set up cameras in a public place without permission, if security problems on the ground justify this. In addition to the announcements, it is also justified to provide the police with additional possibilities for camera surveillance. The Christian Democrats believe that the police should be given the opportunity to monitor traffic flows in real time via their own or others' camera systems, such as the Swedish Transport Administration's traffic tax cameras. The cameras should be used both to prevent and to investigate crimes, i.e. also in intelligence activities. On this basis, I would like to ask you to accept reservation 5. Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats want the judiciary to be given appropriate means of coercion to prosecute crimes and, of course, support the increased possibility of listening to persons suspected of serious crime. However, we believe that interception decisions should be linked to a person rather than to telephone numbers, addresses or certain electronic communications equipment. This assessment is also shared by the authorities, such as the police and the Customs Agency, which are supposed to actually use the legislation – they also advocate that the coercive measures be linked to the person rather than to the place. Criminal networks are often very aware of the limitations to police coercive measures and exploit these restrictions to the maximum. We Christian Democrats believe that the law should be designed in such a way that decisions on secret interception as well as other decisions on monitoring, such as secret data reading, should be linked to the person to be watched. It is gratifying that a majority in the committee shares this assessment and makes two announcements on this. Madam President, I would like One of the fundamental prerequisites for tackling the serious crime that operates in our country is that the judicial system can and must prosecute those who commit the crimes. An important part of this process is that people want and dare to testify when they witness that a crime has been committed. The fact is, however, that today, for various reasons, witnesses choose not to give their testimony. This may be because one perceives that it would pose a threat to both one's own and the family's safety. You can also choose not to participate in a police investigation or judicial process for other reasons. The culture of silence is a destructive force that contributes to parallel social structures and makes it more difficult to investigate crimes. This is particularly true in the affected areas. An important reason for this culture of silence is the large amount of violence of criminals. It is therefore obvious to us Christian Democrats that changes need to be made. There is a need for improved witness protection so that people have the courage to testify. There is a need for a system of crown witnesses, in which a person who testifies against other criminals can himself receive a lower penalty. And there is a need for a system of anonymous witnesses where this is required to face the most serious crimes from organised crime. Here, too, a majority support announcements regarding Crown Witnesses and Witness Protection. I would also like to highlight the need to have, like our neighbouring countries, a system in which anonymous witnesses are possible to use in trials where serious crimes are handled and the culture of silence makes the trial process more difficult or impossible. Madam President, I would like We Christian Democrats see that the development that has taken place in relation to, among other things, the increase in serious crime requires the development and updating of today's legal system. As Mr Lantz said, today's S-government has decided on various legislative changes. But we can see that we are not there; the measures are not enough. We need to do more to repress serious crime and restore the security of our society. We Christian Democrats support the announcements made in the report. We support the proposals and reservations put forward, but, as I said in this debate, we only support reservation 5.
i-XFAvxtVrEWYQBfFBWLJmn4	Madam President, I would like I would like to refer a little to the debate we had on older people in this House earlier today. After all, the elderly suffer a great deal from crime. What we are now debating is not least urgent in order to ensure that we combat more effectively the crime that creates lifelong fear and perhaps destroyed lives of older people – year-rich ones – who are exposed to it. This is not least about fraud, but also about completely disgusting assaults at the door of the home, on the street or at the ATM. I noted that during the debate on older people, one speaker highlighted the Flotter Snoddas of Nordgren I stuck to that, not just because my own father sang this song in a fish shop in Örebro in his youth. In particular, I thought of the following plot of Flotter Love: I am now addressing the Social Democrats in this House: It's a bit like that, isn't it? There is a great deal of slumber with the government and the Social Democrats. You drive them in front of you, much like rolling up a large rock up a mountain or carrying the stones to build the pyramids. That is how it is with the Social Democrats. Eventually they come after – and that's good. I am pleased that the Social Democrats are always very flexible and able to change their views and that, despite everything that has been said, they are implementing a great deal of the announcements to the government that we have in this House. This topic is also about something as important as the risk of detection and the chance to clear up crimes. If we are to reduce crime and increase security, preventive work, resources for the police and relevant penalties are important. On that last point, we may sometimes end up in a kind of overemphasis. What is most important is the toolbox for police officers and prosecutors when it comes to tackling the crime that is so appalling and destroys so many lives. We received a recent report from public authorities yesterday on the seriousness of the situation. It rages thousands of new people into serious crime each year. We'll come after him and try to prosecute. This has to stop. We know how organised crime has spread. We know what it looks like for young criminals in different places. Madam President, I would like Säpo has produced a very recent report on the situation in the country. They also use these tools to protect us from external threats; the debate in this House has so far focused on internal threats. These are the tools we are going to use to ensure that Swedish citizens do not have to be blown up in the air or run over by a truck on Drottninggatan, as has happened. Of course, there are complex reasons for the radicalisation that has been the cause of several school attacks recently. Young men are radicalizing and radicalizing each other and committing various crimes under extreme delusions. I have no idea what happened to the disgusting deed in Malmö recently. The investigation will show that. However, we have plenty of examples before that that show that the Security Service's toolbox is important for preventing and clearing up crimes. I began by talking about how this crime affects older people. But it also affects a lot of others. A month ago I visited people in Rinkeby who lost their children in the rough gangs' deals. They were in despair and asked me, ‘ Why don't you do something? You have to stop this! Our children are murdered on a large scale, but very little happens, they said. We have an obligation to stop those murders and all other murders in Sweden as best we can. I recently visited Member Gustaf Lantz's hometown Uppsala and met with those who work with serious crimes at the police. There are about 20 people who are working hard. But that's 200 open errands. There should be 250 people working there. They also need to have effective tools to get to the serious criminals who feed Uppsala's young people drugs, who rob people in Uppsala, who murder people in Uppsala or for that matter engage in fraud in Uppsala. That is why we from the Liberals think that this is a good report that makes important announcements, some of which I would like to highlight. It is imperative that we allow more cameras to be set up more easily. The Privacy Protection Authority shall of course continue to exercise supervision, but shall not be required to grant permission in each individual case. Just take this with all these robberies and thefts in the trade! There's every possibility of using cameras to clear up those crimes. It is also important to ensure that there is a tougher legal framework in procedural law, which is ultimately a matter of, when you are allowed to use access bans and so on. Cameras are useful. It has certainly been shown that crime moves, but every time it moves it becomes less extensive. This puts pressure and makes it difficult to be a criminal, and increases the chance of clearing up. When it comes to bugging or secret room tapping, it is important that it can be linked to a person even if the person changes place quickly. After some communication platforms, Encrochat and others, have been broken with the help of other countries, criminals have become aware that they need to be seen and seen alive. Then it is clear that it must not be cumbersome. If Kalle Kula is to be bugged, you must be able to do so even if Kalle Kula changes from the room for which permission has been given. In addition, there is a reservation from the Liberals that we must allow prosecutors to take interim decisions. The decisions are otherwise taken with a public representative in a court case. But they are not open on the weekends but closing on Friday evenings, and I have noticed that a lot of crime is also taking place on Saturdays and Sundays. Then, of course, the prosecutors must be allowed to take interim decisions on this. The same applies to the location requirement for secret data readings. Madam President, I would like We also think that preventive measures should be taken earlier. It's about us or them right now. That's how serious it is. I promised the parents in Rinkeby who had their children murdered to make suggestions that make a difference. Then it is about prevention, punishment, resources, more district police and so on. But it's also about giving tools to crack the gangs. Then there's only one way, and that's that we sharpen the tools. It is therefore important that we send these announcements to the government when we vote and that something happens. The government's slumber in the ship must be stopped to reconnect to the Snoddas. We need to get moving now, because it's us or them. It is barbarism and medieval clan logic or the rule of law of Sweden. Then we can't afford to wait. People who are affected do not have the energy to wait either.
i-VuFCjFxWEBxBRfG6ZZVErs	Madam President, I would like As usual, Member Johan Pehrson says many wise and well thought-out things. But he also criticises the government and the social democracy that I cannot agree with. I feel compelled to ask a question that does not really make me ask Johan Pehrson without Johan Pehrson's party leader. She described the prelude to the January agreement as the Liberals entering into negotiations with a view to harming the Social Democrats and choosing questions and negotiating lines on that basis. For this debate and future debates, it would be good to clarify Johan Pehrson because he was a key speaker in the parliamentary group that Sabuni thought had this entry and also approved the agreement. Is there the momentum in the Committee on Justice when we take a position on these concrete proposals to harm the Social Democrats? Is it the country's best and to help the government make rational and wise decisions that apply or party-tactical considerations? I do not believe in the latter, but I would like clarification from the honourable Member.
i-WsguxUKodFkqRnXVWooRWo	Madam President, I would like Let's make that clear. Of course, no one is doing anything to harm the Social Democrats or Sweden. The Newmko Sabuni referred, of course, to the fact that when we negotiated hard, the Social Democrats were so eager to take and retain power at any price. But after 134 days, Prime Minister candidates were voted down, and we were in a tough position. Then my party chose to make the deal. I was not the greatest supporter of it, because I realised that 182 Members would vote down 167 with the Left Party and the Swedish Democrats in alliance where the Moderates and Christian Democrats helped. It became a weak government despite a January agreement that had many advantages, and where we recorded things that were good for Sweden. When we said reduced tax on education, it was because we believe that it benefits Sweden's pensioners, people who live on income support, the defence, yes, everyone in Sweden in the ten years term. But we knew that the Social Democrats found it difficult, so that's probably quite a common misinterpretation. When party leaders and others give interviews, statements can be taken away. The Minister of Justice would destroy gang crime, and it would have been gone years ago. But that has not really been the case. Former Prime Minister Stefan Löfven, an honorary man in many ways, said he did not see it coming. Strange, he must have had his eyes closed all the time. Our only aim is to solve the social problems that exist, and we sometimes perceive that the Social Democrats are slumbering in the craft.
i-FRnKSpnGZhg8ifCdgeQ4Px	Madam President, I would like I thank Mr Pehrson for the clarification. I think it is an important message to the voters that we in the Swedish Parliament take the task seriously and represent the people. We do not do this to win power games or hurt other parties, but we do it to find a way forward for Sweden. On our table in our committee are important questions about exactly what Johan Pehrson was into, security. It is vital for people to feel safe at home. Even older ones need to feel safe. Then we can't afford power games. However, I am a little surprised that Johan Pehrson is not more disappointed with her party leader, given the way she expressed herself. I interpret her statement as a tremendous criticism of the previous leadership and the parliamentary group which is the same as having this in mind. I refuse to believe that Sabuni himself thinks it is a good idea to enter into negotiations in order to harm other parties. I feel confident with Johan Pehrson's reply, and I very much appreciate him as a debater. I think he can qualify as the best debater in Parliament. Not only is he sincere and skilled in words, but he wants the best in Sweden and tries to find solutions. I hope he has many comrades in his party who share his starting point for politics and our mission in parliament.
i-2HGrVUaSxPpKPxyZpjF4UQ	Madam President, I would like I thank the honourable Member for the praise – it was nice! The January agreement had great merit, but it also came into being in an environment that was very messy. In retrospect, I thought it was strange that we should have as an idea together to shut out parties that have clearly extreme roots. I am one of those who welcome the fact that the Left Party has made a journey from the back of the moon into the light and that the Swedish Democrats have made a journey that allows us to discuss with them too, because that is the voters' choice. I think that the time has passed when representatives in parliament could be excluded depending on the history they have had, although it may be so dark. We have great challenges and, after the elections, much of what we are now debating in the Committee on Justice will become highly topical. This is a very serious situation for security in Sweden. This does not happen blindly, but primarily affects those people who are already vulnerable, generally not Members of Parliament. We have a great responsibility, and this is one of the biggest freedom and social reforms you can do to create a Sweden for more people. People feel threatened, whether it is young guys in vulnerable areas or older people in Uppsala who are terrified of being robbed. We have to move forward, and the nice Member Lantz usually quotes Lars Winnerbäck: If you stand still in one place, you will simply remain there.
i-L88bTxhc9fPQJ3FiAPYtTw	Madam President, I would like I will not prolong the debate, but would just like to thank the President, who brought to my attention the fact that I voted in favour of the wrong reservation. That's reservation 28.
i-NMxsY2dbCm16TXJ8piQKm6	Madam President, I would like Of course, I support all our reservations, but for the benefit of time, I only ask for reservations 1 and 10. This matter is about the Armed Forces staff. You can say a lot about the Swedish Armed Forces' skills – they are many and good – but when it comes to personnel policy within the Swedish Armed Forces, it can possibly leave some to be desired. It can even be said that despite times of good additions to the Swedish Armed Forces, these may not have reached all the way down to the floor. Soldiers and officers have probably noticed that they have not been in the first room every time new supplements have arrived. We can also note that too many people are leaving the Swedish Armed Forces. The Swedish Armed Forces have often had good conditions in terms of retirement, but today many of those approaching the age to retire are willing to continue. The Armed Forces need these officers, who are often knowledgeable in areas that the Armed Forces need. The Swedish Armed Forces have paid some attention to this and offered programmes for officers who remain, but these programmes are too few and unfavorable for those who are about to choose between pension or other activities or to continue working within the Swedish Armed Forces and share their expertise. Madam President, I would like There is every reason to gather the expertise that exists in Sweden and use it within the Swedish Armed Forces. We had a draft announcement in the Committee on Defence a while ago saying that the economic conditions of our conscripts and soldiers should be improved. We said that one example of this could be the introduction of a so-called training premium. It may be that one has completed one's education, that one has special knowledge, or that one has gained something beyond what was needed for a ministry. This was a proposal for an announcement in the Defence Committee, which was passed on to the Ministry. Then what happened? It was said that this had been catered for, but what had been done? Well, the daily allowance had been taken and reduced to a minimum to pay it instead after the military service had been completed as a training premium. So what the Ministry of Defence did was to impair the conditions for soldiers and conscripts. You can ask the question: Do you want your salary now at the end of the month, or do you want it in six months? Of course, everyone wants the money on their pocket so that you can pay their snuff and rent, but there the Armed Forces were creative in tricking the soldiers. Let me take another example. The conscript who, after completed military service, thrives so well that you choose to stay and start an aspirant course as an officer of the Swedish Armed Forces will lower your salary. Of course, it is not called salary, but the allowance you receive every day as a conscript at the end of your military service is higher than it is at the beginning of the aspirant service to become an officer. The Swedish Armed Forces thus reward our officers' aspirants in a first career step by lowering their salary. Is this a good staff policy? No. Although both we in the Moderates and the Officers' League have pointed this out to the government, it chooses not to do anything. There are two regulations that regulate this, so the government would not even have had to go through the Riksdag to change this, but could have done so on its own, without asking us, but apparently it has prioritised other things. So there is much that the government could do that it chooses not to do. While the government's goal in terms of standing units is missed year after year, it chooses not to look at the benefits or how more could be attracted to apply to become a periodically or continuously employed soldier. We can talk about this in terms of defence policy. Just as our Jas planes are our spearheads in the air, our standing units are our spearheads on the ground. When something happens, we need to quickly be out and face any threats that may exist. If we do not have standing units, we will be late or fail in what is the task of the Armed Forces. This is not discussed to any great extent, but the government chooses not to look at the problem. This is not just a problem in Sweden, it is a problem throughout Western Europe. The problem will not be any less so, but it will affect both our defence capabilities and our readiness for a coup. Madam President, I would like Many soldiers and reserve officers today lose financially by serving within the Swedish Armed Forces, if they are allowed to serve at all. Not all soldiers have the opportunity to take time off from their regular jobs to practice with the Swedish Armed Forces, and if they do, they will lose money many times. There are among people who have a government job in addition to their temporary employment within the Swedish Armed Forces an opportunity to get paid up. I myself had that opportunity when I was a reserve officer, and of course that right should apply to everyone. It cannot be the case that the choice of employer should determine what financial benefits you have as a soldier. The choice of employer should also not affect the opportunity to defend Sweden. I think this is quite obvious. We can move on to the Home Guard, where there are similar problems. Today, the biggest problem in the Home Guard is perhaps not filling the units but taking advantage of all those who seek to become soldiers in the Home Guard. Of course, there has been an extreme storm in the last month that creates bottlenecks, but there are also many problems that we could help to solve politically. Such a bottleneck situation as we now have is not an ideal path. After all, it takes at least a year from the day you report your interest until you can serve in a unit. I think it's too long. I think one should be able to speed up that stairs in many steps. I also believe that if we want good turnover in the units, we must be able to work to make it easier to get through these steps. Possibly it costs a penny, but I think it will significantly improve the quality of our units within the Home Guard. Madam President, I would like Sweden is a country that has high ambitions in terms of international politics and is happy to contribute troops to various types of international efforts. Let's say that most people who have been involved in international efforts come home stronger both physically and mentally and have learned a lot on the trip, but unfortunately this does not apply to everyone. The Swedish Armed Forces have a responsibility that applies for an unlimited period of time to the damage that soldiers incur in international service. Today, there is a lack of a coherent chain of care for most of these soldiers. Those who live in Uppsala may have access to the special expertise within Veteran Centre. Otherwise, they are referred to regular health care in many ways, but it is unable to receive these people. There is no regional competence, and sometimes it does not even exist nationally. Therefore, we think it is obvious that Sweden, which has high ambitions in the international field, also has high ambitions for its veteran policy and therefore establishes an independent veteran centre. To summarise this, Madam President, the Swedish Armed Forces' ability to recruit and retain competent personnel will be crucial to its ability to grow and solve its tasks. The conditions for officers, reserve officers, conscripts, Home Guards and employed soldiers are thus crucial for Sweden's ability to defend itself against an attacker. There is much that can be done. I have given some examples, but there are others. Many of the measures can also be carried out without qualified investigations. Much of this could have been resolved only by coordinating various regulations at the Government Office, but obviously it has chosen not to. I think that's a shame. Despite the large grants that have come to the Swedish Armed Forces, the government has unfortunately turned a blind eye to personnel policy, which is perhaps one of the most important things we have.
i-HhzCpUZmLbpQwxznAeLiNV	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by asking for the approval of reservation number 9. Then I would like to talk a little bit about the NGOs, which have not been mentioned. The previous speaker touched on the financial aspects, which I am trying to shift here. That's a good point, I think. As far as NGOs are concerned, it has been a little behind schedule. You perceive yourself as having a need for a strengthened economy. It is also perceived, Madam President, that opportunities to get out in practice and more are limited. These include environmental permits, which I will come back to later. You get the feeling you're gonna have to stand in line. There are restrictions on permits, and other units have priority. You see it that way, and you've said it that way. In order to remedy this, the possibilities for expanding the training areas themselves need to be reviewed, as the government does to some extent. I think that's a good way to go. The other way I think is that when you obtain environmental permits, you take heights for the Swedish Armed Forces to grow. There, NGOs have a very important part to play in training for home Guards or whatever it is. It is also necessary to extend the permits before there is too much clots in view of the increase in capabilities that the total defence should have now. They need to practice a lot more. Having said that, I can say that the government has made various contributions and that money can be used for NGOs. You can actually sit down and think about a proposal that I am not really sure if it is really good. However, consideration should be given to discussing with them whether they would be able to handle their own appropriation, so that they do not have to stand with their hat in hand when there is an expansion of their activities. But I think we can at least discuss this with them. Madam President, I would like When it comes to the Swedish Armed Forces' recruitment of personnel and officers, there is a need that has been expressed and that we have been exercising about for many years, namely to open a recruitment office in Luleå. Why? Well, because the head of F 21 told us when we were there a number of years ago that one of the most important parts of the staff supply is that you get a recruitment office there. That is why, year after year, we have awakened that exercise. Unfortunately, it has not been heard, but we continue and have now baked it. When it comes to recruiting staff, I read and checked last night what is said about the training of officers. And I think it is clear that the officers' training is being shortened, in some forces, by a whole year. Why do you do that? Is it because of over-training, or why? I think this should be dealt with further, and questions should be addressed to the Swedish Armed Forces when they come here. I'm not asking anyone here to answer that. What worries me, moreover, is that different ways of working are now a little different. With the old way, the company manager and the platoon manager were also raised in the tool, so to speak. Then they moved on on to another line, perhaps to the officer's line, and developed both tactics and staff functions in a different way. But one once mastered and was well acquainted with the tool that was then to be ordered to be used by someone else. For example, these could be connection work over the Dalälven river. It is no problem to lead such an activity if you can. It is very important that this competence is included. I do not think that is taken into account enough. It is obvious when someone says: But I am going to lead the work. But it may be that you have a management function, if I tighten this up a little bit, and will give the order for an operation but do not understand the timing – what time this takes and what resources you need. All of this is naturally found in specialist officers. But it should also, to some extent, be anchored with the one giving the order. I think that is an important part of this. As far as military service volumes are concerned, we want to go up to 20 000 – 22 000 men in the long term. It'll take a very long time. But it is necessary when we are now increasing the brigades – a third to 2030, preferably faster if the Swedish Armed Forces are able to do so, which is doubtful. But they'll have to come back to that. After talks with them, it should be ready by 2030. But it requires an investigation into which unit platforms we are going to take back. Are we going to reclaim Ing 1 Almnäs where the liaison battalions were trained? They were responsible for the transitions at Södertälje, Stockholm, Stäket and so on. All of this was prepared for bridge construction sites, and there was much training. Is this what we're going to do? Yes, I think so. If compulsory military service volumes are to grow that much, you also have to start up. And it has been done on the part of the government in some respects. It has been seen that we have to work on this problem. But there must be some answers to the question. Where are we going to establish units? The Swedish Armed Forces must, of course, have a decisive role to play here. Because the need for brigade units – logistics units and so on – is very important. But you should get started now. This should then be possible in a number of years. Madam President, I would like We believe that civil service should be restored. I guess most people here now think so. I looked at my papers, and I said this in 2014. And I'm still saying it in full today. There are some who are placed in war. We have our three schools where we can train people for civil service. It is also possible to imagine that when compulsory military service volumes increase, some people may refuse to do military service. Then you could have a civil duty for those where they learn other parts that are weapon-free. There's our rescue schools. It could also be envisaged that NGOs are working on this. They do today, but it can be expanded. What's civil service more than that? We now need to get to grips with, for example, self-defense. What is it? We used to. At our power stations and automatic stations, the U.S. Guard had a military location. In addition to normal repair work, operational personnel were trained. Five ten men went out, high power electricians and other electricians, and repaired. That part of the operating personnel must be restored. That is very important in our view. Similarly, the BRB, which is an abbreviation for building and repair preparedness, is important. At that time, we felt that it was needed in a war situation at the same time, during and after. All these staff are aged today. But that doesn't mean the head doesn't work. Of course, they could be asked to help show what it was like at the time. This is then refined against today's situation. Building and repair preparedness is therefore important to regain. There's a little talk about it. But now at least I've done it.
i-KZSdL1sa86VcavGUvf92Ag	Madam President, I would like The war in Russia marks its mark on everything we are doing right now and in our thoughts. It also makes this issue of staff very topical. It is very obvious in Ukraine that it is power relations that determine. If you compare Ukraine with Sweden, Ukraine is 1.34 times larger on the surface, and you have four times our population. What is clear, however, is that the size of the defence is crucial in the way in which one succeeds in defending one's country, that is, the number of soldiers available. It's very clear. The new security situation is definitely a new chapter in world history, a tragic one. This means that the Armed Forces must increase. At the same time, we know that the biggest challenge to succeed in this increase is staffing. We see that things have to go faster. In the total defense decision, it was said that a determined organisation should be completed by 2030. Our conclusion today is that it is too slow. It has to go faster. We need to speed up our efforts as much as we can. And not least as a Gotlander, I feel exactly this need. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Armed Forces, of course, have a delegation to conduct the government's employers' policy within the Swedish Armed Forces' area. We can note that there is a very positive trend today. It's going pretty well, and you recruit well. It's very pleasing. That does not prevent us from making input from the committee and passing on these signals from the floor as we do. That's exactly what I'm going to do right now. The demand for officers, special officers, group managers, soldiers and sailors now exists is historic. I don't think there's been such a demand since the Cold War days. This means that there is a very strong pride in the profession, which makes it easier to recruit. One can comedy say that Putin has actually helped with this. We also see that there needs to be some sort of balance in terms of the capacity increase in the short term and the number of conscripts trained, which is the long-term. Of course we want more conscripts, but at the same time we lock down well-trained officers in the training of these. So we must both manage the increase in capacity here and now and train for the future, and that is a balancing process that is important to consider. There are some suggestions from the floor that I really think are worth mentioning. What is at issue now is that we have a slump in the case of officers in particular, because we have had a low level of education for a long time, and that it takes a long time before we get new officers. One thing we want to do, for example, is to employ, for the time being, the group managers, soldiers and sailors who are now in shorter employment. We also want more GSS soldiers, as it's called. It is a given first step and a low hanging fruit. At the same time, it is indeed the case that the salaries and conditions of officers must be improved. The purpose of this is to keep today's staff, because there are some departures in this category. We also need to increase the attractiveness to catch those who think of becoming officers. Perhaps the most important thing is that the target number of professional officers in the Armed Forces must be raised substantially. This applies not least to the new security situation, which requires a new target number. We also believe from the Center Party that special measures are needed to attract professional officers to remain after the retirement age. It is a great challenge to overcome the slump we are now seeing. We also believe that targeted measures are needed to recruit back the specialist officers and officers who are trained but are not working in the profession today. On Gotland, for example, many in the public sector work with other tasks. There are efforts to be made there. Finally, I also believe that there are efforts to be made which may not be very popular but which need to be discussed, such as the retirement age of professional officers. A person born before 1988 retires at the age of 61, and an air driver retires at the age of 55. One should be able to have a discussion about raising age. They may not have to keep exactly the same tasks, but they still have the skills. So there are many concrete measures that we see can be taken. Another point that we in the Center Party want to highlight is the gender dimension of staff recruitment. Why? Well, if you're going to attract new people, it's very good to be able to recruit from the entire population. We have therefore drawn up nine points in a special motion which we have attached to the report. The main point of this is that by 2030 we want to increase the proportion of women conscripts to 40%. In 2021 we had 21 per cent conscripts who were women. On the officer program, 29 percent were women, and on the specialist officer program it was only 15 percent. We think the proportion should increase. We can look at Norway, which has a higher target number and a higher proportion of women. We believe that this is a great way to increase the attractiveness and ability to recruit to the military. We also want a deputy officer who becomes a link between the conscript and the head of the unit. It could be a bet. We also want an independent whistleblower function, which is very much about counteracting the unwelcome behaviour that we unfortunately get reports of actually sitting in the walls. We also want compulsory education in gender equality and values, and we want regular monitoring and evaluation of existing gender equality work. Last but not least, it is certainly high time that our female soldiers were given equipment to suit them. Actually, they haven't until now. It's about the women soldiers being able to handle both practice and combat. With this, I am in favour of the Center Party in favour of reservation 7.
i-3mwrmupc2Dhjgky6KPiMn5	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating a great deal of motions on defence policy regarding personnel, recruitment and working conditions within the Armed Forces. Madam President, I would like Russia's invasion of Ukraine about five weeks ago is a serious violation of international law and has brought enormous suffering to the Ukrainian population, with a large number of dead and injured and millions of people fleeing. We live in a more vulnerable and uncertain world. For two years we lived with a pandemic that is now hopefully sounding off. These two events, the invasion of Ukraine and the pandemic, have placed and continue to place very high demands on our entire society. The question of the robustness of society in the event of major disruptions is very important. One of the reasons why we now have a consensus in Parliament on increasing the defence budget is that we need to have enough military and civilian personnel to ensure that Sweden is strong and secure. The most important factors for having a robust society that resists crises are well-trained staff with good working conditions and the commitment of ordinary people to help when needed. We have seen during the pandemic and even now, when Sweden is affected by the disaster in Ukraine, we see that personnel and engagement within the Armed Forces, Home Guard, voluntary defence organisations, municipalities, the Red Cross and many other large and small non-profit associations are doing an extremely important job. I would like to thank them very much. Madam President, I would like Military service is an important prerequisite for the Armed Forces' personnel supply. All young people who turn 18 sign and are tested against the possibility of military service. The Left Party thinks this is very good. The compulsory service guarantees a popular attachment to the Swedish Armed Forces' activities. It is important for our democratic society that as many different people as possible, with different backgrounds and experiences, participate in the defence of Sweden and gain important knowledge of how our country is made safer and safer for everyone. However, in order for conscripts to receive the best possible training and for their otherwise life to be as good as possible, it is very important that there is a well-functioning Council of Duty, Madam President. The Plikt Council is a body elected by the conscripts and has the task of defending the interests of conscripts, conducting dialogue on changes and improvements and reviewing what concerns conscripts. This is an important body for peoples' association and a way for society to ensure that the education we have decided is compulsory for those who are chosen to do it is as good as possible. After the first Council of Duty since the re-introduction of military service was elected in spring 2019, organisational problems have been highlighted. The Pliktrådet lacks the opportunity to work independently and has not had the necessary administrative resources. Today, the Plikt Council is part of the Swedish Armed Forces, which prevents the Council from operating independently. A change in the Regulation would have to be made to ensure independence and independence. We are very pleased that all parties now think that this is something that needs to be looked at further in order to get a change for the better. The Left Party welcomes the fact that the Committee on Defence proposes that the Riksdag address an announcement to the government on this issue. Madam President, I would like The Left Party is a feminist party. Since the restoration of military service, it is gender neutral. Women's participation in defence and security work is crucial for the whole of society to be able to withstand crises and acute events. However, the Swedish Armed Forces' activities are lagging behind in terms of gender equality. 22 percent of conscripts are women – a figure that, fortunately, increases every year even though it is still too low. A more balanced gender balance is, of course, extremely important both for democracy and for feminist defence and security policy. We are aware that the Swedish Armed Forces are working hard to improve gender equality, but there will still be reports of abusive treatment of various kinds. In the autumn of 2017, tens of thousands of women raised the issue of sexual abuse, harassment and discrimination through the Metoo movement. Even in the defense there was a petition, called Give Act and Piece together, signed by 1,786 women. Professional officers, reserve officers, civilian workers, volunteers, soldiers and sailors witnessed terrible experiences, ranging from invisible and sexist jokes to rape. The appeal also drew attention to how women who reported violations and abuse were often questioned. I know that the Armed Forces' leadership is working hard to increase equality and stop all forms of discrimination, but more needs to be done. Despite active gender equality work for a long time, and despite the fact that women have been within the Swedish Armed Forces for decades, many women in the defence feel that clothing and protective equipment are not suitable for them, as has been shown in a survey carried out by the Swedish Association of Officers among their female members. Most discontent is with underwear that chafes and does not fit, but also with protective equipment. Many feel that the body armor is too large or quakes. Helmets are often perceived as too large and go down over the eyes during shooting exercises. Now the defence has addressed this issue, but it needs to be followed up. The Left Party believes that a plan is needed to achieve gender balance at different levels and that an annual gender equality survey needs to be carried out to follow the work on gender equality. Clear and follow-up objectives are also needed. It is important that the Swedish Armed Forces continue to talk about the improvements being made and to raise women as role models. I therefore support reservation No 8. This report also deals with the repeated motion by the Left Party that we should remove the system of the Armed Forces providing the court with adjutants. Adjutants are highly trained officers with a lot of experience, who are lent to help the king and Crown Princess with all sorts of chores during the days, one month a year on a rolling schedule. They should be replaced by civil servants, we believe. The Swedish Armed Forces' activities, as well as rescue services, police and other similar occupations, present great risks and high demands. It is also running around the clock. That is why we need to work to ensure that staff have the best possible conditions so that they want to stay in the profession for a longer period of time. Wages are not a matter for us in politics, but are determined in negotiations between the social partners, and that should of course be the case. However, it is important that there is a great deal of room within the budget to actually increase the salaries of those who are employed in the Swedish Armed Forces' activities. Wages, good working environment and good working conditions are the prerequisites for a modern and well-functioning defence operation in Sweden in the future.
i-AjvpBLgsPoW6e3nTEebf4U	Madam President, I would like I have a question for the honourable Member. Does the honourable Member, Madam President, think that it is the competence that should be crucial when trying to find a more even distribution in recruitment in terms of the number of women and men? The aim is, of course, to have as many women as possible, Madam President, but my question is: is it only competence that should guide men and women in the organisation?
i-UUAy27hii7T8auqPyNeMxV	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question. Of course, skills should be crucial and important when hiring. That goes without saying. However, we see today that there are too few women in the different areas of defence, and there are many women who could make a major and important contribution in defence. That is why we need to increase the proportion of women, including by increasing recruitment. We can do that by displaying female role models. We can also get better at recruiting in the school area, for example, by making it more known what the Swedish Armed Forces are actually doing. Women may also be able to do a little different things compared to men. They may not be able to do exactly the same things all the time, but there are many different areas within the Swedish Armed Forces where women can make a big and important contribution.
i-GQm1CKMLtmtDs7fPE3qUYR	Madam President, I would like I share that view. There are many different parts where women may even be better in certain positions and positions. I do not disagree, Madam President. However, it is just as the honourable Member says: for example, in the bridge-building companies, there is a different need, Madam President, for muscle strength and other things. There it becomes natural that they are often men. There is nothing strange in any way, nor does it contradict what the honourable Member said here, Madam President. I share the view that one can very well look at recruitment and make it better. I don't have a problem with that at all. Above all, I was satisfied with the answer that it is the competence that should be crucial.
i-V3979YoYjhJpChUFoFqXi7	Madam President, I would like Of course, you have to have the right education and skills to do the job. That goes without saying. I also think that there are certain things that may be more difficult for women to perform because it takes a completely different muscle strength. But in the vast majority of areas, I am absolutely convinced that women can make an important and good contribution. One important thing to increase the proportion of women within the Swedish Armed Forces is precisely to work with gender equality, to remove all the discrimination that we have seen. The fact that women are being harassed precisely because they are women must not be allowed to happen, but unfortunately it still exists. Here there is an important and great job to do to get all of this out of the Swedish Armed Forces.
i-G1J9zW7BoZ1FiL3VjahrsR	Madam President, I would like Since the rescheduling of defence policy in 2015 and the major economic additions, we see a defence power growing. Military and operational capabilities are built, developed and improved. A key factor in creating military capabilities and creating both peoples' affection and defence will is the personnel policy of the defence – to be an attractive employer on the one hand and to attract more people to Sweden's defence. If it is something the Russian invasion of Ukraine has taught us, it is the importance of creating the will to defend the country, the feeling that everyone has a shared responsibility. Let me therefore, Madam President, point out some, what I mean, key aspects in this regard. Firstly, the Armed Forces must be an attractive employer who can recruit and retain personnel so that the armed forces can be manned and developed in accordance with the Riksdag's decision. A future defence will be based on universal and gender-neutral military service. A strong popular anchoring and a broad recruitment base is a prerequisite for the defence, where duty duty is a very special type of service. In line with the establishment of the reactivated military service, we see, for example, a sharp increase in the number of applicants for the officer programme. The obligation thus serves several functions, both to create defence will and joint responsibility and to recruit officers. The Swedish Armed Forces' annual report for 2021 shows that approximately 5,900 conscripts started basic education in 2021 and that the objective of 5,000 conscripts was thus exceeded. At a time when the defence is to grow, it is important to reach the entire recruitment base of the population in order to employ the most suitable and to provide adequate and efficient human resources. An equal organisation also contributes to the legitimacy, credibility and popular attachment of military defence. Progress is moving in the right direction, but unfortunately we still see a clearly lower interest among women than among men. Perhaps it is not surprising given that military service has previously been manly. For generations, our fathers and grandfathers have been called to contract, while for women it was not even possible to apply for military training until 1980 and then only in a few areas. It was only as late as 1989 that women were granted access to all positions and parts of the Armed Forces. Until 1994, women were required to apply for military service in order to qualify for military service. It is first with the reactivated conscription that women are called to conscription and conscription on the same terms as men. The annual report also states that the proportion of women who started basic education with compulsory military service in 2021 was 21 per cent, an increase of 3 per cent compared to the previous year and an increase of 5 per cent compared to 2019. The Swedish Armed Forces' goal is that the proportion of women should be at least 25 per cent. Secondly, the trend persists with increased student volumes of vocational and reserve officers' training, and the number of students who started the officers' programme in 2021 was the highest since the programme started in 2007. The number of professional officers also increased during 2021, due, among other things, to large inflows from basic officers' training, re-employment and to few professional officers choosing to leave the Swedish Armed Forces. At the same time, there is an imbalance in supply. The Swedish Armed Forces have a mandate to design the professional and reserve officers' supply to counter this imbalance. For this purpose, the Swedish Armed Forces have also taken several steps, including creating several ways into the profession through the special officer training. Thirdly, reserve officers, i.e. officers who have their main occupation outside the Swedish Armed Forces but can, if necessary, go in and solve tasks, are extremely important for our preparedness and for the Swedish Armed Forces to be able to carry out their duties and produce fully staffed military units. It is necessary for the government to take concrete measures to facilitate and strengthen the ability of reserve officers to serve, for example, so that they are entitled to leave of absence for service in the Swedish Armed Forces, just as the category GSS/T has. Fourthly, at the committee's proposal, the Parliament has decided to announce to the government that it should investigate the design of modern civil service. In accordance with the Total Defence Obligations Act, all three parts to increase the operational capacity to strengthen the defence will are important: military service, civil service and public service obligations. It is extremely important that the Swedish Armed Forces continue to work on developing conditions, forms of employment and other incentives. Madam President, I would like In the total defence bill, the government also assessed the need for a review of human resources in civil defence. The government argued that it should be considered whether such a review should also include a broader threat picture, the hybrid threats and serious peace-time crises. The voluntary defence organisations contribute to peoples' attachment, strengthening resources and defence will to the total defence. Support for organisations will need to be further increased, not least in order to ensure a long-term sustainable organisational structure for the activities of voluntary defence organisations. Madam President, I would like Let me also conclude by saying something about the terms of the conscripts. The Council today lacks the opportunity to work independently and has not had the necessary administrative resources at its disposal. Today, the Plikt Council is part of the Swedish Armed Forces. Such dependence prevents the Council from operating independently. The independence of the Council from the Swedish Armed Forces is ultimately about the legitimacy of the system, which is based on duty. That is why we need to continue to develop the ability to prevent unwanted behaviour and improve in this respect. There too a change needs to be made. Madam President, I would like A modern public defense is built on several legs. It is about the Swedish Armed Forces' ability to recruit personnel, to strengthen the conditions for conscript reserve officers and to provide the voluntary organisation with the best conditions for this. That's how we create motivation. That's how we build resilience. This is how we strengthen the Swedish public defence. With this, I would like to call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-DCPZsj7SXQJuTcTxg7rq2Y	Madam President, I would like My motto in defense can be summed up as: You should do what you can with what you have, not complain about what does not exist. In a situation that becomes serious and sharp, there will always be shortcomings. The units that are trained to solve their task with the equipment available, although it may be deficient, are often those that are strong. The situation in Ukraine shows this in particular. It has very limited resources, but it is still a successful battle against a military superior enemy, who may, however, lack motivation. I also believe that this particular point of motivation is very important and something that we are discussing too little. It is very easy that defence discussions are about the number of weapons and their species rather than about how the soldiers on the ground should have it. With this mentioned, I think we can do more. That is why I would like to ask the Vice-President of the Committee on Defence if he thinks it reasonable that the conscript who moves on to an aspirant's education should go down in wages. This is indeed the case today – because it is regulated by two regulations, which a government-supporting party should be able to change by a simple push of a button. The second point I would like to make is that reserve officers who, so to speak, have the wrong employer when they are going to serve within the Swedish Armed Forces have worse financial conditions. They do not receive a full salary, which often means that they may choose not to take the financial blow and prioritise the family's income rather than doing what they can for the Armed Forces.
i-FbYryTF2JUcmeEosU8xpoR	Madam President, I would like These are fundamentally leading questions that the honourable Member is asking me. There is only one answer: of course it is not reasonable. I agree with the criticism that exists. However, I would also like to remind the honourable Member of what he himself began to change his line by saying: it is important to do what one can, not to complain about what is being done. After all, the whole Member's speech was an exercise of gloom. With the brush that the honourable Member had bought in the paint shop for today's debate, he painted only black colours. There was no setting to the gray shade. I share the honourable Member's view. Much is being done, but more needs to be done. But we need to focus on what you can actually do and not just complain about what is being done. I suppose that is a lesson that both have to learn and a good motto with which the honourable Member started the line shift.
i-PNsuNJRnkP6uVieeAEg3wF	Madam President, I would like I can of course agree that there are very good moods within the Swedish Armed Forces. A few years ago, I myself criticised the government for not being able to fill the seats in the officers' training. Now you can think about why this has happened. Is it because the conditions have been improved? No, to be honest, it's probably due to external factors. This is what has led to increased interest in the Swedish Armed Forces – not the policy that the government has pursued. Madam President, I would like My role as parliamentarian is, of course, to examine what the government is doing, and that is what I am doing when I emphasise certain things that I think are flawed. It is grateful that the Vice-President of the Committee on Defence, who is a Social Democrat, also agrees with those shortcomings. It is clear that there should be a level playing field for a reserve officer regardless of whether you are a government employee or a private employee. Of course you should have a higher salary if you take a career step to become an officer. Then, of course, my question is: why has the Vice-President of the Committee on Defence done nothing? He has reasonably good contacts in the Department of Defense, so this shouldn't be a problem. Another important issue that I also raised in my speech is the failure of the Swedish Armed Forces to recruit the standing units. This is not something that either the previous bourgeois government or the present government have succeeded in. But not for nothing, we still have to discuss the issue and see what we can do. There have been a number of proposals that I think may be of importance in this situation and in a situation where the Swedish Armed Forces are not as attractive due to external conditions as they are today. You have to look at the benefits that soldiers have. If you look internationally, wages in Sweden are not worse or better than in comparable European countries. On the other hand, the benefits for soldiers serving in other countries are better. I think that's something we should look at. It is about the possibility of leave and the possibility of compensation, so that you do not lose money by going in and defending our country.
i-FRfLew8YjSoeu5yo9iiEDQ	Madam President, I would like It is clear that as an opposition politician you can justify your behaviour by reviewing the government, but you don't always have to paint everything in black colors, because things aren't binary. It's not ones or zeros. It's not either. It's not black or white. There are also shades of grey, and this can also be painted with as an opposition politician. Nevertheless, I would like to remind the honourable Member that a great deal has been done in Sweden's defence over the last seven eight years. Much has been done, but much remains to be done, of course. Now we're making step-by-step changes. We've improved operational capabilities. We'll bet on the military in all types of weapons. We make sure to improve the conditions for those who are soldiers and for those who are employed in Sweden's defence. That journey is not finished. Much remains to be done, of course. At the same time, one should know that the financial contributions to Sweden's defence that we now see are the largest since the Second World War. That is to be contrasted, Madam President, with the policy that Jan Andersson's party previously pursued in government. At that time the defence was labeled as a special interest, and at that time the general conscription was abolished by three votes margin in the Swedish Parliament. It doesn't look like that anymore. Madam President, I would like I am grateful that the Moderates and Jan Andersson are interested in reviewing the government. The government may need it, and we Social Democrats may need it because, in a sense, we should do things better. I would like to say, however, that it is the policy that has been pursued that has increased interest in the Swedish Armed Forces. Now we see a defence force growing. These are new supplements. You get new challenges, and you build new abilities. This is a crucial factor in the increased interest in the Armed Forces, I would say.
i-3sRy6hLA7bRWJ9ZQh9xZYf	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask the honourable Member a question. In 2015, the Swedish Parliament issued an announcement that the decision-making processes for the environmental assessment of exercise and shooting fields need to be reviewed in order to shorten these times. As far as I know, the announcement is not finished. It is quite a few years since this announcement, Madam President. I know that the honourable Member knows that there is an enormous need. I have just mentioned the NGOs and a total defence power that is increasing in scope, which is a good thing. But at the same time, this doesn't follow.
i-WPgrMkGVgL6jBLP23DLayn	Madam President, I would like The answer to that question is: No, I do not know in detail. The next time the Minister for Defence is on the Committee on Defence, there is every possibility of asking: what is happening? What's it look like? What measures are being taken? I wasn't on the Defense Committee in 2015. I wasn't a part of it then. But let there be no doubt whatsoever that I, the representative of the Social Democrats and vice-chairman of the Parliament's Committee on Defence, am very keen to address the challenges that exist. I am keen for us to keep pace as fast as it is possible for us to succeed in building military capabilities and operational capabilities, in order to bring together total defence, in order to create threshold effects and in order to make our country safer so that it can withstand an armed attack and so that in the world that is becoming increasingly uncertain we can feel safe. Can we in committee, in discussion with the government, point out shortcomings, help each other to make it better and push on, I am the first to contribute to this in committee. I think the honourable Member knows that too.
i-4LnPj9meZBhd57yXZWGc19	Madam President, I would like You don't know everything in detail. I know that the honourable Member cannot respond directly to all these parts. But implicitly it was also a message, Madam President: that the Member should take this with him. It's been seven years. Everyone knows that NGOs, the Swedish Armed Forces and so on need this very much. Then I expect, Madam President, that this will be taken along, that it will be examined and perhaps presented in the Committee on Defence: here is the situation with regard to these issues. It is not strange; it is a way of working, Madam President, which I think is really good. I would like to see this done. I also have another point that I intend to raise, Madam President. We from the Swedish Democrats believe that the Swedish Armed Forces are too detailed. It is not just the honourable Member's fault or the Social Democrats' or the government's. I think we have all contributed to being very careful about talking about exactly how to do it. It's supposed to be like this, and it's supposed to be like that. I think that we should look at how we can make things easier with a long-term perspective in terms of the means, resources and the allocation of resources to the Swedish Armed Forces. It should of course be checks and follow-up of the funds, and other resources, that are allocated. And this is to be linked to the supply of equipment in the field of weapons systems and so on in the longer term. What is the honourable Member's view on reviewing the control of detail? He may not even share that view. In that case, I'd like to hear it.
i-3U3CcW2eYA75egQr4UGMz9	Madam President, I would like It is, of course, as the honourable Member says: 'There is a great need in Sweden's defence. Since 2015, we have reoriented the focus. We are now seeing the biggest contributions to the defense since World War II. It's a huge growth we're seeing. It is time to absorb the financial resources. You should keep a high tempo so that you take advantage of things efficiently and so that you have a good and good organization. At the same time, we know that the journey is not over. It's just started. It is long, and it will require more. It is a good thing that we are helping to identify things that are not yet fixed, but we have to take things in the right steps. As far as environmental permits are concerned, it can certainly be better. It's important. We must do something about this because the Armed Forces should have the ability to practice and practice and so on. Does the honourable Member want a promise from me that in my talks with the Minister for Defence or with us in committee when we have the opportunity to discuss this with the Minister for Defence? I don't have any trouble with that, on the contrary. There are also other issues that we need to discuss, and I think we should help to keep track of that. The second discussion was about whether the Swedish Armed Forces are detailed. It is a constant discussion. I think it has to be alive. We must have a defence force that is efficient, rational, fast-footed and easy to operate. But it is also the case that the Swedish Armed Forces are not just any activity. I won't mention other authorities, but it's not just any business. That is why democratic control, transparency and governance are crucial. Where's the line going in this? It is as little binary as what I said in my last discussion, as I had with the moderate Member. It's a gray area. You can always discuss where to draw the line, and we'll have that discussion alive. But I think you have to keep in mind that there are two scales, and you have to keep track of both.
i-VVmPETZpWGWJcHLaeyhq1c	Madam President, I would like Good evening, you who follow the debate here in the gallery and you who follow it via the television or mobile phone or wherever you follow it! This evening we have two reports from the Committee on Defence which we are debating. It is one about the Armed Forces staff and one about military issues. I would like to begin by calling for the approval of our motion 3908, Amendment No 15, in paragraph 1. When I stand here tonight debating these issues, I do so in a special light. I think we all feel that these are serious times for our country and for Europe. We have war in Europe. Ukraine has been attacked. A peaceful country has been attacked by its neighbour. Right now, as we speak, this has been going on for almost five weeks. It's terrible. This has consequences for us. As we stand here talking about the personnel of the Armed Forces, it is important to note that we have a good defence force, but it is too small. It needs to get bigger. Now that we see the consequences of this and are going to expand, it is important that we go up to 2% of bnp. It's got to cost something! We have been careless in Sweden to pay the home insurance fee. We have tried to haggle it, and that, Madam President, is a very bad idea. We have to pay for ourselves. We can't leave a running bill. We can't blame anyone else. We have to stand up, and then we have to invest 2%, just as Germany now goes up to 2% to 2024. I think we should do it by 2025. We must do so in order, among other things, to finance more soldiers and officers and to have a greater defence force. Of course, there is also a need for equipment, but we must see that we are talking about more soldiers. We have said that we should go from 5,000 to 8,000. From the Christian Democrats' side, we see that we need to go up to 12 000. Today, the army has only two brigades. We are going to go up to three, and it is well said that it should be ready somewhere in 2030. We can't have that. We need to move fast. We do not have all the time in the world, but we need a stronger defence force more quickly. So we see that we need to go up to five brigades. The Navy is good, but it's too small too. We need more sailors to keep both the west coast and the east coast going at the same time. This is very important, and that is why we must ensure that we have attractive conditions. We need more officers and reserve officers, as has been mentioned here before. It is scandalous that you cannot get leave of absence even in certain situations. We can't have that! We must also have better salaries and better conditions in different ways, as has been pointed out here. It is very important that the Swedish Armed Forces become an attractive employer. It applies to officers, but we also lose pilots because the conditions are not good enough. We can't have that. We need to look at our house when we are living in such a serious time. It must have consequences for our defence policy. The Defence Committee presented a report in 2017. We know that. It was about the civil defense. There were 250 pages with very many concrete proposals on how to get civil defence in order. We have problems with military defence, but we have even greater problems in terms of civil defence, and we must correct that. One of the concrete proposals concerned civil service obligations. We have civil service obligations, but this applies to civil service obligations. We said we need 800 a year to strengthen management, protection, transport and population protection. This is something that needs to be implemented. When it comes to things like sabotage, for example, against our electricity supply, civil service could be an important part of staff helping to support municipalities and civil protection. I'm afraid this hasn't gotten started, but it's something that hastens. Today we have 18 NGOs, ranging from the Lotta Corps and the Blue Star to the Civil Defense Association and many more. In the Defence Committee we said that they would have an increased role in total defense, and that is something that really needs to be realized and become a workshop. They also need more money so that they can train and take advantage of the greater interest in the situation we are in now. The NGOs are an important part of strengthening the overall defence, and here are the ready-made proposals in the Defence Committee's report. Then there's the question of the Veteran Centre. We have been talking about this for a long time, so that we can get better support, such as support talks. It is an important meeting place for soldiers and relatives with specialist expertise, something that may be needed after completing military service. We will be better at taking care of those who in different ways have had difficult experiences in Sweden or in foreign service. In conclusion, Madam President, we have an important job ahead of us. The staff of the Armed Forces will increase, and we will do what we have to do in a tough situation. Unfortunately, this deteriorating security policy situation is not temporary, but it is for the foreseeable future. For the foreseeable future, we have this situation, and then we must ensure that we respond to it.
i-KVjv19k8QDxa21ZLQHcQCW	Madam President, I would like We can see that for years we have been talking about defence policies that we are in a troubled time and a very troubled world situation. It has become increasingly clear and evident in recent weeks. Russia's invasion of Ukraine has completely reversed the previous playing field. Old truths are no longer valid. Our way of life is threatened. To be equipped in the face of crises, both civilian and military, and extremely armed attacks are therefore of great importance in order to secure our democracy, our well-being and our way of life. The total defence decision 2021 – 2025 means a historic strengthening of the defence and a major expansion of the operations. It is a reinforcement that is really needed. We see the greatest investment in military defence since the Second World War. The aim is that at least 2% of our bnp should be dedicated to the defense. The military defence will continue to be strengthened and operational capabilities increased. This also applies to the ability to carry out operations with other countries and organisations. One of the goals is that during the period 2021 – 2025 and 2026 – 2030 the Swedish Armed Forces will gradually increase the ability to provide and receive military support to and from other states and organisations and together be able to conduct operations. The basic organization's growth has been initiated through the establishment of Norrland Dragoon Regiment, Älvsborg Amphibious Regiment, Upplands Flygflottilj and Dalregementet during the autumn of 2021. The Västernorrland Regiment was inaugurated in January 2022, and preparations are underway to re-establish the Bergslagen artillery regiment. In the light of the security policy developments in Sweden's immediate neighbourhood, the Minister of Defence decided on 8 February to consult the Defence Committee to strengthen the defence's ability in the short term. On 8 March, the Swedish Armed Forces presented proposals for measures to further strengthen the operational capability. Among other things, the Authority recommends that the short-term approach should continue to address the imbalances between impact and support functions and strengthen the support functions of intelligence and security services, management and logistics. The agency also calls for freedom of action to enable adaptation and optimisation, reduced decision-making times in several areas to accelerate the pace of growth and to give greater weight to the needs of total defence in a number of policy areas. In addition to suggestions on areas where capacity can be strengthened, the Authority's input also includes proposals for revising certain legislation and regulations. The direction is set. The pace is rising. Madam President, I would like Let me devote a few minutes to what is beyond logistics, weapon systems and infrastructure. The importance of a popular defence cannot be exaggerated. If this is something that the Russian invasion of Ukraine has taught us, it is precisely this: joint responsibility, motivation and willingness to defend our country. My point, then, is that military capabilities are also being built beyond weapon systems, regiments and financial grants. Our common desire to defend Sweden is central. It's a matter for everyone. When the collective memory is erased, we have a central task to learn to understand and draw conclusions from building military capabilities. Madam President, I would like A lot of years ago, an acquaintance told me that he had helped his old mother move away from the house. It had become too big, and the lady had difficulty walking on the stairs. In the basement they had found 40 kilos of coffee, and my friend asked her mother what to do with all the coffee. Of course, the lady, born in the 20th century, replied: Not another war without coffee. The story itself is a bit funny, but it also contains a sting of seriousness. Take, for example, the pandemic crisis we have been living with since 2020. The crisis has clearly exposed the shortcomings of our well-being and the resilience of society. It is the result of a lack of preparedness storage, planning and recurrent exercises. It is at least as much a result of political and economic doctrines that have had a great impact on the organization of society. Decades of privatisation of social functions, ranging from rail to elderly care, have made society less resilient and more difficult to manage. Governance models, drawn from the manufacturing industry, have been applied to public goods without taking into account the social pressures of a crisis. The combination of weak civil preparedness and political doctrines has proved to be devastating to society's ability to protect us when the crisis strikes us. The lightening and fun story about the lady and the 40 kilos of coffee sets the light on a most topical question: What do we do when the crisis or war comes? For even in the event of crises or extremely armed attacks, society must function and democracy must be maintained. Society should work and welfare should be there. The key to the military capability we create through weapons systems, human resources policies and financial resources is therefore also access to civilian preparedness, peoples' support and defence will. They are interdependent and interdependent. Madam President, I would like In order to contribute to the creation of good popularisation and acceptance at local levels, parts of the committee want to announce this to the government. We must do what is in our power to reduce the amount of appeals and speed up permit procedures. One important aspect is the Swedish Armed Forces' work on coexistence and participation in the planning and testing process for renewable energy production. Being well aware of the special position of the defence in, for example, the Environmental Code, the Riksdag should make it clear that more measures need to be taken to try to find coexistence solutions between the interests of the defence and the rest of society. In addition, the Government should instruct the Swedish Armed Forces to return with a basis for how exercise activities can be organised without constituting an obstacle to the construction of offshore wind power in the long term, among other things. With this in mind, I would like to vote in favour of reservation 7 in paragraph 6.
i-VXTYWPiS2tJCcoipbegnyU	Madam President, I would like Of course, it is not possible not to mention and take its starting point in the ongoing war in Ukraine. It is a war that Russia alone is guilty of. And as always, wars reap innocent lives, destroy communities and ruin future dreams for so many. A war in Europe in 2022 also pinpoints how fragile peace really is and that, unfortunately, it can never be taken for granted. But it also shows how important it is to have a strong Swedish defence and that we build our defence capabilities together with others – in the Nordic countries, in Europe and in NATO. Madam President, I would like The building of our defence capabilities is in full swing, and although it will take time to achieve the goals set by Parliament, the lesson we draw from the war in Ukraine and the security situation in our surrounding world must be that disarmament is fast but it takes a long time to rebuild defence capabilities. Let us remember this when the long-term forecast for the world situation looks bright. A strong military and civil defence is needed regardless of the international situation, for the situation can quickly change again. Madam President, I would like As I said, the building of our defence capabilities is in full swing. It takes place largely with broad support in the Swedish parliament, although there are differences in how large and how quickly resources should be added. Here, as usual, the Social Democrats have fought against every extra crown, while we moderated with the help of the Christian Democrats, Liberals, the Center Party and the Swedish Democrats stood up for more resources. That then the Social Democrats at every given opportunity try to give the impression that they have worked with something else included. Just because you repeat one thing many times doesn't make it any more true. The Liberals' Allan Widman usually speaks creditably of this, and I can only fully agree. Madam President, I would like Increased resources for defence are, of course, necessary and good. However, it is not only money that needs to be injected, but there are other areas where the Social Democratic Government needs to act in order for our defence capabilities to be strengthened. An area that the Swedish Armed Forces have taken up for several years and has been called to the government about, is about the permit processes for environmental permits for existing and new training and shooting fields. The processes need to be speeded up. It is not reasonable that there are authorisation decisions that have been on the table with the government throughout this term of office and also the whole of the previous term of office. It is not reasonable that it should be considered normal that it can take 20 years to obtain an environmental permit for a practice and shooting field. On the other hand, it is very reasonable that the county administrative boards in Sweden are commissioned by the government to give the permit processes priority to one so that they are handled promptly. It is perfectly reasonable for several reasons to abolish the mandatory opinion of the Land and Environment Court to the government. Madam President, I would like Only the Swedish Armed Forces' permit matters are dealt with automatically in three instances. Similar activities are dealt with in two instances, and in order to proceed to the third, leave to appeal is required. Madam President, I would like I would really like to emphasise that none of these two proposals changes the requirements for environmental permits – they do not change the rules of the game – but it is simply a matter of gaining time. We Moderates have paid attention to this and tried to influence the government, but so far without results. When we have dealt with proposals in this report, they are based entirely on the Swedish Armed Forces' own request. Unfortunately, however, the Government Party has once again said no. You don't put up for the reservation. I say that there is a lack of interest in these issues in the Social Democrats. Because that's not ignorance, is it? The fact remains that the government is dragging its feet on this issue when our world is in an extremely serious situation. I assume that the government is acting now, and I would like answers from the government side as to why it is taking so long. Madam President, I would like It is no secret that I am working to get Sweden in order, and of course a moderate-led government is needed. I have strong faith that this will be the case, and then several decisions on the necessary reforms in this area will be taken. Until then, however, the work we are doing here and now must continue. One issue that we raise in our motions is the Swedish Armed Forces' support to the police. Today, the police can request assistance from the Swedish Armed Forces in terrorist attacks – but only in the event of terrorist attacks. In January 2020, over two years ago, the Head of the National Police asked the Government to extend the possibility of assistance from the Swedish Armed Forces to extraordinary events rather than, as now, only in the event of terrorist attacks. This extended concept is not only desirable but absolutely necessary for Swedish police in a so-called grey zone situation or in the event of hybrid attacks, i.e. in a situation where we have not legally chosen to increase our preparedness. In the light of what has happened in Ukraine, such as the hybrid attack that included large flows of refugees to Poland via Belarus, among others, the importance of preparing for the rapid deployment of the resources of the entire community when necessary. Once we are in a difficult situation, it is too late to start thinking about new laws and regulations. The time for preparation is now. We Moderates, together with the Liberals and the Swedish Democrats, want to give the police increased opportunities in accordance with the Swedish Police Commissioner's request. Believe it or not: We do it not because we are against the government in the matter but because we are in favour of a stronger defence of Sweden in an uncertain environment. Madam President, I would like In conclusion, I would like to ask for reservation 5 under paragraph 5.
i-RXWbcj585nsmLkNBZ8cqH3	Madam President, I would like Unlike Mr Berglund, I have been involved in many of these negotiations. The history we now receive from the Moderates can be discussed. Everyone wants to present themselves in the best possible light. But the fact that the Social Democrats would have resisted and that every crown we see in the increase in defence appropriations would be due to the Moderates and Moderates' alliance mates is of course not true. Regardless of the history of Jörgen Berglund and the Moderates, it is actually reality that is the receipt, not what you think or what you think. We can compare with the period during which Jörgen Berglund's party was in government, Madam President. At that time there was a Minister of Defence who resigned because the Minister of Finance wanted to use the defence as a budgetary regulator. They talked about the defence as a special interest and chose to abolish general military service by three votes margin in the Swedish parliament. That is not the way to deal with defence and security policy. This is to be contrasted with the Social Democratic-led government which is now ensuring that we have the greatest financial increase in defence spending since the Second World War. Now it's going to continue. We now agree that these appropriations are not sufficient. We must continue to invest in defence in order to increase military and operational capabilities. We're committed to civilian preparedness and defence. 2% of the bnp we agree on. Of course, this discussion should also be prepared to finance the increase in appropriations. In relation to the financial allocation we are giving to the Swedish Armed Forces today, it is another 42 billion annually that we will give to the defence to reach the 2 percent. It's more than the whole child benefit. Now I wonder if Jörgen Berglund can explain to me today how the Moderates intend to finance such an increase in funding.
i-TeUnp1rASfJ5qQ8t1CGemx	Madam President, I would like You will almost have to look at the calendar and see if it is 1 May today, because it is as usual – the Social Democrats have the ability to constantly put themselves in opposition even though they are in government position and have done so for many years. Niklas Karlsson, who represents the government and the majority, wants to ask questions to the opposition. It's about exactly the opposite, but I'm happy to answer Niklas Karlsson's questions. The reality is the receipt, Niklas Karlsson said. He wants to talk about the story. The reality is that during the time of the Alliance Government, the Social Democrats' appropriations for defence in their draft budget were considerably lower. And as late as 2010, the Social Democrats, together with their two support parties the Green Party and the Left Party, wanted the United States to leave every military base in Europe – a statement and an issue that has aged very badly in view of what is happening today. Since Niklas Karlsson asked for a reply to me – on the contrary, he was not possible because he was before me – I would like to take this opportunity to ask about something that I did not get an answer to. It's about environmental permits. Does Niklas Karlsson's party intend to ensure that the Swedish Armed Forces have the opportunity to practice? It is not just about resources, it is also about the soldiers and officers need to practice. When will the government decide on the environmental permits that have been on the government's table for almost eight years? Why does Niklas Karlsson think it is a bad idea that the Swedish Armed Forces should have the opportunity to help the police on more occasions than in terrorist attacks?
i-XdsyhMxjD23pksTrBvk89s	Madam President, I would like One can of course avoid answering a question by telling me that I am giving a first-May speech in the Swedish Parliament. If you want to claim to be a state-supporting party, perhaps you should avoid such comments and actually account for the whole – not only what you want but also how to take responsibility for achieving it. If you now want to increase the funding for the defence so that it will correspond to 2 per cent of Sweden's bnp, it is another 42 billion in relation to the current level of funding that we will spend on the defence. It's due. This is more than the entire child benefit in the state budget. How will the Moderates pay for it? That question ducks the Moderates and Mrs Berglund for, probably because they do not want to talk about the answer. But we know the answer. We do not want any further reinforcement of the state's budget to finance the defence. You have to redispose. You're supposed to reprioritize. You should take from other appropriations in the state budget. If this is the case, it would be nice to tell – not primarily to me, but to everyone who sits in Parliament's chambers or is outside Sweden's Parliament House and who will vote for either Berglund's or Karlsson's or someone else's party in September – how they intend to fund this and what consequences the policies they represent have. That is why I am asking the question again. If the Moderates stand for us to increase the funding to 2% of the bnp, how do you think it should be financed? Is it of the sick, of the unemployed or of the pensioners? Or are you prepared to increase government revenue through, for example, a contingency or military tax?
i-FmGTdmjYzbGH1aFHep8ZDa	Madam President, I would like I can assure Mr Karlsson that the Moderates will tell the voters exactly how we intend to finance this, so he does not have to worry about that. He himself referred in his speech, for example, to the redeployment of other expenditure items. Of course it will be included. I can also give you a clear statement that there will certainly be no increased taxes to finance the increase in defence appropriations. The big answer is that unlike Niklas Karlsson and the Social Democrats, we are happy to see more people get into work, because that is the only way to get more money into the state budget. We will continue to work on this. No, I did not claim that Niklas Karlsson gave a first speech, but it is a symbol of how the Social Democratic movement year after year goes out and demonstrates against things that you yourself are responsible for and then pretend like nothing. My point was that it is very easy for the government party to take a line on the opposition, but you do not want to answer my question at all about environmental conditions or how it will be with the police. Why not? Yeah, it's not out of ignorance. I don't think so. But I believe and stated in my speech that it is of great disinterest, and I stand by it. I'm sorry about that. For Sweden and for Sweden's security, we need a government and a defence minister who are actually interested in the issues and do what is necessary to strengthen Sweden's defence capabilities. In order for us to achieve this fully, I am absolutely convinced that we will need a new, moderate-led government this autumn.
i-NzibPjMVGRqdJ1BMdEsB3C	Madam President, I would like I'll start with a little description of history in all humility. I did not intend to devote myself to it for very long, Madam President. But when it comes to the 2% target, I can go back to before 2014, when we wrote about it the first time. The reason then, which is still valid today, was that we need a strong Swedish defence over time regardless of the day form in Russia. It's still the case. Otherwise, I will not devote myself to talking about what other parties did at the time. It is here and now that applies, as long as you do not deal with too long history descriptions. I don't think that's a recommendation. Now we're here, and now we're going to invest in the Armed Forces. It's sad that it took an invasion to get it up to the 2% target everywhere, but now it is. Great! What is the objective of the Swedish Armed Forces? What is the overall objective we are talking about? The armed battle. Everything should aim to make it as good as possible in the armed battle. That's priority one. It's all about learning how to kill other people – send other people to death and be prepared to sacrifice their own lives. That sign should be in every commanding officer's teacher's room. This does not take away other parts, as has just been said here. But we must not forget the purpose of all this, and we must give priority to armed struggle. This is what it is all about. We have said that the Swedish Armed Forces need a long-term perspective, and it seems that the government does not, in any case, say no to this, but is in favour of providing a long-term perspective in terms of material supply. But we haven't seen anything concrete yet. I and you know that the Armed Forces are striving for this. It is almost impossible to demand that every year you sit with a budget and count. There are hundreds of qualified people counting the budget each year. We have put in a three-year budget where money can be moved between. Parliament's investigation service has looked at where it is possible. But if it is to be run too many times, the fiscal framework should be changed, they say. But it can be done a few times. Why don't you do it now? It would make it easier for the Swedish Armed Forces, and it would actually be cheaper to buy when you can do that. That's a suggestion. We have put it forward before, and we put it forward again. Detail control, I've mentioned before. Should there be any governance here, Madam President, I would like to see to it that, as we have said in Värnkraft, we get a robot air defence on our corvettes. What kind, Madam President? Instead, we describe the ability of the systems to combat cruise missiles, which the outdated Patriot system cannot, once one moves it around after many if and but with a large number of staff. One interesting thing to hear is, Madam President: do you have to wait until the mid-term modification of the corvettes, or can you assemble the cassettes with the robot air defence now, that is, as soon as possible, before the mid-term modification, without interfering with the mid-term modification so that they have to be removed again? This is exactly what I find very interesting to be immersed in in order to speed up this part. It is extremely important to get a strong anti-aircraft that can handle this. As far as the brigades are concerned, they're going to practice. We have even more brigades in the long term, up to nine – city shooting and so on. But it will take a very long time, and we must find realism in this, Madam President. The Swedish Armed Forces say you have to grow in pace. It doesn't matter if you put in hundreds of billions. What are we gonna do? Enough money is needed, yes, but you have to grow in logistics, attack units and all kinds of support units – they are very important. For example, it calls for the connection function – to be able to pass watercourses in a smooth way, for example. Then you may point out some suitable place for this, and then you have to get started. Is this the time to investigate whether we should take back Almnäs, for example, which was one of the best tailor-made places for engineering training? Is that possible? Well, it's still there. In doing so, one must also be prepared to provide substantial compensation to the people who are allowed to move. You can do this by valuing the properties and double the value so that you get a positive deportation from these places again. The environmental problems have been mentioned by the previous speaker. I share this view and have said it before: we need to speed this up. We believe, Madam President, that environmental permits should be ready when deciding, for example, that the artillery regiment should be restored in Villingsberg. Or is this to be established and artilleri ferns to be taken there, and so, well, wait a minute, we can't shoot yet? It has to happen in a different order here. If the Government and the Riksdag decide to establish a unit there or there, you should of course distribute the environmental permits at the same time so that the exercise activities can get started. Here I think we should take a whole new approach, even if one of the appeal bodies is now being deleted, which I fully support. But I mean you can get started and do this earlier. As far as environmental permits are concerned, Madam President, I would like to say almost literally what we said when we talked about this in committee. It is about a writing that everyone was involved in there, in my opinion: This is how important we consider the availability of shooting fields and training areas to be. This is linked to the environmental conditions, which we have talked about. This is, in fact, a key to achieving the objectives you have. To conclude, Madam President, this is the last time that I am here on behalf of the Swedish Democrats. We are not getting along sufficiently. I am not going to talk negatively about this here, but we are not getting along on major, important issues. That's why I've said I don't want to be here anymore. I have submitted this, and from tomorrow at some point in time when it is done, I will be partyless. I will take part in the debates, so you will not escape. But I don't want to anymore. I feel that there are too many issues where we have completely different views on how to deal with them. That's why I thank you for me. I request the approval of reservation 4.
i-RC9F73wzdN7XEgpr1fZcc	Madam President, I would like The world has entered a new era. On February 24, 2022, the face of evil in the form of Russia and Putin really appeared. The new security situation that we have from the 24th will allow us to live with for a very long time to come. I'll take the opportunity to tell you about Maria Malma. She's the last Gammal Swedish changeant, born in 1937. She still lives in Nova Kachovka, which is now a Russian-controlled area. As a six - year - old, she was allowed to wander to Germany during World War II. She is incredibly sad today that her great-grandchild is now experiencing exactly the same war scenes. In Nova Kachovka, she sees the grenades light up the sky at night. The kids don't have the guts to go out and play. The Russians have killed a lot of civilians in that city. She's seen a column with 300 vehicles passing through there. This creates trauma for the rest of their lives. Just as Maria Malma experienced, this creates trauma for the entire Ukrainian population. I note that the motions we are discussing today are all written before 24 February. It makes some of them actually a little passé; it's a new world today. But there are certain things that are not passé. I am thinking of the deepening of coexistence. I would like to start by saying that we are pleased with the direction that is now coming, with a more active work in the Defence Committee. The Center Party is working very actively to create a constructive working environment there. We reach the target of 2% of bnp. We are happy about that and will make a very active contribution to this. I support reservation 7, which deals with coexistence. I have negotiated on these issues. For example, the regulation letter in the budget bill for both 2021 and 2022 states this: Dialogue between the Swedish Armed Forces and relevant authorities and municipalities should take place in order to find solutions for both military and civil activities that enable them to operate in the same geographical area. The Swedish Armed Forces were also tasked with continuing to develop the capacity for early dialogue and collaboration around renewable energy, among other things, and in particular to investigate conditional permits. This is all great. I myself have been involved in negotiating these texts. But that's not enough. At this point, it is not enough at all. Putin war gives a whole new location. This means that we need a rapid growth of both defence and domestic energy supplies. Both are needed. It can then be said that the lack of coexistence which has long been a brake on the expansion of the defence. We can't have this. If you don't have coexistence, you don't get local support. We're getting a lot of overlaps. This is something that makes staff supply difficult. Coexistence is a win-win for both military and civil society. I'm going to take Tofta's shooting field as an example, because I'm a Gotlander. There has been activity there since 1898. The field of fire has been established and accepted for a long time. However, with the new environmental permit – the process has been going on for many years but is not yet complete – there is a total construction ban on housing in an area that is two miles long and one mile wide. If you then include what is in the permit of four external shooting sites for indirect fire, you actually introduce construction bans for homes of 40 per cent of Gotland's area. This is done without any compensation to the landowners concerned. This, of course, is not reasonable. At the same time, the Swedish Armed Forces are not satisfied with the permit process. Now, for example, there are restrictions on summer-time practice, which means that NGOs that can only practice summer-time cannot use the field of defence. This is wrong from both a civil and a defence point of view. This was an example of conflict. We have exactly the same conflict situation in Revingehed, Gothenburg, Karlsborg, Värmland and really all existing places where the Swedish Armed Forces are active today and will apply for environmental permits. It is important to have new dates for applying for environmental permits. You can't live like this. That is why I am in favour of Amendment No 7, which actually deals with three major issues. It is about getting an earlier and solution-oriented collaboration in decision-making and licensing processes. It mainly concerns the Swedish Armed Forces' own facilities, type Tofta shooting field. But it also concerns the Swedish Armed Forces' coexistence in the field of renewable energy. One must be clear in the planning and practice process. It is in practice a question of wind and solar power. We want to give a special assignment to the government to return with a basis for how exercise activities and offshore wind farms can coexist. This is absolutely crucial, because it is actually offshore wind farms that will fix our electricity supply in the future. I would also like to say a few words about the state of the environment and reservation 5 from the Moderates. The Center Party largely agrees with that very reasoning. The state processes really need to be speeded up. This is becoming a brake block for the whole set-up and renewal process required by the country's development. It is not just about security policy, it is about climate policy and Sweden's competitiveness. We in the Center Party tabled our own proposal this week with 14 points in order to achieve this. We have also pointed out some of the things that need to be done on the noise side. The Moderates have pointed to the noise reserve. You could also find a system where you use the rules that exist for traffic noise, that is, you have a quiet and a noisy side. But it needs to be investigated, and a concrete proposal is needed. Otherwise, we won't solve it. Madam President, I would like I, who have Ukraine as my second country, cannot help but say that I am very provoked by what Roger Richthoff has done today. I have to admit it. When on Facebook you share a film that thanks Russia for the invasion it makes, I find it hard to keep. The film contains Russian misinformation about biological weapons. The film also wrongly states that Jews fund Nazis in Ukraine. This is extremely disturbing to me. Roger Richthoff also adds to the comment: I really find it difficult to bring in a Member of Parliament to defend the Russian narrative in this way.
i-UWc7HS5hbbdj3s5f6R2u6t	I note that the issue raised at the end of the speech does not belong to this debate.
i-8dq3e7bQPCMec7iqfochto	Madam President, I would like We live in a more vulnerable and uncertain world. Russia's invasion of Ukraine about five weeks ago is an outrage of international law, is a disaster for the Ukrainian population and is a great tragedy for Ukraine's development as a country. The world we live in now feels frightening, but we have great opportunities to influence the world and society we live in and make them better, more stable, safer and, in the long term, more peaceful. Today we are debating a great many motions in the field of defence policy under the broad heading ‘Military issues'. Of course, we need to strengthen total defence, both civilian and military. How this is to be done, we will discuss in other debates and come back to the upcoming discussions in the Defence Committee. I will now focus on discussing the defence's climate and environmental issues. I would like to say right now that I am in favour of the Left Party's reservation number 9. The Left Party has initiated a motion called the Swedish Armed Forces, Climate and Environment. It is a broad exercise that addresses many different environmental issues related to defence activities. In the field of defence policy, we also have an environmental and climate motion specifically concerned with Vättern, a lake that requires our attention and action. Environmental issues and climate change are the greatest issue of our time. There can be no one, either here in Parliament or among you who listens, who does not understand that we are facing major climate change and that we humans have done and are still doing great damage to our environment. All people and society as a whole must take responsibility for the transition in a more sustainable direction. All authorities should do their part to prevent climate change and stop environmental degradation, as well as the Swedish Armed Forces. Climate change and natural disasters are a serious threat to the security of the country and its inhabitants. Only in recent years have we seen many examples of fires, floods and droughts that have also affected our own country, something that we unfortunately know we will see more of in the future. Around the world, natural disasters are one of the major root causes of war and conflict. Combating climate change is working towards a more peaceful and safer world. Madam President, I would like The liquid is the drinking water supply for 280 000 people, a number that is very likely to be expanded in the future. It is a unique environment for both wildlife and vegetation and an appreciated tourist destination. But Vättern is also a large training field for the Swedish Armed Forces, which uses the area around Vättern, but also Vättern's water itself, for flying exercises. There are requests to fly and shoot even more. This, of course, has consequences for life at and in Vättern. Old ammunition remains on the bottom, and new ammunition is added every year. There is a great commitment of residents around the lake Vättern to the flight exercises and the pollution of the water. The Left Party therefore proposes that an action plan be drawn up to reduce the pollution caused by the military exercises in and over Lake Vättern. We need to get to grips with the issue of cleaning up the liquid from the pollution in the lake. There are several training and shooting fields in Sweden that need to be cleaned up and cleaned up, but we believe that Vättern as a drinking water source is the most urgent example and must be prioritised. Madam President, I would like We are very happy to have a reservation together with C, MP and S which is about wind power. Wind power needs to be expanded both on land and at sea. Fossil-free and renewable energy is not only an environmental issue but also a question of our country's future security. Electricity production is of course a social activity. Wind power, and especially offshore wind, needs to be expanded significantly if we are to cope with the electricity supply and the green transition in the future. Our Swedish industries that are now about to switch will require much more electricity in the future, and it is becoming urgent. When it comes to wind power, there is a great lack of coexistence between the Swedish Armed Forces and the surrounding society, which means that wind power expansion is too slow and sometimes completely slowed down. The Swedish Armed Forces today have great opportunities to influence the expansion of renewable energy by putting an end to new wind turbines. By referring to the national interest of the Swedish Armed Forces, the Swedish Armed Forces have the opportunity to veto the important expansion of renewable energy. One current example is the Blekinge Offshore wind farm in Hanö Bay. The Swedish Armed Forces said no to a planned construction of offshore wind power because they felt that it could interfere with what they used as a military exercise area. The latest example is the Baltic Offshore Delta project, 50 km outside Sandhamn. At the same time, there is good experience from several NATO countries on how energy and defence interests can coexist. Totalförsvarets forskningsinstitut will compare how it looks in other countries, although such an investigation was done already ten years ago by the industry and clearly showed that the Swedish defence is taking far more land for its interests than, for example, more densely populated Denmark, Germany and the United Kingdom. This must be solved so that wind power can be expanded while the Swedish Armed Forces can continue to practice and an overall assessment can be made in a forward-looking way. We must put environmental and climate issues at the top of the agenda. There is no other option if we are to stop the climate change we are seeing today and be able to hand over a not too destroyed environment to future generations.
i-24CBddXM9qQ9E2igrWZnh9	Madam President, I would like In December 2020, decisions were taken on the overall defence policy orientation of the current period. The Swedish Armed Forces are now in the process of building capabilities based on the directives it has received and the funds it has received for this particular purpose. In addition, the defence committee has agreed that even more funds need to be made available to speed up the construction based on today's much deteriorating security policy situation and that the appropriations for military defence should be increased to 2% of GDP. When the appropriations are to reach that level, we are not yet in agreement and have before us to work together. It is in this context that the motions from general exercise time are discussed. Targets for total defence, military defence and civil defence, the direction of the Armed Forces' war organisation and the basic organisation's design are therefore clear and clear and approved by the Swedish parliament. Building a military defence capability for a country takes time and requires careful planning. As with everything else to be built up, there are different wills about what is best, what is needed most and where it is needed most. Is it the Air Force that needs to be strengthened the most? Is it more submarines Sweden needs, or is it perhaps even a much larger army that is going to? Management and control of all these combat forces, which are occupied by military personnel, how does it need to be built, and what should it look like for the best function? And so on. The basic job of bringing together these different wills that are around how best to build a total defense was done in the Defence Committee, which in 2019 came with its final report on the military defence, Värnkraft, and two years before that – 2017, i.e. – came up with its final report on the civil defence, Resistance. Madam President, I would like We are all well aware that the world we live in today is not the same as in 2019 and not the same as in 2017. So much has happened in these few years, but this is despite: the defence committee did a security policy analysis then, and we have a basic structure to work on which is the reconstruction of the total defence. Yeah, I think there's more to it, and it needs to go faster. But we're on our way, and every day our total defense is getting stronger. However, as I said, our authorities are currently building their capabilities along a well-developed plan where politics has set the course. Perhaps plans need to be changed along with the changed security situation, and perhaps they will be fine if it is speeded up a little. It is not for me a woman to decide, but I am confident that the process initiated by the government to deal with these issues and others arising from the greatly deteriorating security situation will provide us with most of the answers we need in order to be able to make wise decisions in the future. Madam President, I would like However, one thing we need to think about is an extra lap, and that is how, while we are building military capabilities, we can also do what we can to protect the environment. I think it's possible. Of course, balances need to be made, and the balances will then provide that one or the other interest should take precedence depending on the specific issue and the specific place. I am fully aware that the growth of military defence now also requires more opportunities for practice. Nevertheless, I would ask that we do not always allow the environment, the life we are supposed to safeguard, to draw the shortest straw from these balances. This applies both to the construction of wind power and to the protection of water supplies. I think, as I said, it is possible to do both. It is not always possible, but if the will is there, it is possible to do both and much more often than it is done today. One issue that is big and difficult to deal with is precisely Vättern, a water supply for drinking water to nearly 300 000 people. In addition to the extensive existing exercise activities that the Swedish Armed Forces currently have permission to carry out in, over and at Vättern, they have applied to increase the total number of air movements significantly. How will it affect this water supply? We are concerned and therefore consider it very important to investigate the conditions for moving the Swedish Armed Forces' exercise activities away from the lake. I am in favour of all our requests, but for the sake of time, I am only in favour of reservation 10.
i-9e8NVfhZdRDekMVhQZJF8d	Madam President, I would like In my speech, I referred to environmental permits, which Elisabeth Falkhaven also mentioned. Unfortunately, I did not receive an answer from the Socialist Party, and I am well aware that the Green Party is no longer part of the government. But you are a support party and voted for it, and you also held the Ministry of the Environment until December last year. I agree with Elisabeth Falkhaven about a lot of things she says about environmental conditions, but the two measures to speed up the processes that our reservation is about do not affect the trial itself. It is not other rules that apply, but more process technical matters such as allowing county boards to have the task of investigating these permits promptly and removing the Land and Environmental Court's opinion to the government. This is gained for several years in a permit process.
i-QEAiXgKCsqUbEzU4DDz9an	Elisabeth Falkhaven also mentioned that perhaps you should see if you can move the training and shooting field in Karlsborg. Without taking a stand on the matter, I would like to say that it puts its finger on the fact that if the Armed Forces are to be able to move a training and shooting field, a new shooting field is required. This will take maybe 20 years to get to. This is exactly what our reservation is about, and I would like to hear what Elisabeth Falkhaven has to say about it.
i-KDoFQ2dES47AGVHyNeGXT2	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr President, for the question. We do not mind that environmental permits go faster, but we want to ensure that they do not get worse for the environment. Nor am I sufficiently knowledgeable to know how this can be done. I know the county boards have a lot to do with a lot of different things. I don't think it's as simple as telling them to do things faster, if I'm going to be really honest, but it probably takes a little bit more of us. When it comes to removing the last opinion from the Land and Environment Court, I do not really believe that. I think it is good to have so that we do not go wrong on these issues.
i-FaE8m8PeuuPFDtbWQWr2rU	Madam President, I would like I don't know if I was unclear. I also do not think that the county boards should do it faster, but they should give priority to dealing with it quickly so that it does not end up last in the queue. The world has changed. It has done so over time, and now it is very serious. We simply do not have time to wait for the county boards to handle other matters when Sweden's safety is in danger or in a significantly worse situation. I am not a lawyer either, but I can only start from what the authority itself has pointed out about what can be done. It is precisely the opinion of the Land and the Environmental Court that is unique in this way, and it must also be examined by the government as a third instance. There are no other activities that need to do this. I share Elisabeth Falkhaven's view. On these issues, it is not a question of making any exceptions to the requirements themselves, but of the process. I would really welcome if more parties in the Swedish Parliament joined up on these two things, because it would do a lot without costing anything and without in any way changing what Elisabeth Falkhaven mentioned about habitat and so on. I share that picture with the honourable Member.
i-4ihE6bF4cSTPNHiQjTFipZ	Madam President, I would like These are complex issues. I know, as I said, that the county boards have a lot of work to do. I've been very in touch with them. I don't think it's as simple as saying that someone else should prioritize things up or down. Everyone is aware that the security situation has changed. Nevertheless, the county administrative boards have a particular responsibility in these matters, and I think they are doing the best they can. Otherwise, I have listened to what the honourable Member said earlier, but, as I said, I am not sufficiently familiar to say how we can do it. Before I am, I'd like to be careful not to say anything.
i-HHYsK8LJea9z1fcD7hsFcr	Madam President, I would like Tonight we are debating the Committee on Defence's report No 9 on military issues. I would like to begin by calling for the approval of motion 3908 and motions 17 and 26 in paragraph 1. The debate we have tonight is taking place in the shadow of the war that is going on right now. It's been going on for almost five weeks. Russia has gone after its neighbour, a free and sovereign country, and it is now shown in practical action that it does not accept the European security regime or that countries are allowed to decide their own direction and where they want to belong. This is a terrible crime. Now it is said from the Russian side that a withdrawal is to be made, but at the same time tonight we can read that the port city of Mariupol has even fired at the Red Cross facility. Nevertheless, there are laws in war, Madam President, but even these are being flagrantly violated. I would like to start by saying, with regard to military equipment, that we have helped Ukraine. We're proud of that, but we need to do more. There are still defence equipment, and we know that there is a list of what they have asked us for. There's more we can do in the form of anti-aircraft and anti-tank shields that we can spare and that can be useful down there. If we help them so that they can go strong to the negotiating table, we will join in forcing peace. We've done something, but we have to keep going. I just want to say this as an introduction. We can look at our country, like a shadow falls over. It is important that we now understand that we must respond. As I said in the previous debate, we need to go up to 2% of GDP, and we need to do exactly as Germany has shown the way. In a couple of years, they now go from 1.4% of GDP to 2%, and we need to do the same. That is what we need to invest in order to be able to make the necessary investments with credibility. We see that the decision on the defence orientation – the orientation proposal – that we adopted two years ago is obsolete on many points. That is not enough, but we must make an addition. It must be much faster to change up the Swedish Armed Forces, both in terms of personnel and in terms of materials. We see that we have challenges when it comes to the Navy. We need a lot more staff. We also need to invest in equipment, and we need to get another submarine. We have a good air force. It was an important victory that the F16 in Uppsala was re-established, but we must be honest and say that there are no aircraft based there. We can't have that. We need to have one or preferably two divisions in Uppsala too so that we can respond. It is good with Luleå, Ronneby and S Å tenäs, but we also need Uppsala. We also need to be able to move out with reserve bases. No matter how good Jas planes we have, they are very vulnerable on the ground, and then we need to be able to move out. We need to get the base organization up and running. We must also be able to have staff so that it can work properly. These are important initiatives that are for real and that increase our defence capabilities. Then, of course, the army is also important, Madam President. As I mentioned in my last speech, we need more brigades. We've said three, but we need five. We also need more conscripts. Today we have about 5 000, and we have said that they need to increase to 8 000. But we need to move on to 12 000 in order for us to respond, and more material will be required. Then it is important to have environmental permits, as others have been here. It must be speeded up so that there is not a stop. If the Armed Forces are to be able to go along with the investments that we need to make in order to go up to 2 per cent, such a thing must also be speeded up so that it does not take as long as it does today. It is delaying the necessary rearmament of our defences. The report mentions that the police need to be able to get help from the Swedish Armed Forces. It is important that this applies not only to terrorist events but also to extraordinary events. I would like to add that the Defence Committee had an important proposal where, unfortunately, nothing has happened. It was that the emergency police should be re-established. That would be 5,000, we said in the Defense Committee, and 1 000 would have been in place by 2021. But nothing has happened even though it is five years since we tabled the proposal. We believe that the emergency police should not only be used in war but should also be able to be an extra resource in peace. There may be a need for relief on a few occasions, and they become an additional resource that is needed. I would like to conclude my speech by saying this: it is important to increase appropriations and such things, but we must look at ourselves in the mirror. We can't defend ourselves on our own. We are totally dependent on the support of the outside world and NATO. If we do not join NATO, Madam President, we should long ago have invested perhaps 5% or 6% of the GDP. That doesn't make any sense. A Swedish NATO membership would increase security for Sweden. It would also increase the security of our neighbours. It is also something that is important when we are now debating this. We need to strengthen our armed forces. It is good, but it is too small and should be extended. We are going to go up to 2% and should make these efforts. But we also need to clarify and move from being a partner to NATO to also becoming a full member. Then you can have a common defence planning. This reduces the risk of attacks both against Swedish territory and against the Baltics. It would thus be stabilizing both for Sweden and for our neighbourhood.
i-GjGHynkDEmi4yQGS8LP1Gc	Since there was an attack on Roger Richthoff in the past, I was prepared to give him a reply. However, I am now prepared to give the honourable Member a two-minute speech. However, I would like to emphasise that I do not want to have a debate on something that does not belong to the matter. It was so to say the mark I made last time. I would therefore like to emphasise that the honourable Member is allowed to deal with this speech on this basis. We are debating the matter of military issues.
i-BrLUZ7hU6aL6D43QyuCQMC	Madam President, I would like I'll try to get through this. The attack from the Center was, as usual, unsound when one says something in this paragraph. Now the part I have said was a wrong split. The whole point of this division was to highlight that the truth is the first thing that disappears in a war. Then I wanted to show that there were biological laboratories, which everyone knows about now. But it was denied by the Ukrainian leadership. But I shared an incorrect description of this, which I have taken back. But that is clearly not enough for the Center Party. It feels a little bit like one is now trying to find something on these big issues, for example to apologize for destroying the defense and breaking the civilians. There they have never gone up and taken any lines or confessed and apologized to the Swedish people. Nor has the Swedish people been apologized for being the only party, along with another party that is not here tonight, which made it possible for Putin to store the equipment for its gas pipeline in Karlshamn. You can apologize for that. But now I've dealt with the first part.
i-TabDkxbLeMjSAbdHEx8JLt	Lars Thomsson has now requested a reply. But I am not going to give him a reply because we are now getting into a discussion that is outside the scope of the matter. I was kind and admitted a variant of a line at this point.
