i-BQ8dtftkuwhpor9i8CsgBV	Madam President, I would like Anders Åkesson has asked me when and in what way the Minister and the Government intend to respond to the request for exceptions to the crop heap and gate openings from the biotop protection in Kalmar County. The County Administrative Board of Kalmar County has submitted a request for amendments to the general biotop protection in the environmental code. The proposals are aimed at removing the protection of crop porridges and stone fences. As the matter is still being prepared in the Government Office, I do not have the opportunity to go into what positions the Government will take on the substance of the matter. Anders Åkesson also addresses the emerging situation in the outside world and that the crisis in Ukraine risks affecting the global food supply of cereals as a reason to change biotope protection and thus increase the conditions for ensuring national cereal production. I share Anders Åkesson's concern about the situation in Ukraine and the consequences they have for food security. The Government is therefore now proposing a crisis package of just over SEK 2 billion for agriculture and a support of SEK 40 million for professional fishing. The package is based on an agreement between the government and the Center Party. With these proposals and the measures previously announced, the government has now presented measures totalling around 3.1 billion to support Swedish agriculture and professional fishing in this difficult situation. Biotop protection aims to preserve valuable natural and cultural environments. Cultivation heaps and stone fences in agricultural land are biotopes protected by the general biotopes protection. Both are important as habitats for many species associated with the farming landscape and often constitute cultural historical traces from previous agricultural activities. Protecting such natural environments improves the conditions for the long-term preservation of biodiversity. The protection also contributes to Sweden's compliance with the UN Convention on Biological Diversity and the national environmental quality objectives adopted by Parliament. The Government believes that biotop protection is essential to preserve important elements of small biotopes in a farming landscape that is becoming increasingly less diverse and where species are at risk of disappearing. The national red list from 2020 shows that more than 50 percent of all red-listed species are associated with the farming landscape. With the change in the rule that came into force in autumn 2014, measures that facilitate agricultural activities may constitute a particular reason for exemption. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's analysis also shows that during the period 2013 – 2017 the number of exemptions granted for which agricultural activities were given as a reason increased. In Kalmar County, decisions were taken between 2014 and 2021 in 166 exemption cases, of which 10 per cent were rejected. More concretely, this means that out of 77 kilometres of stone fences for which the exemption application has been received, 44 kilometres of exemption were granted. From 2023 onwards, the EU will have a new common agricultural policy. Certain conditions in the EU regulation concern the protection of landscape elements in the agricultural landscape, such as stone walls. The Government notes that the general biotop protection is an important component for Sweden to meet the requirements for the protection of landscape elements in a simple and rational manner. According to the EU Biodiversity Strategy by 2030, at least 10% of the agricultural area should contain landscape elements that promote a high level of biodiversity. I can assure Anders Åkesson that the Government Office is working on the request submitted by the County Administrative Board of Kalmar County. The Government Office also has a continuous dialogue with the Board of Directors on the matter.
i-UzqfQX3esdrPWFE4oPzSRh	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister Strandhäll! Kalmar County is one of the country's most important areas of food production. At the same time, it is a landscape or really two landscapes, Öland and Småland, with parts that are extremely small broken – a mosaic landscape. It is stone bound with an extraordinarily rich presence of biotopes. This is very positive; there I share the view of the Government. At the same time, the structure sometimes makes rational use of the important arable land impossible. There is a contradiction between use and preservation, especially as the protected biotopes have historically emerged and today they are created because they use the landscape of food production. There is a great need in parts of the county to rationalise its operations in order for it to develop and contribute to the goals we have set ourselves in both national and regional food strategies. Biotope protection in its current scope risks being counterproductive. This has been reinforced by the global crisis we are in since the beginning of this year when Russia invaded its neighbour Ukraine, with the global disruption of food production, food supply and trade and the dramatic cost development that this meant, not only for food production but for all forms of activity in our country and the rest of the world. The County Administrative Board of Kalmar County, the government's extended arm in the county, has noted and tried to quantify the consequences of the current crisis in the world and determine what it means in Kalmar County's case when it comes to being able to contribute to national livelihoods. It is estimated that the consequences in the short term are less crops, an increase in set-aside and less maintenance of hard-to-cultivated areas. Smaller and hard-to-use areas are left uncultivated. Discontinued holdings with fewer active agricultural entrepreneurs. Generation shifts are getting harder. The needs are summed up as an increased need for rationalisation, which in Kalmar County's case often means exemption from biotop protection. In the longer term you can see a decrease in food production in the county. This runs counter to goals set. In addition, counter-productivity: Stopping operations and food production also deteriorates the conditions for the biotopes in the agricultural landscape we want to protect. It is against this background that the County Administrative Board of Kalmar County has made a request to the Government, the Ministry of the Environment, to apply current biotope protection in a different and softer way – it is not a question of a change of law – to enable continued production of food in Kalmar County, Småland and Öland, and thus to maintain biotope protection.
i-9FVptBcVc7zQUQqCZN2MbX	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Anders Åkesson, for a very important interpellation! I completely share the entrance. You described it as a contradiction between farming and conservation. I fully agree that we need to strike a balance between the food production of agriculture and the protection of biodiversity required in order to achieve both the objectives of our food strategy and our environmental objectives. But that is also why biotope protection continues to be important. It is designed in a way that creates the possibility for the individual farmer to obtain derogations if the reasons are deemed justified. As I mentioned in my interpellation response, we have an ongoing dialogue with the County Administrative Board in Kalmar County on this request, via e-mail and telephone calls. In fact, additional data were received from the County Administrative Board, including statistics on case management, as late as March 2022. We are working on this issue. At the same time, the development of biodiversity and important ecosystems, both nationally and globally, is, to say the least, worrying, as is also evident from scientific reporting. I mentioned in my reply, including the national red list, but I must also refer to the latest reports from Ipbes, which in 2019 presented a report on the state of the world's biodiversity and ecosystems. It noted that the number of species at risk of extinction has never been as large in human history as it is today. Several of these are also an important part of important ecosystem services, such as pollination of arable crops. The report also identifies five major drivers behind the loss of biodiversity that we see, namely the destruction of habitats, the exploitation of species through fisheries and agriculture and forestry, climate change, invasive species and also pollution. Biotop protection is an incredibly important tool for preserving the diversity of habitats in, for example, the agricultural landscape. We see that the threat to biodiversity in the agricultural landscape does not diminish, even though we have made a number of efforts. The Swedish environmental objectives are not being achieved, and for the agricultural landscape the biggest challenge is perhaps the negative trend in biodiversity. Basically, of course, I share the view that Swedish food production is incredibly important and that agriculture has a fundamental importance for our long-term supply of good and safe food. But that is also why, together with the Center Party during this year, we are making great efforts to support Swedish agriculture.
i-YLTu5V4efCnZxoGhiFJTXB	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for the continued good dialogue! I start where the Government left off: Yes, it was an extremely important signal with just over 3 billion to Swedish food production. My assessment, Madam President, is that without that signal, very many agricultural and food businesses had already abstained. This is a biological production. It does not take place with clips from week to week or day to day, it is about weeks, months and years of planning and ability to prepare. Therefore, the 3.1 billion that the Center Party, together with the government and the rest of the Riksdag agreed on was an extremely important signal. Thank you for that! Now let's go back to what's at stake in my interpellation. Of course, the acute crisis in the world is a spice on this. There was a change in legislation in 2014 linked to biotop protection. The purpose of the amendment was precisely to protect the biotopes, maintain a landscape that was rich in content, protect what is red-listed but at the same time allow continued food production. What, then, is the counterproductive? In line with increased rationalisation requirements, which result from the fact that we want good and healthy food at a reasonable price when shopping at Coop and Ica, throughout the food production chain there is a requirement for production to be done in a rational way. The individual farm or food business faces a dilemma when an arrandisation, a stone wall or a crop heap constitutes an obstacle to rationalisation. As a result, the land, field, or meadow is not cultivated or grazed. Then it grows again, and it goes terribly fast. As a result, the conditions for what we wanted to protect in the stone wall, the agricultural island or wherever it was will disappear, thereby increasing the number of red-listed species that we need to protect. That is where counter-productivity persists. In the light of this and given that Kalmar County, with two landscapes, Småland and Öland, is a particularly beautiful but a bit tricky piece of Sweden in its small cutness, stone-boundness and rather difficult arrondering, the County Administrative Board has made this request. Perhaps the Government has misunderstood the motion. It is not about amending the legislation but about reviewing the application and allowing the County Administrative Board of Kalmar County, which is the extended arm of the state and government in that region to apply the legislation in a way that is in accordance with what the purpose was when the amendment was made in 2014. This would give both the county administrative board and food companies a slightly greater degree of freedom, the aim of which is to maintain both food production and biodiversity. This is the background to my question: when and in what way does the government intend to respond to the request from the County Administrative Board for exceptions to the crop heaps and gate openings? I understand that preparation is in progress and that I cannot get an answer. However, I would like to stress the importance of speed, because the hourglass is running out quickly now.
i-Ndf5jEUHGoKmRu7YXFA5Ys	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Anders Åkesson, also for the clarity of the latest post! As you say, this amendment entered into force in 2014. It was intended to make it easier for agriculture. We have followed quite closely the developments and the impact of the amendment of the law, that is, whether it has fulfilled the common objective which the honourable Member so well outlined. I think I mentioned a figure in my interpellation response, namely the one that dealt with the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's analysis of the development of the number of exemptions from the general biotopes protection for the period 2013-2017, which was presented in 2018. It is then an analysis covering all biotopes protected by the general biotopes protection. Then we can see that the number of exemptions granted or partly granted with agriculture which, in particular, were substantially increased with the amendment of the law and then slightly decreased over time. However, despite the decline, the number of derogations with agriculture is still significantly higher than before, especially as a result of the change in legislation. It can therefore be seen that this has fulfilled its purpose. I also mentioned in my previous post that we received a supplement from the County Administrative Board in Kalmar County as late as March with their own statistics for the period 2014– 2021 – this in order to be able to follow up on this. It is clear from this evidence that just over 60 per cent of those who have applied for a derogation have been granted a derogation. The corresponding proportion for stone fences was 65. It's a good picture to have with you. This is a change of law that has really had an effect. Then I hear from the honourable Member's level of knowledge on these issues that I do not have to explain in any way the importance of the crop porridge either from a biotope perspective or from a cultural historical perspective. I hear that insight exists. Last in this post I will say: During 2021, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency in dialogue with the county administrative boards has adjusted the guidance on how biotop protection should be applied. The deadline for the farmer who lays up new piles of stones in connection with the cultivation of land has also been extended. Now a pile of rock is covered by biotope protection after three years.
i-NhPidMUFi1Wj64Pb2TSNmf	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by saying: thank you for your answer. Thank you for a constructive dialogue, which I think is developing for the issue! It's tough. It takes time. This was one of the first things that I put my teeth in 2006, when I was new to Parliament. That is what led to a change of law in 2014. Patience is a good quality when you work with these things. But now one can say that the outside world puts us in a situation where urgency is necessary – no carelessness but urgency. I also think that we have found this in this dialogue. Madam President, I would like For a very long time, under the direction of the County Administrative Board of Kalmar County, there has been constructive cooperation between the industry, the County Administrative Board and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency in order to interpret the legislation and the recommendations made by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. That dialogue is ongoing. But the signal, Madam President and Government, from the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has been: In order for us to move forward, we need political governance. We stay within the governance and interpretation we have now. Therefore, the answer to the request is extremely important – and to some extent perhaps this discussion too. Just to eliminate any misunderstandings in those who listen to this discussion, let me say that it is not a question of removing all stone walls or all dunks. There is one current case that illustrates what this is all about. The Government's colleague, Minister for Rural Affairs Anna-Caren Sätherberg, was on Öland as late as a week ago. She met a food company, a farm, which had 66 kilometers of stone fences on her land. It is therefore a single company. It is almost as much as the total application for the county was about. They would have to make openings in 1.7 of these. Thank you very much for an understanding dialogue.
i-WwNSPYmwkvDfYPWDn46ZgY	Madam President, I would like It was not least very interesting, Anders Åkesson, to hear about the long-term commitment and what it has obviously led to and that we can follow it up in this way. I share Anders Åkesson's clarification. No, no one thinks we're going to remove all the rocks or stone walls. Rather, we should find the important balance for a food production that is now also becoming increasingly strained because of the situation in the world around us. I fully understand that. I would like to conclude in this particular interpellation debate – I am sure that we will continue to debate this – underlining that I will of course follow up the continued handling of the petition, and I am assured by my employees at the Ministry of the Environment that they are working very actively on the issue and have ongoing dialogue with the County Administrative Board in Kalmar County and that they expect to be able to return with a reply.
i-Av4C9njV9U8Hsb2CeTKiyG	Madam President, I would like Janine Alm Ericson has asked Minister of Finance Mikael Damberg what changes to Sweden's international commitment he intends to initiate, both in the short and long term, as well as which areas and which international aid recipients he intends to propose to reduce aid to. The interpellation has been handed over to me. I fully share the picture that Swedish aid is really needed right now and that Russia's attack has led to a terrible situation in Ukraine. We see daily examples of the horrors of war and the suffering of people – even with great consequences for the rest of the world. It is self-evident for the Swedish Government to support Ukraine by receiving war refugees and sending financial assistance, military support and various supplies. The government remains committed to allocating 1% of gross national income, our economic well-being, to international aid. I would also like to see more countries fulfil the UN commitment to provide at least 0.7% of their gross national income in aid, so that together we can go further in both humanitarian and development cooperation. The costs of receiving refugees that are deducted from assistance are in accordance with the OECD-DAC assistance framework, where reception is considered to be a humanitarian commitment. It is important to bear in mind that the main objective of costs for refugees being deductible in terms of aid is to help people escape. Calculations for reception of refugees from the Swedish aid framework have been made since the early 1990s, and it was also used during the very large reception of refugees in 2015. We do not yet know how much the cost of receiving refugees will be in 2022. That is why we do not know how much can be counted as aid either. The government's main priority for the payment ceilings, so-called limits, has been to safeguard humanitarian aid and aid to the poorest countries. Support shall be provided, inter alia, to those who have been severely affected by the pandemic and by the food crisis that has accelerated as an effect of Russia's invasion of Ukraine. The government also prioritises support to the UN and remains committed to a doubling of climate aid. These priorities form the basis when the responsible authority, Sida, now has to adapt the operations to which payments can be postponed or reprioritized. If the priorities will have an effect, Swedish aid will make a difference. In this context, I would like to remind you that the aid framework increased by SEK 5.1 billion in 2022 compared to the previous year due to the gross national income list. Sweden continues to be one of the world's largest donor countries, both with and without settlements under D ac's regulations. The government's priorities and initiatives remain. Through a strong Swedish economy, the scope within the development budget increases regularly. Therefore, it is not excluded that activities affected by limits this year can be supported later on if they are still relevant and prioritised t. The number of refugees coming to Sweden this year will, as usual, affect the extent of the calculations in the end. The Swedish Government's 1% target helps Sweden both to take care of the need for protection from Ukraine in Sweden and continues to prioritise international aid and development work that reduces poverty, strengthens multilateral cooperation and contributes to sustainable peace, democracy and resistance to authoritarian forces.
i-NSerhk9ogVFYkzfmsbFmys	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister, although it was partly a sad statement to listen to! In some parts I agree with the Minister for Development, in particular that more countries should assume their international responsibilities and deliver on the commitment that exists of 0.7% of GDP for aid. However, the fact that other countries do not do their part is no reason for Sweden not to do our part. Protecting humanitarian work is also an important choice. Otherwise, it would have become too clear that in order to save some from one place, namely Ukraine, others had to die – from starvation. However, spending almost exclusively on humanitarian aid to keep people alive does not lead to positive developments in the long term and does not help to meet the objectives of Agenda 2030, either for the climate or for anything else. Putin's senseless attack on Ukraine has thrown the whole world into a very difficult position. I am proud that Sweden has recently received people who have fled for their lives from the war and send supplies, materials and money to Ukraine. If so, we are in complete agreement, and I hope that we will continue to be so that Sweden continues to be a country that stands up for the right of asylum and human rights. It is in terms of who should pay for this solidarity that our view is clearly different, and here we in the Green Party think that the government is making the wrong priority. Through the settlements, Sweden's largest recipient of aid will be Sweden's own municipalities, and only because it is allowed to do so will one not have to do so. This could have been dealt with differently in the budget, for example by deducting the surplus. So you can avoid letting the planet and the world's most vulnerable take the bill. We are not alone in our criticism either. For several weeks, researchers, professors, civil society and Swedish aid organisations have been alerting about the terrible effects a reduced Swedish ambition will actually have. Votes are consistent: at a time when the need for aid has never been greater, the government's decision to reduce its ambitions by nearly 20% leads to disastrous effects. In times of crisis and war, we need to cooperate more, not less. This applies not only to nuclear alliances and new defence cooperation, but also to sticking together in solidarity with those most exposed. Apart from all the human fates that will now change drastically for the worse, it is also a short-term and dangerous path to take. First came the pandemic and now the war. It's easy for the focus to end up there. But climate change does not take a break just because the world's headlights are directed against other things. Every day that goes without us addressing and really making emission reductions and adjustments to a changing climate is a lost day in the fight for a habitable planet. In this situation, as the government is now doing, cutting back on climate aid is nothing but headless. First, they lower the price of emissions in Sweden through reduced petrol and diesel taxes, and then they deduct funding for countries with significantly worse conditions than Sweden. The latest report by the IPCC states very clearly that we need to do more to stem climate change, not less. The UN Secretary-General believes that the lack of leadership on the climate issue is purely criminal. From being a pioneer, Sweden has now become a country that reduces its ambitions and risks dragging others with it. How can the government view this as a workable plan?
i-99QqPjznNx7hqa4f2o1hgp	Madam President, I would like Our solidarity does not stop at the needy in Ukraine. In addition to helping on site in Ukraine with materials, supplies and weapons, we also help refugees who have come from Ukraine to Sweden. I would just like to emphasise that as Minister of Aid, of course, I am doing everything I can to ensure that we have as little counting as possible. We and the Green Party are in a great deal of agreement on Swedish development policy; we have been running it together for many years. However, what can be considered in relation to the Green Party in this context and what I do not really get together is that, according to the Green Party, it was therefore okay to calculate refugee costs on the aid framework by 22% in 2015. When people fled Syria, it was okay to make payments for refugee costs on the aid framework, but it is not okay to make settlements on the aid framework now that people are fleeing Ukraine. I find that a strange conclusion. Having said that, however, as Minister for Development, I am of course doing everything I can to ensure that the calculation is as small as possible. We see great and growing needs in many other parts of the world. It is climate change and a negative democratic development that is continuing. The pandemic has further strengthened the needs in a number of areas such as gender equality, human rights, economic development and, of course, health. We also see food security deteriorating. The government therefore stands by the target of 1% of gross national income, our economic well-being, on which even this House does not fully agree. We have both moderates and Swedish democrats who want to depart from the 1% target. On behalf of the government and the Social Democrats, we remain at the 1% target, and I am proud of that. With this we still have leadership in the world. We are one of the few countries in the world that actually give and stick to giving 1% of our economic well-being year after year to try to help make the world a little better. This also makes Sweden safer. Unfortunately, the trend does not look like that worldwide. More and more donors are cutting back on the aid framework. Not only is the aid framework used to calculate, as is allowed under OECD-DAC rules, but it actively reduces the aid framework. This is something that is absolutely in danger of affecting us in all forms, based on increased conflicts and subsequent flows of refugees. The government has absolutely no plans to cut aid, but what takes place in the short term in 2022 is a limit, a payout cap, which limits payments to Category 7, international aid. This is done to enable the redistribution of aid to deal with an emergency situation in our neighbourhood. This is not something new, but we have been counting according to the rules in force on the aid budget since the 1990s. Both during bourgeois government and during the reign divided by social democrats and environmentalists, accounts of almost 10 – 12 percent of the aid framework were made. The record was, as I said, in 2015 with 22% of the aid framework. So it is not a new policy. This time we use it for Ukrainian refugees, women and children, as Sweden has done before.
i-2vGxaEajWq2upYPAM8edHV	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Sweden has a unique leadership in these issues. Our aid is acknowledged to be good and effective. But what is happening now is that we risk losing this leadership. It is therefore 40% of international development cooperation that is in danger of going to something other than what it is actually intended for. Where the Swedish government and Sweden stand in the international landscape is not without a doubt, now that people see that we use so much in that way. I am also pleased that the Minister for Development says that she is working to get as little settlements as possible. That is also why I chose to ask my question to Minister of Finance Mikael Damberg because it is in the Ministry of Finance that it finally decides what the Swedish budget should look like. Regarding the fact that we also made large sums of aid in 2015, when the Green Party was in the government and also held the Ministry of Development, we have always done everything we can to minimise them. We had hoped that this work would still remain and produce results. After all, the world has also changed since 2015. Unfortunately, today it looks considerably worse than it did before. I also heard what the Minister said about climate action and continued high ambitions. But it is a fact that the government's decision to cut 50% of the sustainable development strategy will have a serious impact on climate and the environment. This means that the objective of doubling climate aid has been reduced in practice. In addition, the government chooses to do this just before the major environmental conference Stockholm+50 to be held at the beginning of June to pay particular attention to the UN's first environmental conference in the world. In addition, it is quite a short time since we made a promise in Glasgow about a doubling of climate aid. It is also a crucial promise for others to do more. Science is clear: we must increase and not slow down the pace of work for a habitable planet. Not making the necessary reductions in emissions, the adjustments to a changing climate that must be made, the protection and reconstruction of biodiversity and our ecosystems, are leading to the depletion of the planet. For this work, the funding is A and O. Reducing ambitions is short-term and counterproductive and will give back to work. The fact that others follow, reduces efforts instead of increasing them, risks destroying the planet even more. This affects the most poor, who have not even contributed to the problem from the beginning. Sweden still claims to have a feminist government, and when the Green Party was part of the government, gender equality was more than just fine words. It's hard to see now. With the cuts now being made, the effects on many of the world's women and girls will be disastrous. In addition to increased food insecurity and hunger, increased risk of war and conflict, there will also be clear effects that can be counted on. For example, 15 000 fewer girls can be saved from being maimed. Four million teenagers are at risk of being without sex education, contraception and the knowledge and right to their own body. I could stand here and list a lot of work that will not happen. It is simply not worthy of a government that claims to want to pursue a feminist foreign and development policy. Does the government really think it's worth it?
i-hcbjmRNG31BJQmD7aLnCa	Madam President, I would like Once again, I can assure Janine Alm Ericson and others interested that, as Minister of Aid, I am obviously pushing for it to be offset as little as possible. Having said that, I think that the Green Party is still obliged to answer why it was okay for the Green Party to use the DAC aid budget settlements when we received refugees from Syria in 2015 with 22% of the aid framework, but it is not okay to use the DAC aid budget settlements when we receive women and children from Ukraine. I would also like to be careful to say that we are not cutting back on aid. Aid money remains under Category 7. What we have done is that we have set ceilings on a number of expenditure items. Now the Ministry for Foreign Affairs handles 2.3 billion and Sida 6.9 billion. The responsibility lies there to try to find a way forward that will have as little effect as possible on those who are most vulnerable. The government has sent clear priorities, namely that humanitarian aid is fully protected. To alleviate distress not only in Ukraine but also in other parts of the world is important. It concerns Yemen, Afghanistan, Somalia, Ethiopia and so on. We have said that we should prioritise and protect geographical country aid as much as possible. This means that we give priority to those aid workers who are in place in the poorest countries. We have said that we continue to stand up for the priority of doubling climate aid. That is what guides the work that is now being done. Having said that, there is a lot of money, although we should remember that the aid framework increased by 5.1 billion for 2022. If you look at the budgets, Sweden is among the best countries in the world in terms of contributing to international solidarity, even with the bills that we now need to deal with. The government is indeed closely following developments in the number of asylum seekers. We recently received a new forecast from the Migration Agency, and the agency will provide new forecasts both on July 29 and October 28. It is still early in the year, and a lot can happen, but when we feel a little more confident about the number of protection needs and related costs this year, the government can also adjust the ceilings for payments on the various funding items. The latest forecast from the Migration Board indicates that fewer refugees from Ukraine come here than the first forecast showed. It would be desirable for many different reasons. That is also why money remains in Category 7, and it should be managed with as much wisdom as possible. It should be possible to provide new and better information during the year. We should not offset more for refugee costs than we absolutely need. That is also the government's message. Having said that, Sweden bears a responsibility internationally to continue to stand up for the fact which is also true, namely that we are one of the world's best countries in terms of international solidarity. It is important both to receive war refugees and to stand up for the 1% target in aid. We need to do a job in the world to ensure that more people reach the UN target of 0.7 because more efforts are needed to improve the world.
i-CQ8N1tP1d8JCzofxc5dKp3	Madam President, I would like It is welcome to hear that you will adjust the calculations when new forecasts come in. There has already been one, but we have not seen any adjustment in the calculations yet. I would also like to emphasise the importance of involving Sweden's civil society and development organisations in order to ensure that the aid is as good as it is. A strong and viable civil society is also an incredibly important prerequisite for democracy. Basically, this debate is about solidarity but also about building resilient, democratic and equal societies. Where there is food, schooling, health care and belief in the future, the risk of terrorism, war and conflict is reduced. It is in the long term that contributes to greater security for us in Sweden, except for those people who live in great vulnerability. Nevertheless, the answer from the government today shows that there is no plan. It's a little free drawing right on the money from the aid. We in the Green Party think this is beneath criticism, and it does not help in this situation when we all have to build a better and stronger world. Sweden has long been a strong voice in the world for equality, democracy, peace and human rights. Since the Green Party joined the government, it has also dealt with climate change and biodiversity. Nevertheless, that voice is now in danger of weakening. I would strongly urge the government to take back the announced reductions. Do not take resources from international development cooperation to make Sweden's municipalities our largest recipient of aid. Instead, let us see Sweden's aid and international development cooperation as an investment. Minimise settlements and raise the aid framework to 1.25%. More money and power for common challenges also strengthen Sweden.
i-KKFsy5w4LnDw6m21FCLkWz	Madam President, I would like We should not just feel great solidarity with Ukraine and the war refugees who come to our country. We must also finance this solidarity, otherwise it will only be empty words. We have not yet seen how the Green Party intends to finance its increased ambitions. I hope that it has not been envisaged to borrow this, in order to finance increased reception of refugees in our country by debting the Swedish people, I do not believe that a long-term strong strategy to build solidarity and have a sustainable migration policy and a sustainable long-term development policy. Sweden's development policy and concrete development cooperation should continue to be of high quality, and Swedish aid should correspond to 1 per cent of gross national income – that is, our economic well-being. It is a strong international solidarity of which I am proud. Aid will be used to reduce poverty and injustice in the world. It is about showing practical solidarity with our fellow human beings but also the realization that a world in development that is getting better also provides greater security in Sweden. As I said, it is not a desirable situation for us to have a new, major humanitarian crisis on our continent with a war in Ukraine. Not least the Ukrainians themselves and we would have survived without Putin's invasion of a sovereign country that has the right to defend its own territory. It is not a desirable situation that we find ourselves in, but it is war in Europe with new large flows of refugees of women and children to our country. That is the situation we are in, so what we are doing now is a necessary management. But, as I said, Sweden will not use the aid for settlements more than is absolutely necessary.
i-KR9PPTuZbWssHk4zgUpFD3	Madam President, I would like Martina Johansson has asked the Minister for Infrastructure three questions. The first question is what the government intends to do to make it more common basic planning between its authorities and companies in the area of infrastructure construction. The second question is what the government intends to do in order for authorities and companies to be more focused on finding local acceptance for their projects. The third question is whether the government is interested in reviewing the forms of compensation for landowners who lease their land for the transition to a more climate-smart society. The responsibility in the government is so shared that it is I who should answer this interpellation. I believe that planning will be a key to coping with the extensive electrification that our society is facing. In the national electrification strategy decided on 3 February this year, the Government notes that the authorities should develop their planning to meet a significant increase in electricity demand by 2045, and a number of measures to make this possible are proposed. Among other things, we need collaboration and developed joint follow-up of society's electrification. The implementation of the measures of the Strategy has started within the Government Office and will run until 2024. The strategy also stresses the importance of a more coherent planning process for electricity grid planning, energy planning and community planning at national, regional and local levels. In order to meet electrification needs, planning of, among other things, electricity grids and electricity generation needs to be anchored at different levels of society. Everything from national interests and total defence to regional development and municipal survey planning needs to be considered. The Government intends, among other things, to establish an electrification council for continued collaboration between the public sector, industry and other social actors. There is a great will among regions and municipalities to contribute to a sustainable future. Developed regional and local energy planning contributes to overall anchoring. Acceptance issues are important in order to achieve electrification. The Government therefore intends to work broadly and with concrete measures to increase acceptance and achieve a better anchoring of society. Ownership is constitutionally protected. Therefore, operators who need to use privately owned land should primarily seek to agree and find voluntary solutions with the relevant landowners. At the same time, it may sometimes be necessary to restrict the individual's ownership if it is necessary for urgent public interests such as the development of socially necessary infrastructure. However, there is obviously a lot of intervention for an individual property owner to get rid of all or part of his property by force. Therefore, there are rules on how to replace the infringement.
i-871MhvywESBFUs74SQfyGD	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister Farmanbar, for your answer. Yes, there is an electrification strategy that has been adopted. The Minister says that one should develop one's planning and that the work has begun to be completed in 2024. I do not think it is a strong enough word. I would like to say that you should develop your planning in order to make it more coherent. And 2024 may sound like a short time, but two years can be a very long time to get to an improved planning and work to find local acceptance. There are many projects that will be delayed because it is not happening now. I wonder if there are any concrete proposals as to what will happen to increase the acceptance of landowners. Or is this another product that will make no difference in reality or in everyday life for the individual landowners? The Minister says that a council has been created between different actors. But there is nothing that says how the work should be done locally with municipalities, regions and landowners, but it is about how it should be between different actors. In the first place, these should be voluntary solutions. I think that's a very good entrance, too. Of course we'll get along. No one wants to live in a society where the state comes in and tells us exactly how to do it. But how can we get there? What are the concrete proposals? As it partly works today, there is an experience among many landowners that it is not consultation that is taking place. These are information meetings where you get the feeling that the authorities have already decided – here's what we're going to do, point. It is felt that it is not the right people on the ground who can answer questions that are relevant to the landowners and that the comments submitted in connection with the so-called consultations are not taken into account. As I said, they are perceived as information meetings. With that entrance and experience of those in place, I am not surprised that there will be appeals that prolong a process or that there will be angry referrals when we need to make important infrastructure efforts. Of course we have to change society, and most people want it, but we have to do it well. The answer has tended to be about electricity expansion. But this co-planning is also needed in various infrastructure projects, both roads and railways and power lines, etc., which restrict the land of a landowner. As you can imagine from my speech, I do not see any answer to my questions, so I will come back to two of them. I wonder how the government will do to get more common planning between authorities and companies to work with total planning, i.e. not only electricity but also other parts, and how the government will do to make it clearer that the focus is that it is the local acceptance of landowners that is important.
i-PQtbyM2C1hjP7iGvpowqbm	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Martina Johansson, for the questions! As we carry out the electrification of our time, we are upgrading the major infrastructure expansion of our time and seeing that we are pushing Puttingas and oil sheikh oil out of our industries and transport, we will need much more infrastructure. We will also need much more electricity. This could mean electricity generation in the form of wind turbines. More cables and transmission networks are also needed. These are the two major aspects that tend to be issues of discussion with landowners. Then, of course, roads and other things can get into it, as Martina Johansson said. I think Martina Johansson has a good track record on this process. In the beginning, consultations are held to reach an agreement. I cannot comment exactly on how everyone has experienced it, but I have great understanding that there may be different experiences – the authorities feel that there has been consultation, and landowners feel that they have been informed and that there has not been consultation. However, the legislation is clear: there should be consultation. The idea is to get along. If you do not reach a common position, there is an opportunity to appeal, and there is a great deal of appeal. This is regrettable because it prolongs the time and makes it more difficult for us to get the Puttingas and Oil Sheikh gas out of our processes more quickly. This makes it more difficult to get new infrastructure in place. The fact that appeals are made is, however, in full legal order. If you don't get along there, there's also the next step. This would involve expropriation – the landowner would be paid for the land and forced to sell it at a price slightly above market value, sometimes up to three times the market value or more. It can also be about the right of way. I note that expropriation or rights of way are very rarely used. It is in itself gratifying that it does not go all the way to the extreme form, but it stays at least in the middle position, at the level of appeal. My wish, of course, is that we should consult as much as possible and that the issues should be dealt with there and not be appealed against. I think we all want this to go faster. I will move on to the concrete answers to the questions asked by Martina Johansson. This is about joint planning. The electrification strategy points, among other things, to a need for the different levels. There are different companies, different authorities and different bodies that handle this. They deal, for example, with local, regional and national electricity networks. There needs to be co-planning between these three levels in order to be able to work more clearly and take greater account of them. One of the points of this is co-location. If you draw a cable, you should be able to put much else there at the same time. If it's about an electric cable, you might at the same time be able to build a road, pull in fiber or something else that is needed. It is a task in the electrification strategy that the authorities should look at this. Right now, we are preparing how the concrete mission to the authorities should be designed. I think it is extremely important for us to be able to bring this to an end; I think it will be absolutely crucial. Perhaps the second part of the question can come back to Martina Johansson, so that I answer the right question. I got off.
i-Pzes1jqmkvpj7cejH76LgP	Madam President, I would like The second question was how authorities and companies should become more focused on finding local acceptance, which I actually see as the most important thing in this. We can have a lot of beautiful strategies on collaboration between different companies and on the joint drawing of wires – you can also draw broadband, build a road and more, as the Minister said. This is exactly what I'm after. The question is how this is to be done in concrete terms. Why is this co-planning between companies so important, whether these are new draws or things that could complement existing draws? Let me take an example from my county of Sörmland. There is a landowner who has old and new E4 on his land in different places. The landowner will receive the future Ostlink in another place on his land, and in the next step there will be a power line on this land. These are four different major infrastructure projects. They are equally important, but they cross the land of the same landowner. This means, in practice, that the intrusion into this land is much greater than the individual project. That is why planning must be much better. If you had made some second draws, it would not have been as great an intrusion, even if it were the same landowner or perhaps just going into the neighbouring land. That's why I want us to reverse our perspective. When you start planning for different types of projects, you have to start by talking to municipalities and regions about where they have their growth areas. Where do they think they're going to build? How do you need to deal with this when you are going to draw large power lines or build new railways? You also need to talk to the potential landowner, because the landowners know their land. They know where there are biotopes that you should not encounter patrols in connection with. They know where there are ancient remains. They know what the soil looks like and where it is appropriate to do different types of interference in the soil. They can also help to point out that in some places it is great to have a buried electric cable while in other places it is suitable with an air cable, or vice versa. You have to have the dialogue from the beginning; then you can start drawing the maps. This should be done instead of drawing a straight line that is then communicated to the landowner. If you draw the maps afterwards, I think the problems will be less purely terrestrial when it comes to getting around with ancient remains, biotopes and more. It would also make landowners, municipalities and regions feel confident that this is probably the best solution they can work for. Then we will have to avoid these appeals, and the process will be faster. Landowners are not evil. They use their land, with forest or agriculture, to feed us who live in a city. They also want to contribute to the transformation. I come back to the question which the Minister dropped in his previous speech. Is there anything that the Minister wants to do to ensure that there is as concrete and good work as possible to increase local acceptance, so that we have a rapid transition in energy, among other things?
i-E3oNiUwRxv5MPHRSiwik9q	Madam President, I would like Now I'm not gonna lose this question. The issue of local acceptance is extremely important. We see that local acceptance will be crucial to our ability to achieve our goals, whether it be road construction or energy construction. Right now I am talking a lot about electrification, not only because I am the Minister for Energy but also because we are in a situation where we will push out Putingas and oil sheikh oil and replace them with electrification. This means that we are moving towards our country's largest ever expansion of the energy system. Over the next 30 years, we will consume considerably more electricity – perhaps even twice as much – when we use electricity instead of oil and gas. You're supposed to put this in perspective. During the 30 years that have passed, we have used the same amount of electricity each year. It has been an administration. It has been a situation where we have energy efficiented something and where it has been picked up by digitalisation, but in principle we have been using the same amount of electricity every year for 30 years. The huge expansion is something new for us. Our country has not for at least 30 years made the expansion that we see before us. Our systems, our authorities, our local representatives and our local authorities have a lot of aspects to take into account which today are not adapted to the great expansion that we see. It is, among other things, the electrification strategy, which I presented three months ago, and the work that the Minister for Infrastructure Tomas Eneroth is doing with the national plan is aimed at. Co-planning as much as possible will be crucial. The aim is, of course, to have as good a dialogue as possible and to be able to reach an agreement. But I can also say that sometimes, despite good dialogue, one might think differently in the end. Someone makes the assessment that an electrical cable, transmission network or road needs to be built in a particular location to provide electricity or better transport facilities for the whole of society, but this means a restriction for the landowner. There we must be on the ball and ensure that we give the landowner good opportunities to express his views and receive compensation in accordance with the usual order. I think that's important. Finally, I must say that the concrete measures taken by the government are the strategies that we send to our authorities. It is not just words, it is concrete missions about how authorities should change their work processes. When a local electricity network in a municipality is to be connected to the regional network, which Vattenfall, Eon, Ellevio or any other company operates and which in turn is connected to the Swedish power network, there are three different companies involved. It is about how their work should be coordinated and in what position they should talk to each other. You should co-operate as much as possible and then have talks and consultations with the landowner. I'm not saying we're on target, because we really aren't. But with these strategies and with the work of the national plan and the electrification strategy, we are taking a major step towards the goal. The electrification strategy shall be implemented within three years. I see good opportunities to finish. I would have liked us not to have had three years but already to finish, but it is better to do it now and get to the finish than to wait. There I think we agree, Martina Johansson and I.
i-MRAeSfoAcSUr1LfFxcntf7	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. Of course, we have to make the transition fast. There's a lot going on that we hadn't anticipated. We have had a stable system for many years. I would like us to have a clear leadership that pointed to local acceptance. I hope that what Minister Farmanbar says about concrete tasks that will lead to concrete work to increase local acceptance will become a reality. We will have to come back to that in a number of years. Like I said, it's a shame we're not there today. I have one question left. It's a question in my interpellation that I don't feel I've got an answer to. My idea is that we should devote the last few minutes of debate to this issue, which concerns the form of compensation for landowners. Whether it goes so far as to claim land, which does not have to be voluntary for the landowner, the form of compensation must be reviewed. It may increase local acceptance. Today, the landowner is being replaced for the value of the land. Two other types of compensation could be envisaged. This may include compensation for future revenue lost or compensation based on what is to be produced, such as a wind turbine, a power line or the electricity that will pass the electricity line. It is therefore a question of basing the compensation on something else. If I use arable land where there will be no harvest in the future due to an intrusion, the future revenue will be lost. It's not just a matter of today's value. My final question is: is the government interested in reviewing the forms of compensation in order to gain further local acceptance by landowners?
i-911LSx33iZXn2REsnYV6Za	Madam President, I would like I thank Martina Johansson for the question, which I shall return to during my two remaining debates. First, let me say something about local acceptance. There will be considerably more dossiers requiring local acceptance, and I think we need to take this into account. Even if we become better at co-planning, as we must be, and even if we get better at consultation and agreement, there is still a risk that we will end up in a situation where the net number of appeals is increasing, because so much more will be needed. When it comes to the infringement compensation issue, the Expropriation Act currently provides for an established compensation model. Intruder shall be replaced by the market value of the land claimed and a mark-up of 25 %. As I mentioned in my first post, it can be up to three times more than the value. I know that in the municipalities there have been considerably higher levels than just 25% of the mark-up. This has been done to ensure good compensation. Today I can honestly say that there are no plans to make a change in this model. However, today there is an investigation into the acceptance of wind power and how we create an incentive model. In Sweden it has become some form of cotym or practice that between 0.2 and 0.5 per cent of the annual gross revenues of wind power are allocated to the municipality. This is 20 times lower than in Finland, Germany and other countries. I also find the Danish model interesting. Local residents have the opportunity to buy into the wind farm at cost price for up to a total of 20 per cent of its value. This means that they become shareholders in the wind farm and thus benefit from it. The report will be presented in March 2023. Let's see what the answers are. However, there are various aspects to being able to increase the remuneration or change the remuneration models, at least in the case of wind farms.
