i-2zN5zhQ8WUy4NnATyXAqRX	Madam President, I would like The Liberals have asked for this debate on lack of education and safety at school. Unfortunately, I have to say that this is not the first time we have to do so, because the country is going the wrong way. The development in the country's schools is going in the wrong direction when more and more students, as teachers, are experiencing increased elements of threats, violence and harassment, psychological as well as physical. What worries me most, Madam President, is physical violence. These are the elements that increase most in terms of the number of notifications to the Swedish Work Environment Authority. We also know that the principals sometimes report and sometimes do not report. Darkness is enormous. It is extremely important that we raise this issue. A knowledge school requires study and safety in the classroom, respect for teachers and a mandate for teachers to be able to provide good teaching for all students.
i-FTE99YGrGEftBu8Diyzm1X	Madam President, I would like Many thanks for the opportunity to debate here today how we can increase safety at school, both for staff and for students! Good work environment is the basis for knowledge and development. That anything other than zero tolerance is unacceptable, I think we agree in this Chamber. As head of municipal administration in preschool, primary school, secondary school and special school and as headmaster, I am used to follow up and remedy when things are messy, messy and disorder, both close follow-up in the day-to-day with the trade union and with the staff and systematic follow-up with strong efforts – tirelessly. As Minister of Education, this issue is close to my heart. Sweden has very good, committed and skilled teachers, as well as skilled and well-trained principals, who work with the issue on a daily basis. Sweden can, however, do better. Then we must give the staff of the school better conditions on several levels. Politicians provide the conditions. The Members of Parliament know that the Social Democratic Government will shortly be putting a well-explained proposal on the table of the Riksdag. We intend to implement proposals in the national plan for security and study on which we went to elections, with clearer powers for teachers to keep order. They shouldn't have to hesitate, and we're behind them. Rectors are given greater and clearer powers to shut down and move pupils who mess up or threaten other students or staff. We want to impose a general mobile ban in class time to avoid the Yiddret in the classroom. We are increasing preparedness for how to act in difficult situations. The plan includes a broad range of preventive measures, rules and contact with guardians. The issue should be clarified in systematic quality work and in systematic work environment management. The Swedish National Agency for Education and the Swedish School Inspectorate will be important actors here. Privileges and opportunities in the School Act are important. However, teachers and principals need more. In recent years, this government has provided considerable resources. This year alone, the equivalence grant amounts to a total of 6.5 billion for, among other things, more staff and opportunities for schools in vulnerable areas to have smaller classes. It's been useful. The School Act now includes compulsory school management services for all school leaders. They shall support the principals in following up and remedying the provisions of the School Act, including security and education. Research shows that students who understand what to learn become calmer. We clarify the curriculum and focus on more teaching for students who need it. The Swedish National Agency for Education has a clear mission regarding competence development in this area. Many curves point up: More people stay in the teaching profession, more are trained as teachers and more principals systematically follow up on the work environment. However, the Social Democrats want more. Some schools gather students with great challenges in the same classes. That's where it's hard to succeed in the mission. School segregation is hitting hard. There are schools that need more money. Some schools choose their students to avoid more difficult students. Some other schools have to accept all students moving into the area on the day they move in. These schools receive as much school money as those schools that opt out of school and do not have compulsory schooling responsibilities. It is immoral, unjust and a betrayal of teachers and principals, who need the resources to succeed in their mission. The government and parliament are now sending the Corona billion to teachers, substitutes and support, but the same amount or more disappears into profits. No one really knows to whom. Madam President, I would like There's sometimes a mess in classrooms. But there's trouble in the school market too.
i-DMFmwxgRP5NvDevLFu5uG1	Madam President, I would like Students who said, "I know where you live." I'm gonna kill you. That's what a teacher said. Another said: I have been kicked in the face, have colleagues who have been beaten several times. I dare not resist, and other personnel who have tried to get fired. I've been kicked on the leg by a student that I had to hold on to for him to beat another student, said a teacher. Another teacher testified: Kicked, punched, had the glasses thrown away by the student, bitten, had students who said they were going to kill me. I've been beaten, bitten, kicked. Students have pulled my clothes, and I have had things and furniture thrown at me. I've been threatened to get things thrown at me. I've also received death threats from a student. I was kicked in the stomach and back by a student who was in fifth grade. I had just told him that you can't threaten or say offensive things to any other student. He then became furious and both beat and fired me so that another teacher had to intervene. Madam President, I would like This is what it looks like in today's classrooms in our schools. The reports I read from, which the Teachers' Association had done last autumn, show that in 2020 more than half of the teachers have been physically exposed to violence at some point in the year. Every tenth teacher says it has happened more than once a week. Friends made another report that shows that one in four students in middle school has a stomachache about going to school and rarely or never feels safe in school. Madam President, I would like This should be seen in the perspective of every fourth child in Swedish school not being able to pass the school. We need to recruit thousands of teachers, and we absolutely need to make sure that talented teachers and principals want to continue working in Swedish schools. The Government Party The Social Democrats have had seven and a half years to come up with proposals to create order and peace in Swedish schools. Then it is totally unacceptable that not a single proposal has come to Parliament for decision – not a single proposal to remedy the situation prevailing in Swedish schools. We Moderates have tabled over 30 different proposals, and all have been rejected. Madam President, I would like I find it sad that we have a government that does not feel responsible for the fact that one in four children has a stomachache for going to school and that more than half of the teachers have been subjected to physical violence.
i-Hiaj81DdZUpSTHw6WTzRZm	Madam President, I would like We are today debating an issue that the Swedish Democrats have raised many times over the years. In my very first debate in this House, on 4 November 2010, I raised the issue of lack of safety at school. I referred at that time to a debate article in the DN of 2005, in which the two teachers' associations stated that 43% of teachers were forced to take significant lessons every day in order to resolve conflicts and create security and study. In turn, one in seven teachers was forced to devote each lesson to the same. That's 17 years ago. At the same time we had an event in my own municipality of residence Karlskrona that local media reported about. It was a gang of so-called Nysvensks who molested and sexually harassed Swedish girls at one of the municipality's high schools. At the same time, several guys, even to me personally, told me that the gang was holding the school in an iron grip and that the opponent got beaten up. They had to call in a security company to try to get things right. The 2005 debate article also referred to a health and safety survey in which 12% of teachers stated that they had been subjected to violence or threats of violence at school. In the Swedish National Agency for Education's latest attitude survey from 2019, one teacher in four states that they have been exposed to threats and violence during the last school year. It's more than a doubling. And the Swedish Crime Prevention Council's school survey on crimes from 2021 reveals the following: It is the most common crime scene for both minor and grosser assaults as well as for physical sexual violations among guys. Since 2015, the proportion of those who reported exposure to mild abuse in the school environment has increased, both among girls... and boys. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like Violence, bullying, threats and harassment are today part of the everyday life of too many of our schools. Although all the other parties bear part of the responsibility for this, the main responsibility lies, of course, with the Social Democrats. Let me conclude my first speech with a current picture of reality from Östergötland. Statistics from the Swedish Work Environment Authority show that the number of reports of threats and physical violence at school has more than doubled in 2015 – 2020. Several schools have chosen, or have been forced, to deploy guardians because of threats and violence, just as in my own municipality of residence Karlskrona so many years ago. There's today's socialist school reality.
i-BgqaxLgg3eamuW8Yr4YE9M	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by welcoming the initiative of the Liberals on this debate on the important subject of safety at school. For students to succeed in school, a secure study environment is needed, and skilled and committed teachers are needed. In order for more people to have this opportunity, it is also important that we get more teachers in Swedish schools by raising the status of the profession and by ensuring that teachers feel safe and have a good working environment, so that more people apply to the teaching profession. All forms of bullying, violations, threats and violence against both teachers and students are therefore totally unacceptable. Most students in Swedish schools feel safe in their school environment, but the numbers go down. This applies in particular to grade 9, where the proportion of safe pupils has decreased from 89 to 79 per cent between 2010 and 2020. There are variations between principals and schools as well as within schools, and there are also gender differences, where girls feel less secure in school than boys. Every other teacher in primary and secondary school has been subjected to physical violence. Three out of four teachers say that they have been subjected to verbal violence at least once in the last year, according to the Teacher Association's report. This is subject to teachers day in and day out when all they do is their important task to ensure that students receive good education and a good education. The world of school is not a bubble; it is part of society at large. That is why we must also act and respond to threats and violence that occur in school, just as we would in other workplaces. The situation needs to be taken seriously. The School Inspectorate's Thematic Report on Security and Studying shows that many schools are able to cope with security and study well, but that in some schools there are significant problems and shortcomings. In schools where it does not work, there is a lack of promotion and prevention. It does not have a comprehensive picture of the current situation and does not work across schools, while schools that have succeeded well with security and studies involve the entire organization, work systematically here and now as well as in the long term and also have a school management that actively runs the work. Madam President, I would like It is important that we strengthen security and education to enable students to focus on taking in knowledge and for teachers to enjoy the profession. Therefore, the Center Party has contributed to the proposal that the government is now going to develop on a national plan for security and study. We have been involved in introducing competence development for vice-chancellors in practical organisation and in the working environment as well as a recruitment training for vice-chancellors to strengthen the vice-chancellors. We believe that local leadership has a significant role to play in creating safe environments in schools. In my next speech, I will go into what the Center Party wants to see for further reforms to strengthen the security of schools.
i-5JDBeNFpe832P1Vf4hwGKP	Madam President, I would like We welcome the Liberals' initiative on safety and education at school. Everyone who works in school must feel secure. The working environment at school needs to be improved. The school is Sweden's largest workplace but also one of the worst when it comes to the working environment. There are few occupational groups that would consider working under the conditions under which school staff, often women, are forced to work. The Left Party wants to give the school more resources. We also want to see a systematic change that is beyond market logic and new public management. It is important to improve the working conditions of teachers and the entire school staff, on the one hand to combat the shortage of teachers and other professional groups at school and, on the other hand, to ensure that all children are seen at school. Safe children also become calmer children. The working environment and the work situation are also one of the most common reasons why teachers choose to work with something other than the school. Madam President, I would like In order to improve teachers' working environment, teachers need to have more colleagues, not cuts. While we welcome this initiative from the Liberals, it may be appropriate to mention that the Liberals are in charge in 147 out of 290 municipalities in Sweden. In the majority of these municipalities, school cuts are ongoing. What happens to studies and security when there are constant cuts in the bourgeois-governed municipalities? What happens is that there will be fewer staff, and it will be less secure. When there are greater cuts, violence and insecurity increase. The Center Party is co-governing in 199 of 290 municipalities. The Moderates are in charge of 195 municipalities. The Christian Democrats are co-governing 151 municipalities. The majority of Sweden's municipalities are governed by the parties that raise these issues but have no real solutions. Madam President, I would like I also want to talk about metoo and sexual harassment, because something that makes female colleagues at work and students, girls and girls at school feel insecure is sexism and sexual harassment. It is also an issue that several parties have never had an interest in except when it comes to cases where the perpetrator happens to have black hair or black skin color. On the Left side, we make no distinction between sexual harassment. No one at school should be subjected to sexual harassment or sexism. That is why we have repeatedly put forward proposals on these issues. In my next speech, I will talk about what is the main reason for harassment at school: racism.
i-FocZNAFL6NDEYYkjBrsbQn	Madam President, I would like Many serious examples of the insecure environment in school have already been given during this debate. I will not repeat the description of the problem, but I would like to start by describing what the Christian Democrats want to do about it. Security is extremely important for all of us and not least for the children. Insecureness can lead to mental illness. Moreover, a child who is subjected to abuse and bullying and who is concerned about being mocked, beaten and violated has difficulty focusing on teaching. Security is established in the family. Therefore, it is important that the school also involves families in creating security and peace of mind at school. With very few exceptions, parents want the best interests of their children. They want it to go well for the child and worry if the child goes wrong in any way. The Christian Democrats want to highlight the role of parents in order and order in the classroom through a contract of responsibility that will present what is the responsibility of the school and the teacher and what is the responsibility of the parents in terms of the student's education and responsibility for conduct. The student's own responsibility for studies, homework, attitudes and behaviour is also important to stress. Parents' participation in schoolwork and in pupils' learning needs to be enhanced, and parents' ability to contribute should be strengthened. But parenting is not always easy. It's quite another thing to be a baby parent than to have teenagers. The Christian Democrats therefore want to introduce educational gatherings, a form of parental education that continues and follows in the child's various stages of development with a half-day per semester throughout the school period. As a parent, you need knowledge and tips on how to support your child in the best way, but also on how to set limits and how to help the child in schoolwork. There are also good examples of how the school has involved parents, sometimes in cooperation with social services and police. This has been the way to help the child get his/her education and life situation in order. But insecurity can also be created by unclear rules and approaches, as some have been doing. The school law clarifies the student's right to safety and study and not to be subjected to offensive treatment. It is a legal requirement for the Vice-Chancellor to decide on rules of conduct for each school – they will be prepared with the participation of the students. It shall describe the sanctions applicable to the student who is in breach of the rules. And when a student violates the rules of law, it is essential that the problems are solved in cooperation with parents and guardians. Parents have a responsibility even during school hours. Clear guidelines are therefore needed for both school management and teachers.
i-SfSzrfwamiAMqo5jsuoYEk	Madam President, I would like It is remarkable that the Socialist Government does not take these issues more seriously. One cannot simply refer to the fact that more people are applying for teacher training. Two years ago, there was no competition for half of the places in teacher education. We have 40 000 teachers who have left the profession, Madam President. The most important factor in leaving the profession prematurely, and not because of retirement, is a lack of working environment, a lack of conditions, a lack of conditions and a lack of mandate. We have problems in Swedish school. It is not just about the serious picture and the report that the Teachers' Association points out – there is less study. The state's school inspection came last autumn with a national survey, a review. They have been looking at all of Sweden's school units for over ten years. There are more than 4 000 school units that have been reviewed in different ways in their follow-up to studies and safety. Teachers are allowed to spend more time teaching to maintain order in the classroom. What is most serious, Madam President, is that six out of ten teachers refrain from taking action against the mess and disorder in the classroom for fear of being registered. The very first thing I did in January 2019 was to demand that the Children's and Student's Representative be immediately dismantled. I understand that the Social Democrats want to retain this dysfunctional function on the Swedish School Inspectorate, which has left teachers out of authority and undermined respect for Sweden's teachers. Only four out of ten teachers feel that it is clear what they are allowed to do under the school law and what they are not allowed to do in the event of disorder. The fact that six out of ten teachers refrain from intervening for fear of being reported to the School Inspectorate shows that we have enormous problems. I myself have been involved for two and a half years in negotiating a national plan for study and security. But what's taking so long? That work was already completed in March a year ago, Madam President. It took several months for the Social Democratic Government to send out the proposals for a referral. I would have preferred to have seen these draft laws come into force as early as 1 January this year, even though it would also be delayed. It is a question of redeployment, suspension and the seizure of dangerous objects. Knives and weapons-like objects are the most common, after the mobile phones, that our teachers and principals have to seize, Madam President. This about something says how serious the situation is within Swedish school and that more needs to be done to increase security.
i-5ELGT4yyexTEgFXbeXo7wB	Madam President, I would like This morning, I took my six-year-old son to school after a week of covid-19 isolation. On the way there we talked about the classmates who don't listen but it's the teacher who decides, about the children who can't play when the teacher doesn't watch and about the teacher's eyes impossible to see everything. They're six years old, little kids. As a mother, I find it difficult to let go of my gut after the conversation and worry that my child's schooling will be torn apart by bullying. As a school politician, I am concerned that the teachers' authority is challenged and what it means in my son's classroom and in all other children's classrooms in Sweden. The Teachers' Association's report Shut up bitch pays attention to the seriousness of a work environment where both younger and older students but also their parents expose teachers to threats and other verbal and physical violence. Threats and violence don't belong in school. According to this survey, recreation centres and preschools are the activities where teachers are most often exposed. These are activities with larger groups of children and fewer adults per child. In addition, children who need special support at school are not entitled to these facilities. These factors affect the vulnerability to threats and violence. As has been said, one of the most alarming things in the Teachers' Association's report is that not only children expose teachers but almost one in four teachers have also been subjected to parents. I have to say this is one of the most serious symptoms of a marketing school that has made parents customers and teachers service staff. Threats of moving your child and the child's school allowance if you don't get your wish are one of the more common forms of threats that teachers say they are exposed to. At school, both students and staff should feel safe, and it is important to act early and set limits even when children are small in order to avoid older children exposing both teachers and others in society to more severe violence later in life. We politicians have a responsibility to ensure that teachers and other school staff have the resources to do so.
i-7FMJ65N61FQT7s5HoXGwKi	Madam President, I would like It feels as if there is a great deal of agreement on the proposals on the school law that we are now putting forward and that they will be heard here. That's exactly what I'm hearing from several of you. It is therefore a question of the possibility, the competence and the power to intervene without hesitation. The law we have from the alliance government from 2011 was very unclear and very fluke. The curriculum was unclear and fluffy, and it has made it difficult for, for example, the Children's and Student's representative to know correctly how to assess in these cases. I am proud to say that what I hear you talk about, like money for colleagues or, we have given, and we want to give more. It is also about clear powers in law and opportunities for both teachers and principals as well as for students who mess up and fight to be relocated. You're supposed to find other places, everything for the safety of the students. We have also clearly told you what to do with resource schools. Even the students we have to move are entitled to education. There must be clear national follow-up so that we know what is happening out there. There must also be clear local follow-up. There should be no doubt among our fellow politicians in the municipalities that you should regularly follow up how students and teachers have it so that the schools where it happens can actually put in efforts at once. This is fundamental. That is why I am pleased that there is such a response to the national plan for security and study on which we went to elections. Some of you have raised something that I find quite interesting. It is a mess in some classrooms, Madam President. We Social Democrats provide the conditions for achieving this challenge better. But if we are to succeed even better, the mess in the school market, which has turned teachers into service personnel without authority vis-à-vis guardians and pupils, must also end. It's all connected. Students are not customers who are always right. We must regain democratic control of school order.
i-LEavRz3hZF3SfovCfmbz1M	Madam President, I would like Thank you to the Government for taking part in this debate! There are many important elements to ensure, and efforts to enable teachers to act are important. I would like to draw attention to something that the Government mentioned in its speech: that clear national follow-up is important. For some children, school is the safe place. That's where you have your friends and a security when other parts of your life are more problematic. But for other students, the school is the place where you don't feel safe but are subjected to harassment, abuse, bullying, threats and violence. From the Education Committee we pushed for a national follow-up of the statistics on absenteeism to see how schools work to follow up pupils who are not in school. Now the Swedish National Agency for Education has come up with a report where you see that legislative changes are needed, so my question to the Government is how do you intend to take on the report that the Swedish National Agency for Education has now presented when it comes to absence statistics.
i-VAxLQZzX3aBGzxhbdz6zDX	Madam President, I would like Fredrik Christensson asks a very important question, and I am prepared to discuss how we could work on this very important question. I think that we can follow up on the presence and problematic absence and generally find common frameworks for how we deal with students who are having a difficult time in school. The school is for all students, so it is important that we have a school that strives for inclusion. Where it does not work, we will find practical solutions. It will cost, but there are opportunities for it.
i-AsZiusdRz56dJTCUDxtsnn	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I think it is urgent to point out precisely problematic school absences in order to catch students who are not in school and to work actively at the local level to catch up with these students and to see the background factors, not least on the basis of today's subject of security and study. We also need to be able to monitor these developments at national level in order to be able to take action. I think the Swedish National Agency for Education's report is very readable, and there are concrete proposals for changes to the legislation when it comes to defining what is invalid and valid absence. I am therefore pleased that the Minister is in favour of this, but I also expect the government to act relatively quickly to get this in place. This is an issue on which the Committee on Education and Training has presented and worked in broad agreement in the past, and I therefore hope that the Government will take it forward.
i-CoT5YgLKqkZ4owPaza9fWx	Madam President, I would like For me it is important that all students fit into the Swedish school. No student will be elected. No student will be sorted out. I see it as very clear that all students have a positive future. Some students have challenges before they get there, and it is important that society can gather strength. The resources are going there. The focus throughout the management chain, from us who make laws and give conditions to teachers in the classroom who will apply this, should be that all students should manage. I believe that the Social Democrats and the Center Party can find solutions to the issues in the future.
i-TZepnniyzyxeXhhDMacWeY	Madam President, I would like The Liberals have asked for this debate to be held, and it is about study and security – nothing else. The national plan that the Social Democrats are talking about would never have come so far without the participation of the Liberals. We have been pushing the Social Democrats for decades on the issue of redeploying, shutting down and taking steps to increase teachers' powers. You have voted against those very proposals for decades. But thanks to the active participation of the Liberals, a national study plan is coming up. The Social Democrats have mainly talked about mobile phones, but we have talked about teachers' powers and being able to relocate and shut down threatening students who behave badly towards teachers and students. Madam President, I would like My question is about the Children's and Student's representative. That function has even been criticised by Statskontoret. Why does the government want to maintain this dysfunctional function?
i-BXncrsMkepxGxBWcs6nJsi	Madam President, I would like It is, in fact, a little because of the Liberals that we are standing here today discussing security. It is about an unclear curriculum, reduced resources for leaking money and a school market where teachers have become service staff. Above all, we have seen the lack of clarity in the Education Act on the competence and authority of teachers to intervene. The question has been investigated. It is not so easy for our expert authorities to apply a hard-to-read school law, which the Liberals created, and a curriculum, which the Liberals created. If we give them conditions clearly, they will be able to be applied much better.
i-KY99Xf9KNGLZLvNoNVfvKf	Madam President, I would like The School Minister's memory is short when it comes to the parties with which she has received increases in resources to Swedish schools over the last three years, namely with the help of the Liberals. But in this debate on study and security, the problem is not money. It does not matter how much we stand here and say that we should increase teachers' powers if a child and pupil representative undermines the status of the teaching profession. The school inspectorate doesn't have that problem. The school inspectorate makes judgments and criticises schools. Even in cases where neither the police nor the Swedish School Inspectorate have moved on, the Children's and Student's Representative has moved on to pursue claims for damages. Don't tell me it's a general problem for the country's authorities, but this is a problem for the Children's and Student's representative. It is an authority that you set up in spring 2006. It has played its part. Even the teachers say that the criticism is not understandable.
i-U6bWpipmoXncG2gQFJTKeu	Madam President, I would like The Children's and Student's representative applies the School Act and also looks at other things. In fact, there are also cases, such as sexual exploitation, where such an institution may be justified. I believe that, with clear rules and clear powers, it will also be easier to know where the borders should go. That way, the Children's and Student's representative won't have to stand there and look at different assessments here and there. It has been difficult for many expert and school authorities to apply the ambiguity that has existed. But we shall now remedy it. I am pleased that so many are in favour of the draft legislation that we will be presenting shortly.
i-DHQQbNUDykcxzUXrdnC9Yf	Madam President, I would like I would also like to thank our new Minister for Education for his commitment and participation in this very important debate on safety and education at school. Together with the Green Party, the Center Party and the Liberals, her representatives negotiated several important products, including a national plan for security and study. Are there any planned changes, Lina Axelsson Kihlblom, compared to the product that was far advanced when the January agreement and then the government cooperation changed? What is it that comes to or is possibly drawn from?
i-UicSHjqyLSrALcEVBc2pDd	Madam President, I would like I'm sorry to disappoint Annika Hirvonen. I took up office at the beginning of December, and I cannot, in fact, present here and now the journey of such a bill. It is important that all the proposals we put forward are rooted in the profession, that we have asked around and learned a lot from different bodies. Officials and others should have their say. That way we can land in something. In general, I believe that no legislation is perfect. We will evaluate, measure and discuss the application. If the law is not enough, we move on and make more decisions.
i-AHYdQFCTFLRzykZJqzMg4B	Madam President, I would like One issue that is at the forefront of the debate and which the Liberals alone have pushed is the abolition of the body, the Children's and Student Ombudsman, which stands up for children's rights when children have been subjected to, for example, bullying or other violations in school. One issue that has been investigated and discussed for a long time is that it is now easier to get redress if you have been subjected to bullying because of your appearance than it is if you have been violated on grounds of discrimination, such as race, gender or religion. Will the Minister of Education correct this and ensure that children's protection against discrimination at school is strengthened?
i-2DW39S7i5boqRvwxfMx5Lh	Madam President, I would like For me, it should be zero tolerance to all forms of violation or discrimination. If we do not succeed in this, we must look at these issues so that we can succeed. Swedish school has several bodies that you can turn to as an individual or representative of the school. Here it is important that we are open to different authorities and missions catching different student groups. Therefore, we should not be too quick to dismiss or throw out the baby with the bath water just because it blows and some hesitation is created. Let us sit down and look at the statistics available. If there are gaps, we'll fix them.
i-Md34JoBAwRAGBoAf58R8xK	Madam President, I would like The Government here tells us that there is a great deal of agreement in the Chamber on various proposals. This may apply to some of the proposals, but there is a great frustration in the hall about the lack of proposals to remedy threats, violence and insecurity in Swedish schools. For a few years now, teachers and principals in several schools have been forced to carry assault alarms in order to be able to stay at work. Madam President, I would like Now the Government blames something that the Alliance Government did in 2011. But if it had been a problem, you could have done something about it in the seven and a half years that you have had the power. The teaching profession itself has put forward several proposals, ranging from level groupings to securing resource schools and special education for children with special needs. They want to change the school law to get more authority, and they want to change the laws so that principals can turn off more students. We Moderates have put forward 30 proposals, ranging from absence registers, which the Riksdag decided over two years ago but which the government has not yet implemented, to all schools having research- and evidence-based programmes against violations and harassment. Furthermore, teachers and principals should be subject to the Blue Light Act, i.e. stricter legislation against those who threaten or expose teachers and principals to violence. All personnel shall receive competence development on violations, threats and violence. It should also be more legally secure and efficient handling of notifications and more. All these proposals have been rejected, Minister. Only today, you had the chance in the Education Committee to say yes to securing the resource schools and funding in the long term, but you said no. Madam President, I would like If the Social Democrats thought that there was a problem with what the Alliance Government decided, they have now had seven years to change it. Not a single concrete proposal has been put forward in this House. I think it is the Social Democrats who are responsible for the fact that the current situation in Swedish schools continues to go in the wrong direction day after day.
i-UwjR3ucVavAdPt4JuewSdx	Madam President, I would like It is not only that the Social Democrats bear the main responsibility for the fact that it looks like it does. In addition, they act late. In May 2021, a national plan for safety and education at school was presented, including increased competences for school staff and facilitating temporary relocation and suspension of pupils. All of this could have been a reality today if we had the power to decide. The problem is that the proposal is not enough. I mean, we have to settle with the flum school. The school's main mission is to convey knowledge, nothing else. For this to be possible, the school must of course be a safe place of work for both students and teachers, characterized by respect and order. The school needs a government headship. With clear national guidelines, we show students and parents what they can require of the school, but we also give the staff of the school increased powers so that they know what they have the right to do but also what they should do when problems arise. Students who do not work in the school situation should be moved. They're being moved to on-call classes. That should be the rule, not the exception. Students who present a serious danger shall be suspended and given special education in state duty schools. The measures at the disposal of the school staff to ensure safety and studies shall not be limited in time. Relocation, suspension, detention and return to regular education shall be entirely determined by the student's conduct. The school will be permeated by healthy morals and Swedish values. This is to strengthen community and cohesion. Our freedoms and rights must be protected meticulously. Girls and boys should be treated equally.
i-CajGFXZxoVCaGitd7NPLzo	Madam President, I would like The school must be able to guarantee a good and safe learning environment for its students, and the principals must be able to guarantee a safe and good working environment for their teachers and other staff. It is important that the school acts as soon as someone is subjected to bullying, violations, threats or violence and that the school does not constitute a free zone for crime. The Center Party wants to strengthen the teachers and also the principals in their roles. We expect the national plan for security and study to take steps to strengthen the opportunity for teachers to act, for example to reject pupils who disrupt order in a classroom. From the Center Party we also see a need to tighten the penalties for threats and violence directed at teachers and principals acting within the framework of their national mission. Another important part of creating security and study is to invest in health promotion and prevention. Students' health is an important area, where before Christmas the Center Party presented a series of reforms to strengthen student health work – including improving knowledge and interacting with other authorities. We want student health to be part of the subject of the Vice-Chancellor's programme and that education in the field should be offered to other staff at the school, such as mentors, assistants and peer supporters. We need, from the political side, to create the conditions for principals to act in order to ensure security and study in schools, and for principals and teachers to be able to act by the School Inspectorate actually acting when this is flawed. Locally, heads need to work from their side to ensure that teachers have a better working environment and students have a safe learning environment. There are many good examples around the country of how to work systematically and learn from the success factors that exist to create a safe school. We need to ensure that it happens at every school in order for all students to have a safe and good school and all teachers to have a good working environment.
i-RVqfwKwDZLK3Hcyv9oAGqV	Madam President, I would like Harassment and discrimination are a major social problem, and some groups are more vulnerable than others. In recent years, the Foundation Friends' surveys have shown that violations linked to ethnicity, i.e. of a racist nature, are the most common basis for harassment of children in both middle and middle school. This year's Friend Report also revealed that developments have not gone in the right direction. Among the pupils who stated that they are victims of middle and middle school violations, the most common harassment is once again linked to the grounds of discrimination ethnicity. Despite this, as well as the fact that research studies from Harvard University, among others, show how racism and its consequences harm children's mental and physical health, many schools still lack concrete tools to consciously work preventively to deal with violations, harassment and unequal treatment based on aphrophobic or other discrimination based on skin colour. This helps to ensure that thousands of children's experiences of racism in schools and preschools in Sweden are not recognised. In the Adult Report, what are they doing? recently developed by Save the Children, children share their experiences of racism and discrimination and how they feel that adults handle it. The report shows that adults working at school need to be given much better skills in terms of what racism is and what they need to do to prevent it. We believe that the Swedish National Agency for Education should be given the task of producing a concrete action plan, and we want the government and Swedish municipalities to do more to combat racism while at the same time combating racists here in Parliament.
i-Jky5JV8io7wVSWVnwACbRP	Madam President, I would like The security of the school is closely linked to the security of the home but also to the authority of teachers and school management to intervene in problems, as we have heard. But the physical environment at school is also important. Are there environments where bullies can act freely without any adult seeing it? Decommissioned premises send signals that school and teaching are not prioritised, littering and vandalism as well. According to the bridge window theory, it must be countered. Students who are helped to correct litter and vandalism learn to take responsibility for their actions. They think twice before spitting snuff or kicking up a trash can next time. Maybe there won't even be one next time. The security of the school is strengthened if there are enough adults around the students. School hosts, caretakers and cleaners are important adults around the students and help to create peace in the corridors, not to mention the pupil care staff with school doctors, school nurse, counselor, psychologist, and special educator. The entire team around the student is needed. We Christian Democrats also want to support cooperation with civil society in school, with, for example, class grandfathers or gold grandmothers and with sports associations that help with rest activities. Security is also linked to the environment outside. In areas with specific challenges, it is difficult to avoid the challenges coming into school. Therefore, we want a named school police officer at every school in the preventive work, someone who regularly attends and gets to know the students and who prevents them from getting involved in the wrong kind of activities by being recognized by the police. I would like to conclude with an African proverb: a whole village is needed to raise a child. Cooperation is needed in order to provide our young people with the best possible opportunities to learn for life.
i-6GabgvwVg5wX6HGRvQArn5	Madam President, I would like I disagree with the KD on their family policy, but when Gudrun Brunegård spoke in his first speech about parental-school alliances, I could only agree. It is central to managing and overcoming incidents involving violence and threats and to ensuring that this is not repeated. But Gudrun Brunegård's proposal for solutions does not achieve this – not in today's marketing school. When parents increasingly start to view themselves as customers in a market and think that students are always right, that alliance is broken. We need to restore it. We must ensure that school is not a market and that no parent or student sees himself as a customer and imagines that one is always right.
i-PvBfSmB5FsW8mPYY9aCNwC	Madam President, I would like This is a very important aspect of the whole. I do not believe that a contract of responsibility, as the Christian Democrats want, must be written down and signed formally and physically. However, a clear description of what is actually the school's mission, what is the parents' mission and what is the student's own responsibility would facilitate such discussions and ambiguities. The mission for each school is the same, regardless of which school you go to. Of course, each parent has the right to choose a school, and that is what we mean by continuing to have. But the mission for every school is the same, and you shouldn't be able to play out like that. If the regulations are similar everywhere, it doesn't matter what type of school the student attends.
i-ESR9T8KUqneXszZLmh4rRC	Madam President, I would like Today, however, the change of school is used by parents who do not think it is a problem for their children to behave badly or perhaps violently or who want to avoid follow-up to social services when a school reports concerns or starts talking about it. The functioning of the current market is a major problem and it is in the economic interest of some operators that it continues to be so. Before the market came into the school area, there was no need to talk about contracts between parents and school, but it was implicit. I would like to end by telling you about when I first contacted the preschool headman about a serious violation that my child had been subjected to. Then the local authority asked me if I wanted help changing preschools. I think it has gone too far; changing schools cannot be the solution to violations, threats and violence in classrooms. We have to get back – away from the market logic.
i-D9PBvGxdCGFdQ2orsjiuJK	Madam President, I would like I fully agree that violations, threats, violence and blackmail do not belong in school. Each school has a duty to protect the human dignity and freedom of every student from violations and a good and safe study environment. Annika Hirvonen and I are on the same side; it is obvious that this must be the first priority in order to provide the safe environment for learning that every child has a right to.
i-F4vH1VGZR7kaQkuCkwBjQg	Madam President, I would like Liberals asked for this debate on lack of education and security at school because the teaching profession is the most important profession we have in society. It pains many of us school politicians when teachers do not feel security, trust, trust and support from society. It pains us when regulations set the hook, when school authorities persecute teachers through claims for damages and when the principals do not give them the right conditions and resources. We also see that the number of notifications to the Swedish Work Environment Authority has doubled. These figures are a few years old, Madam President. The Liberals therefore demand that the Government give the Swedish Work Environment Authority a new assignment. The latest is from 2016, and the development is going in the wrong direction. The contacts we have at the Swedish Work Environment Agency say that threats and violence are increasing. Physical violence is increasing in school, and we see no sign that this would not increase the problem. We believe that the Education Act needs to be clarified in Chapter 5 as far as powers are concerned. We have been calling for this – immediately and repeatedly – since 2019. I would also like to refer to Chapter 6 on violations and the concept of violation. The fact that a student feels that it has been violated by an adult intervention at school does not necessarily mean that the student has actually been violated. Teachers must feel secure, trust and trust in the school law and regulations. We also have a society – adults, parents, guardians and others – that looks up to the teaching profession. If we had not had 40 000 who had left the profession – and one teacher in five says that it is considering leaving the teaching profession precisely because of threats and violence – we would have had no shortage of teachers. In addition to studies, the most important thing is the availability of qualified and trained teachers.
i-EsncKqqTQXWmLpTjG1cetn	Madam President, I would like I think sometimes it's hard to be a comedian in this country when Roger Haddad is in the speaker's chair talking about these issues. Liberals rule in half of Sweden's municipalities. Liberals are responsible for the majority of school laws and curriculum changes that have taken place in recent decades. Liberals are one of the parties that is why we have a market experiment in Swedish schools. Students are treated as customers, knowledge and education are seen as a commodity and it is not all children's right to know but a few shareholders' profits that are given priority. At the same time, Roger Haddad is talking about safety in school. What security have the Liberals contributed to the Swedish school? All that Roger Haddad is criticising right now are things for which he himself has been responsible.
i-3NCSm6TTd3CEph6yZwcmqL	Madam President, I would like I and my party were involved and contributed to the fact that, for the first time, the 2010 legislation imposed the same requirements on municipal schools as on independent schools. Not least, we contributed to the chapter on special support and extra support in the form of adaptations for those students who need it. However, this is not what this debate is about. This debate concerns the fact that we have 40 000 teachers who have left the profession, that complaints to the Swedish Work Environment Agency about threats and violence have doubled and that six out of ten teachers refrain from intervening against disorder of order for fear of being reported, including to a function that the Left Party still supports, namely the Children's and Student Representative. Incidentally, Madam President, the Left Party has voted against many of the other tightening ups that we have pushed for and wanted to see for many years in terms of relocation and suspension.
i-EeeJsZUcZdoyv2fZpwKNBe	Madam President, I would like The same teacher Roger Haddad is talking about asking in the municipality after the municipality of Liberals to stop cutting down on school. The same school staff who see insecurity and feel it every day at their workplace want to get the Liberals out of power as soon as possible so that there will once again be efforts at school instead of cuts. They want to remove the Liberals so that we can abolish the market logic that creates insecurity in the Swedish school. What the Liberals – unfortunately together with the government – are presenting in response are mobile bans and a series of other pointless legislative changes that will not lead to any security. The possibility of a mobile ban in the country's schools already exists. What we can see is that the Liberals are the reason why this debate needs to exist. At the same time, the Liberals are those who have taken the initiative to discuss the problems that they themselves have created in this country.
i-VMAsimVDVqBjeXGssyh66E	Madam President, I would like If the Left Party Communists had had less influence in this House, we would not have had this school lottery, which you contributed to in 1989 when the Swedish school system, Daniel Riazat, was communiquéd. On the contrary, the Liberals want government leadership, so that the state takes full responsibility for monitoring, financing, employer responsibility and more to address the major differences that we see in the country. Do not negligrate and fail the picture of problems that we see! This is reality, Daniel Riazat and the Left Party. One in five teachers is considering quitting their position as teachers because of threats and violence at school. Every other teacher has been subjected to different types of violence and threats, according to the Teacher Association's survey from last autumn. I'm sorry you don't take this any more seriously.
i-4dvRniYigwErUCcYUiWXG8	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking Roger Haddad for the initiative for a debate on an important issue, namely safety and education at school. But I am appalled, Madam President, that one of the Liberals' most important solutions to students and teachers being subjected to threats and violence at school is to abolish the body that stands up for children who are subjected to bullying, violence and harassment at school. The representative of children and pupils represents children who are exposed to what we all agree together that no one should be exposed to at school. We in the Green Party want to defend children's rights. To weaken children's right to redress in bullying is not a solution to threats and violence at school.
i-28VwdjNzyvr9M2PnoQUxCw	Madam President, I would like This debate is not at all about bullying at school. It deals with such things as six out of ten teachers refraining from intervening in disorder. It's about threats and violence. Students who interfere with teaching have no consequence. The school inspectorate asks the students: Do you think you should have a consequence when you violate your own local regulations? Then the answer is: Yes, absolutely! Why, then, is the order not maintained, Annika Hirvonen of the Green Party? Because the adults don't dare intervene. This is because of an unclear regulatory framework and the function of the Children's and Student's representative. We don't need double sets. We have a school team. So far, we have municipal heads. We have local school boards. We have the Swedish School Inspectorate, who will review and criticise those free schools and municipalities that do not comply with the legislation and do not work preventively.
i-BTs8sosncoy6HckBBDksy4	Madam President, I would like We have in the Children's and Student's Ombudsman an authority that stands up for the individual child's right never to be subjected to violence, threats, bullying or other violations in school. That's the authority the Liberals want to remove. You want to remove the body representing children's and pupils' rights. I and the Green Party want to clarify the rules. We want to ensure that teachers are never worried about intervening in order to prevent violence, harassment and threats to, for example, the students. The solution is clearer regulations and strengthened mandates. The solution is not to weaken children's and students' rights.
i-2ZbhZV7LPkv3rKhETbTLed	Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, to conclude this debate, I have to say that, because of the Social Democrats and the Green Party, we will never get rid of the Children's and Student's Representative and the dysfunctional authorities we have in Sweden. It is precisely the functions that Statskontoret failed as late as winter 2021. They were said to contribute to increased administration. The municipalities, the principals, don't understand what the Children's and Student's representative says. It has no connection to reality. According to the general debate, it has become an agent for the troublemakers. I want a school inspection that takes the students' side and chases municipalities that don't deal with bullying and harassment. But we must also, Madam President, have a regulatory framework that gives teachers authority and powers so that they can contribute to security and study. It is the students who most need the school that are affected.
i-K7j664E6Mr7TnhggKQkSm4	Madam President, I would like In presenting the report that gave rise to today's debate, the Federation of Teachers also called for us politicians to take measures that can really bring about change and overcome threats and violence at school. They require the government to take over primary responsibility for school funding and to provide the funds needed to provide security and study opportunities for both teachers and students. They require that pupils in need of support receive it and that the principals ensure that all schools have access to special teachers, special educators, school curators, school psychologists and other important competences. They also require that the proposal presented by the investigator, the environmental-partisan municipal councillor Linda Eskilsson, be implemented. The proposals include more qualified teachers, smaller group sizes and suitable premises. I would like to inform you that we in the Green Party agree with the demand for increased state responsibility for the equal funding of the school, that we will continue to work to ensure that there are special teachers, special educators, school curators and school psychologists for all pupils in our country and that we continue to work to strengthen leisure homes. We know that resources matter. It's terribly expensive when it's saved at school. The price ultimately pays the students, who do not receive the education to which they are entitled. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to thank all teachers who go to work every day to give each student the opportunity to reach their potential.
i-QivaPhUEiSAT43ApXknVds	Madam President, I would like Annika Hirvonen also refers to the Teacher Association's demands and suggestions for solutions, which I read out earlier. I find it very interesting what the profession thinks. It must be relevant for us in this room to know what you need to do to get the school in order. At Moderate School, all children will succeed. We are not going to leave a quarter of the students behind us, as the Social Democrats with the influence of the Green Party have been doing for over seven and a half years. The Teacher Association's proposal is largely in line with that of the Moderates. They also want to review and tighten up various school laws to strengthen teachers and principals. They want all schools to have plans against violations. They want more legal certainty and more effective handling of complaints – what Roger Haddad has spoken so excellently about in the past. Proposal after proposal is exactly in line with what we moderated time and again proposed. Why has the Green Party turned it down?
i-Mjum4WKpz7CC5HibSgWxWJ	Madam President, I would like We have worked on several of these proposals, and they will also be presented in the national plan for security and study negotiated by the Green Party, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Social Democrats, which the Minister for Education has promised to put on the table of Parliament. If the Moderates are serious about each child being able to reach its full potential in accordance with the School Act, it does not go together with a single crown being distributed in profits in tax havens abroad. It does not match the school segregation that some school companies earn money from. We need to stop at the school market. Market logic destroys. Market logic leads some parents and students to believe that they are customers who are always right and in the worst case practice threats and violence.
i-RnC7UM6QJDnBLxoTcSzFWQ	Madam President, I would like It is interesting and revealing that both the Minister and Annika Hirvonen choose to talk about systems and organisation. But that's not what we Moderates care about when we talk about school, but we care about every student. We're concerned about the students. We want the students to succeed. We want talented and committed teachers and principals who stay in school. The Social Democrats and the Green Party have not come up with a single concrete proposal of seven and a half years for more children to pass school and more teachers to stay. Instead they talk about systems and organization. That's not a solution. We Moderates like to talk about it too, but that's not the school's problem. The school's problem is that it is becoming chaotic in class and that a quarter of the children have stomach pain when they come to school because they never or rarely feel safe. Then they can't learn anything. We Moderates want to talk about this, not the organization.
i-Tt7Va8LcW2pi7N1r9YMdoc	Madam President, I would like This dishonesty in Swedish debate and in this change of line concerns me. Kristina Axén Olin! How will your cutbacks on equivalence provide better order in the classrooms? How are fewer colleagues at school going to make more children see and have their needs met? How does the dividend contribute to order and order in the classroom? Today, the systems do not satisfy every child's right to complete school. It is the fault of the systems, and we politicians are responsible for remedying these shortcomings.
i-42cvEZVtzgdVfbMk2gasUH	Madam President, I would like I want to be remembered as the one who gave more money to more colleagues, more time in the classrooms and smaller classes. I also want to give clear powers in law and opportunities for teachers and principals to take action. I want to provide clarifications in the curriculum so that everyone knows what to be able to do, which is a good prerequisite for creating calm. I would like to see clearer national follow-up and frequent local follow-up with clear efforts. I want zero tolerance for mess and disorder in classrooms and corridors, but also order and order in the school market. The money's going to go to the students. We're going to reduce segregation. We must take back democratic control of the school. We're responsible for it, so we can't just let it go. I will end with the question: why did we sell the teachers in the school market?
i-Xjkddr3x1rQPAQ4tHRMBy5	Madam President, I would like Mr Wallmark has asked me why I have not acted to introduce a NATO option into Sweden's security policy line. Mr Wallmark has also asked whether I intend to accommodate Parliament and act in favour of introducing a NATO option into the security policy line in the future. Sweden's security policy line should be long-term, predictable and characterised by continuity. Sweden has therefore so far taken a broad consensus on security policy decisions. It has been a strength for our country and an asset in relation to our world around us. As the government has pointed out, a Swedish NATO membership is out of the question. Our military freedom of alliance serves us well and contributes to stability and security in northern Europe. Nor is a NATO option a prerequisite for applying for membership of NATO. Sweden is a sovereign state and therefore always has the opportunity to apply for membership of NATO, with or without an option. Our solidarity policy is based on our cooperation with others. The Government will continue to develop cooperation with NATO within the framework of the Partnership, in line with the orientation of the Global Defence Bill. Sweden's status as e nhanced o pportunities p artner enables a continued tailor-made partnership with a focus on political dialogue, information exchange and exercises. Our security policy line should be consistent and predictable in relation to our environment. There is no point in any sharp caste in Swedish security policy. We are not leaving the military freedom of alliance.
i-NFqdSBLf6q77fQMNckiYe2	Madam President, I would like I think there are many of us who agree that we are currently seeing perhaps the greatest threat to the European security regime in decades. The Foreign Minister and I have sometimes argued about exactly where to set the limit, the 60s, 70s or 80s, but it does not matter, because it is by far the greatest threat to the European security regime in the near future and modern times. It is a different Europe today than it was 15 years ago. It is a different Europe today than it was 15 months ago. Unfortunately, it is also a different Europe from just 15 days ago. The world is changing, and it requires that we also relate to reality. It is probably also a reason why TV4 could show some day ago that 66 percent of Swedes are in favour of a so-called NATO option. There is a majority in favour of this in all parties except the Left Party and the Green Party. These 66% also have representatives from the five parties in the Riksdag who are behind the NATO option statement. These five parties have 205 seats in the Riksdag – against the government's 100 seats. I also believe that many Swedes have noted that other countries have been clear with and not least Secretary General Stoltenberg and President Biden: Article 5 does not apply to Ukraine. With the threat picture that exists from the Russian side against Ukraine, the Swedish people understand that if you are outside NATO, you cannot count on support and help. You can hope, you can pray and you can wish, but you can't know. This has been replicated by others – that there is a difference between being a member of NATO and not being a member of NATO. Ukraine is not, and Sweden is not. In that situation, when the world changes, one should think about when the Social Democrats will change. A NATO option is about a clear signal inward and outward that strengthens Sweden's security in contrast to the line taken by the current government, where Swedish NATO membership is directly excluded regardless of how the security situation develops. For us, it is a matter of marking that there is another tool in the safety policy toolbox. In recent days, many of us have quoted Finnish politicians. Prime Minister Sanna Marin, Social Democrats, said on 1 January that Finland retains the opportunity to apply for NATO membership and that they have reason to safeguard that freedom of choice and to see it as real because it is a matter of each country's right to decide on its own security solutions. President Niinistö said in his New Year's speech a few weeks ago: NATO is pursuing a so-called open house policy, and it has been repeatedly confirmed to Finland in public. ..................................................... I think that Finnish politicians have been clearer, more honest and clearer about the fact that this security policy tool is in the toolbox. What does it sound like from the Swedish side, Madam President? The Minister for Foreign Affairs says that the NATO option basically means nothing, and Prime Minister Magdalena Andersson said in his Government Declaration on 30 November 2021 that Sweden should not apply for membership of NATO. There is an enormous contrast between how Finnish politicians express themselves and how Swedish politicians from the Social Democratic Party do so. Therefore, my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is: how does she feel about 205 seats in the Swedish Parliament supporting the idea of a NATO option? It is a fairly clear parliamentary majority.
i-Fa9s2bbHTbb4Nf3Lpov5fU	Madam President, I would like Let us begin where I think we agree, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and where we make the same assessment. Firstly, it is Sweden and the 30 allies within NATO who decide whether Sweden should become a member, no other country. That's where I think we're on the same page. Secondly, we can, of course, become members of NATO regardless of whether we have an explicit NATO option or not in our security policy line. It's simple and clear. But, Madam President, the whole point of a security policy line is what signals we want to send to our world. There are therefore two different options here. On the one hand, there is the Finnish model, which clearly states that it keeps the door open for a future Finnish NATO membership, and on the other there is the government's line where the door to a Swedish NATO membership is closed. Madam President, I would like There are things you cannot do if you have a NATO option. One cannot, for example, express himself as Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist did during the S-Congress, where he said that he will never contribute to a Swedish NATO membership, or as he said in DN, that Sweden should not become a member of NATO either now or in the future. Nor is it possible to express itself as it stands on the government's security policy line, that Sweden should not become a member of NATO, point. Madam President, I would like Now that Russia wants to close the door to Swedish NATO membership by putting forward proposals for legally binding agreements that would hinder our freedom of security policy action, it is of course particularly clear that we should make a strong mark against the Russian line. That is why the issue of a Swedish NATO option has never been as topical as it is today. This is also why President Niinistö has stressed the importance of the Finnish NATO option a number of times in recent months. It is simply a good vaccine against the Russian political and military pressure that we are now experiencing. Madam President, I would like I think it is important that Sweden and Finland go hand in hand on this issue. We are now deepening our defence policy cooperation. If we are to have the ability to operate beyond peacetime, it is reasonable that we have a similar wording on how we relate to NATO membership. The Minister for Foreign Affairs says that Swedish security policy has been formulated in broad political consensus. I wish this were true of the government's actions. The problem is that the government, when it presented its government declaration on 3 October 2014, came up with its own security policy line that was not anchored either in the Defence Committee or among the parliamentary parties. This, Madam President, was a violation of Swedish practice when it comes to anchoring the security policy line. The Alliance had a common security policy line that we negotiated in the Defence Committee. The government Göran Persson had a common security policy line that he negotiated with opposition parties, but the government chose to run solo games. In conclusion, I note that when the Minister for Foreign Affairs made his announcement, the Parliament said that it was a clearly negative event for Sweden's security. I asked myself a lot of questions about that. But if the Minister for Foreign Affairs thought it was a negative event for Sweden's security, why did they not invite them to take part in security policy deliberations? For a year we have appealed to the government to invite us so that we can sit down and discuss whether that is something we can agree on, but the government has continuously chosen not to pick up that dialogue. That is why we are in a position where there is no consensus. It is for the government to invite the opposition parties of the Riksdag to find a broad consensus on the matter.
i-G6q3JnFvpMkdSCW1JG9hsK	Madam President, I would like Sweden's policy on security has remained in place for a very long time. Our military freedom of alliance has served us well and contributed to stability and security in northern Europe. It requires an active, broad and responsible foreign and security policy combined with enhanced defence cooperation that creates credible national defence capabilities. In December 2020, the Swedish Parliament voted for a so-called NATO option after the Swedish Democrats suddenly turned the issue. It went in a week. After the Defence Committee had been in office for three years, the Riksdag turned, and then we received an announcement to the government about a NATO option. But the Swedish Democrats still say no to membership, while all other bourgeois parties are in favour. The decision therefore rests on a very shaky and, in this context, very unfortunate basis. Despite several years of work in the Defence Committee, where all eight parties were present, the issue of a NATO option was not included. We in the Left Party have distanced ourselves from the rapid reversal, which creates the problem that we are sitting on now. When things get shaky in our surrounding world, it also gets shaky when you don't have a clear and clear security policy line. The courage of the Moderates for NATO has created increased uncertainty in an unstable situation. I think this is bad and serious. The Left Party believes that Sweden's security policy line should be established and that Sweden should not join NATO or adopt a NATO option. There is also a lack of popular support for such an approach. One can look for various studies that set criteria for perhaps keeping open if the situation deteriorates and so on. Yes, people are worried, because we are in a shaky political situation. But that is not the same as going forward with wanting to join NATO. It is much better that Sweden takes time, thinks long and well about what our security policy line is, talks about this between the parties and then together decides how to go. But here NATO takes over with the Moderates, and that is what makes us feel this imprecise. I would therefore like to give my clear support to the line set out by the Foreign Minister, which makes it clear that Sweden does not appear to be an unofficial member of the NATO nuclear alliance. There should be no confusion as to whether we are in NATO or not. Sweden is not in. It benefits our security and has also made us have had two hundred years of peace. Do not touch it even more now, the Moderates, by trying to claim that there is a popular majority for something you have burned for decades. It doesn't. The Swedes want peace. The Swedes are a peaceful people. We therefore do not want Russia to attack Ukraine or any other state in its vicinity, including Sweden. This is a line that should be fixed.
i-UStBHZetKR9SuG3pNqXqD6	Madam President, I would like The Government's security and defence policy aims to create security in Sweden and stability and long-term peace in Europe and in our surrounding world. Our policy must be clear and predictable, protect Swedish sovereignty and integrity, uphold international law, the principles of the rule of law and human rights, stand up for democratic values and counter authoritarian approaches. The military alliance freedom gives Sweden the freedom to act in any given situation in the way that best benefits from tension and peaceful development and secures Sweden's independence in foreign policy. The Swedish security policy line is well known and respected in our surrounding world. We are safeguarding the European security regime. Through diplomacy, dialogue and cooperation directly with other countries within the framework of the UN, the EU, the OSSE, NATO and other organisations, we are prepared to contribute to and try to resolve conflicts and tensions. The freedom of military alliance forms the basis of our defence and security cooperation and with organisations such as NATO. With our closest partner Finland, we have developed joint operational planning in peace, crisis and conflict. The countries around the Baltic Sea and the Nordic region have different positions but are inevitably part of a security policy context where each country's history and security policy balances are part of a whole. Since 2014, a functioning security network has been built in our neighbourhood. It is constantly evolving and will gradually deepen over the coming years. In practice, building predictability means that a well-thought-out policy line applies over time and is not upset by a sharp throw. With an anchored parliamentary decision in the back, the government has developed a security policy line that is adapted to today's reality. Finally, regarding the announcement that Wallmark and Jonson are talking about, I can comment that the Parliament letter has been sent to the Ministry for Foreign Affairs and that the announcement will be handled according to the procedures in force in the Government Office. When it comes to how Finland behaves, unlike Wallmark, I do not need to read in newspapers what they say, but I, the Minister for Defence and the Prime Minister, constantly meet with our counterparts. This was the last time yesterday when I and my Finnish colleague spent almost 24 hours together with the EU Foreign Ministers and with Jens Stoltenberg at a formal meeting with NATO. I note that Finland does not want any rapid roll in its security policy line, just as we do not want any quick roll in our security policy line. We are completely safe with what we have chosen, both Finland and Sweden.
i-RtqoSox7NyKZDQv3smbwdH	Madam President, I would like The Minister for Foreign Affairs says in his reply and repeats it as well: ..................................................... Then the Foreign Minister is helped by the Left, which repeats what the Foreign Minister says: our military freedom of alliance serves us well and contributes to stability and security in northern Europe. ..................................................... Exactly when, according to the Left Party and the Social Democrats as sowed comrades, was this formulation taken in broad agreement or after consultation and preparation? You repeat from the left-hand side wordings and say that this is what applies. But when has this been taken in broad agreement? At the same time, it is somewhat denied that 205 members of the Swedish Parliament are behind an announcement of a Swedish NATO option against 144 members on the left side. Where is the democratic legitimacy? You can ask the Left. I can add that some day ago TV4 presented an opinion poll showing that 66% of the Swedish people support the idea of a NATO option. Madam President, I would like The Left Party says: Here these 205 members from five parliamentary parties make a decision on a NATO option. This should be discussed. Madam President, I would like Exactly this has been pointed out by the five parties – the Moderates, the Center Party, the Christian Democrats, the Liberals and the Swedish Democrats – since the decision was taken 13-14 months ago. But then invite to a national dialogue and discussion on the security policy line which, unlike the previous home-cooked one quoted by the Left and Social Democrats, could be something that is developed in consultation and preparation and where there is broad consensus. That is exactly what has been said, that is exactly what has been rejected and that is precisely why this interpellation has been aroused. Still, there has been no left-hand response on how to conduct this conversation. You on the left are ignoring a compact majority of 205 seats from five parliamentary parties. Madam President, I would like Nor is this something that only I now discover in this House. It is something that Ewa Stenberg at Dagens Nyheter wrote about some day ago. There are two security policies in Sweden, one represented by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Government and one represented by the Riksdag. I think the government would do well to try to reach a broad consensus. I've been thinking that for 14 months. However, if the idea of having a conversation is constantly rejected, it is difficult, Madam President, to have a conversation. I would also like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs a question. When does reality change so much that the government could express itself in the way it does in Finland? When will we hear Prime Magdalena Andersson or Minister for Foreign Affairs Ann Linde say: We also retain the opportunity to apply for NATO membership. We have reason to safeguard this freedom of choice and see it as real. It is the right of each country to decide on its own security solutions. It is good that Minister for Foreign Affairs Ann Linde speaks to Finnish colleagues. She even has 24 hours to do it. It would be even better if she could repeat what is said in Finland from the Swedish Parliament's pulpit.
i-Bg3T7EvvGupA6f1T4CNGgs	Madam President, I would like The fact that the Left Party does not support a NATO option is perhaps not surprising if you look at the policy of the Left Party. The Left Party does not want to deepen cooperation with NATO, on the contrary. It does not want the EU to cooperate militarily, and it even wants to interrupt the military cooperation of the Nordic countries. You just want to focus on the Swedish-Finnish defence cooperation. For example, it has been critical that Sweden, Norway and Finland should coordinate defence planning with NATO and so on. It is therefore perhaps not so surprising that Håkan Svenneling does not support this. The problem for the Left Party is that it is the party in the Swedish parliament that wants to spend the least money on the defence. Nevertheless, I must return to the question to the government. If the government now considers that it is a serious security policy event of a negative nature that the parliament is issuing a NATO option, why do they not take initiatives? Why are we not invited to discuss security policy matters? There are many things we would need to talk about. We would need to talk about it, about how Brexit has affected the security policy line and about how Swedish-Finnish defence cooperation affects the security policy line. It is dialogue that one needs, not putting one's head in the sand that I regret to feel that the government has been doing during this time since Parliament's announcement. In fact, it is twice that Parliament has very strongly marked the government's security policy line, partly with the NATO option in December 2020 and partly with the announcement to the government in the spring thereafter. Of course, it is the government that formulates the security policy line, but the practice is to anchor it with the parties of the Riksdag. We reach out to the government and say: Let's sit down and have a talk about the security policy line! Unfortunately, the government has given us a cold hand.
i-RKgS7e2qeCQa3VGsMGv8A5	Madam President, I would like Everyone knows that SD changed the line to appease the Moderates, to get a new playmate and that its own voter base of old Moderate voters was much more NATO positive than the party was. I would say that is the main explanation that SD changed its feet. The fact that it was not able to handle it and quickly ensured that it became a parliamentary majority for this – in one week, without any direct talks, any dialogue or any discussion about what it means for Sweden's security policy line – is a responsibility that rests on the Moderates. Now the Moderates want talks, even though the Defense Committee was in talks for over three years and discussed what we could have. So we want talks now, when Europe and the world are in a major security policy crisis. This is not the time to change the security policy line. I think it's great that the government has invited talks and dialogue with the parties in Parliament, because this is where we should have a collection at the pump. This is where we must stand by the line of security policy and be clear to the world around us. This isn't the time to change the line. I think it is particularly clear that one should not make it an election year. It has been very obvious in all the talks that have taken place that the Moderates have entered the election year position – they hope to take power, and therefore they are much less willing to compromise, hold talks and think about what is best for Sweden. There is also a myth in the moderate narrative, namely that Sweden would be safer if we joined NATO. NATO is a nuclear alliance and the largest block of military material possession. NATO has also been the driving force in creating several wars around our world in recent decades. Sweden has been safe for two hundred years because we have been militaryly non-aligned. That is why the security policy line should remain firm – today, tomorrow and for a long time to come.
i-2rwxejo7hdvRYKJxJCgyyr	Madam President, I would like Pål Jonson asked what I meant by broad consensus. I meant, for example, the defence decision in 2020. It is also quite clear that Pål Jonson knows that it is the government that decides on the security policy line, and we feel that we have a good dialogue with Parliament in this – I have a whole list of occasions when we have discussed with, consulted and informed the government. As everyone knows, the Prime Minister has also called for party leaders' talks tomorrow. In the context of the Moderates' speeches, it sounds as if the government is not working closely with NATO – or even formally cooperating with NATO. But the fact is that the partnership with NATO is an important part of Swedish security and defence policy. This cooperation has been deepened since 2014 within the framework of our status as an e nhanced o pportunities p artner, and it is the Government's focus that Sweden should continue to develop cooperation with NATO within the framework of that partnership. Sweden and NATO have extensive and well-developed cooperation within the framework of the partnership, and we share views on the security situation in both our neighbourhood and other parts of the world. In the light of Russia's actions to the government, there is an ongoing dialogue with NATO and NATO allies. We are discussing NATO's handling of the situation and the reaction to the Russian draft agreements. Yesterday, as I said, Mr Haavisto and I met with the Secretary-General of NATO for discussions on the Russian draft agreements and the European security regime. I can only note that the NATO Secretary-General repeatedly in the media, and of course also for us, underlined that we are the main partners and that cooperation is important also for NATO. So it is not as it sometimes sounds to the Moderates, namely that it would be something that is only useful to us– quite the opposite. Last October I was also able to welcome NATO's highest decision-making body, the North Atlantic Council, and NATO's Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg to Sweden when they made a joint visit to Sweden and Finland. This manifested our partnership and further deepened our important security policy dialogue, and I am pleased that this could happen. It shows that the line we have taken – military alliance freedom, strong defence and close cooperation with NATO and others – is a line that is safe and that keeps Sweden out of war. This also means that NATO cooperation contributes to the development of Swedish military and civil defence within the framework of total defence. This applies both to the ability to carry out operations both within and outside our immediate vicinity as well as to enable Sweden to participate in international crisis management operations within the framework of this partnership. We take the latest situation very, very seriously. It is Russia that has increased its confrontative rhetoric. It is Russia that has increased military activities against Ukraine. It is not acceptable for Russia to claim a veto on any country's security policy. Our own freedom of choice is self-evident; we do not need any kind of NATO option – for which no one understands how it is codified – for. It is of the utmost importance that we can show the Swedish people and the outside world that Sweden's security policy is solid, long-term and reliable. I think the Swedish people expect this from us.
i-P5HrqTGmhRqFuX1qn5kHXy	Madam President, I would like Perhaps a call should be made to the Foreign Minister: listen to the counter-debaters instead of reading inside in a script that has already been written! Then she would have found angles to follow up. On the moderate side, we do not criticise the partnership and enhanced cooperation with NATO at all; on the contrary, we think it is a good thing. But there is, of course, an essential difference between partnership and membership, Madam President, and that is what the whole of the left is trying to duck for. What is the basis of membership is a common defence planning and Article 5 on collective security guarantees. That is what Sweden lacks, and that is what Ukraine lacks. That is what Georgia lacks. The Left is trying to give its support to the Foreign Minister by saying that it is a myth that this would lead to greater security. I think that the Left and the Social Democrats should put the question to Lithuania, Estonia and Latvia, because it is clear that these countries perceive that they have been given greater security thanks to NATO membership. And, Madam President, we have also gained greater security thanks to the membership of these countries. Madam President, I would like The Foreign Minister read from his completed note that you have a whole list of meetings where you have informed. What we have said since the Parliament's decision in December 2020, with a yes from five parliamentary parties and 205 seats against 144, is: Let us have a discussion! Invite to call! The left says that we are now in a security policy crisis. Yes, but this could have been done 13 - 14 months ago. Our path leads to increased safety, not increased uncertainty.
i-XFYrjLzoCPvw3wXj9AgX8k	Madam President, I would like I have to say that I am proud that I am preparing interpellation debates by working closely with my talented diplomats on the posts – writing them down and changing them – instead of shooting from the hip as Wallmark does all the time. The government is clear that there is no need for a sharp push in security policy. I must draw the attention of those who listen to this to the fact that the 205 votes that Wallmark is constantly raising at the moment do not have a common line at all on NATO membership, a possible referendum on NATO membership or all the other important things. It's the other way around. You take a safe position, something you know works, and you're ready to throw it at the dump. I don't understand it. It is a strength that there is a broad consensus, as the Defence Committee's decision has shown. We are seeking a broad anchoring of security and defence policy in relation to the Riksdag. Wallmark also said I only said information. I didn't. I said: information, dialogue and discussion. There will also be a meeting with the party leaders tomorrow. In the field of security and defence policy cooperation with many of our neighbours – and it continues to deepen – we point out that it is very valuable that they see us as a reliable partner, a partner that can be trusted. There are no explicit provisions that mean that Sweden's security policy line should be anchored with the parties in the Riksdag. But the government is striving for broad support. In particular, the work of the Defence Committee has shown this.
i-SNBbzMmKwKkmSMsukG43pt	Madam President, I would like Håkan Svenneling has asked me whether I intend to take action against Ethiopia to descalate the growing conflict and whether I intend to take measures, both bilaterally and multilaterally, to reduce the human suffering of Ethiopia's civilian population. Håkan Svenneling has also asked me whether I intend to take steps to break the blockade of northern Ethiopia in order to allow access for independent reporting and humanitarian assistance. The situation in Ethiopia is deeply serious with continued conflict, enormous humanitarian needs and extensive reports of gross violations and violations of human rights and of international humanitarian law. I have spoken on several occasions in the Riksdag about developments in Ethiopia, including in a number of answers to parliamentary questions( 2021/ 22:630, 14; 2020/ 21:3428, 3344, 3050, 2938, 2642, 2513, 2530, 2432, 2458, 1493) and interpellations( 2020/ 21:146, 744). The conflict in Ethiopia has been going on for over a year and undermines both the unity of the country and the stability of the Horn of Africa. The consequences for civilians are devastating. It is clear that the conflict cannot be solved by military means. Sweden has consistently called on the parties to descalation, cease fire and talks to reach a political solution. I have lifted it up with my Ethiopian counterpart Demeke Demeke on several occasions. Former Prime Minister Löfven last spoke to Prime Minister Abiy in November. The messages are also regularly presented to government representatives via our Embassy in Addis Abeba. Perhaps the conditions for talks between the parties have improved somewhat in recent weeks, when the Tigrean forces have withdrawn to Tigray and government troops have paused their advances. The government also released several political prisoners on 7 January, including prominent TPLF members. Sweden and the rest of the EU support the mediation efforts led by the AU High Representative for the Horn of Africa and will continue to work towards an end to the conflict with international partners and countries in the region. Humanitarian needs are enormous in many places in Ethiopia. Almost 10 million people lack enough food in the northern regions. Sweden increased humanitarian aid several times in 2021 in the light of growing needs. In total, humanitarian aid to Ethiopia amounted to approximately SEK 290 million in 2021. For 2022, SEK 260 million has been allocated so far. The conflict is one of the main causes of the major needs, although other factors, such as drought, also play a role. Humanitarian access to conflict areas is severely restricted and humanitarian actors are becoming increasingly difficult to operate. 24 relief workers have been killed since the start of the conflict, making Ethiopia one of the world's most dangerous countries in terms of humanitarian work. This is unacceptable. Sweden constantly calls on all parties to ensure safe and unhindered humanitarian access and to respect international humanitarian law. I am appalled by the data on serious human rights abuses and violations, including the systematic use of sexual and gender-based violence. Sweden has consistently demanded investigations of all data on crime and as the largest donor has supported the investigation carried out by the UN and Ethiopia's Human Rights Commission in Tigray. The report from the investigation concludes that there are reasonable grounds to believe that all parties have committed abuses and violations. According to the report, some of the acts may constitute war crimes and crimes against humanity. Sweden and the rest of the EU have been active in convening a special session of the UN Human Rights Council. It took place on 17 December 2021. On this occasion, a resolution was adopted on the establishment of a new international independent mechanism with a mandate to investigate all abuses and violations committed during the conflict. Sweden will follow this work closely and is ready to take further action to hold those responsible accountable. The widespread hate speech and ethnic harassment that have marked the conflict are very worrying. It deepens the divisions and makes a political solution difficult. It is of the utmost importance that an inclusive and credible national dialogue should be launched as soon as possible, to get to the bottom of the underlying tensions between ethnic and political groups in the country and to achieve long-term and sustainable peace. Sweden continues to offer support for such a process.
i-SPqCEWTck2K5TzTk7xurm5	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for your answer. The conflict in Ethiopia is for many a forgotten conflict in the Horn of Africa. It's been going on for over a year. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs discussed, this interpellation debate is a follow-up to a previous interpellation debate that I and the Minister for Foreign Affairs have had. Some written questions have also been asked by the Left Party since the war began and even before that. The commitment of the EU, Sweden and Finland has been important in putting pressure on the parties, in particular the Ethiopian Government with Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed. We previously had a discussion about the relationship between Sweden and Finland. Here is another example where Sweden and Finland can join forces internationally to contribute to peace and security, not only in our neighbourhood but also in the Horn of Africa. The conflict itself is characterised by a very low level of information and a high level of disinformation from different parties, which makes it difficult for many people to follow what is happening from here in Sweden. Now there are some positive signs of increased reconciliation. It is hoped somewhere that the parties have come to the realization that it is a conflict that cannot be won militarily by any party. The other party will remain regardless of what you think, think and want. The positive signs of reconciliation must take off seriously in 2022 and lead to real reconciliation. The ethnic signs are many. There are, in fact, several ethnic conflicts that are brought together in a conflict. It is important that we talk about Tigray and what is happening there, because there is perhaps the worst humanitarian disaster. But there is unrest, sometimes strife, also with regard to orophosis and the government. Tigray and the Oromo have made a deal, where they are on one side together. On the other side there are the Amharans together with the government, but also the neighbouring country, the dictatorship of Eritrea, which has entered this as a party. They have a historical grudge against the TPLF, which represents the Tigray area. There are reports of sexual violence, which I have touched upon earlier in my talks with the Foreign Minister. And there is a great need for international access to humanitarian aid. But it is a difficult security situation for humanitarian organisations. In practice, it has been a blockade that has prevented supplies reaching millions of civilians. The question is whether the UN cannot play a greater role than it does. The question is whether we cannot try to push for a peace agreement and perhaps even get international presence on the ground to make a difference. There is also a positive sign. It's that America and Joe Biden have finally woken up. Despite the fact that the conflict has been going on for a year, the first telephone call about it has now been made on the part of Mr Biden. On this basis, I wonder whether Ann Linde intends to take any steps to help descalate the conflict in Ethiopia. I imagine that the Foreign Minister has a full calendar of electoral movements and such. But at least she does not have the Presidency of the OSSE in 2022, so perhaps there is a little more time to press a greater commitment to the Horn of Africa and Ethiopia into the Foreign Minister's calendar. She could contribute both bilaterally and multilaterally to reduce human suffering and to enable humanitarian access to Tigray province.
i-TXG2fbSVACAfmRcC5z4wNb	Madam President, I would like Let me start with Håkan Svenneling's final hope, which is also my hope. Three times we have had to cancel a trip to the Horn of Africa that was to be made with the Finnish Foreign Minister. Security issues, covid and other things have made it impossible. It is definitely on my priority list to try to get to such a trip, but as I said, it was not simply. I fully share Håkan Svenneling's concern about the situation in Ethiopia now. We must put an end to the conflict, and then the parties must find a long-term political solution. We are trying to support this in various ways, particularly through, for example, support for the High Representative of the AU, Obasanjo, who works with mediation. It has improved somewhat lately. This is mainly because the Tigrean forces have withdrawn from Amhara and Afar, and the government has announced that their troops do not intend to enter Tigray. Sweden will continue to present our requests to government representatives in Ethiopia for an immediate ceasefire and a political solution to the conflict. Our approach is that although economic and restrictive measures, in addition to dialogue, need to be considered in order to increase the pressure on the parties to the conflict, it must be something we use to stop, above all, violence, which is terrible. At the EU Foreign Ministers' meetings in the autumn, I have expressed my readiness to proceed with restrictive measures against the parties to the conflict. It remains an issue of discussion within the EU. We also welcome the changes that have been made to EU aid. Budgetary support has been frozen and the EU's next seven-year assistance to Ethiopia has been put on ice with reference to the continuing conflict and the lack of humanitarian access. Developments in Ethiopia also affect our bilateral aid, although we do not have development aid directly to the state. We would have decided on a new strategy for development cooperation with Ethiopia already at the end of 2021/22, but because it is so uncertain now we have decided to postpone the decision on the strategy. Meanwhile, we continue to provide assistance through multilateral organisations, civil society and the like. We are also continuing with the fight against poverty as far as possible. We are very active in trying to stop human rights abuses, not least sexual and gender-based violence. It has been reported that all parties to the conflict are guilty of this. We are also trying to use aid efforts to increase gender equality and sexual and reproductive health. In addition, we have stepped up efforts to combat gender-based violence and provide support for survivors, who often have a terrible situation. We demand independent investigations and accountability. The fact that we say that impunity cannot be tolerated is important in order to prevent further abuse and abuse.
i-9NJ8rwDPZaELake2KEHAsK	Madam President, I would like There is no great political conflict between me and the Foreign Minister. Rather, I see it as wanting to be a blowtorch on the Foreign Minister, both to raise the issue so that it comes up on the agenda and to get answers. I would like to stress above all that this is an important Swedish commitment. I welcome what the Minister for Foreign Affairs has to say in his speech. It is important that there is local ownership through the African Union, the AU, and that there is an activity by African politicians to resolve the conflict. Ethiopia is an ancient kingdom that has played a major role in the development of this part of Africa. If the conflict lasts for a long time, the effects of such a conflict will spread in other parts of the Horn of Africa where the situation is already very difficult. We know that the situation in Sudan and Somalia, for example, is not very good at the moment. However, this does not mean that we cannot support and help in the processes by making demands and expectations and pointing out humanitarian needs. It is therefore a good thing that sanctions are included in this. I also hope that the European Union will get ready to use the sanctions instrument if necessary. At the moment, I do not think that we are in a position to use sanctions, but they may be needed as a pressure. It is before sanctions are imposed that they may be most effective. It is a good thing that, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs says, EU aid has been frozen and that Swedish bilateral aid is thinking about the strategy and the modalities of this. It is good to focus on women's rights. If it is somewhere that feminist foreign policy can really do much good, it is in conflicts and situations like this. We also know that a great deal of human rights violations have taken place. There are reports of mass executions and mass graves. These are crimes that really need to be investigated. The difficulty is that the longer it has been since the crime was committed, the harder it is to investigate it. That's why you need to get in place quickly now and do it. At the same time, the security situation is not good enough to be able to do this everywhere. Here, there is pressure from the outside world for the crimes to be investigated and those responsible to be held accountable for the absence of impunity. The basis of the conflict is much about what has characterized Ethiopia's political life for a long time, that is, how strong the federal state should be and what autonomous regions and individual communities should have in Ethiopia. How Ethiopia is to be governed exactly is not something you solve overnight. If you can hope something for 2022, it is that a peace process can start and that you then discuss the difficult questions about the ethnic perspective that exists in the political lines in Ethiopia. Here, as a Swedish person, you need to change the idea of the different dividing lines and understand that they have more of ethnic presigns than party political ones, even if there are parties in this context. I believe that it is important to find forms where there are opportunities for self-governing regions to operate, but at the same time the federal state must be at hand and contribute to positive development. However, it is not for me to determine Ethiopia's future and exactly how this is to be done, but this is a very important component in order to have a long-term and sustainable situation in Ethiopia and in the Horn of Africa at large.
i-XoJadAm7De9WBA8sEa6F64	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by answering two of the questions that Håkan Svenneling asked about the sanctions. We are discussing this very much in the European Union. There is always a discussion where it is said that now that things are going a little better, it is perhaps not an incentive to continue with sanctions. From the Swedish side we have said that it is very important to go further or at least look at proposals. Our view is that only the threats of sanctions are an important signal to the parties, and that is why we think that we should continue to discuss very clearly the possibility of imposing sanctions. Håkan Svenneling says that accountability is important, which is quite right. I also said that in my last speech. We are the largest donor to the investigation carried out in Tigray by both the UN and the Ethiopia Human Rights Commission. Several different investigations are needed to identify all the crimes committed, including those committed outside Tigray. Here, Sweden and other EU countries have pushed through a resolution in the UN Security Council to set up an international independent commission to investigate and gather evidence that can then be used to demand responsibility. It was adopted on 17 December. We will follow the work of the Commission and continue to support efforts for accountability. Then I would also like to raise the issue of the humanitarian situation that we see in many places. It's in the regions of Amhara, Afar and Tigray. Here, humanitarian access for the parties has been restricted. That is one of the most important things. I myself have mentioned this several times with the Minister for Foreign Affairs. It's been very problematic. There are very few deliveries that arrive. That's a fraction of what's needed. It's food, but it's fuel. The lack of fuel, but also the lack of cash, is now causing major problems for humanitarian actors to distribute the aid. Medicines and medical supplies are allowed to be transported in certain places. But it is not allowed to be transported to the Tigray region. That is why, with different parties in different rounds, with the EU, the UN and others, we have tried to appeal to respect international humanitarian law, if not for other reasons, for humanitarian reasons, so as to ensure unhindered humanitarian access and to protect civilian and humanitarian personnel. Among other things, with a fairly broad group of government representatives from the international community, we have written several letters to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ethiopia and the Foreign Minister calling for humanitarian access and protection of aid workers.
i-YFR9ypt2se5L5iLuypwVHK	Madam President, I would like I am pleased that the Foreign Minister highlights the role of the UN, that the UN has now adopted a resolution and how that role could be further deepened. It is very important for the UN to take this role of independence and scrutiny in what has happened over the past year in relation to human rights violations. But this also applies to improving the situation on the ground and strengthening humanitarian access, as the Foreign Minister is concerned. For me, however, the conclusion is that one way or another there will be a need for an increased international presence. Now there are many diplomats in Addis Abeba based on the fact that it has been the center of the AU, that the UN has a large headquarters there and so on. But perhaps we need more international presence on the ground throughout Ethiopia based on the situation over the past year. In any case, I will continue to burn for Ethiopia and what is happening there. I am pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is doing the same. I hope that pandemics, security problems and other challenges that we have will not stop the Foreign Minister from travelling again without it being possible to meet representatives on the ground and show Sweden and Finland's great commitment to Ethiopia but also the Horn of Africa in general. It is important that you can come up with the questions that exist about how Swedish aid will develop and such parts. It should also highlight feminist foreign policy and include the perspective that these conflicts affect women and children more than they affect men. It is about finding ways to pursue a clear feminist foreign policy in this part.
i-UhvtXSzLpzMaJrJQoBhxh7	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Håkan Svenneling for bringing up this debate. It is important that we discuss it in the Swedish Parliament. I shall use my last speech to address the issue of ethnic tensions in Ethiopia. Apart from the government and the Tigrean forces, there are tensions between other ethnic groups in Amhara, Oromia and Benishangul-Gumuz-Gumuz, as well as between the regions of Afar and Somali. The hate speech is widespread. Ethnic harassment is increasing. The government's mass arrests of Tigreans and others during the autumn have deepened the ethnic divides. Sweden, in the UN Human Rights Council, has bilaterally, but also together with the other Nordic countries and the EU, highlighted the worrying developments. There is a great need for an inclusive and credible national dialogue to talk about the country's challenges and find ways forward for such a peace that we want that is sustainable. Sweden and the rest of the EU have offered support for such a process. Some positive steps have now been taken. On 7 January, the government released several political prisoners, including prominent TPLF members and leaders of the opposition parties Oromo Federalist Congress and Baldera. The government has also released an increased number of Tigreans and others who have been arrested during the state of emergency. Parliament has also decided that a Commission for National Dialogue will now be established.
i-8asAYNknLJXHGdV9hz4QSb	Madam President, I would like Håkan Svenneling has asked me what I think about the situation that has arisen and how I and the Swedish Government intend to act in order to continue to criticise developments in Turkey. He has also asked what measures I believe Sweden should take, bilaterally and multilaterally, to support human rights activists and the political opposition in Turkey. In addition, Mr Svenneling has asked me and the Swedish Government intends to act within the EU on negotiations with Turkey on EU membership and whether I think it is reasonable for the EU to pay Turkey to carry out over 4 million refugees in refugee camps instead of taking joint responsibility, and whether I intend to take any initiatives in this regard. On 16 December, I replied to the interpellation 2021/ 22:124 by Amineh Kakabaveh. Large parts of that answer are also relevant to Håkan Svenneling's interpellation questions. The government takes very seriously the developments in Turkey regarding a lack of respect for democracy, human rights and the rule of law. The situation is characterised by the state of emergency introduced following the coup attempt in 2016 and subsequent legislative changes, which have weakened important democratic control mechanisms and further strengthened the office of President. In particular, the independence of the judiciary and legal certainty have been undermined. The judgments of the European Court of Human Rights are not enforced consistently. Corruption remains a widespread problem. Laws against terrorism and crimes against the state are used to silence dissidents and regime critics. The negative trend continues with regard to freedom of expression, press and information. The scope for civil society in Turkey is shrinking. The protection of trade union rights is inadequate. Confrontations between government forces and the terror-listed Kurdistan Workers' Party, the PKK, contribute to a particularly difficult human rights situation in south-eastern Turkey. We need to make clear when developments are going in the wrong direction. International law, including human rights, must be respected. The government believes that the EU's response to negative developments in the area of human rights should include the possibility of various measures, including sanctions. The government attaches great importance to compliance with the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights and actively participates in the enforcement of the judgments within the framework of the Council of Europe Ministerial Committee. Turkey is invited to take steps to ensure the immediate release of, inter alia, Osman Kavala, Selahattin Demirta ş and Figen Yüksekda Sweden's recently adopted strategy for reform support has the overall objective of strengthening respect for human rights, democracy and the rule of law and strengthening the conditions for an equal society. We believe that dialogue and engagement remain the best way to monitor these issues – and to reverse the negative developments in Turkey. In our contacts with Turkey, the government will continue to emphasise the importance of reforms that strengthen democracy and the full enjoyment of human rights by all people. On Turkey's EU approach, no formal accession negotiations are currently taking place. The EU's approach has stopped completely in the light of developments in Turkey. Sweden supports this decision. Although developments are going in the wrong direction, a preserved EU perspective remains perhaps the strongest reform instruments available to the EU. Representatives of the opposition and civil society in Turkey stress the importance of maintaining an EU perspective as an incentive for necessary reforms. The dialogue on democracy, the principles of the rule of law and the full enjoyment of human rights by women and girls remain an integral part of EU-Turkey relations. The government fully supports continued support for refugees in Turkey – the world's largest host country – as well as for the rest of the region. The needs of the approximately 4 million refugees in Turkey, most of whom live in local Turkish communities, remain and have increased as a result of the pandemic. Support goes to refugees: to women, men and children in need of humanitarian aid, health care, education and livelihoods. EU cooperation with Turkey in the area of migration is of great importance. It is important that cooperation with Turkey and other countries is based on respect for international law, including human rights.
i-FLqF6LjSNjyw75NeVTw4nW	Madam President, I would like Under the rule of Mr Erdo中an, developments in Turkey have taken a clear step in the wrong direction. Since the failed coup attempt in summer 2016, restrictions on democratic freedoms and rights have increased further. Mass arrests and restrictions on freedom of expression have been recurrent. Turkey has left the Istanbul Convention on the Prohibition of Violence against Women – a clear sign that Turkey has taken several steps back in terms of gender equality. Erdo中an has also expressed an increasingly reactionary view of women's rights, which increasingly involves women staying at home and giving birth to as many children as possible. The political opposition has been put under severe oppression. This is particularly true of the pro-Kurdian opposition party HDP, which is being attacked on a daily basis. HDP is the third largest party in Turkey's parliament, and attempts are now being made to ban it from existing as a political party in a legal process initiated by the State Prosecutor – totally against democratic principles. In addition, there have been many arrests of democratic representatives of HDP. Two MEPs from HDP have had their seats in Parliament suspended and their immunity suspended. One of them, Leyla Güven, was later sentenced to 22 years in prison. In another legal process, called Kobane case, 108 people are charged with urging people to demonstrate against Turkey's involvement in the IS attack on the city of Kobane in 2014. There they are expected shortly. Even in its foreign policy, Turkey has been very active in creating and interfering in various conflicts. Recently reports were presented that chemical weapons would have been used in northern Iraq by the Turkish military. These are reports that need to be confirmed by international bodies such as the OPCW. The EU has not dared to act for fear that Erdo中an will terminate the agreement on refugees and that they will then move from Turkey to Europe. In October 2019, the Left Party got an important strengthening of Sweden's Turkey policy, when all parties in the Riksdag on the Left Party and Liberals' proposal voted for a halt to arms exports to Turkey. As a result of the decision, two business decisions were stopped and an unknown number of proceedings had to be closed. Turkey was very annoyed by Sweden's new stance, and the decision probably led Sweden to tighten up its rhetoric even in relation to violations of human rights. Turkey applied for membership of the EU back in 1987 and is thus the country that has waited the longest for membership. Turkey became a candidate country in 1999, but the accession negotiations did not begin until 2005. Sweden was an early driver for Turkey to negotiate but has been one of the most vocal critics in the EU of the development of the country today. However, Turkey still receives support from EU money. Through pre-accession aid, the EU has previously committed EUR 5 billion over the previous period. In the coming period, it is not possible to know how much money Turkey will receive, because then the regulatory framework is so changed. In addition, Turkey receives money for the refugee agreement – EUR 6 billion so far. The European Investment Bank has invested heavily in the country since 1965. The Left Party has long criticised developments in Turkey and called on Sweden and the EU to act more strongly. The European Union has not dared to act against Turkey precisely because of this fear that I have touched upon. We believe that the government should work for the EU to suspend the refugee agreement with Turkey and act to end violence and repression against opponents and to release all those imprisoned on a political basis. At present, it is clear that Turkey does not meet the criteria for EU membership, and therefore the negotiations must be frozen and all the benefits associated with it removed and withdrawn. I hope the Foreign Minister is in charge of this.
i-RXKYhcZ8GVQpWt2WMseff1	Madam President, I would like We had a debate on human rights in Turkey no later than 16 December in this House. We continue to monitor the negative developments in Turkey in respect for human rights, democracy and the rule of law. This is done through a series of direct contacts with Turkish representatives, civil society, human rights defenders and so on. This is in relation to the commitments made by Turkey as a member of the Council of Europe, the OSSE and so on. The concrete issues that Håkan Svenneling raises in his interpellation are partly about the EU and membership support. It is true that Turkey is receiving pre-accession aid, and it has contributed to reforms in that country. However, in the light of the negative developments in Turkey, the EU has decided to reduce the amount of aid and has focused it increasingly on areas such as democracy, human rights and the rule of law. These are areas where we have common interests, such as migration, border management, climate and the environment. We have supported the cuts, but we are also working to ensure that support for democratic forces, human rights defenders and so on is protected when these cuts have been made. When the Commission proposed in 2021 a level of aid of EUR 38 million higher than in 2020, Sweden abstained from supporting the Council decision approving the financing decision. As far as refugee aid is concerned, the Government does not share the view of the Left Party; on the contrary, we fully support continued support for refugees in Turkey across the region. I have repeated several times in this House that I have spoken time and again with the Head of the UNHCR, confirming that Turkey is one of the best places in the world to take good care of refugees. It is a central part of the joint migration statement that was issued in 2016. The EU – Sweden is part of the EU – has presented a package of continued financial support for Syrian refugees in Turkey but also in Jordan, Libya and other parts. It is important that we have cooperation with Turkey here, especially for the sake of refugees, but also because it serves us. We are not in a position to receive all these refugees from Syria. Turkey is doing a good job there.
i-Uh8EDxVFKyRkZ8bCvdarHk	Madam President, I would like There are many threads you want to pull in here, so I'll see what it will be in my post. We start with Sweden's actions in relation to Osman Kavala, human rights activist and philanthropist, which, together with a number of other countries, reacted very strongly last autumn. It was becoming so that the ambassador of Sweden was expelled, but then this was withdrawn. I just want to say that I think the Foreign Minister and the Ambassador reacted very well. You have my full support in this. This is a typical example of the attacks that are taking place on activists and on the shrinking democratic space. I believe that even in 2022 we will see events with trials, risk of dissolution of HDP and such things. It is therefore very important that Sweden acts resolutely in the events that will take place. One thing that has happened relatively recently is that there have been terrorist listings on the part of Turkey to a very large extent – over 500 people. This also includes Swedish citizens, whom Turkey is now trying to market as terrorists around the world. I wonder how the Foreign Minister sees Swedish terror stamps. And what can Sweden do to support these people so that they can get redress? We can move on to the terror trail. This is what is the essence of Erdo中an's policy: As soon as he has an opponent, it is a terrorist. It has even gone so far that Turkish representatives accuse left-wing parties of being engaged with terrorists. One basis from which Turkey draws its material is the fact that the EU has terrorized the PKK. The PKK is absolutely a military organisation that may definitely have committed violations of human rights and such things. However, Turkey has found the European Union's sore spot by constantly being able to point out that the PKK is listed as a terrorist organisation, and that is an obstacle to positive development, another Turkey and more peaceful development. We'll take the chemical weapons, too. Turkey is suspected to have used chemical weapons. Here the outside world needs to investigate more clearly the possible crimes so that there is clarity. I wonder what the government is doing to get those processes going. I think there is far too little happening on this front on the part of these organisations. Back to the refugees. I am well aware of the position of the government and have a great understanding of why it has landed in it. The problem with this position is that it is short-term, unsustainable and, by extension, inhumane towards the refugees who are in Turkey. It is clear that both I and the Foreign Minister would like to see a different development in Syria – that there would be peace and an end to the huge long war in Syria, which is going on year after year. But it does not appear to be, and the refugees are trapped in Turkey in the refugee camps. It's great that UNHCR thinks it's good, but it's still not long-term. Roads must be found here, but that is what Europe cannot do. We have had a crisis, and right-wing populist leaders have come to power across Europe. They are unable to bring about a long-term humanitarian solution for these people, who must in fact be given the opportunity to know what their lives will look like later on. The EU refugee agreement is an obstacle to such long-term solutions. I therefore hope that the government will reflect on its policy and, together with the EU, look at how this can be more sustainable in the long term.
i-9suUDXjQWzgnmuHH8CARax	Madam President, I would like I probably won't be able to comment on all the different threads that Håkan Svenneling raised, but I'll start with the last one first: the refugees and that it is not sustainable. No, it's not sustainable because the war in Syria is going on. The refugees from Syria are either in Turkey or they have come to us. Now we have agreed with Turkey that we will make sure that we pay for them to have a worthy place to be. They receive education and health care, and they are integrated into civil society. There will be no end to this until the war in Syria ends. For this reason, among other things, we had Mr Geir Pedersen, who is the UN envoy, with us yesterday, when the EU Foreign Ministers met and talked about ways forward to end the war in Syria, among other things. That is the problem, not that we have the agreement with Turkey. Then there are the human rights and terror stamps. Håkan Svenneling has, like me, visited Turkey many times. Many in Parliament also have a lot of contacts, deep knowledge and information. There is a broad interest in what is happening. Of course, terror stamps of Swedish citizens are problematic, and we have also protested against them. But when it comes to PKK's terror stamp, Sweden is fully behind it and has no plans to change our position. Together with the EU, we have a continued dialogue with Turkey on this and raise these issues all the time. I also visited Ankara last year as President of the OSCE and will continue to do so in order to try to bring about change. These are very serious crimes committed against opposition politicians, for example from our sister parties. We both have HDP as a sister party; several other parties in the Riksdag also have that. We've got CHP. Happily, both parties are now increasing in public opinion. The possibilities are therefore not over, although the repression is harsh against these opposition politicians and human rights defenders. They need all the support they can get. That, I think, is almost the most important reason for maintaining a membership perspective, because it is almost the only thing left that is still putting pressure on the Turkish Government. One problem is also that Turkey has not implemented the European Court of Human Rights rulings in several cases. We have talked about individual cases, but that is, I would like to remind you, hundreds and even more people who are imprisoned on grounds that are not acceptable and should be released.
i-KUPDDYhBX5VyuVTntRDLGs	Madam President, I would like I think this has been a clarification debate. It is clear where the Minister for Foreign Affairs and I agree, but there are also clear points where we disagree. I think it is good that we regularly have this kind of debate on Turkey and that many in the Swedish Parliament are involved in this issue. That is how we create pressure and pressure on Turkey. I think that the basic problem is that the European Union has put itself in a far too difficult position to criticise Turkey so that there will actually be real change. The refugee agreement is one such part. Terrorist listing is another problem. And there is always a problem that Europe never dares to take the full step. I know that the Foreign Minister has often gone down to Brussels and argued for a tougher EU line, for which she has not since been supported. This has involved, among other things, an arms embargo. Another thing that should be on the EU agenda and discussed more is sanctions against Turkey, just as a tool for putting pressure on it. Today, two Turkish citizens are subject to sanctions; they are the ones who have been involved in oil drilling outside Cyprus. But no one is subject to sanctions for human rights violations, even though we know that they are so extensive and have been so numerous in recent years. Here the EU needs to change its strategy and find a clearer way forward to put pressure on Ankara. There are also far too many in Brussels who are far too positive about the cooperation between the EU and Turkey. For example, it wants to deepen and renew the trade agreements that the EU and Turkey have had for a long time. This only rewards Erdo中an's regime. I am not going to accept that, but I think we should continue to be tough, as long as we do not see any positive signs. And we don't actually do that. Finally, I hope that the Foreign Minister can look forward and tell us what she thinks about 2022 and whether she thinks it is possible to reverse the negative developments that are now taking place in Turkey.
i-HYoUg2i8zbLtWxBj9ASdTp	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Håkan Svenneling, for this debate! Håkan Svenneling talks about the drilling that has occurred in the Mediterranean and sanctions for this. It has also been an incredibly unstable and threatening situation in the eastern Mediterranean, which has disrupted relations between the EU and Turkey. The European Council decided to seek cooperation that will enable Turkey and Greece to agree on what will apply, to comply with international law and to have a gradual and proportionate but also reversible way of cooperating. So if things go in the wrong direction, you should end up with the more positive conversations. In any case, I think that is a good thing – if only the conditionality laid down by the European Council. We now have the high-level dialogue with Turkey. I see that it will continue this year; we are only in January. I hope that the dialogue on democracy, the rule of law and human rights will continue, and not least the dialogue on women. I hope that I myself will be able to go to Turkey to have talks with the government, but also with opposition parties, human rights organisations and feminists. I think it is very positive that we feel that the whole civil society and opposition society that exists are not forgotten.
i-7N7ghaLJ5b3mo4wWhxntZm	Madam President, I would like Pål Jonson has asked me if I have worked to develop clear Swedish priorities in the work on the strategic compass and in that case what. In addition, Pål Jonson has asked what initiatives have been taken within the EU circle to gain an impact on Swedish interests in the development of the strategic compass and what initiatives I have taken to pursue, together with other countries, common priorities in the work on the strategic compass. Sweden acts both individually and jointly with others to safeguard our interests. Our objective is a developed common security and defence policy on the basis of intergovernmentalism which strengthens the cohesion of the EU and the overall capacity of the Member States to prevent crises and build security. The starting point is the joint security policy established in the Government's total defence bill. The basic idea is that, by promoting stability in the EU's neighbourhood and globally, we are also helping to strengthen our own security and that of Europe. In times of increasing geopolitical tensions, it is crucial to strengthen the EU's capacity for action and security policy credibility. Sweden therefore actively supports and participates in the EU's cooperation in security and defence policy. In line with this, Sweden has also welcomed the work on the strategic compass. Since the start of the work, Sweden has continuously worked to ensure that the strategic compass is based on a broad view of safety. This is crucial if we are to respond to the complex challenges that characterise today's security policy situation. Sweden has so far gained a good understanding that the strategic compass should pay attention to the importance of effective multilateralism and a rule-based world order based on international law. Sweden further stresses that the strategic compass should reflect the fact that cooperation takes place in a context of a number of multilateral, regional and bilateral collaborations that jointly contribute to a unified European capability. Together with other Member States, Sweden is working to ensure that security challenges in the outside world and in our neighbourhood, including Russian action, are adequately described. In addition, Sweden is acting to ensure that the compass's international description should include clear wordings about China in line with established EU policies. Sweden supports the ambition that the EU as a global player should be able to carry out the entire spectrum of civilian and military crisis management operations, including the most demanding. In order to do this, the European Union must have the right instruments. Sweden is, among other things, a driving force for the development of new political commitments for civilian crisis management. In this work we have good support from a wide range of like-minded members of the European Union. Sweden also affirms that the EU is reviewing the military toolbox, including its rapid response capability, based on existing tools and structures. Sweden welcomes European cooperation in the field of capabilities. In essence, however, military capability development is a national responsibility where all countries have different conditions and needs. This needs to be taken into account. Sweden underlines that the strategic compass should not be used to set priorities for individual military capability development projects. This is something that other Member States have also pointed out. Internal and external security are increasingly interlinked. Sweden therefore welcomes that steps are being taken to strengthen resilience in the EU and in its neighbourhood. Sweden has worked jointly with other Member States to support, among other things, the development of a toolbox to address hybrid threats. Measures to improve the management of cyber threats, terrorism, organised crime and climate-related security risks are also supported. EU cooperation also needs to be developed in the field of space. Sweden has also been a driving force for the strategic compass to pay attention to the importance of gender mainstreaming and the agenda for women, peace and security. Keeping the EU open to the outside world is a top priority. Together with like-minded EU countries, Sweden is acting to confirm the importance of the Transatlantic Link for European security. Enhanced cooperation between the EU and NATO and tailor-made partnerships with key countries – not least the US – are central.
i-Vi1jKateRXVa1EKTsUeo9U	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for a comprehensive answer! It is of course good if Sweden has an impact on civil crisis management and a rule-based world order based on international law. I do not know exactly how hard this was in the negotiations, but the Minister for Foreign Affairs can come back to that. The question I asked was what concrete initiatives Sweden has taken with regard to the strategic compass and with which countries. Once again, the Minister for Foreign Affairs will be happy to come back and mention which actors you have worked with most. Madam President, I would like However, I would like to start with what is most important, namely that the strategic compass is written at the same time as the European security regime is in the most serious crisis for decades. This must, of course, have profound consequences for the strategic compass, but also for the EU as a foreign policy actor. Madam President, it must be noted that we have a situation in which NATO is in the driver's seat and the European Union in the back seat of the European security order. It is obvious during this crisis that NATO is playing a very central role in maintaining the basic European security policy objective that all countries themselves should be allowed to make their own safety policy choices. That is also why I think it would have been good if Sweden had been a full member of NATO. Then Sweden would have a permanent place at a table where it is both discussed and decided regarding issues that are important for Swedish security policy. Today, 21 of the 27 EU Member States are also members of NATO, and I think they are at the heart of the European security policy. Having said that, Madam President, it is urgent that Europe be able to take greater responsibility for its own security. This is in the interests of both the United States and the European Union, and I believe that it can strengthen the transatlantic link in the long term. Properly designed, the strategic compass can help both to build a stronger resilience to hybrid threats and to make the EU more resourceful in the military field. I think it's very important. Wrongly designed, however, the strategic compass can contribute to such moves as we saw in Strasbourg when President Macron said that the EU would now maintain its own agreement between the EU and Russia for a new European security regime. I believe that the transatlantic link is now absolutely crucial and that stronger transatlantic cooperation, rather than a European strategic autonomy, is important. We need more cooperation across the Atlantic – no less. In his response, the Minister for Foreign Affairs expressed the importance of effective and good cooperation between the EU and NATO. I share this view. However, I am concerned about how that relationship develops. The EU and NATO were supposed to present a joint declaration in December, but I have noted that it has been postponed. The second dimension, which the Foreign Minister did not mention in his reply, is that the EU and NATO are developing new strategies in parallel. After all, the EU is to adopt the strategic compass under the French Presidency, and in June NATO is to present a new strategic compass. It is, of course, urgent that the EU and NATO be able to coordinate this work. I would like to have the government's opinion on this. Have any initiatives been taken to coordinate security strategy work within the EU and NATO when it takes place in parallel?
i-X3LW4JSBqXUM5p1o6nMgs	Madam President, I would like The growing militarisation of the EU is a dangerous development for which we in the Left Party have been warning for a long time, ever since EU entry. No one is really surprised that the proposal for an EU army came up again this time. Once again, of course, Sweden was against it together with many other countries, and the proposal probably went once again in the trash. But advocates of an EU army always take the opportunity to propose that the EU be militarised even more and become an increasingly federal project. Many times in the EU context, these are fine words that in practice mean something quite different. A clear example in this area is the so-called peace facility. In the peace facility there is a great deal about arms exports. You get a little hard to understand how it's going to contribute to peace. It could be so wrong. An example was given as late as December in Mali when the EU chose to export. It was not weapons that combatants can use, but other parts needed by the military to operate. It became increasingly clear that Mali developed into a military dictatorship that hired Russian mercenaries after that. It was in any case a good thing that Sweden abstained from voting in favour of this. If I understood it correctly, Sweden voted against. There is also a clear tendency in the EU to confuse military and civilian operations. There is currently a lack of clarity as to what action is what. For example, it is difficult for an outsider to access the EU's websites and see what is the difference because these EU actions are listed under the same headings. It is therefore difficult to understand which of them contains which components. I have noticed that Sweden is pushing for the civilian parts of the strategic compass, and I think that is good. I think it is good if Sweden also pushes forward so that there is greater clarity and there is no confusion between the civilian and the military parts. It is also the case that a strategic compass is part of the support for EU defence construction. I am concerned that it is reducing our ability to be a strong voice for peace and disarmament as a country, both in Europe and in the world at large, because we are taking part in the actions of the former colonial powers and in various spheres of interest and are therefore also linked by the back door to the nuclear powers and NATO. Swedish freedom of alliance must be safeguarded. The strategic compass and this type of security and defence policy cooperation make our military freedom of alliance more difficult, I think. This applies not least to the construction of the Defence Union, which the military-industrial complex lobbyists have successfully lobbied in Brussels against the EU institutions. The militarisation of the EU and its objective of creating a Defence Union in close cooperation with NATO will be another step away from the Swedish military alliance freedom. Moreover, this is unfortunately happening without a major public and popular debate, although we have a good and important debate here in the Swedish Parliament. I think that is serious, Madam President.
i-LJcGZJuqino4s37aLrJHwU	Madam President, I would like Let me start with two issues raised by Håkan Svenneling in the debate: the issue of an EU army and the issue of a defence union. I would like to stress that this is absolutely not relevant in the work on the strategic compass. There are no proposals for a European army or defence union on the table. Nor would we support a move towards an army or a defence union. On the other hand, we are in favour of cooperation and development in order for the EU to have a stronger defence capacity and to be able to act better, while at the same time assuming that the work continues to be intergovernmental. Svenneling also questions whether we can be militaryly non-aligned. I must say that this certainly does not affect our ability to remain militaryly non-aligned. The EU Treaty that we are starting from says – and this has been the case ever since we joined the EU – that there is a special character of some Member States in terms of security and defence policy and that this should not be affected by cooperation. EU cooperation is a community of solidarity, not a military alliance with defence obligations. I think that's important to say. The discussions on the content are not finished and are now ongoing. There have been a couple of different drafts where there have been quite major changes. It is expected that we will have a complete draft only in March. The decision will then be taken by the Foreign Affairs Council and, of course, we will consult Parliament formally. We have already discussed this in the Committee on Defence and Foreign Affairs in order to ensure broad anchoring. It is very important to see that the strategic compass spans a very broad question complex. These are crisis management operations, capabilities development, resilience building and partnership. In all these different areas, we act to ensure that Swedish interests are taken into account. Let me give you a few examples. As I said, we are the driving force behind civilian crisis management. We want a civilian pact with concrete commitments for more effective crisis management. The current pact ends in 2023. We have taken various initiatives to raise gender issues. This applies, for example, to the agenda for women, peace and security. Not least during our OSCE Presidency, I have become absolutely convinced that this is very important. On the issue of hybrid threats, we want a hybrid business toolbox to be developed. These are some examples of Swedish positions.
i-9SaW4j5xYnkGyH4iub6wZA	Madam President, I would like The strategic compass is, of course, an important document, because it will focus and dimension much of the EU's military cooperation. That is why the Moderates in the Foreign Affairs Committee have taken the initiative to organise a hearing in which we invite security policy experts and researchers to give their views on the strategic compass. That is also why we will be asking for a discussion on the strategic compass before it is to be finalised in March. It would, of course, be a force, Madam President, if a united parliament could support a common Swedish line on this issue. But the devil sits as often in the details. That is precisely why it is important that we have this discussion and debate. The government says in its reply that it is a good thing that the EU is reviewing its military rapid reaction force. It is easy to have sympathy for that position. The EU has had two battle groups that should be able to be deployed at short notice in various crisis hotspots, but the problem is that these battle groups have never been used. The question is whether or not something should replace these battle groups. Now there are forces within the European Union that instead want to set up a rapid reaction force of the size of a brigade, that is, 5 000 men, which the European Union should have at its disposal, that is, twice as many soldiers as in the European Union's fighting groups. The government has been clear in the past that it does not welcome such a standing rapid reaction force, and I would be grateful if the government could confirm that this is still the case. There are also proposals within the EU for the EU to start conducting its own military exercises and to build its own headquarters and management structures. There is also the idea that the EU should start training for different scenarios linked to a common defence and also Article 42(7) on common defence obligations. That's a big step to take. In the past, the basis has been that the European Union should not duplicate or duplicate the data that NATO has, and I think it is a wise rough-up. Instead, the EU should focus where it has a so-called added value and can really contribute to Europe's security. After all, the EU is much better equipped in several respects than NATO, for example, when it comes to dealing with the link between internal and external security. It has competence in the field of criminal law and competence to combat international terrorism and international crime. A synergy between internal and external security would therefore be excellent if the EU were to focus on, not least because the EU also has a large toolbox for conducting various crisis management operations. Madam President, I would like The Minister for Foreign Affairs also says that Sweden is working to ensure that Russian action is adequately described. What a satisfactory way means depends a little on who in the Union you ask. If you address the question to Cyprus, you get an idea of what Russia policy the EU has, and you ask Sweden you get another one. Since 2016, the EU has been leaning on five principles of its Russian policy. My assessment is that these principles should be reviewed in the light of the serious Russian action and the threat to the European security regime that Russia now poses, both through the military build-up along Ukraine's border and the unreasonable demands for a new European security regime in which other countries are not allowed to decide their own security policy choices. Madam President, I would like I believe that it is important for the strategic compass to take the impression of this and for it to be formulated with clear criticism of Russian action and the threat to the European security regime.
i-PVzdy16xbJp1m9WQwdpsDP	Madam President, I would like It is good that the Foreign Minister points out that the government does not want to see the militarisation of the EU in the way that some federalists in Europe want, and I know that there is a great deal of agreement in the Swedish Parliament that we do not want to see such a development. It is also good that the government is pressing the civilian parts. I think we have a good opportunity during the Swedish Presidency in the spring of 2023 to highlight the civil elements in different contexts. It has proved to be good and supported and helped countries in crisis in recent years. It is also a niche where Sweden has a competence to contribute to the EU. I had the privilege of visiting the emergency preparedness stocks that the EU has established in Kristinehamn at home in Värmland, from which I and Pål are from. It shows that we have unique excellence and that we can deliver from that crisis layer. Other things are of course hybrid threats and more that are important to take seriously. At the moment, France is the Presidency of the European Union, and their agenda in the work on the strategic compass concerns me. We know that France is a nuclear power and that it has a long colonial history. If the devil is in the details, you might wonder what's in the French details. What is France thinking about turning the EU where it wants to go? Here, for example, Mr Macron's statement on Russia's policy is a factor. He gets a direct counterattack, but the statement is still there. This concerns me in the sense that France still has a slightly different view from Sweden on these issues. It is good that Sweden is working on and hearing with other Member States, but the country holding the Presidency has great power to set the agenda. That is why we wonder what this might mean during the French Presidency.
i-9dsd4EeXDkeCw6F3Vksnmt	Madam President, I would like Let me start with Pål Jonson's questions. I can confirm that we still have the same attitude. We do not think it is a good idea to have a standing rapid reaction force and its own structures. We do not think that the EU should duplicate the work of other organisations. It goes without saying that because the rapid reaction forces that exist have not been used, it is not the way in which the EU should operate. It is important that the strategic compass does not set priorities for individual military capability projects and that the European defence industrial technological base is based on competition. Here we do not agree with, for example, France, which believes that it should try to have more own competences, which is within the concept of strategic sovereignty. We believe that not building up defence industries in competition and not being able to use parts of the United States, for example, would impair the defence capacity of the EU Member States. Pål Jonsson criticises the fact that I am saying that Russian action should be described satisfactorily. Our view is, of course, that what is happening must be described very clearly, not least with regard to the threat to the security regime, and Sweden has therefore achieved great success when we have resisted attempts to remove the five principles of EU Russia policy. It should be remembered that the five principles were written after Russia annexed Crimea and went in and supported the separatists in Donbass, that is, when what we are now worried about would have happened already. That is why the five principles are very tough, and that is also why we do not have summits and therefore we have sanctions and so on. Large, heavy Member States have discussed whether the EU should release the five principles, and that is why it is important that we continue to say that it must be satisfactory. The component of the attacks on the European security order remains and must be included and described in the strategic compass. Let me be quite clear that there was no solid agreement before the crisis on how to deal with the relationship with Russia, and that is why it is even more important that we continue to demand that it be satisfactory – this, of course, from a Swedish and not Cypriot perspective, but that goes without saying.
i-XqCVUpp1nmikXYtnyPWomD	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for the clarification. I think that's good. That is the basis, as I said, that the five principles are good. If they are to move in any direction, it is, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs says, against the threat that Russia poses to the entire European security regime. That's very good. I will readily admit that I did not think I would find a consensus on any issue with Håkan Svenneling, but I note that we have a similar view when it comes to the French proposals to maintain some particular form of agreement between the EU and Russia. It's a bad idea at the wrong time. I think we have a consensus there too. I'll tell you one thing about this. In fact, I think that the government is putting forward a great deal of good proposals to develop, not least, things relating to space, that it welcomes the fact that the EU should initiate a defence strategy in the space and cyber defence field, and that it should also be transparent about the need for the EU to make new and further efforts on what are called disruptive technologies, such as AI, automation and drones. This is important and good. At the same time, I think that one should be clear and say that this will in part make greater demands on the Swedish system. We are not well enough in Sweden, as we would like in such an area as cybersecurity. I note that last year, in the international ranking of the ITU, we fell from position 32 to position 43. We're gonna have to work on this. It does not solve everything to work on these issues at EU level, but it also needs to run an area at national level in order to strengthen its resilience there. This is basically not a conflict-building issue, but I would still like to send it with a view to further work on the strategic compass.
i-YMqEGRquM8kDMtBAb6EBdc	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by thanking Pål Jonson for raising the issue of the strategic compass in an IP debate. It's hard to explain to people what a strategic compass is. It is not an easy concept, and it does not get any easier because it is such a big question complex. Therefore, I think it is a good thing that we keep bringing it up in public and trying to explain a little more what it is about, what is important and so on. It is about strengthening the EU's capacity to act as a security policy actor. This strengthens the EU's ability to take responsibility for its own security and security in the neighbourhood. It is not in contrast to a strong transatlantic link. This has been brought up to date, among other things, by the complex threats that Europe has to deal with. Some of these threats mentioned Pål Jonson. It is not good if we have gotten worse in some areas, but it is also because the world situation has become much worse. Therefore, Sweden is very active in influencing the design of the strategic compass while protecting our own interests. The joint security policy is the starting point, as established in the Government's total defence bill. To sum up, Sweden wants the EU to take greater responsibility for its own security, to use the Union's entire toolbox, to have both civil and military cooperation and to cooperate and promote the work with our partners.
i-PHUUzzktHoyvF3Pwj2XQXG	Madam President, I would like Håkan Svenneling has asked me what Sweden's national priorities regarding nuclear disarmament are in addition to what the government is pursuing within the framework of the Stockholm initiative, how it is that the Stockholm initiative lacks a point about the humanitarian consequences of nuclear weapons, and how I and the government intend to pursue these important aspects at the NPT Review Conference and in its final document. Svenneling has also asked whether at the Review Conference I intend to raise the importance of nuclear-free zones and the lack of implementation of such zones in the Middle East and how I intend to implement the Stockholm initiative and strengthen the mobilisation of disarmament. Madam President, I would like N defence and non-proliferation of nuclear weapons are a key political priority for the government. The NPT is the cornerstone of the global disarmament and non-proliferation regime, and I regret that the planned review conference has once again had to be postponed due to the pandemic. But that does not mean that our work is put on ice. The Stockholm initiative consists of 16 countries from different parts of the world and from different security policy contexts. The working papers and declarations produced under the Stockholm initiative are therefore one of the negotiations between these countries. The aim is to find ways forward that can bring together the wider community of state parties in the NPT, which is needed to bring about concrete steps for nuclear disarmament. The Stockholm Initiative's work paper on risk reduction, A Nuclear Risk Reduction Package, clearly highlights the disastrous humanitarian consequences of nuclear weapons. The importance of a nuclear-free world is also linked to humanity's fundamental interests and survival in several of the documents of the initiative. Sweden consistently highlights the humanitarian and environmental consequences of nuclear weapons in national capacities and has been co-sponsoring for several years the UN resolution that draws attention to this issue. The government will continue to pay attention to the disastrous consequences of nuclear use, both bilaterally, within the EU, within the UN and within the framework of the NPT. A central part of the Stockholm initiative is its focus on implementation and concrete steps for disarmament. We know that there are many challenges in disarmament diplomacy, but we believe that it is important to be both ambitious and realistic. We hope that, within the framework of the initiative, we will be able to build trust and conditions for further substantial steps towards a nuclear-free world. Among the countries included in the Stockholm initiative is strong support for the continuation of the initiative following the NPT Review Conference, not least to ensure the implementation of commitments entered into and what we hope will be a good outcome of the forthcoming Review Conference. Strong political commitment and pressure will continue to be important factors for achieving concrete progress in nuclear disarmament. An important part of the Stockholm initiative is to get nuclear states to take responsibility for the implementation of disarmament. That is why we have had direct talks with them, and I can now see that, at the beginning of the year, an important statement was made by the five recognised nuclear states that a nuclear war cannot be won and should therefore never be fought. Madam President, I would like The creation of nuclear-free zones makes a tangible contribution to promoting international peace and security. From the Swedish side, we welcome the fact that such zones have been established in Latin America and the Caribbean, the South Pacific, Southeast Asia, Africa, Central Asia and Mongolia. It is also a priority and a proposal within the Stockholm initiative. Sweden and the EU support the establishment of a zone free of nuclear weapons and other weapons of mass destruction in the Middle East and the implementation of the resolution of the 1995 NPT Review Conference. We welcome the progress made in this regard during the first two sessions of the Conference on such a zone held at UN Headquarters in 2019 and 2021. The creation of the zone must take place on a voluntary basis and with the participation of all the countries in the region.
i-CfmxxnB9wrzJLo8x5DuYcJ	Madam President, I would like I was supposed to be standing here when the Secretary of State came home from the conference in New York. When I handed in the interpellation, the idea was that the conference should be held, and it is of course sad that it should be postponed again. Unfortunately, the Minister for Foreign Affairs must therefore expect me to put a new interpellation on the same subject at a later date as we approach the conference. I'm sorry, but that's what happens when the conference is postponed. However, this may result in a better political situation and a better opportunity for dialogue on disarmament once the conference is held. One of the things that makes the situation better is the meeting of the States Parties on the UN Nuclear Weapons Convention in Vienna, which will hopefully take place before the conference, in March, where Sweden intends to participate as an observer. I have done this, and I welcome it. Nevertheless, the dialogue in this very tense security policy situation that we find ourselves in shows some signs of a willingness to increase military transparency. It is difficult to know exactly where this tense security situation will end now that we are in the midst of it. But if you still want and hope that something positive will happen, it is precisely that the military transparency comes up on the agenda and the importance of cooperation around it. It also gives the Stockholm initiative the opportunity to prepare even more for the meeting. First of all, I was a little cautiously positive, but I have become more positive when I feel that you have also gained momentum in the power of the initiative. What I hope Sweden will do in the current situation before the conference is to see it as an opportunity, if these dialogue talks develop in such a direction, to highlight proposals on descalation. This is particularly true in our neighbourhood and especially in the Arctic. It could be that we are actually pushing for nuclear-free zones and disarmament in our neighbourhood. We have the Nordic region, the Arctic and the Baltic Sea, all of which could be areas for nuclear-free zones. That is not mentioned in the Foreign Minister's reply. There is also an opportunity to reduce the number of active warheads in order to reduce the risk of mistakes that could still lead to the nuclear war that cannot be won. It is good that the so-called P5, that is, the original owners of nuclear weapons, have expressed it. In addition to the Stockholm initiative, which the Minister for Foreign Affairs describes well in his reply, I wonder what Sweden's national priorities are regarding nuclear disarmament. Is it the Stockholm initiative and what is being negotiated there that we focus on? Or are there other issues that Sweden is pushing beyond that and that have not been agreed upon in the initiative? How does the Minister intend to continue working to implement the Stockholm initiative and strengthen the mobilisation for disarmament in the world?
i-Y3ZgygHy1UotWk2WS7CJkN	Madam President, I would like I agree with Håkan Svenneling that it is a great pity that the review conference has been postponed again. I guess we'll just have to stand here and debate again. The Stockholm initiative was supposed to be basically a six-month sprint to push on. Now we've been at it for two years. But we will continue to do so. What was very good when we had the fifth ministerial conference in Stockholm in December, also with the participation of the new German Minister for Foreign Affairs, was that the Minister for Foreign Affairs showed a series of ideas for how to continue in order to get momentum in the initiative. It's not so much about us making up new things. It is the 22 stepping stones and the risk reduction initiative that we want to work with. As I said, we can already check off a few things. We will invest in external communication. We're gonna have our own Twitter account, actually on the initiative of New Zealand. We also want more countries to participate. Now there are about 20 of them who say that they support the initiative, in addition to the 16 countries. The objective that we have, as Håkan Svenneling asked, is that the NPT should achieve progress in all three parts – disarmament, non-proliferation and peaceful use. The goal is a world free from nuclear weapons. The question is how to get there. We will, as Håkan Svenneling said, participate as an observer in the first meeting of the State Parties. A date has now been set, March 22 - 24, in Vienna. It's also postponed. It was supposed to be now in January. This will allow us to follow closely the work on the Convention. Germany, Norway and Switzerland shall also be observers at the State Party Meeting. Nevertheless, I would like to emphasise that we should not confuse observership with membership. We have not changed on this point; we are an observer but will not be a party or otherwise be bound by the Convention under international law. Our position was already taken in 2019, and that is that signing in the current form is not an option. This is mainly due to the fact that there are a few key shortcomings and ambiguities. It is TNW, that is to say the relationship between the Convention and the Non-Proliferation Treaty, it is insufficient wording on verification and the lack of clear definitions. The Convention simply does not live up to the requirements that can and should be imposed on a convention of this kind. Having said that, I would like to say that the overall aim of TPNW coincides with the government's objective of a nuclear-free world. Yet, it is not reason enough for us to sign it when we feel that it is not up to the mark. Thus I think I have answered Håkan Svenneling's questions.
i-3RpBSmyfLcB7ucPiu6wCfi	Madam President, I would like I and the Foreign Minister have discussed the UN Nuclear Weapons Convention in the past. It is a dear subject to discuss here in Parliament. But I didn't think we'd go too deep on that trail today. But just as the Minister for Foreign Affairs is concerned, there is a clear link with the NPT precisely because there is a criticism from Sweden in the explanation of vote that was made and the position that the government then made, that is, that it lacks this connection in a clear way. I hope that the government, both through its involvement in the Stockholm initiative and as an observer at the Conference of the States Parties on the UN Nuclear Weapons Convention, can contribute precisely to bringing forward the need for a link and clarification, so that there is a movement in the world in which many countries are involved – both those who have signed and those who have not yet signed the Convention – so that one can feel that there is a momentum in the work and that one can move towards disarmament, non-proliferation and peaceful use. Although the work is divided into these different parts, which in itself is reasonable, there is still a very clear link. When it comes to a reduction in the proliferation of nuclear weapons, do we have a number of countries that we are discussing – are they about to acquire nuclear weapons or not? V sees that their neighbours are thereby also increasing their interest. This does not contribute to disarmament, but to armament. Dissemination issues and disarmament are definitely interrelated. It is understandable that no new proposals have been made but that the proposals that have been put forward have been grouped together. It's exciting with a Twitter account and with more countries joining. In this, I think it is a good thing that more countries can be gathered behind them in order to create momentum for the conference. But I still feel that I have not really received a response to my thinking about Sweden has some national priorities alongside the Stockholm initiative, or whether it is the Stockholm initiative that is being focused on for this conference. Or will you also have national ambitions that you intend to work with? I'd like the Secretary of State to return to that. It was interesting to hear what the Minister for Foreign Affairs mentioned about Germany also jumping on this by being an observer. The Foreign Minister also mentioned Norway and Switzerland. Is there any thought on the part of the Foreign Minister to work together in the rather small group of like-minded countries to both define the observer role and find ways to engage in dialogue between the Stockholm initiative, the UN Nuclear Weapons Convention and ultimately the countries that hold nuclear weapons and that need to contribute to disarmament and non-proliferation?
i-Dh8fmMFz2EnnCKNA5cbbhY	Madam President, I would like As I said from the outset, disarmament, non-proliferation and attempts to work for a nuclear-free world are a high priority. We work on several different tracks – nationally, within the EU and within the UN and Stockholm initiatives are the most important part of this. Of course, we hope for progress during the conference itself. What we count as progress and hope is that the commitments and agreements that have been made will be reconfirmed and that further steps can be taken, particularly with regard to concrete disarmament. Then it is important to have clear processes for how to implement it and how to follow it up and that you get different milestones, so that there are plans for implementation. We also need to ensure that there will be another review conference on, for example, risk reduction; I think it was in Håkan Svenneling's first post that he pointed to the risk of accidents, and there really is one. Let me also say something about the nuclear states because Håkan Svenneling mentioned it. In fact, they have been very open to a discussion. We have been active in reaching out– we have written letters, had ambassador meetings and raised it at ministerial level– and they have been open to discussion with some reservations, one might say. The Biden administration, for example, has been more welcoming when it comes to discussing than the previous administration was, which no one is surprised by in itself. However, both with regard to the Start-up Agreement, which is now extended by a rather long period, and with regard to the statement of 3 January, we can see that some progress has been made on disarmament issues in a way that has not been done for many years. Nevertheless, I think we should emphasise that. Then I realize, when Håkan Svenneling says so, that it may sound a bit lame with Twitter accounts, but the idea is to engage more people who normally may not be so interested in nuclear weapons. Then New Zealand – and the rest of us applauded – thought that this could be a way to show what we are doing and get others interested. The issue of nuclear disarmament in particular, but also disarmament in general, is not at all as big as it was a number of decades ago, when I myself marched on Pershing 2 and SS-20. That movement doesn't exist now. Therefore, we thought that new ways of reaching other people to get a force behind these disarmament initiatives might also be needed, as a complement.
i-B7mxnEuUfCh8EF4uiGZF4D	Madam President, I would like Thank you for this debate and for the four debates we had earlier today, Minister for Foreign Affairs. I think that the results achieved by Sweden through the Stockolms initiative are positive: we still see a certain momentum and a positive development. Now we will see what the worrying security policy situation we are in and how much it will infect the NPT process; we know that other worrying circumstances have previously infected the discussions during the review conferences. Nevertheless, I see an opening when the Foreign Minister says that there is a good dialogue with the P5. For everyone who listens to this and is not nerds, I can tell you that the P5 is the United States, Russia, China, France and the United Kingdom. If there is a good dialogue, I think that the Foreign Minister should take the opportunity to take up the proposals I raise. How can we get a deescalation around the Arctic? For I am concerned about climate change, which I hope the Minister for Foreign Affairs is also, and that it leads to increased militarisation of the Arctic. In that there is the whole risk of nuclear weapons linked to the countries I have just mentioned. I hope that this can lead the Minister for Foreign Affairs in various ways to raise the need for the Arctic, but also for the Nordic region, the Baltic Sea and Europe as a whole, as areas where we reduce tensions and get momentum on these issues. The tension shouldn't increase, which is what we're seeing right now. But then it is a great responsibility for Russia and for all the other P5 states to actually fulfil what the NPT agreement is about, that is, to disarm their nuclear capabilities compared to today. We know that Russia and the United States are the countries with by far the most nuclear weapons on our planet, and that is why their responsibility rests heavily on them. Thank you for the debate.
i-GAhP87MVo61rXXUWtRgMVQ	Madam President, I would like The Arctic is an area in which we are very committed. We have adopted an Arctic strategy in Parliament, and now, in fact, Russia – one of the P5 countries – is chairman of the Arctic Council. The issue of disarmament and low tension in the Arctic is therefore very topical, and the issue of the nuclear-free zones, to which I intend to devote some of my concluding remarks, has been topical for a long time. The issue of a nuclear-free zone in the Nordic countries is not new, but has been discussed since the 1950s – my own two-grade thesis in the 1980s was about nuclear-free zones in the Nordic countries. These nuclear-free zones as a road to a nuclear-free world are concrete contributions to strengthening peace and security internationally, and it can be seen that today a large part of the world's surface area is covered by nuclear-free zones. We therefore support the establishment of such zones – for example in the Middle East, where a resolution on this was adopted in 1995 under the NPT. A nuclear-free zone would help to increase stability in the region and improve conditions, but it must be on a voluntary basis and all countries in the region must be involved. However, it is positive that most of the permanent members of the United Nations and the countries of the region have chosen to participate in this conference. It is therefore hoped that those countries that do not participate will reconsider their decisions in the future and choose to take part in this important discussion. Thank you for the debate, Håkan Svenneling!
i-VMaA4aFXcx81P1pKi8AWY5	Madam President, I would like Mikael Larsson has asked me if I believe that the Swedish Transport Administration's dialogue and communication with people affected by various projects works satisfactorily and, if not, what measures I intend to take. As a minister, I cannot comment on the individual cases, but I would like to point out that the Swedish Transport Administration must have procedures and working methods that ensure that the necessary communication takes place with municipalities, businesses and residents as well as the relevant authorities. In addition, the Administrative Act(2017:900) states that an authority should ensure that contacts with individuals are smooth and simple. The same law also states that an authority should provide the individual with such help that he or she can take advantage of his or her interests. However, I closely follow the question of how the Swedish Transport Administration interacts and communicates with society as a whole as well as individuals in connection with the projects carried out by the agency.
i-PomeNpx9RA4oUzAqFrwn7d	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister Tomas, for your answer! In the spring of 2022, the national transport infrastructure plan for 2022 – 2033 will be decided by the Government. Quantities of new investments in roads and railways as well as maintenance of the already existing road network and rail network will be implemented. It is a 12-year plan covering nearly SEK 900 billion. The background to the transport infrastructure plan, i.e. the bill, the Center Party, together with the government, has been involved in developing it. We from the Center are particularly pleased that we took part in taking responsibility for what began under the January Agreement. Infrastructure is something that affects people every day of the week and year round. Everyone wants good roads and railways. You want to be able to use aviation and shipping, and you want to have working mobile coverage no matter where you are in the country, in the countryside or in the cities. In Västra Götaland, where I find myself in everyday life, major investments are currently being made in the infrastructure. E20 through Sjuhärad and Skaraborg is being rebuilt, a new stretch of highway 41 between Björketorp and Salmisaari is being planned and the Värdlsbanan railway line between Borås and Varberg is closed for total renovation. All of this is very welcome and an important part of Sweden's ability to develop. When infrastructure such as these projects is to be built or rebuilt, good dialogue is required between the Finnish Transport Agency, affected landowners, municipalities, entrepreneurs and residents along the project length. At home in Mark's municipality, where I live, a road between Bollebygd and Hyssna was recently closed without any information from either residents, entrepreneurs or the municipality. The municipality's home care service was forced to drive detours and into another municipality in order to reach people who needed care along the road. The school shooters had to drive completely different roads. Entrepreneurs along the route lost customers and important revenues. The E20 is also being rebuilt, as I mentioned earlier. I have been in contact with a bakery that has lost large revenues and many customers because the road to the bakery was shut down without the Swedish Transport Administration having informed me of this at all. On Monday I met Niclas Magnusson who is a farmer at home in Björketorp. He had e-mailed me. He's got a level crossing across the railroad to be removed. He's glad it's going to be removed so the railroad will be safer. It will also be safer for him as a farmer. However, the dialogue on how to replace it has not been satisfactory. It becomes problematic and harmful for public Sweden and for public authorities when dialogue cannot be conducted in a good way. This point I have made and to which the Government refers are just a few examples. I am fully aware that individual cases cannot be commented on, Madam President. But all these examples concerning Sweden's inhabitants, municipalities, regions and entrepreneurs show that something needs to be done and addressed. My question to the Government concerns just that. What does the Minister think about the Finnish Transport Administration's dialogue and communication with people affected by various projects? Does it work satisfactorily? Perhaps the most important thing and the essence of this is what the Government and Government intend to do to make it satisfactory, if it does not work.
i-QhBNnav1EQRwjA9SCFABde	Madam President, I would like When I saw the interpellation from Mikael Larsson to Minister Tomas Eneroth, I remembered similar communication mistakes from other parts of the country that I have encountered. It is good that the issue is raised. As Mikael Larsson said, the government, together with two parties in the Chamber, has jointly pushed forward and created a foundation that can lead to investments of around SEK 900 billion over the next ten twelve years. You don't do that without seeing it on the ground surface. People are affected. At the same time, we elected representatives, as ministers or as MPs, always meet with people's demands for new and better functioning transport infrastructure. I do not think that I have ever been met by a person who says that it is quite enough, but rather that it should get better. When it comes to implementation, however, the understanding is not always as great. Then, Madam President and the Government, I have felt that there is a connection with whether it has communicated with people in an understandable way before any action is taken, so that one understands why it is being done. In a previous question I have raised a case with tree securing of an important regional railway in southeastern Sweden, Stångådalsbanan. There, the landowners were communicated via Lantmäteriet. It was noted that subcontractors to the Swedish Transport Administration were out stamping forests. You didn't understand anything. If the communication and dialogue had been taken from the infrastructure manager that the runway needed tree-proofing in order for the trains to go and to be able to travel as passengers and send their goods, the understanding of the measure would have existed. Now it didn't exist. Rather, there was anger and abuse. This is a relatively small example linked to the SEK 900 billion that will be ploughed down into new roads, railways, viaducts and bridges and in developing what we have. Madam President, I would like We all know that a minister cannot stand in this House and give a direct order to one of his expert authorities. Then one of our colleagues will report the relevant minister to the KU. That would be unnecessary. It does not work that way in Sweden. I think that the Government's answer to Mikael Larsson's interpellation sounds like the Government understands the problem. I would just like to make it clear that the Government shares the picture that Mikael Larsson and I myself present to some extent that this is becoming a concern and that there is great potential for improvement and that the Government will follow up what I believe is a common problem picture of reality. I would also like the Government to develop a little more clearly than in the interpellation response how the Government will follow up on this.
i-MvhczB9jVZV8Te4ah1AFTD	Madam President, I would like Thank you, both Anders Åkesson and Mikael Larsson, for the post and the interpellation! It's very good that this is lifted up. We often talk about all the billions that we should invest or about the rules of transport policy. However, as also mentioned here, we have jointly agreed on a historically large framework of nearly SEK 900 billion in infrastructure investments. As Anders Åkesson very well points out, we hardly meet anyone who says that there is too much infrastructure, but wherever you look in the country, many people want a road to, another railway or further efforts. But that also means, of course, that we are facing even greater challenges in the future, when new railways are to be drawn or when major traffic shifts are to be made. It affects a lot of people. History is full of such challenges, such as the West Link, the whole initiative in Gothenburg that resulted in a huge political debate. Experience shows that part of this was a lack of communication and anchoring. This also applies to the discussion about the main tracks and the Öresund bridge at the happy time that I remember. The list is long over infrastructure investments where it has been a challenge not only for the Finnish Transport Agency or then responsible authorities but for politicians, for municipalities, for regions and for other stakeholders. It is about getting understanding but also about describing what is happening in a good way. Madam President, I would like I very much share the view of Members that there must be very well-functioning communication, so that one feels that in good time one finds out what is happening and why it is happening, what the purpose is. It makes it easier for a landowner to know that it is because the railway needs treeproofing so that the trains can walk safely, to avoid damage or to get improved speed. This also reduces the risk of people feeling violated or not listening to. I share that view. In the instruction to Trafikverket we have been very clear. The Finnish Transport Agency must have well-functioning procedures, working methods and forms of collaboration that utilise and enable national, regional and local influence. Since I am committed to these issues, I have chosen to bring not only municipalities and regions, but also civil society and business at our hearings so that their organisations have the opportunity to influence politics. It is incredibly important to develop this form of dialogue. That's what Trafikverket does. There are many good examples where the Swedish Transport Administration is able to inform in good time. But there are examples where mistakes are made. There are certainly also examples of areas that need to be developed. It applies to all government agencies, I dare say. Nowadays, there are completely different digital opportunities than before to also provide good public information to those concerned. It is a common task for us who are involved in the infrastructure to ensure that all concerned feel properly informed. We should remember that it is partly regulated. There is a clear framework for consultation and consultation that the Finnish Transport Administration is obliged to follow. It's part of the process. However, I want to be clear, because I think that is what the interpellier is calling for. It is not enough just to stick to the formal information sessions. Sometimes it is also important to make an extra effort to avoid unnecessary complaints. There are, of course, areas of development here, which I have in the dialogue I have with the authority.
i-SENsauFz52Ns4vcurqGEvu	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister Tomas Eneroth, for the answer to the latest contributions from me and Anders Åkesson! Perhaps this is exactly the case: Whether communication takes place in politics or within a government authority, it is always difficult to work with if you are to reach as many people as possible and if it is to be as good as possible. As my colleague Anders Åkesson and I said earlier, and as the Government also did, major investments are being made around the country right now. It's about big projects. We are going to build new main roads, and we are going to develop the major European road network. But we are also going to expand the rural infrastructure so that we have a functioning infrastructure throughout the country. Then the communication A and O is for residents and companies in these places. Perhaps many are calling for this very thing to come in, to be informed and to have a dialogue as early as possible so that they can be involved in preparing for it. I agree with what the Government says about taking initiatives in many different ways to involve as many people as possible in dialogue, talks and meetings. It is therefore important that this should be done as early as possible so that there can be greater and better acceptance of the stakeholders involved. What I mentioned earlier are just a few examples of this. The National Association of Individual Roads, which both I and the Government are well acquainted with, says that they also think that communication with the Swedish Transport Administration has become a little bit so in recent years. This applies, for example, when reviews are to be made of roads around road associations and road communities. It is not always a representative of the Road Association can do this and have a dialogue. Many decisions may be made at the desk. The same applies here. In order to achieve as good a dialogue and communication with people as possible, you need to meet. And as the Government said, with new modern technologies we can do so in digital meetings, but we may also need to meet on the ground. I believe, like the Government, that the more dialogue and the more meetings we can have, the greater will be acceptance and understanding. This may make it easier to get projects when everyone sits down at a table as early as possible and discusses the issue. The Government has considered that the Government is clear to the Finnish Transport Agency about how communication and dialogue should take place. It's regulated. My supplementary question to the Government is therefore: Does the Government see any other initiatives that he can take to improve communication from the Finnish Transport Administration? We should remember that the Finnish Transport Administration does a lot of good things. It has a major social mission to manage and develop our infrastructure. The basis of this is good dialogue and communication. On the basis of what has already been done and has been done, I wonder if the Government sees any other initiatives that the government can take.
i-4XohhDY2Kkqc9U3fv6CGGe	Madam President, I would like I am convinced that communicative responsibility is a joint responsibility between the relevant authorities and us as elected representatives. This applies in particular to large new construction projects. The west link was mentioned. It is an almost over-explicit example where those who made the decision politically withdrew and even allowed the Finnish Transport Administration as a public authority to carry out a public discussion. The examples, Madam President, that Mikael Larsson and I have raised are reinvestment projects. It's maintenance and maintenance. Of the enormous amount of money that Parliament has made available, about half goes to maintenance. It is about making a workshop of 400 – 450 billion SEK. It's gonna be a lot of digging, a lot of crying and a lot of jamming. This applies above all to the Finnish Transport Agency, as this is done within the framework of the day-to-day work. It's a big machine we're starting. I am absolutely convinced, Madam President, that the impact of the resources that we make available will be much better if understanding and preparedness in civil society and among those concerned is greater. I am very hopeful after listening to the debate between the interpeller Mikael Larsson and the Government. We have a common picture of reality. We have a common picture of the challenge involved. At the end of the week, I will return to my constituency in the firm assurance that the Council of State's expert authority will behave differently in the future. Thank you for the debate.
i-K4qiARransWMiCWqPucwuS	Madam President, I would like I thank Anders Åkesson and Mikael Larsson. I believe that discussions and debates like this are good and affect authorities in general and certainly also the Swedish Transport Administration. They are alerted to the importance of communication. It is perhaps one of the major challenges that we face in a democracy that is permeated by communication on social media and in ordinary established media. We will constantly communicate with each other. At the same time, it is difficult to penetrate. You meet almost no one who feels fully informed no matter how much information has passed. This is a challenge. As far as infrastructure is concerned, we are faced with all the investments to be made now with a number of fairly tough communication challenges. Major national interests should meet local interests. The drawing of main tracks is a typical example, which is particularly relevant in the area where Mikael Larsson is involved. We often have this between town and country. There, our two parties have been very committed to providing resources to the infrastructure side in all parts of the country. This applies not least to maintenance, and not only to the most frequent or busy roads, but also to road maintenance in rural areas. This is both about those who live and work there and about the clear signal value of sharing the 900 billion in all parts of the country. But this is also a challenge. This may not be so much maintenance as development. In our concern to build more infrastructure, we are happy to talk about faster planning processes and faster decisions. I myself participate and am committed to the fact that we cannot have arrangements where it goes very long before we even put the shovel in the ground. It places even higher demands on communication. If we complicate the discussion a little, I think it is important that we, who are politically involved, the authorities that deal with this and civil society that is involved, realise that this is the key to coping with the difficult conflict of objectives and democracy that we have. This applies not least if we have the ambition to implement some efforts more quickly. It's about how we communicate. That's why the interpellation is good. I am clear that it is not just about what I say in the instruction to the authority. In government dialogue, the issue of communication has also been included. I will carry it with me. It is an important part for all authorities to communicate in a good way. It facilitates the planning process and reduces the number of appeals. Above all, it creates the feeling that it is our common resources that, based on democratic decisions, we invest in our own future in climate change. It is important that all authorities are both careful and careful to comply with the laws and regulations that exist regarding information to those concerned in the run-up to decision-making. However, the purely general and general information that authorities have in their mission is also important. In many cases, the Swedish Transport Administration does this incredibly well with films on social media to describe so that a larger repair should feel informed. The work of recent years on the shutdown of Getingmidjan has been an exemplary example. All of us who have travelled from southern Sweden have known in good time that one can get off a station earlier and take another communication, and there have been hosts who have described this. Just as important is what Anders Åkesson points out. In everyday routines with landowners and others, the information must work well. It is my ambition that it should develop even more.
i-GDDSFzWZsjLh91hdrgAqh2	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for that answer. I am pleased that the Government thinks that the interpellation and these issues are important. I'm glad it feels like the government is listening and taking it to heart. The Government mentioned, among other things, that there are clear instructions for how to work. But the Government also says: I lift it when we sit at our dialogue meetings. I think that's great. The government was into two other things. If you have good communication and dialogue early, it can reduce the number of appeals. That's very good. It is also great that the Government raises the issue linked to the planning process. I think Tomas Eneroth and I want the same thing. We want there to be a good and functioning communication for the big objects, for how to do it if it is so that you need to change trains earlier. But that also applies, as my colleague Anders Åkesson said, to the routes where we drive to day-to-day that communication about investments should work. I hope that the Government, with its tools, will really continue to follow this issue closely both at the Ministry and, of course, also with responsible work. It's very important, just like the government said. We want this to work regardless of which department or government authority it is. In this case, it is somehow that it is not Sweden's inhabitants who are for the Swedish Transport Administration, but it is the Swedish Transport Administration that is for the inhabitants of Sweden. I am pleased that the Government will continue to follow the issue, and I will continue to do so. We will have to come back to this very important issue. I would like to thank you for a very good debate here tonight.
i-4xjEqZZUiQmhC4aqFMemPM	Madam President, I would like I would also like to thank you for a good debate and what both Mikael Larsson and Anders Åkesson have highlighted. It's not surprising. We all come from peoples' movement parties. The whole basis of what is Sweden's strong democracy is that it is not only the state that dictates the terms, but it is carried on the basis of people's individual commitment together with others in association. This applies if it is then in LRF, SSU, Rotary or elsewhere. The important thing is that you are committed and that you want to take responsibility for your environment and society. That is why it is such an important part of how we build trust and trust in a democracy. I am convinced that this debate as such is important. But I would also like to send a clear signal of the challenges ahead. It is about 900 billion in infrastructure investments and a modernisation of Sweden. It is an adaptation of transport systems to meet climate requirements. These are not completely uncomplicated issues. It will pose challenges for a great many people. Then communication is a key. We shall of course do so from our political perspective. But authorities must also be very careful about how to communicate and listen. It is not a question of just talking unilaterally about what applies. It is also a matter of listening to the views of landowners, concerned and concerned. Of course, it is also important to start from the guidelines laid down by the Government and the Riksdag, which are contained in the instructions given by the authorities. Thank you very much for a good debate and for your commitment. Let us work together for a broad consensus behind important infrastructure investments in the future in Sweden.
