i-AZEcd1oodHnqdHTauuQinW	Madam President, I would like In every country there are people who live in great abundance. The development of a society is measured all the better by looking after the person who has become ill or unemployed or who is a single parent. When adults and their children slip behind and are denied opportunities that others take for granted, it is a criticism of the whole community. Well-developed, general and secure social security is a cornerstone of development and cohesion. They even out income over periods of life when we can't work. They alleviate anxiety and create courage to try new ways. They are also positive for employment because it is through work that they are entitled to and because they also support the return to work. The person who becomes ill should receive the necessary support to be able to get back to work and have financial security in the meantime. Health insurance is an insurance, no contribution, and is an important part of our social contract. In recent decades, insurance has been eroded. Major changes have contributed to the fact that people with good opportunities to return to work do not receive the right support and rehabilitation. This is why we have changed the regulations of sickness benefit and strengthened work on support and rehabilitation. Karen's deduction affects different gender, occupation and position in the labour market. The financial loss that is currently incurred by professionals who are not able to work from home and are particularly vulnerable is unfair. We are therefore now examining urgently how the regulatory framework is to be changed, with the aim of ensuring that the risks of loss of income during illness are borne in a more solidarity-based manner. It must be taken into account that one's adaptability varies according to age and working life. Strengthening the principle of loss of income in insurance is important for the legitimacy of health insurance. It counteracts the poverty trap that lies in insurance offering only basic security while more privileged people obtain private insurance. In addition, health insurance regulations need to be adapted. Those who are long-term ill or have reduced ability due to a disability should be able to feel confident that the insurance is there and that you get the right support and early rehabilitation when needed. There are far too many examples of the possibility of falling between the chairs of regulations and the management and assessment of different bodies. It is therefore time to undertake a specific review and action to prevent it. No one should risk their lives and say hello at work. Occupational injury insurance is an important part of social security but has been eroded for a long time and is not compatible with the risks of working life. The regulatory framework must be reviewed with a view to strengthening economic security. Persons with disabilities should have the same rights as others and be able to live their lives as others. The public should consistently work towards achieving equality in living conditions and full participation in society of persons with disabilities. You should be able to trust that your needs will be met through high quality efforts and that the system is legally secure. The possibilities of using the same work concept in sickness and activity benefits are reviewed. We also need to review the indexation of sickness and activity benefits, the levels of benefits and more. Madam President, I would like It is about what we Social Democrats want with our social security policies and how we look at them. After the elections, we have had a difficult parliamentary situation. Our various parties' ideas about health insurance and social security cut through in ways other than the values that now shape the new blocs. It looked dark at the beginning of the term of office to bring about improvements in health insurance and our social security. Nevertheless, we have found ways forward. We have managed to agree to remove some of the sharpest edges of our system. We have managed to reach agreement across the blocs, not least as the pandemic ravaged our country and put our people under great pressure. We have also managed to get through a wide range of improvements that make our health insurance stronger. We've made changes to the trial at day 180. We are now hearing from Försäkringskassan how a larger proportion may retain their sickness benefit past day 180. We hear how the proportion of people who go back to work without having been thrown out of insurance is increasing. Our proposal works. We have decided that the trial against fictitious works should be abolished. Instead, the examination must be carried out against jobs in a specified occupational group. The decision has been made, the work is ongoing and in the autumn we will see clearer decisions from Försäkringskassan. With this, a number of further improvements have been made. We have increased the ceiling of sickness benefit so that the income loss principle is strengthened. We have increased the guarantee level of sickness and activity compensation so that many more people have a decent life. We have increased the housing allowance for those with sickness and activity benefits and removed the unfair gap that existed between the country's sickness pensioners and old-age pensioners. We have made a number of improvements. More needs to be done, Madam President. But we have taken many steps and are a bit on our way.
i-W9mo9jJSzWbpRFbZpQTCjr	Madam President, I would like I support all the reservations expressed by the Moderates in this report, but I only support reservation 29. When the pandemic hit Sweden, sickness absence increased significantly. It constituted an exceptional situation requiring exceptional measures. The Moderates were the driving force behind many of the important measures that we put in place, such as the abolition of carers' deductions and the extension of preventive sickness benefit for risk groups. It was necessary to stop the spread of the disease and to protect particularly vulnerable groups. From the individual's perspective, sick leave leads to poorer private finances, and a long absence from working life often leads to fewer social contacts in everyday life. The exclusion is both economic and social. The effects can also be great in the next generation. Children of parents who are on long-term sick leave tend to be on sick leave themselves to a greater extent than others. For us Moderates, it is obvious that society's efforts should focus on preventing sick leave and helping people back to work. Those who are ill or injured and unable to work must of course be entitled to compensation, care and rehabilitation. However, a person who has or regains his or her capacity for work must always be supported and helped to get back to work. The opportunities and incentives to act to help people return to work must be strengthened for all actors in the health insurance system: the insured, the employer, the doctor and the administrator of the Social Insurance Agency. Impaired work capacity due to illness is the basic criterion of health insurance. Diseases are usually defined from a medical perspective, and diagnoses are made based on the prevailing knowledge in healthcare. However, there is a lack of a clear and objective definition of what health really is. Disease often creates a feeling of ill health. At the same time, a perceived illness in itself can create disease. Working conditions can create a feeling of ill health, and a perceived poor health can affect how you experience your working conditions. Similarly, the concept of work capacity is difficult to define objectively. The work capacity depends on the job, and the same diagnosis of illness may mean that the work capacity either disappears in total or is not affected at all. How is the work capacity of an official sitting at a desk with a broken leg affected compared to that of a construction worker? How does changing the diagnosis to a lighter depression affect the work capacity of these two people? The simple but at the same time deeply complex answer is that there are always tasks that are both possible and impossible to perform for the same diagnosis. It is against this background that we need to look at issues of health insurance reform. Psychiatric diagnoses have been the most common reason for sick leave since 2014. In order to counteract a trend towards more and more and longer cases of illness in these diagnoses, support for mental illness should be improved, and knowledge of sick leave due to mental illness needs to be increased. As I mentioned earlier, health and work capacity issues are complex and multifaceted. The situation is also complicated in psychiatric diagnosis. After all, it is easier to assess just about how long it takes for a broken leg to heal and how the ability to work is affected by this than when it comes to mental illness, when the assessment is much more difficult. This is particularly evident when you consider the psychosocial work environment's interaction with these diagnoses. Many describe a situation where the pressure from the poor psychosocial work environment becomes too great and creates a stress reaction. Since mental illness is largely individual, there are a number of different parameters and factors that all contribute to rehabilitation. We Moderates therefore want to consider the need for a new track in the rehabilitation chain for psychiatric diagnoses with early intervention and multimodal teams due to the fact that the deadlines in the existing chain are actually better adapted for traditional disease conditions. However, it is important that the starting point should be as short a sick leave as possible and a return to work as soon as possible. It can also be noted in this context that early rehabilitation interventions, before a sick leave occurs, are better able to prevent future sick leave and increase the return to work among already sick leavers. Therefore, the possibilities for implementing past rehabilitation efforts should be strengthened. Employers and employees must be encouraged to use preventive sickness benefit to enable the individual to participate in rehabilitation that prevents a possible future sickness benefit.
i-PtAk7m8KsK2ruTqitmG4pn	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the Social Security Committee's report 17 on social security issues. Health insurance is an area in this report where there are many suggestions for improvements and many reservations. We are in favour of all of our reservations, but I choose today to endorse only reservation number 30. Health insurance has for a long time been a bit of the grieving children of politics. The problems have been commuting from high sickness rates where people end up in long sick leave without actually getting help and rehabilitation to switch over the other way in times of cutbacks when there has been some kind of belief that only we make sure of people and get down sickness rates will people who by a miracle recover and return to work. But it is not quite that simple, but in the midst of this people have been caught and entire families have been hit hard. There are even those who have suffered so badly from non-functioning health insurance that they have chosen to take their own life. During the last parliamentary term, we have seen examples of this when the insurance policies skyrocketed during the Social Democratic reign when severely ill people were insured, especially after 180 days, despite the fact that the law had not been changed. Then came a pandemic, and the broken health insurance was exposed more than before when not even a nurse, who was there for us when we most needed care in a pandemic, was himself afflicted and sick in covid could be offered financial security but was ex-secured and thrown out into insecurity. This triggered a lively and welcome debate on health insurance. We from the Swedish Democrats but also other parties in the opposition have then pushed the government before us and pressed for improvements in the breakdown of health insurance. Finally, the Social Democrats and the government began to realise that this policy of insurance to save money was not sustainable, and a series of proposals, including those for which we have been pushing for a long time, were put on the table in the autumn budget. They were also included in the budget voted through by us in the Swedish Democrats together with the Moderates and Christian Democrats, and many welcome improvements were made. We welcome the fact that, among other things, exceptions can now be made more easily after 180 sick days so that people who have an opportunity to be rehabilitated and return to work within a year will not have to be drastically secured– if, as I have said, there is a good prospect of rehabilitation. We also welcome the fact that there can be exceptions by day 365 if people have a chance to be rehabilitated and return to work later. It is also positive that a change is being made today so that one should be assessed within the defined occupational group instead of referring to fictitious jobs, which therefore do not exist. We have heard the most hairy examples of people who have been referred to jobs where, for example, you can lie and rest in the daytime. A more humane assessment of sickness benefit for those over the age of 62 is also positive, so that they can be assessed against their current work and that the proposal for a pension has been put on the table so that older people can be granted sickness benefit more easily by being assessed only against work they have previous experience with. However, we believe that the age limit should not be increased with the age of 60, as we are also generally critical of the rise in retirement age. Madam President, I would like However, we should not be fooled into thinking that everything is now peace and joy and that everything is fixed with health insurance. There are still major shortcomings to address in order not only to provide people with financial security but also access to help and rehabilitation for returning to work, for those who can. Here we have put forward a series of proposals for improvements for safe and humane health insurance. Madam President, I would like Several audits have shown that there has been uncertainty and uncertainty in the case law in the assessments that have been made, which may have led to incorrect assessments by the Swedish Social Insurance Agency. This has also been demonstrated by several court decisions. In a report on the investigation obligation of the Swedish Social Insurance Agency, the inspection of social security has revealed that there have been major deficiencies in investigations into cases. The review showed that in 11% of cases investigations have been so inadequate that wrong decisions may have been taken. This needs to be addressed in some way so that confidence in our social security and health insurance is not completely destroyed. When a person is insured despite severe illness, it does not only affect the individual. It could happen to a whole family. We therefore believe that the government must take this issue very seriously and ensure that an external investigation looks at what has gone wrong in time and whether people have been wrongly secured and, if so, how these people can be compensated. Madam President, I would like The government should also urgently come back with proposals on how to improve SGI protection. This is therefore the case for sickness benefit-based income, which determines the amount of sickness benefit you receive. We believe that it is completely unreasonable as it is today: that you can be zeroed and need to receive sickness benefit or sickness benefit at the lowest level, even though you have worked all your life because you have failed to sign in to Arbetsförmedlingen some date or because there is something else complicated in the regulations that has put a stop to it. Many people travel jojo between Försäkringskassan and Arbetsförmedlingen. Försäkringskassan announces that the person is healthy and must be referred to Arbetsförmedlingen. The person comes to Arbetsförmedlingen, which says that the person is too sick to work. Then the person also loses his or her sickness benefit-based income. Here there must be a much closer cooperation between Försäkringskassan and Arbetsförmedlingen. I hope it is well on the way, but in the long term we actually believe that the two authorities should be merged, so that people affected by illness and long-term unemployment should only have to turn to one authority. It can then help to provide security both financially and in the rehabilitation process. It is good, as I said, that there have been improvements at day 180, but we believe that there are further improvements that can be made. Today it takes a year to return to full-time in order to avoid insurance. We believe that what is important is that part-time work can be resumed and that it may then gradually be possible to go up to full-time. We also believe that it should suffice to be assessed on the basis of its own area of competence. Madam President, I would like We believe that a parliamentary committee needs to be set up to develop a long-term national strategy for humane and sustainable health insurance. For so much has changed in recent times. I agree with much of what previous speakers from the Moderates mentioned. Today, mental illness is a major problem. We must get to the bottom of how we can improve health insurance and adapt it better to those affected by mental illness, which today is one of the most common reasons for sick leave. The debate on health insurance often talks about the importance of rehabilitation in order to receive support for returning to work. However, rarely is it said what we should do in concrete terms to improve access to rehabilitation. There is currently a rehabilitation allowance that can be granted. However, the regulatory framework is complicated, and it is not granted if the person is deemed to be able to take a normal job on the labour market after day 180. We believe that this is an unreasonable regulatory framework. The report on sickness and activity benefits and rehabilitation benefits – I had the privilege of being part of the reference group – has concrete proposals on how the regulatory framework can be changed in order for people to have easier access to a concrete rehabilitation plan and rehabilitation allowance. The rehabilitation allowance should not be assessed on the basis of the rehabilitation chain's time limits, and there should be a stepless compensation that does not adapt to the fixed steps – 25, 50 and 75 per cent. This is something that we have been pursuing for many years in terms of sickness benefit. These are good and concrete proposals from the investigation which we believe the government should put on the table as a matter of urgency. Much has come from this investigation, such as the insurance pension, which has been put on the table. That is great, but I am amazed that the important proposals on rehabilitation have not yet been put on the table, because I think it should be done. Madam President, I would like When someone is long - suffering, we must not forget that there is often a loved one who needs to take care of and help the person who is ill. It can often be older, and it can often be women. That is why we have proposed that compensation to relatives should be improved. Madam President, I would like Another serious problem we have is welfare crime – I see time is ticking away, and I'll try to be brief. We need to tackle the serious problem of large resources, some 18 billion each year, disappearing from our welfare. We need to do much more action here. The penalty for gross benefit crime needs to be tightened. The Swedish Social Insurance Agency, the Swedish Pension Agency, the Swedish Tax Agency and the Swedish Health and Welfare Inspection must be given increased resources to stop subsidy fraud. We need to use biometric data. A serious problem that exists today is the confidentiality that prevails between authorities. I am pleased that today we have a majority in committee on this. There is a reservation from the Social Democrats, but I am pleased that they have not insisted on it. There will be a large majority in favour of remedying this problem, so that there will be no confidentiality between authorities that will make it difficult to stop the serious subsidy fraud, which means that resources will be taken from those who need security, health insurance and occupational injury benefit at its most.
i-QVNSjhAH4D5jgb2FU5kqFo	Madam President, I would like I wonder about the improvements in health insurance that Mr Kronlid said in his speech that the Swedish Democrats would have moved the government to present. The member Kronlid formulated it as that the Swedish Democrats would have pushed the government during the pandemic to get them out. Can the honourable Member explain where those proposals come from?
i-YUN5mCWSCknZzTygZMQeJ5	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Petersson, for your reply. I do not have the opportunity to take your line when you are first on the list of speakers. A proposal that we have been pushing for a long time, since the elections in 2018, applies precisely to change at day 180. Before this investigation was set up, we saw that there were major problems at day 180. We then proposed that we should be judged on the basis of their area of competence – we are still pushing – in order to make it a more humane assessment. But then the investigation was set up, and there was a desire to make changes at day 180. Then this exception would be a little softer. It was not quite as far as we wanted to go, but it was a bit along the way, precisely when it comes to changing the assessment at day 180. That is something that we have been talking about for a long time, and now a proposal has been made. We did not really go as far as we wanted, but it was still a good proposal. Another point is to be judged against fictitious works, which we have been criticising for a long time. And now this was put forward with the specified work. Some of these proposals come from the state inquiry. It's great, but it's taken way too long. Last autumn we put forward proposals that the government should go ahead with this, but it has been delayed. We have put forward proposals to increase the guarantee level of sickness benefit. So have we. For several years we have been highlighting it in the budget, and you from the government have said no to it and voted down our draft budgets. However, it was now proposed to increase the level of sickness benefit. These were some examples. It was taken from our committee motions and our draft budgets.
i-L7kLmc8cRKeUucmpPNuU7u	Madam President, I would like The problem of Day 180 arose during the last parliamentary term when we abolished the precipice. The stock was something that the Swedish Democrats supported, then opposed, then supported again and is now against. Well, that's it. The attitude of the Swedish democrats today is wise. At the time, Minister of Social Security Annika Strandhäll appointed an investigation led by Claes Jansson, which gave rise to the proposals that have now led to improvements in health insurance. We have a difficult parliamentary situation. Opinions on social security cut through the parties in a different way from the values that shape the blocs. I am concerned, Madam President, about who will produce the proposals if we do not have a Social Democratic-led government to do so.
i-3m5rEaxBHLgTzH1XwCK1uB	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Petersson, for the questions and for the answers. It's true that we've talked about the previous precipice before, but we've released it. We do not believe that this is the right solution to the problem. Instead, we think that positive incentives should be provided with rehabilitation and support that can get people into work, not threats of a longer deadline. But that said, the earlier deadline was 915 days. The fact that the government itself then chose to start securing people after 180 days is entirely the responsibility of the government itself. There was no one who forced the government to do such a shift in health insurance policy. It does not need to have anything to do with whether or not there is a more distant time limit. This was the government's own initiative to save money in health insurance. There was a need to reduce resources. The Minister of Finance made statements that we must cut back on health insurance, among other things, in order to finance, for example, increased migration. It is entirely the government's own responsibility that the insurance rates were so high at day 180. However, it is a good thing that changes have now taken place, and it is very positive to see that insurance today is decreasing at day 180. We also recently received information from Försäkringskassan that people return to work after 365 days without needing a rejection. This is a very positive development, and I am pleased that we have been able to contribute to it.
i-2WcFoXBmKVESJ8nASM1WVR	Madam President, I would like Swedish health insurance has a slightly different purpose. One purpose is to be able to feel that there is security if you fall ill and cannot go to work. Another aim is to provide support for returning to work if you need a longer period of sick leave. It is important that you can work on the basis of your ability. As a result, health insurance is part of a rehabilitation and, in some cases, a conversion if you cannot return to work. It is also important that health insurance works well for both the employee of a company and the self-employed. Madam President, I would like In health insurance there are some areas of improvement. I am thinking of proposals for entrepreneurs. I want us to look at how we can make it easier for entrepreneurs to remain entrepreneurs even if they are on sick leave for a long time. It is about being able to have a certain administration of your company, even if you are on full-time sick leave. One should be able to have some marketing or accounting. Perhaps you have an employee who needs his salary, even if you are on sick leave. Last week, we were finally able to issue an announcement in the area of parental allowance on this particular issue. Parliament now has a majority that you should be able to do some easier things in your company even if you are on parental leave. I hope that, in future, we can have a majority also in terms of the opportunities for entrepreneurs to do so. The Centre Party also wants to make changes in the calculation of sickness benefit income for entrepreneurs. What is the amount of income you calculate to determine how much sickness benefit you should receive if you are ill? We want to see this calculated on the basis of historical income. We want all kinds of income to be included, such as scholarships. They are not included today, which makes it difficult for a great many cultural workers who receive their income through scholarships. However, since these are not included as sickness benefit-based income, it becomes difficult to get the whole thing together if you fall ill. It is also important to include temporary income. It should be easy to be an entrepreneur, and you should be able to feel safe. Today, all income is reported to the Swedish Tax Agency. As a result, it should be very easy to start calculating historical data. It becomes clearer and easier for the entrepreneur, and it becomes safe. In last week's debate, I said how important it is to do this within the housing allowance. It should work here, too. I hope the government is making a change quickly. Another area of improvement where the Centre Party sees a need is support for a return to work. We want to see opportunities to focus on short sick leave periods initially rather than long. One should look at part-time sick leave, and that they have a greater value than a full-time sick leave. You should be able to contribute the part you can and get to work with what you can. It is also a question of a flexible return when you get healthier. Today, this is locked to the exact percentages – 25, 50, 75 or 100 % – as to how much sick leave or rehabilitation you can get. But if you can work 60 or 65 percent you should be able to do it and not be locked at 50 or 75. The same applies to the number of hours to be spent in the workplace. Today, this must also be evenly distributed – four hours a day. But for one person it may be better for both the employee and the company to work for eight hours two days a week instead of four hours five days a week. It can be about travel times or the nature of work. A more flexible opportunity for a return is therefore important for this to be better. If you cannot return to work, you need help with the transition. It is not only about work trials in different places, but also about the possibility of being able to study in different ways. The Center Party wants you to be able to study part-time even if you are on sick leave on a part-time basis. We want to see protection for sickness benefit-based income if you are studying at a university so that you can feel safe in re-training. Madam President, I would like There is also a need for improvements that may be a little more about different ways of working, not just changes in legislation. We must have good and clear coordination around those who have a long-term illness. The knowledge of mental illness, which has been mentioned by previous speakers, needs to be increased. We need to clarify who is responsible for rehabilitation. Is it Försäkringskassan, employer or health care? With whom is the responsibility? I feel that today it is being pushed a little in different directions and that everyone has different missions. It is collaboration and clarity that can help the individual to get back to work. If this is not possible, cooperation with Arbetsförmedlingen must work very well, and you must work together even if you have different assignments when it comes to assessing the ability to work or the reduction in the person in question. This must work better. Försäkringskassan has started a very important change work. I hope they get to work on these issues and take step by step. They need to, and I have said so before. It's a big change you're supposed to make in a very big organization. I have confidence in those who lead Försäkringskassan today to be able to take those steps so that it becomes the right decision both on the basis of a regulatory framework and also for the individual. Madam President, I would like I would like to conclude by saying that we have health insurance basically to provide security. It needs to focus on support for people to be able to return. It needs to focus on good coordination processes that benefit the individual, and it needs to be clearer, simpler and more secure for entrepreneurs. Madam President, I would like In doing so, I am only in favour of reservation 18, but I am of course in favour of all the reservations expressed by the Center Party.
i-PWmYuvM9GyZZuhf8DvDiuE	Madam President, I would like For many years we have had ill-functioning health insurance in Sweden. People don't get what they're entitled to. Society has lost control of the purpose of social security, and insurance has been carried out on an ongoing basis. Of course, for those affected, this has had disastrous consequences. It is a huge scandal and a great disgrace to the welfare country of Sweden. The so-called rehabilitation chain introduced by the Alliance during its time in power does not work. Instead, it has become an insurance chain. Those of us who are elected by the people to represent the citizens, should act decisively and not close their eyes or, above all, act as chatterers. The promises we make will be fulfilled. Madam President, I would like I understand that many people have lost faith in politics after years of deterioration. Politicians say one thing but do another. We in the Left Party will instead stand for what we promised. We represent our constituents, not ourselves. We compromise and are constructive, but we demand political influence if our mandate is needed. When our mandates were needed in the autumn budget, we put improved health insurance at the top of the agenda. This was the first time that the Left Party's votes were required during the term of office, and then we also managed to bring about a number of major improvements. Of course, the investigations have been set up by the government, but until the Left Party made the demand they were dusting in some drawer in the department. The Left Party was needed in the budget vote, which is why the proposals finally came to Parliament's table. It's not a little thing we're talking about. More are now being granted compensation, and the levels are increased. Madam President, I would like Grant policy, say some in the right-wing block. Others, like the Swedish Democrats, talk hot for health insurance but fold as soon as the Moderates enter the room. No proposals that have brought about improvements have been made by the bourgeois side, including the Swedish Democrats. It is the Left Party that has got the proposals through the budget. Instead, M, KD and SD reduced the tax again only for those who currently have work. That is what the Swedish Democrats got into. Therefore, a new functional tax was introduced this year. It's a human vision I'm having trouble grasping. Why should my mother, who has half sick pay, pay a higher share of her salary in tax than I am a Member of Parliament? It is also unlikely that the only party that thinks that the person who has sickness benefit and the person who works should pay an equal share of their salary in tax is the Left Party. We're still standing there all alone. While others talk, we act. That's what we're going to do in the future, too. You have my word on that. It is perhaps not so strange that the right is against a reinforced health insurance. It should pay to work, they say. But they do not understand that working social security, where everyone who works allocated a share of their own salary, is part of the most important system if we are to have strong and secure employees in Sweden and if it is to pay to work. Instead, we should suspect each other. The person who works should be opposed to the one who is sick at the moment. Those who do not have a job at the moment are opposed to those who have been born with a disability. When we managed to see through this, and when we have said otherwise, we want to stick together, because we know that today I am healthy, but tomorrow I may be the one who is sick, we have started to blame the failure of politics on immigration. Don't fall for it! It is politicians who make the decisions and who have reduced health insurance. It is politics and politicians who can make other decisions. It is the will that is lacking, not the possibilities. An American work line where wage developments are held down has been imported into Sweden. Instead of strong change insurance and a strong job policy, politicians have acted to make employees insecure and poor through record low pay. A lot of people don't even get what they're entitled to. They get to go to social services or have to make a living with relatives. Instead, tax subsidies and sector aid to already profitable multi-billion-dollar companies have been implemented. Over 30 billion of our employers' contributions have gone to that during this term of office. Madam President, I would like The Alliance implemented the current system in 2008. They emerged as the new healers who, unlike Sweden's collective medical corps and expertise, were able to cure 90 000 – 100 000 people by magic. Unfortunately, the Social Democrats and the Environmental Party then continued through the governance of the Social Insurance Agency to pursue a policy that meant that thousands of people were insured. Still today, despite the facts in hand, several of the bourgeois parties are proposing in the report we are discussing today that we reintroduce the lower time limit, the so-called precipice. It's very strong. Madam President, I would like Yesterday I visited the Swedish Childhood Cancer Foundation's summit where children and parents told me about their struggle to get the right to compensation. They told us that you are afraid that the children's activities will mean that you lose your compensation, if you get one. We're all people. A member of Parliament is as much a person as a person who suffers from chronic illness and cannot work. Humans are not identical. We can't be moulded and stacked. We are not robots or machines where new spare parts are just to order. People should not and cannot be discarded or sorted out. We're not interchangeable. Therefore, I do not understand why we have built such an inhumane apparatus when it comes to assessing people's illness and work capacity. Social citizenship has been crumbling for a long time. It is the tick that holds us together, which makes us members of a common society. Obligations and rights must be imposed on all societies in order to function, that is the case. Today, it is mainly obligations that are imposed on citizens while those in power agree with the rights. Madam President, I would like We now hope that it has turned around, and it has. What we see is just the beginning. It is the biggest reinforcements of health insurance that have been carried out this year since it deteriorated more than ten years ago. The goal in the regulation letter that led to the major insurance policies at day 180 and day 365 has been removed from the Left Party. More rules have been changed so that more can be granted compensation. Compensation levels are increased. Those who are older and have worn themselves out at work will soon be able to get a security pension. Madam President, I would like People do not get healthier but suffer more from the treatment that the system puts them through. Not to be believed is the height of humiliation. That's how you destroy a human being. The Left Party, together with all of you who are active in various appeals and also trade unions to change health insurance, has baxed the government and the other parties in front of us. Now we also need to give back to those who have been insured over the years so that they get redress and financial compensation and get their SGI back. I am therefore going to insist on this very point today – that all those who have been thrown out of the system receive redress. This House shall have: adopt a position today. I know that, at present, only the Left Party will vote in favour of this proposal. But we will see to it that it becomes a reality in the future. We will ensure that people who have done everything right and done right also get what they are entitled to. We'll see to that together. There is still much to be done: the sharp deadlines need to be completely removed. Medical certificates shall be valid as a basis. A person who is chronically ill or has a disability must be entitled to permanent compensation. Madam President, I would like The promise of prosperity must be restored. The Left Party will remain on until all changes are made. I call for approval of the Left Party's reservation 3.
i-J8Kaenpw5hkvjjZjHPPYiG	Madam President, I would like I feel obliged to respond to Mrs Gabrielsson when she says that the Swedish Democrats are just lying down for the Moderates and that only the Moderates are in charge. The only thing that went through from the budgets of the Moderates, us and the Christian Democrats, she meant was a job tax deduction. But Ida Gabrielsson himself is here talking about all the reforms that have been through! Have they not gone through, if only the job tax deduction went through? It is the budgets of the Moderates, the Swedish Democrats and the Christian Democrats that apply. If these improvements weren't in the budget, how could they have gone through? The honourable Member, Gabrielsson, stands by himself and says that we are now seeing all these improvements in health insurance and that we are looking at how insurance goes down. Of course, the proposals may have been included in the Social Democrats' budget and the Left Party has been involved in influencing them. I say nothing about that; we have also been involved in influencing and making proposals before they were tabled by the Social Democrats. But it cannot be said that the only thing that went through was a job tax deduction, because that is not true! Member Gabrielsson also makes it look like the job tax deduction would impair the economy of those with sickness benefits. That's not true either. The budget that went through improved and strengthened the economy for those with disabilities and sickness benefit by about SEK 20 000 a year. It also contained a tax reduction and a strengthening of the guarantee level. If, in all areas of the budget, we are to see it as if we are making an improvement for any group in any area, it is at the same time deteriorating for someone else – does Mr Gabrielsson think that the guarantee supplement is reducing the economy for those with sick pay, for example? I see the honourable Member wrinkling at it, and I am also doing the same for something like that: that a job tax deduction would be worse for those with sickness benefits. It does not, because we have reduced the tax and strengthened the guarantee level.
i-9cpAnCyLNhXGrkRfjrTgoY	Madam President, I would like It is not top secret that all the proposals that were made were not part of the reservation that these right-wing parties had to make. All the proposals that were in the budget and also remained were those that the Left Party had enforced. Not a single proposal of her own got Julia Kronlid into the hearing. The Left is of the opinion that we should have an equivalent tax system. You must pay an equal share of tax regardless of where the income comes from. It's not like that now. My mother, who has half sick benefits and has worked as a municipal councilman throughout her life, has to pay a larger share of tax due to the budgets of Moderates, Sweden Democrats and Christian Democrats. That's what it looks like. A larger proportion – I think that is wrong. That's what the Left Party thinks is bad. The honourable Member, Kronlid, is absolutely allowed to stand for the proposal and think that it is good that we should have different taxes on different income and that the sick should pay a higher proportion of tax. But I think it's wrong. My counter-question will be: What demands will Mr Kronlid and the Swedish Democrats make on a moderate-led government? Will a moderate-led government be allowed to re-present the precipice, or is it associated with a demand for you to support it? Will you make a sharp demand that they present the improvements that have still not been made in the sickness benefit to support a moderate-led government? I know what the Left Party's answer is. We will never support a social democratic government that does not improve sickness benefits. But what about your Swedish democrats?
i-FosVW2JjTmmTZbmmQoN8es	Madam President, I would like In the negotiations that took place now in connection with the budget, we were very clear that we do not want to see any deterioration in health insurance and that we want to see improvements in pensions. There were no deteriorations in health insurance. Instead, the improvements went through. We got through budgeting for the insurance pension. Although the Moderates are critical of it, budgeting went through, which shows that it is not just a party that decides. We can be several parties that decide together. It is very important for us that in a social conservative government there should be no deterioration in health insurance, but that it should be a safe and humane health insurance. It is also very important for us to see strengthened pensions. We must take this into account in a separate debate, but there too we have seen evidence that, together, we can put forward proposals for an enormous amount of pension reform of a total of 14.4 billion. These are important reforms for us, and it is an important line for us to defend safe health insurance and strengthened pensions. Jimmie Åkesson and I have been very clear about this cooperation.
i-X6v3wn7pkdozuP7VGNnE1j	Madam President, I would like What Julia Kronlid forgets is that the next term, if the Moderates lead the government, you will not be able to have the Left Party. It is the Left Party that has achieved a pension increase. That is only why your parties in response have tried to make some half-measures which mean half as much to the poorest pensioners. The next term of office, if the Moderates are in charge of the government, will not be the draft budget of the Left Party and the Social Democrats with the strengthening of health insurance to which it is put. Therefore, my direct question is: Will the Swedish Democrats release a bourgeois government that does not implement the improvements already investigated in the sickness benefit?
i-XuoXgGw5U9mHNS4KuTm7VD	Madam President, I would like We Christian Democrats believe that social security should be compulsory. It shall be jointly and severally financed through public funding. It has been a strength in these times, which has been difficult and continues to be difficult, that we have chosen this path within the social security system in our fine country Sweden. In the United States, there has been a different approach, which means that more than one in four industrial workers in this large country across the Atlantic are not paid if they stay home because of illness. This has made American work against the pandemic much more worrying. On the other hand, a well-functioning rehabilitation chain is important for those who do not suffer permanent reduced working capacity. Here there should be time limits and defined reconciliation points aimed at a sick leave process that should be more characterised by activity, early intervention and clearer rules. The sick person must have continuous contact with Försäkringskassan and early individual support. However, the rehabilitation chain is not designed to cope with a growing mental illness. It's about how the soul and the inner person feel, how one is in one's inner being, whether health is there or not. An fatigue syndrome is something completely different from a broken bone, without ranking them among themselves. The psychiatric and mental diagnoses have increased at an alarming rate in the 2010s. Today, they account for half of all sick leave in our country. Here the Social Insurance Agency must have better methods and tools than those you have to work with today, and this is based on a holistic view of man – a person who has both the physical, the material and the mental, the spiritual as part of the whole. Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats, through Mr Hans Eklind on the Social Security Committee, have repeatedly pointed out that not everyone can work 100 per cent of full-time, but that the objective must nevertheless be that everyone should be able to work 100 per cent of their own ability. We cannot all reach 100%, but 100% of our own capacity is still the ambition and the objective. If we leave work capacity rather than incapacity to work as a starting point, the need for more flexibility becomes clear. That is why we Christian Democrats believe that the fixed steps – they are slightly glued in wood or cut into stone so far, with levels 25, 50, 75 and of course 100% – should be made more flexible and thus basically abolished. The time for this may not have come yet, Madam President, but we see a very positive movement in Sweden's elected parliament, our fine parliament. It must be possible for a person to work those additional hours, that additional 5% or 10%. You will see, Madam President, that I still stick to a reasonably even percentage; I am not at 7% or 11%. It should be a little softer in the edges than just that 25% in each fixed step. We believe that it would be a help for successful rehabilitation for the individual, for our common society and also – I might not say it – an economic improvement for the common. Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats have made a number of reservations. As a new replacement for the Social Security Committee, I naturally support them. However, as far as the magic word is concerned, only reservation 34 under paragraph 13 is claimed. It is about flexible return in work based on exercise 2021 / 22:4213 by Hans Eklind and others. This is what I have tried to point out to the best of my ability in the past. The position contained in the reservation is as follows: a health insurance policy should be personalised so that more people can get back to work as quickly as possible. The possibility of introducing a more flexible system for sick leave should therefore be explored, and the government should come back with proposals. ..................................................... I thought, twelve years after I left this House in 2010, to mention the names of a number of Members, in addition to Hans Eklind: Ludvig Aspling, Julia Kronlid and Jennie Åfeldt, all of the Swedish democrats, liberal Bengt Eliasson, center partyist Martina Johansson and left-wing partyist Tony Haddou. I hope the pronunciation was correct, Madam President. They have supported this reservation. We have no illusions that the parties that have not supported this reservation will press the green button at 3.20 p.m. today, no matter how beautiful the green colour is. However, we in the Christian Democrats welcome the fact that there is a move towards increasing awareness of the positive aspects of having new, flexible steps in terms of return to work. For you and me as Members of Parliament, there is actually a difference if we work one or two more hours a day, or five or ten hours more a week. Of course, it is also for the ordinary, good, honourable Swede on his way back to a job. It is a profit for the individual and a profit for the common Swedish society.
i-3zYVW7aibpSh9PF6iBmbG7	Madam President, I would like I apologize in advance. I had to seize this opportunity; I apologise for kidnapping this House in this way. I would like to take this opportunity to welcome Mr Lennart to Parliament. I am delighted by Lennart's accent, as I'm sure you understand. This, you see, is the first time in history that two members of our community meet in this House. I will not expose Mr Lennart to having to choose between Mrs Mora and Mr Torsås as to which part of our country is most beautiful, but I would like to take this opportunity to thank the House for allowing me to steal some time and welcome the honourable Member.
i-GgyUtH59s4a41rFSgJFshf	Madam President, I would like The word reply is what is used in the parliamentary order. It doesn't feel like it's a line but a warm and heartfelt thank you to you, Björn Petersson, from Torsås in Söd ra M öre, the commu n between Kalmar and Karlskrona where the peace in Brömsebro took place in 1645. There's gonna be some local romance here. This is a district that I am extremely grateful for having to grow up in. And I am extremely grateful, Madam President, to our Swedish democracy and to the fact that, on a highly humane level – excuse me for being a little touched – we can also express this warmth. I wish Mr Petersson of Torsås good luck in his continued work. And I would also like to say that I believe that that day will come when we agree jointly in this House on flexible steps in this matter of returning to work. That conversation we can take in the corridors later, but that day will come.
i-3hGcDVvjHWbgtPXneAbaaa	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to say that I naturally support all the reservations expressed by the Liberals in this report, but for the benefit of time, I only ask for reservation 46 under paragraph 17. Madam President, I would like This report, which has the title of social security issues, largely includes everything about financial protection systems in almost all welfare. However, Madam President, I will focus largely on sickness benefit and its administration, although I also mention some other elements. Madam President, I would like Everyone should be able to feel safe in case of long-term or short-term illness. Therefore, the health insurance system is supposed to ensure that all people have a livelihood in case they fall ill. In addition, health insurance must be active and adapted to the sick person and be seen as part of health care and rehabilitation, not as a bubble alone – this in order for more people to get back to work as quickly as possible. But, Madam President, it is sad to say that it is not today anyway. This must be seen as a failure and places great demands on responsible politicians. There is a need for ongoing reform in order for the social security system to deliver security and responsiveness to the individual at any time, while taxpayers' money is used legally and effectively in line with the working line that has served Sweden well. Madam President, I would like At the heart of social security in general and health insurance in particular is Försäkringskassan. It is one of our largest and most complex authorities responsible for up to 50 in itself very different welfare systems. Under the authority's umbrella, a large amount is available for society and for the individual important insurance and benefits – or benefits, as the Social Insurance Agency says – such as sickness benefit, housing allowance, family benefit, car subsidy, assistance allowance, child benefit, establishment allowance and parental allowance. If I'm going to list it all, my time is running out. By the way, the word affluence is a word that you can reflect a little on. As I said, it is the term used by Försäkringskassan itself. 中 According to the dictionary, "benefit" means a favourable right or privilege that a particular person can exercise; financial gain that can be exploited repeatedly. Possibly, it may seem a little strange to use the word benefit for insurance, to which we all pay contributions each month. I'd rather use the words. I'd rather use the words. I'd rather use the words. I'd rather use the words. Försäkringskassan is an authority that in one and the same way stands for proposals to the government, the development of practices based on legislation, decision-making, follow-up, review of its own procedure, recovery of its own decided support, prosecution of criminal offences and prosecution of future cases. This can lead to problems of legitimacy. Sharing powers, power and execution is important for confidence in the eyes of the public. It's about confidence in our entire welfare. Decisions taken concerning individuals must be transparent, understandable, legally secure and long-term for the person or persons in question. There must also be different bodies, we mean liberals, who take beneficial and disadvantaging decisions in the field of social welfare. Against this background, Madam President, it is the Liberals' firm view that the way in which the Social Insurance Fund operates must be the subject of greater reform in the 2020s. Madam President, I would like The administrative fatigue that users and beneficiaries as well as doctors and health professionals describe after contact with Försäkringskassan must be taken very seriously. Therefore, the Liberals want the Authority to be given a portal mission, a new mission, in its directive, to support and pilot. The Social Insurance Agency must be a partner for the sick who are going back to work and for the health care system as a whole, not a counterparty. This is fundamental and important. The individual way back to work and a normal life are not sufficiently taken into account in the handling by Försäkringskassan. That is why the Liberals want the Authority to be given this portal task in its directive. Medical doctors, staff who perform interventions and the individual often get nags and repeats themselves without hearing or understanding what is necessary for the interventions to have the desired effect. This is today an obstacle to giving people a real way back. Properly implemented, therefore, a reform in this area would provide the conditions for a higher participation rate and a smaller lock-up between social security and public authorities. There will be less overput in other benefit systems. The basic view of sick leave needs to be changed and seen as part of the care and treatment of the patient. This would serve the work line, the individual and the important social policy objectives. Therefore, a strong reform is required for those who are expected to be on sick leave for more than 90 days from the start. Research and follow-ups repeatedly point out that the problem is that people get stuck in the system. They get caught up in disease, and this must be countered. Madam President, I would like Finally, greater coordination of resources for people with different types of difficulties is essential as soon as the problems are reasonably complex. This relationship is recognised from the policy of action for people with disabilities as well as from labour market policies. In the latter area, a major reform of the Public Employment Service is currently taking place, as everyone knows. A future reform of the Swedish Social Insurance Agency should be based on the impression that this reform work is currently under way, including how to succeed in individual focus and with the increased role of independent actors. This could very well be copied even in the case of Försäkringskassan. In the light of what I have just said, the government should set up an independent inquiry into how the Social Insurance Agency can be commissioned during the next term to actively co-finance treatment and rehabilitation efforts that can reduce the sickness rate. It is about supporting and piloting people who are at risk of long-term sick leave in a better way, who free up resources for healthcare to be able to work better, protect the work line, create better quality of life and enable care and return to work and self-support faster – a life of their own, simply.
i-PH4E2sDHxNWUU2vJwFqe4w	Madam President, I would like I've run quite a few marathon races in my life. It's very long. But no matter how the race went, it's a very special feeling to get into the stadium. It is the feeling of having succeeded, but above all it is the feeling of joy and pride in others. You see some who have run to support research on diabetes or cancer. You see some who have done it for the first time, and you see someone who is perhaps 80 years old and yet has managed to run those miles. You see someone who's sick or injured but still succeeds. And then comes the elite, who lives a whole life to succeed in this and devotes a lot of time to being at their best when it's competition. Then there are circles around the race itself. It is the organizers – all those who fix drinks and food along the race. They're the ones who do the time-taking. It's the crowd that follows and cheers. It's the hotels that make the overnight stay. It is the sponsors who make it all possible financially. In addition, there are additional races. There are other sports, other associations, other organizers, other hotels, other people and other sponsors around. It is parents who drive to training and matches and young people who are judges on weekends and evenings. Swedish sports and outdoor life are an incredibly large and important part of our society. I believe that we sometimes tend to underestimate it, although we often mention it in good words. There is an incredible amount of good association life in itself and the association life around sport. It's good for society. It is good for social trust, which is central to the functioning of society. It's good for breaking solitude. It is good for strengthening democracy. The association also solves many questions when the authorities are a bit slow and find it difficult to change, for example in the event of sudden crises. We have seen this in recent crises, both when refugees have arrived and when a pandemic has been going on. They also contribute to much else, ranging from local growth to public health. When we welcome all the external effects of sport and outdoor life, we must not forget that this would not happen if we did not have sport and outdoor life in itself. Self-worth must be safeguarded in order to benefit from the consequences in all other parts of society. That race, that table tennis game and that repair of the mountain hut is the core. I myself try to have a picture in my head; not to forget that core you should not only think about the consequences it has but also remember that it is basically about that pirouette on the ice track and that canoe ride on the fourth. That self-worth must be at the centre. It has many good consequences. But all the other good comes only if you protect the core and stand up for self-worth. Madam President, I would like In order for the sports movement in Sweden to develop, we need a policy that understands the importance of safeguarding the freedom of sports associations and associations but also stands up for strong support for Swedish sport and outdoor life. That is why the Liberals want to carry out a major review of the laws and regulations that currently regulate the economy of sports clubs, both directly and indirectly. As a liberal feminist, I would also like to say that we need to look even more closely at the different conditions that exist for girls and boys and ladies and gentlemen when it comes to sports. We see it when municipalities prioritise which sports they invest in and which halls are built. We see it when you allocate training times, and we see it in the rules of sponsorship. As far as sponsorship is concerned, there are rules that make it indirectly more expensive to sponsor women's sport than to sponsor men's sport. This, of course, leads to the withdrawal of less money for women's sport than for men's sport. That's got to go. That's something we've been talking about for a long time. It is good that it is now moving on the issue in the Committee on Taxation. In the same way as sports and outdoor life give rings on the water in other parts of society, decisions in other parts of society affect the conditions for sports and outdoor life. Examples of this are how to plan new residential areas. What do the communications look like? Where do you put the facilities? How is it going to go to nature? And is there room for spontaneous sports in the new residential areas being built? The socio-economic impact is also affected. Some activities are incredibly much more expensive than others, and some are less accessible than others. That is why we want to give the Fritidsbanken, a business that ensures the efficient use of second-hand equipment, better financing, national funding, and a secure and long-term stable foundation. We also want to see a parabank where, instead of buying expensive paraequipment, you can test new equipment before you know whether that particular sport or sport is something for me. The rules for travel services must also be changed so that they do not stand in the way when you have to bring equipment to perform parasports. Madam President, I would like The international sporting world's reaction to Russia's war shows once again how closely linked politics and sport are with each other. It is a development that will continue and become even clearer in the future. It is important that Sweden has a clear line. There should be no state delegations or public funds going to dictatorships or authoritarian regimes. Human rights must go first – preferably sport, but first human rights. Atlets, sports associations and others must have full freedom to go to competitions, but Sweden as a state does not have to send official representatives to activities that have been used in one way or another by dictatorships. The Liberals also want the government and the sports movement to have a common strategy to strengthen the Swedish presence internationally. It is good for Sweden but also for sport in general if more countries that have democratic foundations and human rights in focus take place in important decision-making forums. Sweden must have a strategy for this. We will have more representatives in executive positions where decisions are made on important sporting events and where they should take place, what rules should apply and how to ensure that it makes sense from a climate point of view and human rights. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to thank the sports movement and the outdoor life for their efforts over two incredibly difficult years that have been marked by the pandemic. They have been important to many people and have had difficult conditions and been exposed to major challenges and sometimes difficult to understand decisions. This has made it difficult to plan the business. From the political side, we have tried to help. And our commitment can't be over yet. The restart will take time and will cost. It is important that we in this House help and ensure that there are really good conditions for re-launching sports and outdoor life in Sweden. Madam President, I would like By doing so, I am in favour of reservation 14.
i-P5xRYkgmaRTvd11hPdENEs	Madam President, I would like The Moderates want to see a functional and active leisure time for people, a healthy Sweden. For some, it can mean sports, as well as for the previous speaker who likes to run a long race. Maybe I like to lurk in the woods better myself. It suits me better. But physical activity in all its forms is one of the most important factors for both physical and mental health. An explicit goal should be to build an active Sweden that is inclusive and sustainable for all residents. We Moderates see that sport and outdoor life are a natural and important part of this work. We also want to see stronger policies and greater support from the state for children and young people to develop their sports training and competition to the elite level. Elite sports and elite athletes not only serve as good role models for younger abilities but also contribute to Sweden's role as a sports nation. Madam President, I would like For the Moderates, the right of all children and young people to sport is important. Sport offers ways for children and young people into social contexts. They learn to take responsibility and consider others and lay the foundation for good physical health in adulthood. Given this, barriers linked to social, cultural and religious backgrounds or medical limitations need to be removed. An investigation to identify this exclusion should therefore be initiated. Research indicates that physical activity leads to students generally performing better in terms of study and feeling better mentally. I hope that appeals to all of you students sitting in the gallery here today. The Generation Pep report, which came in April 2020, found that only one fifth of the 9,000 children and adolescents included in the study reach the recommended amount of 60 minutes daily physical activity. One in four children stated that they have sports education once a week. I hope it's better in your schools. Madam President, I would like The school is the arena that reaches out to all children and young people, and it is important that the school sport is complemented by physical activity so that all children, regardless of their condition or home environment, meet the WHO's recommendations on movement. Increased interaction between schools, recreation centres, sports associations and outdoor organisations provides better opportunities to reach the recommendations on physical activity. The state has, not least in recent mandates, imposed the task of solving all kinds of societal challenges, such as integration, LGBTQ issues, unemployment, environmental problems and more. Sport is doing a fantastic job of trying to resist these demands and expectations, but the Moderates still believe that sport must, above all, be sport for the sake of sport itself, including competition-oriented sport. Madam President, I would like Young people, both boys and girls, live in a media age where unreasonable body ideals are constantly marketed. Young people, even in the sports movement, suffer from this. In recent years, several big sports stars have told us about unreasonable demands, eating disorders and mental illness. Sport is a reflection of society, and the sports movement has a special responsibility to train trainers who strengthen healthy body ideals and self-confidence and exercise inclusive and involved leadership. As far as elite sports are concerned, there are many of us who follow the international competitions both in summer and in winter. Many of us enjoy the successes and medals, including sports that usually do not attract the same attention in sports media. There are many years of training and great efforts behind the participation of athletes at this level. We need an investment in elite sport, because it follows that the sport of the widest possible range is also becoming larger. In the form of state aid to top sport, Sweden is almost the worst in the class. The economic conditions for both top athletes and trainers are, in addition to the sponsorship of sports, extremely sparing, non-retirement-based and unsafe social security. The Moderates consider that clarification of the regulatory framework for sports education is needed in the national upper secondary school and nationally approved sports education. Madam President, I would like This report also contains a chapter on the important outdoor life, which strengthens and which many of us like. In Sweden, nine out of ten people engage in outdoor activities at least once a year, and in a survey from Mid Sweden University, half of the Swedes say that outdoor life has affected their choice of place of residence. I myself have the privilege of living in the beautiful Dalarna. We often point out that we have nature all around us, and that we actually have to move in on. The objective of the open-air policy must be to support people's ability to live in nature and practise outdoor activities. Outdoor organisations are an important part of Swedish democracy and civil society with approximately 1.6 million memberships spread across more than 7,000 non-profit boards throughout Sweden. Umbrella organisation Svenskt Friluftsliv organizes 26 outdoor organisations and benefits today the government's support to outdoor life organisations. The support for Svenskt Friluftsliv is distributed through the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, while the support for the Swedish Sports Federation is distributed via Kammarkollegiet. We Moderates believe that it would be a better system if funds for both sport and outdoor life were allocated through the same channel. It would have an important signal value in that both sport and outdoor life are important and of great importance to public health. Outdoor life also creates many tens of thousands of jobs in Sweden every year, often in sparsely populated areas. These include the sale and production of outdoor equipment as well as travel, subsistence and nature tourism. This industry is expected to increase; we have seen this during the pandemic. Thanks to the right of public access, everyone also has the opportunity to visit nature, which is a prerequisite for increasing nature tourism. At the same time, we Moderates believe that ownership is fundamental, and we see a risk of conflict here, which is why increasing tourism should take place carefully. Madam President, I would like The rapid urbanisation means that many people no longer have the same natural contact with nature and landscapes as previous generations, and therefore do not experience the values of nature. Many people in urban and urban environments as well as people who are new in Sweden experience obstacles to their stay in nature. This means that large groups find it difficult to access outdoor life and the values it entails in terms of recreation, recovery and social community. Therefore, it is important to look at how we build. We know that the number of visits is drastically reduced even if the distance is longer than 300 metres. This applies especially to children, the elderly and people with disabilities. It is therefore important that urban planning takes into account parks and green structures. Physical health benefits from outdoor activities, where each person, together or in a group can take part in the range of outdoor activities that he or she has an interest in or that suits one's physical ability. Madam President, I would like I agree with all the reservations of the Moderates, but for the gain of time I only ask for reservation 5.
i-82GaxeV5VXP2doYQxW4WCb	Madam President, I would like There is much to say about sport and outdoor life. That is why we have divided up the debate on the report, where I will focus on the sports section and my colleague Cassandra Sundin on the outdoor part. I would also like to take this opportunity to ask for the approval of reservation 8 on sports facilities. Madam President, I would like The effects of the pandemic on sport cannot be overlooked. When society shut down, sport did too. Many could change, but we know that children, young people and not least the leaders have found other things to do than sports training. The big challenge in sport is to attract back all the children who quit and also to get all the trainers back. The effects of the pandemic have not been seen at the end for these children – we have only seen the beginning. Another group with worrying figures is the parasport. That's almost half of it. This group needs sport especially much in their lives, not least from a public health perspective. We can't close our eyes and pretend they'll find their way back to the parasports. The chairman of the Parasports Federation Åsa Llinares Norlin talks about a health debt, and that is a formulation I agree with. We need to focus on getting the parasports back to the parasports to work, or should I say run, in terms of health debt. We know from research and perhaps even from our own experience that physical activity is good for us. The Bunkeflo model gave us evidence black on white that daily physical activity increased learning ability, increased concentration and reduced injuries and diseases. Madam President, I would like Before the dance, I spent all my time on figure skating. Even then, the ice age was scarce. We shared the facility mainly with the hockey team Red Hawk but also with the curling and skating team. This is 20 years ago – 20 years. There have been more of us in the country, but the municipalities have not been able to build more sports facilities. Today we have a situation where many of our facilities are in such bad shape that it is the cheapest and easiest to tear down to build new ones. The municipalities no longer have the capacity, ability or knowledge of how to build new, modern and, above all, innovative sports facilities. The state needs to take a greater grip on this front, and that is why we Swedish democrats have been exercising and budgeting for a local and construction fund. We have also exercised the idea of introducing a national centre of excellence to gather all the knowledge that exists about sports facilities under one roof. Today, municipalities have to reinvent the wheel each time a new plant is to be designed. It is more reasonable to gather all knowledge under one roof where the municipalities can contact to begin the design of a new facility. This proposal is also supported by the Swedish Sports Federation, and it is strange that we are the only party in Parliament that actually listens to the industry on this burning issue. The plant shortage must be resolved as soon as possible. Madam President, I would like The next government that appoints a Minister for Sport, I hope, will devote more time and energy to sports issues. Sport reaches almost half of our population, and we all have a relationship with it either as practitioners or as audiences and spectators. There are many pieces to be addressed in sport, but then we also need a minister who has the commitment, the knowledge and, above all, the time to do so. Madam President, I would like I have made a small point list of what needs to be prioritised on the basis of our policy and how we view it. The next government needs to tackle, prioritise but above all address the plant shortage. There's got to be priority one. Furthermore, the consequences of the pandemic must be investigated and action taken. There is a need to look at how the fragmentation between the Swedish Sports Federation and the member associations that has emerged recently in view of the new allocation of funds can be resolved. Furthermore, the Macolin Convention against Match Fixing must be signed. We need a new elite venture. Finally, we need to review the Travel Service Act so that you can get where you are going with your equipment to practice your parasport. But the most important thing is to make sure that fewer people get sedentary and have a sport to go to. Here we can work even more together between school and sport.
i-43UXkSAcqcMdZgVJhy13fy	Madam President, I would like There are many areas you can discuss when we talk about sport and outdoor life when the sports heart is big. But I was going to limit myself to something that does not sound so sporting, namely evaluation, parasports and to some extent security. I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation number 6 in the report. Madam President, I would like In 2017, the Swedish Parliament's Committee on Culture carried out an evaluation of the state's sports policy objectives focusing on children's and young people's sports. The evaluation concluded that the government did not ensure that the allocation of sports appropriations was based on the objectives and objectives set. One conclusion was that there needs to be a review. The design of the state's sports budget should be reviewed in order to make the results more clear on the accessibility of sport for children and young people from, inter alia, the perspective of equality, equality and disability. Sport is good for both physical and mental life. There have been a number of speakers, and we are in complete agreement on that. Among other things, it is important to find out why girls stop playing sports earlier so that effective measures can be put in place so that girls continue their sports activities longer. We want an investigation to be carried out to develop proposals for solutions for these challenges so that the Swedish Sports Federation can have a clearer mission to achieve gender equality in Swedish sports. This requires, among other things, a review of the distribution of grants and investment in civil engineering from a gender perspective. The impact of the action on sport in connection with the coronapandemine on gender equality should also be reviewed in this context. The parasport has also been mentioned by previous speakers. It is something that gets more and more attention in the media, which is extremely positive. The Parasports Federation, which is part of the Swedish Sports Federation, handles 15 of its own sports. Together with special sports federations there are a variety of other associations that handle sports and sports for people with disabilities. However, it is far from all young people who have the opportunity to participate in the sports that exist on the ground or in the sport that they are passionate about. If you have a disability, you may, for example, need a travel service to get to training, escorts to participate and leaders who are knowledgeable in parasports. It is the municipalities that grant transportation services, but many municipalities do not approve either transportation services, escorts or the purchase of assistive devices. It is, of course, also important that the training of parasport leaders is taken seriously by the municipal boards and boards for sport. There is also no access to facilities where these young people can train. Adapted tools are not available either, and often they are paid for by the family – which can be felt. The responsibilities of municipalities are thus great. Swedish parasporters have had many successes in international competitions, and we have seen this in a very happy way. This has happened despite the fact that paraelite athletes have completely different conditions than those who do not have a disability. Of course, it is about economic conditions and also about access to training facilities and aids, among other things. All children and young people need to be activated, and people with disabilities may benefit even more because they are allowed to participate in a social context. Here society has a great responsibility to remove all insurmountable obstacles together so that we can get more people to continue to practice or get back to the parasports. Madam President, I would like Proximity to sports and outdoor activities is important for more people to have the opportunity to be active. It can be about proximity to sports fields, outdoor gyms or access to ski tracks in a nearby natural area. Society should be planned in a way that makes it easier for people to exercise and be out in nature. It is therefore important to take into account the needs of sport and outdoor life in community planning. More attention needs to be paid in many places to the need for sports areas. To achieve this, municipalities need to have great freedom to find creative solutions based on local conditions. It is therefore important to have a dialogue with the sports movement so that what is being built is also what is being demanded and needed. It also deals with issues such as lighting and safe roads to these places, which is particularly important from the perspective of gender equality. No one shall have to refrain from participating in activities in order to be perceived as insecure. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to add that we in the Center Party think that the question of the tourism industry and major international sporting events is positive for Sweden. We think that Sweden should arrange more major international sports events. For this to be possible, a long-term national strategy needs to be developed, and that work needs to start now.
i-WJoc3eyrWUDYkGfHFqXMeQ	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered today by Minister Matilda Ernkrans, Minister for Social Affairs Lena Hallengren, Minister for Education Anna Ekström and Minister Johan Danielsson. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. The Government Matilda Ernkrans answers both general policy questions and questions within its own area of responsibility.
i-XzFfQH8MZzBRbi3Ys6NZfD	Madam President, I would like Pleasure marriage sounds great. But mission review revealed that it is religiously sanctioned leash. It's sex trafficking, it's human trafficking and it's disgusting. It is also sponsored with grants from Swedish tax crowns. The authorities have to get to the bottom of this information. Not a single chandelier should go to associations in parallel societies that cynically and systematically exploit women. We can't turn a blind eye to this anymore. We must stand up for equality, democracy and human rights for all in Sweden. The Moderates have long proposed a complete review of the contributions to associations and organisations and want to see a ban on contributions to ethnic associations. But what does the government want? So far, we haven't seen anything.
i-PmUkXMjM2HzTBb5ig4dBvY	Madam President, I would like I and the government absolutely share the view that this is completely indecent. It is also prohibited by law – not least the minister responsible has stated that pandering is prohibited by law. We shall stand up for women's rights and equality; there need be no doubt whatsoever. That is also why one of the priority areas for the Social Democratic Government, led by Magdalena Andersson, is to reverse every stone to break segregation and ensure that we can build an entire society. Women's and girls' rights are absolutely central here.
i-U7GBNED3w2M1tt8d85ypZ6	Madam President, I would like The fact that men consider themselves to have the right to own women while the banner of equality flies high without anything being done is indeed hypocrisy at a high level. It is time to strangle the contributions to ethnic associations. We're supposed to promote community and democracy-- not cement alienation. The Moderates have long proposed this. I want to know when the government intends to support it.
i-VNJFGb3saQn2K18t55PBTa	Madam President, I would like Women's and girls' rights and gender equality are high on the government's agenda. This is a social democratic hallmark for many years. It is also Sweden that stands up for gender equality, not only here at home in Sweden but also in large parts of the world. This is more important than ever. We should not have parallel societies in Sweden. What is forbidden is forbidden, and laws must be observed.
i-XWALXiLGecV8V1CRvGvS9g	Madam President, I would like Those who have worked and worked a whole career will have a dignified old age and a good pension; I think many of us in this House agree with that. Therefore, there are now two pension proposals on the table – the government's proposal and the opposition's proposal. A lot of numbers are being thrown away. Which proposal benefits who most? What's the best idea for me? The only figure that more than a million pensioners need to relate to is the figure 0. There is so much they will get if the government's proposals go through. Why is that? Well, that's because the opposition's proposal costs 15 billion and the government's proposal 10 billion. The government thus saves SEK 5 billion by excluding more than a million pensioners from raising pensions. Madam President, I would like Why does the government want to exclude a million pensioners from this increase?
i-PzE6r4EEFWxZgb6E7Sxsdx	Madam President, I would like It is to be welcomed that the right-wing parties are at last involved in the debate and are even putting forward proposals to increase the income of pensioners, not least those who are the most deprived. However, this is a pension increase that is well late; it is probably the least you can say. In short, Henrik Vinge cannot say anything other than that it is half as large and that only half as many receive the maximum amount compared to the Government's proposal. An important effort is now being made to come up with proposals that will benefit pensioners before the elections and not the next parliamentary term.
i-5UQ3dKC9DQiwwY2rkXfwg5	Madam President, I would like We have long extended our hand to the Social Democrats and said: Should we not resolve the issue of pensions? But the Social Democrats have said no. Then a proposal has been put forward which is severely slimmed down and which half of Sweden's pensioners are not even allowed to take part in. We are now putting forward a proposal which costs 5 billion more, which reaches everyone and which we will get through in Parliament with or against the will of the government. Is the government now prepared to take a hand and say that we are going to raise pensions for all pensioners, or are we going to exclude this more than a million, as has been said from the outset?
i-HHCQfoXnNJaC8HGUuCFhJc	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the opportunity to clarify this. There's a retirement group. It is incredibly important that it has the opportunity to continue working, so that we deal with the issue of pensions as the long-term issue it is. I understand that the Swedish Democrats have been on the Social Democrats, because so much support from the right parties has not been there before to raise pensions. Let us now hope that it is possible to achieve an increase in pensions, not least before the elections. This is, of course, the proposal that the government has put forward.
i-6Q1kJj5cp6jGeqJZpeki75	Madam President, I would like Cold facts have revealed how the municipal primary school Sorgenfriskolan in Malmö has separated children from their classes for at least ten years in a way that is contrary to the law. In a small room on the fourth floor, without windows, children were placed who seemed to interfere with the teaching or not to follow. It was the storage of children, if I'm going to describe it honestly, says a teacher. Another says that these children received teacher - led lessons at most a couple of times a month. For ten years the school has repeatedly received criticism, but nothing has happened. Many of the children placed in this way have gone out with failed grades, of course, and are today convicted of crimes. Malmö's Social Democratic government has been responsible for the school in Malmö for decades. Few municipalities have as many pupils who leave school without permission. In several schools this has happened year after year, not least because they have not been able to reach this type of student. However, the Minister for Education has on several occasions highlighted Malmö as a municipality of success when it comes to school. It is remarkable, and it makes me worried about the view of those students who need the most support.
i-2L5X4hegh1G1FWH6hDQgtN	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Paarup-Petersen-Petersen, for the question! There is no doubt that children and students who attend Swedish schools will receive the support they need. With or without diagnosis, children who need support in various forms should also receive this support. The school law is clear and unambiguous. The School Act is also clear and unambiguous that this is a principal responsibility. It is a responsibility that the municipal or the independent principal should not but should live up to. We have been reached over the years by several examples that this has not happened. The money has gone to other things – perhaps to dividends abroad. This is why the government has tightened up the rules and just recently put a proposal on the Riksdag's table on strengthening support and strengthening opportunities to work, for example, with special teaching groups, resource schools and other things. Children and students should receive the support they need; there should be no doubt about it. Nor should there be any doubt that this is the responsibility of the principal.
i-FPE6XJNp3tBMnBz27Ncfm5	Madam President, I would like It's definitely a primary responsibility. What is a bit remarkable here is that the Minister himself has raised this particular principal as a success story. This principal has more or less Sweden record in not succeeding in getting students to pass school. It is therefore very relevant to hear what makes the Minister think that this is a success. In addition, it would be interesting to hear from the Minister, who has lifted this municipality specifically, how it would be possible to require more, for example, of the municipalities, to make them succeed better when they fail to deliver year after year.
i-4khCR987fhvCcKZ7sfwvUv	Madam President, I would like The reason why I and many others have lifted Malmö City, Malmö Municipality, is that Malmö has taken on a huge responsibility. We all know that Malmö was one of the cities that really rolled up the sleeves and took a very big responsibility when it came to the large group of new arrivals that came to Sweden around 2015. I will continue to give recognition and support to those municipalities that take their main tasks very seriously. This is the municipality of Malmö.
i-GLw6AjEkcuF8AEW6Xj4See	Madam President, I would like According to a report on older people's work environment released by the Swedish Work Environment Agency a few weeks ago, more and more people say that they are unable to work until retirement. Women and those working in education, health care and construction feel that they are unable to work until the normal retirement age to a greater extent than others. It is of course not surprising, given the high demands and the very small possibilities to influence the work. You have a bad working environment with negative stress, unclear goals in your business and so on. The big question will be: What does the Government think about the fact that more and more people are unable to work until the normal retirement age, when one still thinks that one should constantly increase the retirement age?
i-v9pV5efk66r3fBjvuZkAP	Madam President, I would like I thank Ciczie Weidby for the question. It is clear that a central part of the government's work environment work is to ensure that people can, want and are able to work until retirement. As far as many of the factors mentioned by Ciczie Weidby are concerned, there are shortcomings in systematic work environment management at companies. As the Agency itself has pointed out, the Swedish Work Environment Authority has less opportunity to go in with harsh sanctions and the like when there are shortcomings in systematic and preventive work environment work compared with, for example, when there are physical defects in the work environment. This is why the Government has set up an investigation that looks at how to give the Swedish Work Environment Authority the opportunity to come up with sanctions linked to systematic work environment work, which concerns, for example, musculoskeletal injuries and the psychosocial work environment. These are growing health and safety problems, especially in women-dominated sectors of the labour market.
i-KCbFfC3VY42tmB2dLRXQKY	Madam President, I would like I have also heard the Government talk about the fine ambitions, the work environment strategies that are being written and the investigations that are being put in place. But they are not worth much more than the paper they are written on unless concrete proposals are put forward to improve the working environment for these people, so that they can work until retirement age. I wonder: What more concrete proposals for people to be able to work up to retirement will the Riksdag have a say on?
i-U3y2hws3yA7SbBF8dCMDQP	Madam President, I would like The Government has consistently spent eight years providing more resources to the Swedish Work Environment Authority to strengthen work environment management. We have successively contributed large amounts of money to the public sector, including health care, in order, among other things, to improve the working environment. With regard to the concrete legislative changes that we now have under investigation, we must first set up the investigation, then receive the investigation proposals and then return to the Riksdag with proposals for legislative amendments. That's the whole purpose of us setting up these investigations.
i-LjDsQMmhGCVFTPNE1phyL7	Madam President, I would like About 145 000 people are currently in the care queue longer than the health guarantee allows. In order to hijack the healthcare queues, the Christian Democrats have put forward a proposal for a national health care agency. Simply put, this means that a web portal should be established where patients and caregivers can see where there is available care capacity. Happily, the proposal was supported in Parliament when our budget went through. We also sent a money to cover the patient's travel expenses. This allowance is necessary for everyone to be able to afford to use the health care agency. However, Madam President, when the government recently presented how they will implement the proposal, it turned out that they chose to introduce the travel allowance only next year. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Social Affairs: do the government and the Social Democrats believe that it is reasonable for the size of the wallet to determine who can receive care on time?
i-EA1R2ShutWqTCiwn2Z75wU	Madam President, I would like I thank Pia Steensland for the question. No, care should be given as needed and not on any other basis. Nevertheless, it is a bit naive to think that the problem and the challenge of ensuring that people receive care as needed would be a support for travelling between regions. It is, however, about resources and more competence. It is also about the system to be developed by the E-Health Agency so that it can easily be found if there is spare capacity in any other region. The regions need this type of aid. Of course, you are not supposed to have to give up because you cannot finance the trip. But I think that Pia Steensland might reduce the problem if she thinks it is a matter of additional resources to travel between regions.
i-TzbNHzZxZGXYFXN35DjcUR	Madam President, I would like This is what the Riksdag has requested: that the government introduce the national health services and that the patient should receive travel expenses in order to benefit from the system. My question remains: why has the government chosen not to proceed with the travel allowance now? Is it reasonable that only the rich can seek care and that those who are economically disadvantaged must wait to receive care?
i-BXoPbArmvcTjsHVUcNnTNN	Madam President, I would like There is no indication that this would be the way Pia Steensland says, namely that a travel allowance would be the reason. However, it will be introduced – but not this year – because national health services must have a system to find where the available capacity is and because the regions must be able to cope with the situation. Another tip is to ensure that care is provided on time in all the regions where the Christian Democrats are in charge.
i-9QspynsDPxePGBfYiikHd5	Madam President, I would like My question is addressed to Minister of Social Affairs Lena Hallengren. When will the issue of financing so-called orphan drugs be resolved? It is a matter of the EU Medicines Control Agency and the Swedish Medicines Control Agency that are consensual to those of our patients who have certain specific rare diseases. They are therefore considered to be adequate for treatment. The reason is that Sweden does not consider itself able to afford these medicines. This is very offensive, and it is urgent to resolve the issue. That is why I am asking about the time aspect.
i-Aobi8Bb77MJGw1h5h1Ebwb	Madam President, I would like I thank Mr Westerholm for an incredibly important issue. It is also a very complicated issue. Of course, Barbro Westerholm knows this with his background, but also all the Members, not least in the Committee on Social Affairs, who are trying to understand how we price our medicines so that we can afford to provide care as needed with all the medicines available but also have the opportunity to take in new medicines. Of course, we want all available research to deliver results that are available to patients. I would like to point out that over the last five years the state's funding has increased from just under SEK 26 billion to almost SEK 35 billion. So there are large increases. I have not seen any additional contributions from any of the other parties in Parliament. However, it is also important that we be able to grant medicines on the basis of principles that are clear and transparent and that last over time. Of course, this is something we need to look at further to ensure that we provide care as needed. However, I cannot give Mr Westerholm today a timetable for when a possible review could be completed.
i-Qvd3DGnGNSd9RBfecqLUae	Madam President, I would like The Dental and Pharmaceutical Benefits Agency has ideas on how to solve this, but you need a government mission. We can afford to deal with the misuse of drugs in public health. We're going to have equal care. Everyone's needs must be met.
i-cvZbR9FHcUTA7ABRpbEhy	Madam President, I would like I agree that we should have equal care and that we should have care as needed, as previously said. Not many weeks ago I had a meeting with the Swedish Municipalities and Regions, Lif and TLV just to get a dialogue, and this dialogue continues. I look forward to not least Barbro Westerholm but also other Members of Parliament participating in this work, because it is complicated to price medicines. However, the aim is for those who need a medicine to have it and that we also have room to take in new medicines.
i-JFB1PmS6aAosdvKBtE8A7p	Madam President, I would like Sweden needs a new gender law and that now. A new, modern gender law is of vital importance to the people concerned. Only in the government declaration last September did the then Social Democratic Prime Minister Stefan Löfven promise that a new law would be in place before the autumn elections. There were many of us who at the time made a sigh of relief. But now the worry is back. The election is only four months away, and the government seems to be stuck in the examination of the referrals received at the beginning of February. Time passes, and the situation, especially for young transgender people, does not improve.
i-Swh4RQb1VcGSfCdw8Muty3	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Emma Hult, for the question! I think my answer is the same as when I was last asked whether it was at Question Time or in an interpellation, I leave it unsaid. Then I said that there had been very extensive comments in the consultation process, and we must be able to prepare these further. The ambition is to put forward proposals for new legislation before the end of the term of office, and that is a promise that sounds like before, I think.
i-J4VnND7fHrLvqiNXCuwY3q	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. The Government may also specify proposals for new legislation. Is this about a new law or a council referral before the election? I think many people want to know what the government's timetable is. I hope to see at least a Council of Law referral, if we do not get a new law in place, which was the promise that Stefan Löfven made.
i-uoSpQLeGsysijQz1NeoMP	Madam President, I would like That is exactly what the idea is. Proposals for new legislation are another way of saying legislative referral – thank you for the opportunity to clarify it – and it comes before the end of the mandate.
i-D6UpuH1TSYw4BEWMbvu8J4	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Hallengren. Both the Swedish Agency for Health and Welfare Analysis and Dagens Nyheter have shown that there are private care providers that allow private insured patients to take the lead in gender in the publicly funded healthcare sector. So there will be different waiting times for those who can pay for themselves and those who cannot get out of their wallet. This makes me and many others anxious and upset. A number of bourgeois parties, not least the Moderates, do not see this problem.
i-EPmfePNnDPViE3wKBB2hEF	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Sofia Amloh, for the question. As has already been said here a few times before, care should be given as needed and not on any other basis. Healthcare companies should not be able to divide patients into A and B teams, nor should they be able to ensure that private health insurance takes precedence over those with public funding. We have therefore presented a proposal that will increase the conditions for checking that someone with private health insurance does not take precedence. One could imagine that this is quite obvious and that most would nod in agreement, but that is not the case. That is why it is up to evidence when the proposal is presented, not least for moderates and Swedish democrats. The question will come up in Parliament later and not least in the elections this autumn. Then it is important to be clear that care should be given as needed. As a social democrat, I cannot see that we have any other guiding principle than that.
i-GyD2N1is1KF575MWSQa6qd	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. This is a first step, as we Social Democrats see it. Does the Government see that the Government will have to do more to ensure that it is the need that should be superior and governing in Swedish welfare?
i-KY8vttFvVohXjrfVAZfhfH	Madam President, I would like I think that the last word is definitely not said but that we must always be prepared to test the proposals that exist to ensure that care is provided as needed. I find it deeply upsetting that anyone who can afford and is healthy enough to take out a private health insurance policy has the opportunity to take the lead. That's exactly what's happening. Why else would you take out a private health insurance policy? There should be a common outrage among all 349 Members, as is the case with the Swedish people.
i-WMc6DTs9nhgnGSaVzxhssj	Madam President, I would like We Moderates are currently implementing a housing policy project that we have chosen to call the Architecture trip. We visit different parts of Sweden to learn more about good and less good examples of how citizens' influence has been in new construction and renovations in terms of architecture. We believe that the common man is not opposed to its construction but may object to what is being built. According to Sifo, 70 per cent of Swedes prefer to live in houses that look like those built in the late 1800s and early 1900s. At the same time, very few such houses are being built today. Therefore, when we form a new moderate-led government this autumn, we would like to ask Sweden's National Architect to present proposals on how more account can be taken of citizens' preferences regarding architecture. It would serve two purposes: that what is being built is considered more attractive to citizens and that building can be increased by fewer appeals.
i-UvDTBaAecPhuCC1jEQYRo5	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Viktor Wärnick, for the question! Creating sustainable and good habitats is of course extremely important for people's well-being in the new residential areas that are emerging. During its time in power, the government has developed a policy for shaped habitats, which is now also seen as an example in the rest of Europe as they look at how to proceed with this type of policy. What are the concrete proposals of the Moderates to strengthen the citizens' entry into this? Is it that you should take part of a proposal from the National Architect, or is it that you should get a better dialogue in the municipalities? I think it is extremely important that municipalities have as close a dialogue as possible with citizens when planning new residential areas, not only about the location but also about the architectural design of these areas.
i-2dLpvuZVtY76D5eaEGgWH8	Madam President, I would like Maternity care is today in severe crisis. From north to south, there are reports of staff shortages and poor working environment. Childbirth workers and midwives resign from their services to get a holiday, not least after the pandemic. Departments are forced to close because of staff shortages. We read about car births, birth injuries and children born with injuries due to staff shortages. The SVT's mission's review stated that 2.2 billion out of almost 6 billion dedicated tax funds to maternity care has not been reported the other week. It also showed that projects and initiatives have been made that are not even related to maternity care. Distributing billions without requiring a report is bad, and again the government tends to blame regions and SKR. Is the Minister of Social Affairs and the feminist government really satisfied after these eight years in view of the situation in maternity care? Do you think that the government has been responsible with tax money?
i-2ER5BJ2Yi3nS6zy3Styv3M	Madam President, I would like I thank Linda Lindberg for a substantial question. There are so many dimensions in it that I almost don't know where to start. General government subsidies are needed. Sometimes we also need to target state subsidies in order to achieve a certain effect, and it is of course important that we have a follow-up of them. Then I would like to oppose the description that the government would blame municipalities and regions. The regions are, of course, head of health care, and I think that it should be ensured out of pure self-preservation that we use all the billions that the government has proposed to Parliament to decide to send out so that they go to health care. Childbirth care is an example, but this is symptomatic for the entire health care system, if it is so that the money does not go to what it is intended for. That is, of course, the intention. They should not be in the pocket of anyone or given out in bonuses, but should of course be used for what they are intended for. When it comes to maternity care, large funds have been provided for women's health, a large part of which is for maternity care. I very much hope that this is a reflection.
i-XkfSr9U4azAsEEhAzhDBxx	Madam President, I would like Existing projects within the European Regional Development Fund have been given an opportunity for extension thanks to various measures and a call from the Swedish Agency for Growth. However, this requires the necessary amendment of the Regulation and the introduction of an exchange rate adjustment. These decisions have been taken by the government, including in the budget bill. The problem is that the cases are not handled at the Government Office. Therefore, although decisions have been taken, existing projects cannot be extended and may have to be closed down. My question to Minister Ernkrans is therefore: When can you expect a reply, and how long does the Government think it should take to process decisions at the Government Office?
i-N7vou7qbD9pxzoPJYGk6vM	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Rickard Nordin, for the question! It is perhaps a question that is at a very detailed level when it comes to being able to answer at a horizontal level. I would like to make it clear from the government that it is clear that the decisions taken will also be dealt with. This must be an important message for those concerned. There are decisions taken that will facilitate this situation.
i-2ppU5j4ZMUur4vBKPvFYxy	Madam President, I would like The world is in an exceptional position. Even before the pandemic we saw how rich became richer while populist, conservative and patriarchal leaders weakened democracy in several countries and the number of violations of human rights increased, along with poverty and hunger. The Pandemine reinforced this, and when we had lived with it for two years, Putin's Russia began the large-scale war against Ukraine. Sweden's support for the world's most vulnerable, which is a growing group, is needed more than ever, and then the government chooses to announce indefensible high bills on aid, this despite the fact that several agreements have already been concluded. Not only are several lifesaving projects closed down, but the recipients' trust in Sweden is decreasing. Can they trust that Sweden, which has more billionaires than ever, is at its word?
i-5iDkkKe5uLkB1tHVs1jy7R	Madam President, I would like Sweden is very good at international solidarity. We are one of the countries in the world – top three – that helps to reduce poverty around the world, even now that our solidarity is facing a new major humanitarian crisis on our continent, namely the war in Ukraine. There, of course, we take responsibility for the women and children, above all, who are on the run and who come to Sweden. With this responsibility too, Sweden is top three when it comes to contributing international solidarity in the world. I think that we, also in the Swedish Parliament, have a responsibility to tell and talk about this.
i-WiP2RvrLUUJNpky65bivef	Madam President, I would like The government has set a ceiling for international aid payments of 9.2 billion in this year. Now the government is demanding that Sida break agreements with civil society organisations, which in turn are forced to break hundreds if not thousands of agreements with their partner organisations around the world. In what way does the Government intend to restore Sweden's confidence as a country that can be trusted, in relation to the world's poorest, to environmentalists and human rights defenders in countries where democracy is tight and which suddenly become unsupported, to young people who do not receive sex education and to girls in the third world who become pregnant and are forced to leave school because there is no longer contraception?
i-CUCuqkDtruFMvmgByB2mRF	Madam President, I would like Sweden is a country you can trust, at least as long as we have Magdalena Andersson as Prime Minister and the Social Democrats in the lead, because we stand up to give 1% of our economic well-being to aid. This is what we are doing now, and we are top three in the world. Only Sweden, Norway and Luxembourg stand up for this aid and for the work we do around the world. I say Sweden now, because what should concern the Christian Democrats more, Gudrun Brunegård, is that you have teamed up with and want to form a government with the Moderates, with Ulf as Prime Minister. The Moderates want to take our aid framework down to 0.7 and then make settlements. The Swedish Democrats, who are also your friends, want to halve the aid budget. This should be a concern that concerns the Christian Democrats more than how the Social Democrats stand up for international solidarity.
i-CZaYzUPuJrqMXpyq3U5hXw	Madam President, I would like Swedish school today has many challenges. We have a lack of quality in many places, and we have a lack of access to trained and qualified teachers. Students who most need to meet trained and qualified teachers are not allowed to do so in many vulnerable areas. We also have a lack of studies at school. We must do everything from political society, parliament and government to recruit and retain teachers in municipalities and free schools and also to raise the status of the profession. One initiative has been the State Teacher's Salary Lift. The other day the Swedish National Agency for Education announced something that I would like to call a hafsverk, and the government quickly announced that the support should be scaled down from SEK 3 to SEK 2, 1 and perhaps SEK 0, which should be paid to the municipalities instead of to teacher salaries.
i-M1K2bWy8ioc8LevempX3rt	Madam President, I would like This is an issue that falls within the remit of Minister Lina Axelsson Kihlblom, but I can say from the government overall that the importance of well-trained and qualified teachers is almost impossible to overestimate. We have a problem with teacher shortages in Sweden. For this reason, the government has provided large funds to contribute, for example, to raising teachers' salaries. This has been an unusual way of working, but it has been done because the needs have been great and the problems have had a significant impact on school opportunities. The government will continue to work to strengthen the attractiveness of the teaching profession, not least through the professional programmes developed in cooperation with the January parties. The government will follow this issue closely. I am content to answer horizontally because this is a question that belongs to Lina Kihlblom's area of responsibility, but I thank Roger Haddad for the question.
i-QFapKuxL5nzptWeaY47YP3	Madam President, I would like In our welfare society, we have been able to access frightening data about 170 lex Maria notifications in the last three years about serious health injuries in childbirth. Some sixty children have died, and for twelve of the reports, injuries have been declared to be due to a high workload. I have to say, I'm tired of the way we treat women's care. I'm also tired of getting upset about something that really goes without saying. My question goes to Minister Lena Hallengren. What measures can the Government consider to take to raise women's health and especially more time to work evidence-based and on the basis of the healthy and normal of the woman giving birth?
i-KuGnQUFsbAHvkxczi37Jc3	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Margareta Fransson, for the question! It is clear that it engages not only in this House but in society as a whole. I would like to say that there is still an emphasis on women's care. This is done out in the regions, and it is also done through the special initiative that the government has had an agreement with the Swedish Municipalities and Regions since 2015. That is 8 1⁄2 billion, as we heard on a previous issue here. There is a lot of money to be spent properly. And maternity care should be seen as part of an entire chain. The National Board of Health and Welfare has been tasked with developing guidelines and also looking at, for example, how the demand and supply of midwives looks short-term and long-term to ensure the necessary staff skills. But we need to go on and do more. This applies to the care as a whole, and this applies not least to maternity care and to the care of women. It is therefore important that we continue to provide financial support, but not least that we ensure that we have the necessary skills in the future.
i-DC6PLjqjqtMn2cv5eSmhsX	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Danielsson. Labour crime is a major problem in Sweden. People are being exploited, and society's resources are being lost to the wrong places. And serious companies find it difficult to cope with competition when the grey and black business expands. Of course, we can't have this. That is why the strong initiatives taken by the government in this area are very important. I am particularly pleased that one of the first regional centres for cooperation against labour crime will open in Gothenburg in just a few months' time. One problem that both the cooperating authorities and the social partners highlight is that the current rules of secrecy make cooperation more difficult and the fight against labour crime less effective.
i-DJE6nDMHo4tEon81EZyqt6	Madam President, I would like I thank Anna Johansson for the question. Confidentiality is, indeed, a recurring issue linked to the joint work of the public authorities against labour crime. The Government has therefore instructed the cooperating authorities to develop methodological support to make use of the space available under the current legislation. This is something that the authorities themselves have asked for because they believe there is room for more information to be exchanged within the framework of current legislation. At the same time, we have an investigation looking at which legislative changes need to be made to remove unjustified confidentiality barriers. The investigation will be completed by summer. The aim is precisely to remove the unjustified confidentiality barriers that remain. We also recently included the Swedish Work Environment Authority in the regulation on data obligations linked to organised crime. This means that eight out of nine authorities working together against occupational crime are also included in the Data Obligations Regulation and in some cases have a duty to provide information. So we are trying to do as much as we can in as many areas as possible.
i-T5qeh1wXjTJPQsUoUN4Ehd	Madam President, I would like We are many who are really upset about the revelations in the Mission review that Shia Muslim imams in Sweden against payment are devoted to women who are bought by men. Unfortunately, I, who have fled Islam's woman-degrading dictator, are not surprised that Shia Muslim imams around Sweden sell women to men for payment. This should not be allowed to happen in our democracy. This would certainly not be acceptable if the Church of Sweden or other organisations had done so. It's time to stop this. For 14 years, I've been running this in different ways. But I haven't heard about it. Now I wonder when the government, and indeed all parties, will take the lead in stopping tax revenue going to this and also stopping the influence of dictatorships. These activities are nothing but the humiliation of women that I have been fighting for years.
i-9ZoJhw6ycoKXb6dqBFuMex	Madam President, I would like I thank Amineh Kakabaveh for this question. Your long-term commitment to these issues is well known. And I just want to repeat what I have said in response to a previous question that this is criminal activity and that criminal activity should not receive any subsidies. That is my opinion. We absolutely must stand behind women's and girls' rights and their right to decide over their own body and make their own choices. And, as I said, this is criminal. This is not allowed in Sweden, and of course we must take this seriously and ensure that we comply with the laws and regulations that we have in our country.
i-T5XFoCSuVtA7K5gwxoQ2Gc	Madam President, I would like Some time ago, the government handed over the lex Lilla heart bill to the Riksdag. In particular, we missed the important proposal to make the child a legal object of its own. The Minister of Social Affairs said that the new provisions on drug testing are particularly important. This is about children that society is forced to take care of because their parents do drugs, abuse drugs. Even with the Government's proposal, it can mean that children are returned to their guardians without society having been able to ensure that they are actually drug-free. We Moderates demand that these drug tests become mandatory – not possible and thus voluntary, as the government proposes. Why is the government not prepared to do its utmost for the safety and safety of children, and why does the government propose that these drug tests should be voluntary and not mandatory?
i-LiX855Aqet2GD4jGrXz4XD	Madam President, I would like I thank Camilla Waltersson Grönvall for a question in the span that we have discussed many times – the Social Services Act as a whole but also the part that has come to be called the lex Little Heart. We have made great efforts there in recent years since the terrible situation that struck Little Heart when she was to be returned to her biological parents and one simply could not follow up. They didn't have the tools they needed. Just what Camilla Waltersson Grönvall describes has been one of the important issues for the government to include in the bill, namely that if a child is cared for because of abuse and not least drug abuse in the biological home, it must be ensured that this situation has ended. And this situation must have ended permanently. It is not possible to take a test once, but to ensure that this situation has changed permanently and permanently. Then it will be necessary to do drug tests. That is my answer to that question.
i-RdagpVK2Dqpg6tpQCVAw9y	Madam President, I would like Ever since Russia's ruthless invasion of Ukraine, the message from President Zelenskyj has been clear. They need more drugs, more medical equipment, humanitarian aid and more weapons. Sweden has assisted with more weapons, which is positive, despite the initial resistance of the Social Democrats. Sweden has provided assistance and medical equipment. However, problems have emerged, and over two months ago it turned out that, because of bureaucratic rules, there were obstacles to sending medicines to Ukraine. Unfortunately, even though the government has said that this would be dealt with quickly or urgently, nothing seems to have happened. And the fact is that the government's slowness can be a matter of life or death.
i-Jye8pX4JgvhPYidCvPnp6j	Madam President, I would like I thank Markus Wiechel for the question. Actually, I don't know where Markus Wiechel is getting his information. But the picture that he is drawing is not correct at all. On the contrary, Sweden has assisted with both military equipment and pharmaceuticals, protective equipment and protective equipment, and we have done so very quickly. We have ensured that we also respond to the needs of Ukraine that they have. It is coordinated by MSB, and the Swedish Medical Products Agency and the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare assist to ensure that it is not too old medicines or anything else wrong with them and that it is what you have really requested and that you need. I do not, therefore, recognize at all the image that Markus Wiechel gives. On the contrary, Sweden is assisting, and we will continue to do so as a matter of urgency.
i-7GhG1ACgfe6n9qepYjeJfv	Madam President, I would like My question, too, concerns the historically large sums of money from Swedish aid. I do not think anyone in this House thinks it is wrong for us in Sweden to accept refugees from the Ukraine of the war. I think we can all stand up in this House because it is worth paying for it. But, Madam President, it is possible to ask whether it is worth taking the cost from Swedish aid when the situation in the world is worse than for a very long time. With a climate crisis, with a startling food crisis and a major startling famine on the Horn of Africa with widespread conflicts, the need is greater than for a very long time. Madam President, I would like It is difficult to limit oneself to a question that we are going to do during Question Time, because I would have liked to ask how one sees that it is precisely the Swedish bilateral aid that is being hit relatively hardest. I wonder how you have thought about doing this during this year when you are already working. However, one question that I think it is good that we are getting answers to in this House is why the government, when the forecast from the Migration Board has changed, cannot change and cut back on the calculations.
i-fFXxR2f4GndTWz3BAJnP7	Madam President, I would like The first thing I will say is that we have a war in Europe and a major refugee crisis. It is not something for which it was budgeted, and it is, of course, something that is not desirable – but it is still necessary to deal with it. To call the historically great counting is to take big words in your mouth; we know that we have had exceptional situations at an earlier time, namely during the Syrian crisis. At that time, 22% of the aid framework was settled. If it is the case that we need to use the calculations we have now announced, we do not know yet, but a recent forecast from the Migration Board points rather the other way. We would land on 18% of the aid framework. We can add that, not least during the bourgeois years, under the alliance government, both 10 and 12 per cent of aid was accounted for over many years. I even think that it was a minister of aid who had to resign because aid money had been used to pay both the minister's and the secretary of state's salary. There's no such thing now.
i-EHj4xreYCDEgahmi6LdUha	Madam President, I would like My question today is general, and so I turn to Matilda Ernkrans. Sweden is a fantastic country, but it is a large country where we have different conditions. In recent years we have seen how authorities have withdrawn, such as Försäkringskassan and Arbetsförmedlingen. The police don't always come when you call, especially in the countryside. We see how the roads are getting worse and worse, which results in pushing down speed. We have seen fuel prices and electricity prices flashing, which hit the rural population much harder than those living in towns and cities. We also see how public transport does not work everywhere, and we see that the newspapers do not come out as often as people want when you start moving to the bi-day distribution. In short, we see an injustice emerging in Sweden. I wonder what the government intends to do to ensure that the whole country has the same good conditions as it has in the big cities.
i-XBprJrknTtv2Zf8g1HoBog	Madam President, I would like The Swedish government has three priorities in order for us to build this country stronger. We'll see to it that we take back control of welfare. This means that the welfare will work throughout the country. We're going to create jobs through climate change. With more jobs, more people get into work, which means that we can strengthen welfare. We will also make sure to turn over every stone to break the segregation. This means that people do not get caught up in exclusion, but instead can be part of our society and contribute. These are our answers, which we hope will give four new years with Magdalena Andersson as Prime Minister for Sweden.
i-9gZnLQAJLw19sRVa71aoVa	Madam President, I would like The supply of skills is one of the biggest challenges for Swedish companies, for Swedish competitiveness and, in the long run, for Swedish welfare. While we see a far too high long-term unemployment, companies around the country indicate that they find it difficult to recruit new staff. Where I live, in Jönköping County, a survey shows that 73 percent of the companies that want to hire have difficulty recruiting and that two out of ten recruitment attempts have completely failed in the last six months.
i-SZVmcR1JUyNuq8RFu9JtLM	Madam President, I would like I thank Johanna Haraldsson for a very important question. Around our country, new, green jobs are emerging in the wake of the efforts we are making to make Sweden the leader in climate change. We also see in the wake of the pandemic that we need to ensure that there is better preparedness and better human resources and skills provision in important parts of our well-being. All this is spelled skills supply. We have a shortage in the most important professions in Sweden, ranging from battery technicians to nurses. Then it takes us to educate more people. This is why the government has increased the number of training places by 160 000 in training courses leading to jobs through a historical boost in knowledge. We have put forward proposals at the Riksdag's table that are about strengthening the planning of upper secondary education in order for us to train for the jobs that are vacant, and we are moving forward with historical study support. It is one of many ways to turn the stones to make sure that Sweden can be the country that is growing.
i-WKBkRfj5iE5wsKoGCncQPp	Madam President, I would like In Sweden the right to abortion is strong, but at the same time Swedish abortion legislation has become obsolete. When the abortion law came into force in 1975, abortion was always a surgical procedure, and today 96 percent of abortions carried out in Sweden are medical. Many women who are going to have an abortion want to do the entire abortion at home, but this does not allow Swedish abortion legislation. With a view to strengthening women's self-determination and enabling abortion, we Moderates want to modernise abortion legislation. However, when our proposal was discussed in the Social Committee, the Social Democrats, among other things, felt that it should be rejected. According to S, there was no reason to propose any action from the Riksdag. In the run-up to the vote, however, the Social Democrats changed, and in the end all parties actually voted in favour of the Moderates' proposal. Now the government has to come up with a bill. Will the government do so during this term of office?
i-U8v4eiZDci4tNYnzEtJKfP	Madam President, I would like I think that the handling of this particular issue well shows some of the way in which Parliament is working these days, namely that a party is presenting proposals that are partly open-minded – and which also change during the course of its work. By open doors I mean that SBU has a mission from the government to review the issue and return with evidence. If we make changes, we want to make them with patient safety in focus. It may be wrong to say that the question is on the agenda, but it feels very topical. That is also what ended up when all the parties voted for a reservation; everyone in this House understands that it is a bit absurd, because that is not how it should be done. Something happened in the meantime, and there was a debate in which not everyone really recognized it. I can only speak on behalf of the Social Democrats in this case, but the fact that we would be against home abortions is a false picture. However, I think it is important that we have sufficient data and patient safety in focus. Four new years with the Social Democrats, and you will get your legislation, Johan Hultberg!
i-Q1rBmESXaVSdy3kMehtfzE	Madam President, I would like In 2019 there were 36 of them. By 2020 there were 27 of them. In 2021 there were 44, and until today there are 10 in 2022. The figures are the number of people who have lost their lives at work, Madam President. But it does not stop there, but 25 more have died on their job during this period. It is only that foreign workers who are active in Sweden but registered in other countries are reported separately. This is about 142 people who went to work but never came home again. Madam President, I would like We can note that the government's new strategy on health and safety at work is not working well. Political power over the workplace is given priority over inclusive work environment work for all employees active in Sweden. Safety representatives are lacking, and so-called regional safety representatives are denied access to workplaces that lack collective agreements or union membership – the workplaces that are most often in greatest need of support. My question therefore goes to Minister Johan Danielsson : Is the government satisfied with the outcome since they launched their new work environment strategy?
i-56fEasGYUE6dnHB7nvfu6Y	Madam President, I would like I thank Magnus Persson for the question. In the government, we will not be satisfied until we have achieved the zero vision and people are not killed in Swedish workplaces. That is why this government introduced a zero vision of fatal accidents at work. Then you have to hear a lot before your ears fall off. Here we hear that the regional safety ombudsmen do not have access to enough workplaces, but when we proposed in this House barely two years ago that the regional safety ombudsmen should even have access to the workplaces, we did not get the support of a majority in the parliament – thanks to the fact that the Swedish democrats were on the same side as their newly won comrades in the Moderates. The high proportion of foreign workers killed and the high number of fatal accidents in some sectors are due, among other things, to the widespread criminal activity we see in these sectors. Therefore, judge my surprise when I read the Swedish Democrats' election platform for the 2022 elections and the word
i-FWGupyj9wiykHLLNLiT3xi	Madam President, I would like The war in Ukraine clearly demonstrates the importance of robust, high and secure aid, which is used both for long-term development cooperation and humanitarian aid to save lives, alleviate distress and make other urgent efforts. The war has forced hundreds of thousands of people to flee. They flee their homes and now need help with food, medicines, and a place to sleep.
i-5M2NvoppVebeBvC7m55GKo	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question. Sweden has three focusses when it comes to Ukraine: We will support Ukraine, we will target sanctions against Russia and we will strengthen Sweden. To support Ukraine, we have contributed a great deal of humanitarian aid. I would also like to say that humanitarian aid has increased. Sweden provides more humanitarian aid in general to the world this year than we have done in previous years. We are now up to over 800 million in purely humanitarian aid to Ukraine. It is extremely important, not least in order to deal with the many refugees that exist within the country in Ukraine but also in the immediate region of Ukraine. Just now, together with Poland, we were also hosting a conference in which the international community jointly raised another SEK 60 billion for humanitarian aid in Ukraine. Sweden then contributed another 230 million, which we are now going to pay out in humanitarian aid. So we're contributing, absolutely!
i-FH6MpUj8umSdU2BpNnDjfB	Madam President, I would like Nine out of ten Swedes today live in a municipality with a housing shortage. Prices of small houses and flats have skyrocketed, and the queues of a tenancy run long. In Sweden of the Social Democrats, it is now only the one with a lot of money or good contacts who can get a place to live. Johan Danielsson has soon been Minister of Housing for six months but has not yet made a concrete proposal to the Riksdag on how to make it easier or cheaper or go faster to build new housing. My question to the Minister for Housing is when he intends to present some concrete policy to this House to facilitate more housing.
i-3np4vDaSU2o7ErJbwb19E8	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question, David Josefsson! It is good that we share the view that the widespread housing shortage in Sweden is a problem. It has been a priority for this government not only since I took office on 30 November but since we took office almost eight years ago. Then, after eight years with a moderate government, we had a building act of less than 20,000 homes per year. Now the forecast is that we will start over 60 000 homes this year. So social democratic politics has made a difference. Since 2018, we can see that we have begun to pick up on the housing deficit that has been built up because we have built too little for a long time. We also recently presented proposals to this House concerning, for example, certified construction design companies, to ensure that the obstacles involved in different municipalities impose different requirements on these companies are removed. This will lead to simplified and faster processes and increase the construction of both small and multi-detached houses. A safe living environment
i-96wcYYDCTAgteH5Q6y2pYE	Madam President, I would like It all starts with a good place to live. The Swedish Democrats do not intend to stand by while security disappears and more and more families live and children grow up in precarious conditions in ghetto-like areas. We have proposed some thirty measures to halt development. No criminal should stand in the way of creating safe homes. Even a property should not stand in the way of creating security if we are allowed to decide. The government has now been in office for almost eight years. Unfortunately, the measures taken by the government to create a good and safe living environment are easily counted. Individual housing companies have often done more for safety than the government. I would therefore like to ask Minister for Housing Johan Danielsson whether he is really prepared to lift every stone and also to accept the proposals of the Swedish Democrats and make it easier, for example, to evict criminals.
i-H8tKhVcv62rqYgK5BmJqZ3	Madam President, I would like Thank you to Mikael Eskilandersson for the question! It is indeed a priority for the Prime Minister and for this government to create greater security in these areas and break segregation. We have also done a lot during this parliamentary term. The key is, of course, to fight crime and the causes of crime. We have a historic investment in the police. We have a historic effort to tighten the penalties for the criminals being prosecuted. But we are also investing in increasing the security of these neighbourhoods. It is positive that Eskilandersson also draws attention to the positive examples that exist around the country where the public housing companies, many times in Social Democratic municipalities, are actively working to create security in the residential areas where they are permanently located. The government will continue to make suggestions on how to support this important work around Sweden.
i-P49c1paCrvLeBtM7nYqK1J	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Education Anna Ekström. Last week we had a research debate in this House. The Moderates were clear that research is important and should be prioritised, and other parties thought it was important – perhaps at a slightly different level. Unfortunately, there are now alarm reports from several areas that we lack doctoral students. We lack applications, both national and international to Sweden, which is a major concern. It causes us to reduce both our development and our innovation, and we are also being overtaken by other countries. A major concern for doctoral students can be the uncertainty about funding. Of course, we must find a solution to this so that we know that we have stable funding as researchers. After a public defence, you often stay within the academy or get a position within the municipality, region or business. There too, however, funding may be rather uncertain. Above all, one may not see the value of having a person who has a PhD. Of course, this must also be strengthened. My question to the Minister for Education is what she intends to do to make it more attractive to start research and to continue research. What the Minister of Education said earlier is important: the whole of Sweden must grow. This certainly also applies to research.
i-RVZfwKiaH4sChAbj9kAvKs	Madam President, I would like I want to start by agreeing with Marie-Louise-Louise Hänel Sandström that research is very important in solving the major societal problems, whether it is about being a leader in the climate transition, breaking segregation or building our Sweden stronger. Of course, it should be attractive to be a researcher as well. This is one of the reasons why the government, not least in the research proposals that have been put forward, has made sure to strengthen the possibility of having much better conditions of employment for researchers, to have qualifications that make it possible to combine, for example, being a parent of young children and to feel job security. There was much to be done here when the government took office, and we have strengthened both legislation and regulation texts as regards the possibility of creating qualifications. In addition, Madam President, we have recently received a report from the University Chancellor's Office on how the work is progressing in strengthening qualifications. The government intends to continue to do so. Sweden needs research, and Sweden needs researchers.
i-8frnZ38U7GxxMx4aeFpYWB	Madam President, I would like For a long time, Sweden's ruling politicians have pursued a completely irresponsible migration policy, which has led to our country's being in chaos today. Asylum seekers commit serious crimes. Expulsion decisions are not being followed. Criminals who seriously threaten the security of their citizens remain. The government's inability to control these individuals has cost innocent both suffering and death, including through the bestial double murder at Ikea in Västerås 2015, the incredible terrorist attack at Drottninggatan in Stockholm in 2017 and just the disgusting attempted murder in a mine hole in Norberg. How will the government ensure that the law is complied with, that unauthorised foreigners are prevented from committing serious crimes and that those to be expelled are effectively removed and banned from our country?
i-9Bt3LS6b3zJhdx4ixcXMcz	Madam President, I would like Yes, these are the Swedish Democrats, with whom the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Liberals intend to rule Sweden together. I want to be very clear: Sweden changed its migration policy in 2015 because it was necessary. We'll hold on to that rescheduling. But that said, Sweden is a country where everyone who is a citizen should comply with the laws and rules we have but also get the respect that every citizen of our country deserves. We have said as a government that we are taking the fight against not least segregation. We're gonna turn every stone around, and we're gonna build this community stronger. I am convinced that it is best done with a wise, Social Democratic female Prime Minister at the head – without Ulf and without the Swedish Democrats in the government.
i-M9UGu9pjqzaMMbb3BLAyN5	Madam President, I would like Today, 95% of rape reports are dropped. At the same time, the police warn that they do not have time to investigate all the reports that come in because of the excessive pressure caused by the gang shootings in Sweden. I think this is a disgrace to Sweden. I think it is a disgrace to all the women who are victims of sexual crimes today. The Moderates have put forward a battery of various suggestions to overcome this. Today, we have heard government representatives talking about the government having this as a priority and turning all the stones around. But in the meantime, more women and young girls are being sexually abused in Sweden and feel that they do not dare to report because nothing is happening. We are approaching the summer, and I would like all young women to dare to move. I wonder: what does the government intend to do about this?
i-X2VRP28WkF41AnKuJ4V9hg	Madam President, I would like We've tightened the penalties. We've opened two new police training courses. We're training more cops than ever. We have added resources to the Police Authority, which is twice the size of the alliance government. This really is something that is a priority of the government. We intend to continue that work. What the Moderates should think a little more about is that it's easy to be hindsight. It wasn't that you directly prioritised the police when you had the chance for eight years at the government. We've tightened the penalties. We've reinforced the resources for the police. We're training more cops than ever. This is something that we take very seriously and we intend to continue to do so.
i-CTYRpnHYMrysXHC9VdWJUJ	Madam President, I would like This is the last time this parliamentary term that we are debating sport and outdoor life, so it feels like it is appropriate to sum up the last few years, which have at times been quite turbulent in this area. The focus of the Left Party is to give both of these areas good opportunities to play a role in people's lives. It is about supporting the organised society but also about giving people the opportunity to do sports on their own, get better health and get out into nature. At the beginning of our term of office, we put forward proposals for a free sports school so that all children will have the same chance to try out sports, regardless of their parents' finances. I do not want politics to regulate the way associations work in detail, but spending taxpayers billions on sport is also a fair question of having an activity that is open to as many people as possible. I know, for example, that in my previous municipality of residence, a football club could keep the fees down to 200 kroner for the youngest children, while another association was as high as 1,500 kroner above it. There is a lot that depends on the attitude of leaders and boards. How often do you have to practice? What equipment is required? Is it possible to borrow equipment? What effort is required from the parents? Do you have to sell things to fund cups and camps? How do you invite a non-profit commitment from more people? I am pleased that the special sports federations see that these are issues that need to be worked on, so that the financial thresholds are lowered. It is also good that the government is interested in the grant model. We could read in the latest draft budget that the government believes that the current grant rules, as decided by the National Sports Federation, have resulted in a distribution that confirms and strengthens inequality and inequality in society in favour of socio-economically strong areas at the expense of areas with socio-economic challenges and for the benefit of boys' sports at the expense of girls' sports. They will have a close dialogue with the National Sports Federation on these issues, and we very much welcome that from the Left Party. But in many parts of the country you cannot bring more children into your business because there are no training times for more groups. We from the Left Party budgeted for investment aid to the municipalities, so that they could create new halls for sport and be able to renovate and make available the existing ones. We think it is important that the municipalities and associations also get help in thinking new about the design of sports areas. It is very easy to continue building as you have always done, and in smaller municipalities there can actually be decades between planning new halls. We therefore welcome the initiatives taken to review the issue of national aid similar to what exists in Denmark. But I would like to emphasise that the Danish local facility fund provides both financial support and creative support for planning for tomorrow's sports. We in Sweden also need to get both of these parts at national level. I see in today's report that we are four parties that raise the issue in different variants. What Angelika Bengtsson from the Swedish Democrats said earlier about the fact that they were the only ones about this is not true, but there are many parties that raise similar proposals. I hope that we can move forward on this issue in the future. Madam President, I would like Over the years, we have written several exercises on how to strengthen parasporten and review regulations for, for example, travel service so that more people with disabilities have the opportunity to practise and compete. For example, we want to investigate an earmarking of 10% of sports subsidies for parasports. I see that several parties have made proposals in this area today, and I am delighted. An important part of getting more people to see the parasports is the amazing role models that exist in the elites of the different sports. Most recently during the spring winter, in March, we were able to take part in the Paralympic Games in China when the Swedes won seven medals. It was very impressive. Good examples are therefore needed. Madam President, I would like It is not possible to make a speech on sport and outdoor life without touching the pandemic that has marked our lives during the mid-term term. Although we would prefer to forget the restrictions and limitations that we have had, I must, of course, say something about it because we will be living with the repercussions for a long time. It was very good that we could quickly agree politically on the need for substantial support for sport during the pandemic. Now it is important to be vigilant so that you can afford to restart without increasing the fees for children and young people. We must bring back those who have left sport during the pandemic, and we must attract more young people to move and find the joy of sport. At the same time, however, as organized sporting life got a big thorn, a new door was opened for outdoor organisations. When we could not easily do things in groups and not spend time with each other indoors in the same way, the need for access to outdoor activities increased. Travel restrictions also made many vacations in their immediate surroundings, resulting in a considerable increase in pressure on domestic destinations. We in the Left Party were quick to suggest increased resources to make available and care for the country's nature reserve, nature room, exercise tracks, hiking trails, mountain stations and so on. We also saw the need to spend money on increasing public transport in these areas so that more people could benefit from the country's beautiful nature as well as breaking the isolation during the pandemic and feeling better. The increased focus on outdoor life exposed certain shortcomings in our system. We could also see that in many parts of the country there was a lack of maintenance. Another indication was that many leaders in outdoor organizations were older and could not participate in the activities in the same way during the pandemic. The various organisations have pointed out that they want to recruit new leaders in order to rejuvenate and innovate, but they do not get the same benefits in terms of social security contributions that sports clubs receive. This is an injustice that we need to do something about. When we debated this a few weeks ago, I noted that we are three parties in the Riksdag that are pushing the issue, so I hope we can get on with it in the future. Madam President, I would like One of the ten national objectives of outdoor policy is a rich outdoor life in school. It is the only objective that has had a deterioration in development in recent years. The outdoor life days aren't that common anymore. The latest study from the Swedish School Inspectorate was carried out in 2012, and it showed that a very small proportion of the hours in the field of sport and health were devoted to outdoor activities. And the new curricula that come now no longer indicate that students should learn about the right of public access. We think this is an unfortunate development. This is a basic knowledge that children need to bring along during their school hours. The Left Party also believes that the Swedish National Agency for Education, which is the authority that could initiate proposals for improvements, further training and clarified assignments to school operators, needs to be designated as the responsible authority for the national goal A rich outdoor life in school to be achieved. Today, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency is the sole authority responsible for the case, which is unfortunate. In the Culture Committee we have recently worked on a follow-up of outdoor life policy, and then all parties agreed to the conclusion that we should give the Swedish National Agency for Education this responsibility. There is therefore now an opportunity to get to grips with this matter quickly. I therefore hope that, as I do today, you will be able to support reservation 21, which I support.
i-UKNc2W5G4YsFtzZVvV3apa	Madam President, I would like Madam President, I would like I support the Christian Democrats' reservation number 13. Before I go into sport and outdoor life, I would like to say something about the time we have experienced during the pandemic and how it has affected us all in terms of the importance of culture. Very many people have experienced the need for culture through the sad times we have experienced and recognised the enormous importance of culture for soul life and for the community. It is a great help in loneliness and as an inspiration to move forward, and we have received a large number of new so-called cultural consumers. Many, hopefully also our politicians both around the country and here in Parliament, see that without culture and the different areas of civil society, we perish as citizens. Thankfully, culture has received a lot of support during the pandemic and also during the re-launch. We Christian Democrats have supported all the crisis support that the government has produced. Madam President, I would like Our reservation 13 is about the parasport, something that several others have also been into. Perhaps I can make some further additions. We see in this area the need for increased resources. I am fascinated by the forward spirit of the Parasports Federation and its representatives, especially those athletes who, with limited functional capacity, are gaining great success nationally and internationally. A number of new stars have been lit in the sky. It is also exciting to visit the website disabilitysports.se and click on it to check out different sports and, if you have a disability, think about which sport you want to try. Parasport Sweden organizes sport for three target groups: people with disability, people with visual impairment and people with intellectual disabilities. A united parliament has on several occasions clearly stated that one objective of state support for sport is sport for all. The Parliament's goal formulation specifically mentions people with disabilities. In March 2019, the Government commissioned the Swedish Agency for Participation, the MFD, to map the individual's access to recreational facilities and to identify actions that will promote active leisure for people with disabilities locally and regionally. The assignment was presented in March 2020 in the report Active Leisure – Report of a government commission to map local and regional initiatives and access to leisure aids. Some of the conclusions of the report were that people with disabilities do not have the same opportunities to have active and meaningful leisure time as the rest of the population, including due to poor economy, inaccessible transport and lack of accessibility, that there are many local leisure activities where people with disabilities can participate, but the differences are large across the country, and that those who need recreational equipment almost always need to buy them on their own. It requires both good economy, knowledge and a drive, which not everyone has, and therefore access to recreational facilities is not equal. Sport for people with disabilities often takes place as an activity separate from others. We believe that the work undertaken by the Swedish Sports Federation to promote increased participation in sports activities among people with disabilities must be accelerated, as the level of participation in this group is still significantly lower than the average. In addition, the National Sports Board states that the pandemic has hit this particular target group particularly hard, partly because many people with disabilities belong to a risk group or have activities that require access to facilities that are periodically closed down to prevent the spread of infection. Madam President, I would like So I'd like to hit a punch for the leisure card. This applies to all children, and also to children with disabilities. I'll explain to you what the leisure card means. Someone here had a beautiful quote: The school reaches out to all children and young people. That's the way it is with this card. It shall apply to all children between grade 2 and grade 9. We see an opportunity here. This applies to those children who have not been active and have not moved very much. Several have mentioned it as a concern. Perhaps they would have an increased opportunity. This applies to those who live in exclusion areas or socio-economically outside ordinary society, if you call it that. Here is a card with 500 SEK for each child in grade 2 to grade 9. If you have a weak economy, it doesn't mean you're connected to social services. But if you have a weak economy, you have the opportunity to get a sum of up to SEK 2,400. If you have the money, this isn't a problem. But if you don't have the funds, you'll be left out. That is what I, as a Christian Democrat, feel very strongly about. I am sure that there is, and I also notice, an increased interest in the leisure card precisely because it is a general welfare. I know that there are parties here who really like that expression: general welfare. Everyone's gonna get a piece of it. It is fulfilled through the leisure card. We invest 850 million from the Christian Democrats' budget in leisure money and believe in it very much. The agency for youth and civil society issues – MUCF, which we all know well here – is tasked with developing the card and administering it. For that, the agency has SEK 40 million. I'll finish there. Whatever government will govern this country, I will at least fight for this card in the future, and I hope it will be introduced.
i-2sLoJ8qnuPDN4wPQDYt3W2	Madam President, I would like We note that the Swedish sports movement has really been tried in recent years. Now that most things return to normality in our lives, the Swedish sports movement is still in a great deal of crisis. The number of participants has fallen sharply. The challenges of getting more active, more leaders and more parents involved have become big. The pandemic has definitely influenced the direction, something we saw to some extent even before. We need to create better conditions for Swedish parasports. For too long the parasport has been treated as something separate from the Swedish sports movement. It is time to create better conditions and an equal Swedish sports movement. There are many of us who are happy to follow the Paralympics when they compete. When it is decided and we get great Swedish success we are happy. But there are still major challenges for the Swedish sports movement to be as equal as I, the Environmental Party and hopefully everyone else in the Culture Committee and the Swedish Parliament want. That should be a matter of course, for the profits are very many. The Swedish Paralympics have been many over the years. But both present and former athletes testify to the same thing: Practicing sport with a disability requires much more than just getting to the training facility and performing an activity. The right to physical activity is often determined by whether a loved one has the time, energy and opportunity to assist. We don't think that's right. Many people with disabilities are currently dependent on travel services. A person who is on the road service may today be denied leave at leisure rather than at home after the end of school or working day. Also, sports-specific aids, such as an extra wheelchair, may not be included on travel services if this is what you need to exercise your sport. It's kind of strange. In order to be able to participate in sports activities, access to assistance and the right to travel services needs to be strengthened and all regulatory and different assessments in different municipalities reviewed. Madam President, I would like An important step to strengthen Swedish parasport is also to make information about where people with disabilities can train. Today, we lack an overall picture of which accessibility-friendly facilities actually exist. I and the Green Party want a municipality or association that receives some form of public support also to be obliged to register that sports facility in the already existing accessibility database. In addition, we would also like to see Sweden's Municipalities and Regions assigned a comprehensive inventory of the accessibility status of the sports facilities around Sweden. This not only benefits people with disabilities but also benefits society as a whole. In order for the Swedish sports movement to be equal for real, it must basically reflect the needs of society. Today, 10 to 15 percent of the population have a disability that means that they need extra support in sports practice. But far from 10 percent of the sports movement's total funds go to the parasports. I therefore believe that a larger proportion of the funding that goes to sport needs to be directed in order to create better conditions for Swedish parasports. In what form it is done is not up to me as a politician to decide. But I think we need to have a clearer dialogue on that. It also has sporting advantages. Larger investments lead to more medals, which in turn leads to greater interest and more practitioners. It is just like the other way around: More practitioners lead to greater interest, and it leads to more medals. Whatever direction we focus on, it is a benefit for public health. It becomes clear when we compare Sweden with, for example, a country like the Netherlands. It distributes money in a way that more clearly reflects the population. I can take as an example the latest Olympic summer games. There Sweden ended up in place 48 in the medal league. Many of us were very proud. It was amazing success. The Netherlands ended up in place 5 of the medallion. Of course, I am very pleased with the successes we have. But I also see that they could be much greater if we allocated the funds in a different way. In a month's time, Special Olympics will be taking place. I look forward very much to being able to follow the Swedish participants and of course all participants there. The benefits of increased investment in parasports also apply to society as a whole. A person with a disability who trains is more often in work and needs assistance to only half as much as a corresponding person who trains little or not at all. In actual figures Parasport Sweden estimates that the socio-economic value can be in the order of 100 000 SEK per year and person who practises to a greater extent. In other words, it is a big difference, which translates into socio-economic values means significant amounts – although I really want to emphasise that the most important thing here is the individual's right to experience the joy of movement, community and participation. For too long the parasport has been treated as something separate in the Swedish sports movement. This can be seen in how the individual's rights and freedoms are systematically limited. Instead, more resources and increased efforts on rights and freedoms is a very important and really smart investment. I am convinced that the power of sport is so strong that it is for everyone. Madam President, I would like Another part of this report concerns outdoor organisations and their preconditions. It's about being in nature. We heard earlier the moderate member who liked to walk in the woods. So do I and a lot of others. As we heard in a previous speech, there are also many who have discovered the near nature of the pandemic, although there are many of us who were there even before. Being in nature has a relaxing effect and stimulates movement. The relaxing effect seems to be particularly evident for children living in vulnerable environments, but this group often also has the lowest access to nature. In the report Nature Gap – a class marker for children and young people, the Swedish Tourist Association shows large socio-economic differences in access to nature. Although it does not cost anything to enjoy a walk in the forest, it is people who lack financial resources that come to the least extent into nature. These are factors such as parents stating that they have limited time. It is a factor that is very clear. Another is knowledge. Outdoor organisations offer opportunities for children and young people to get out into nature and learn more about nature and outdoor life. Furthermore, the fact that their activities are free of competitive elements makes it work for many and easily adaptable to the children's abilities. In the light of this, it is strange that the state has chosen to give outdoor organisations less opportunities than those which offer sports activities. For a long time, contributions to outdoor organisations have developed worse than those to sports clubs. In addition, sports associations have the possibility to employ managers with tax rebates, which means that outdoor organisations are not able to employ managers to the same extent. The government has announced large increases in subsidies also to outdoor organisations, which we welcome. But this does not solve the whole situation. The sports associations are doing a great job and are worth the support they receive, but we do not have to make a difference to the type of association the children choose to get involved in. Madam President, I would like The Green Party has two reservations in the report and, of course, I support both. But I choose to apply for reservation number 15 under the parasport section.
i-XGNSbAa2BTdNjPd54SypBB	Madam President, I would like Sport is about exercise and recreation. It is a promotion of physical and mental health in which the practitioner's skills, performance and efforts can be measured many times. But sport as a peoples' movement – it is a matter of participation, community and a place for young people to grow in their identity. With its 3.3 million members, 880 000 leaders, 19 000 associations, 71 special associations and 210 sports, the sports movement is Sweden's largest popular movement. Its main purpose is, of course, the practice of sports in association. Madam President, I would like The sports movement cannot be expected to break the consequences of economic inequality. It can neither counteract the segregation of homes nor the segregation of schools. But it can be a catalyst for the individual. It can give hope to an entire residential area – and at best an entire country. It's a bit like the legendary predecessor, the NHL player and the Swedish Ice Hockey Federation's newly elected player in Hall of Fame, Ulf Lill-Lill-Pröjsarn Nilsson, said at the ceremony: I lost my dad when I was 13 years old. I didn't know what to do. But you could always ride to the hockey hall. Out there in our community there are many young people like Lill-Lill-Pröjsarn, who would also have to take the bike to the hockey hall, basketball hall or football field. And it's not just about meeting the teammates and experiencing the community, it's also about meeting a committed coach who sees you and gets you. Sport really does something to a local community. It can build self-esteem, pride, and identity. I particularly remember what it meant for young boys in northern Stockholm when AIK won the Swedish Championship gold in 2018 with team captain Goitom Henok from Husby. I know what it means now that one of those who had just Goitom Henok as their great role model is the national football player Alexander Isak, who is also from northern Stockholm. The same can actually be said of many examples. Vimmerby has named its football facility to Asllani Court, and Marbäck and Ulricehamn proud of Pia Sundhage, Ö-vik over Peter Forsberg, Pajala over Charlotte Kalla, Joesjö over Stenmark – yes, the list can be made as long as possible. How the atmosphere is now in Karlstad and Luleå you can only imagine. It's the Swedish Championship Final tonight! I am therefore firmly convinced that sport offers not only community but also the essential human and social insights. One example is what the whole basketball world saw in the 90s, when coach Phil Jackson needed to explain to the world's best basketball player of all time that he will never go to history unless he starts to fit the ball. So he must trust his teammates in order to become historic. Because there's a reason you're five basketball players on the field. Chicago Bulls went down in history and became what they call a dynasty style. All players' strengths were used, and they came to dominate all league championships for a full decade. There are lessons to consider in society: What happens when we start using each other's strengths? There is a risk that I will spread my basketball interest in the Chamber, so I will be brief in this area. But I still believe that many of us are shaped by these very sports coaches. It is they who explain to you that you have to fight hard, that there are no shortcuts to getting better and that practice and discipline create and provide the basis for skills. The language of sport may be global, but its work always takes place locally. As many have mentioned here in the speaker's chair, this term of office has been characterised by the coronapndemin. The sports movement took an enormous responsibility to limit the spread of infection in society and quickly changed. However, the prolonged duration of the pandemic and the limited conditions for engaging in indoor sports, martial arts, team sports and parasports in particular have brought future challenges. According to the Centre for Sport Research, the level of activity for children and young people aged 7 to 20 years decreased by as much as 10 per cent. In 2021, a decrease of 700,000 sporting activities is shown compared to 2019. Special sports associations' education decreased by as much as 43 per cent and adult education in Sisu by 20 per cent. The restrictions had a particular impact on the parasport, which I think the previous speaker described well. Despite the restrictions, however, the government signalled at an early stage that children's and young people's sports activities are important and that certain facilities must therefore be provided for young people's sports activities to continue. It is also considered to be one of the reasons why the training level has been relatively constant for young people between 15 and 24 years of age compared with the period before the pandemic. Madam President, I would like The major challenge during the pandemic has been the loss of revenue. In order that associations and clubs do not have to close down or go bankrupt, it has been extremely important to provide crisis support for sport. Former sports minister Amanda Lind and current sports minister Anders Ygeman have played a special role in this work. During the pandemic, the government has postponed up to 4.3 billion in crisis and restart aid – in addition to the regular support of 2 billion that has continued to be paid out despite reduced activity and activity. The last autumn budget was 400 million in re- and start-up support for sport with a special focus on children and young people and people with disabilities. And now another 300 million is being added to enable efforts to be made to reach children and young people who have left sport during the pandemic. But of course, a long - term pandemic leaves its mark. According to the Swedish Sports Federation's report Two years with Corona says that more than every other association is worried about not being able to recruit new leaders, new coaches or new members. The report also shows that the lack of completed training contributes to a significant reduction in the number of judges and trainers and that there is a real concern about losing young athletes. This first affects juniorelten but it also risks affecting the regrowth of the senior national law. Therefore, it will be incredibly important to invest in the long term in building up the sports movement, from children's and outdoor sports to the elite level. Training for new managers, trainers and other officials must also be promoted and efforts made to increase the number of sports facilities and enable more sport, both planned and spontaneous. But above all, I think it is important to give priority to parasporters and the children and young people who come from poor sports neighbourhoods with socio-economic challenges. One key in all of this is to do something about the great need for new sports facilities. The Government has therefore now commissioned the Centre for Sport Research to establish and operate a knowledge platform for facilities and outdoor environments for sports and leisure. The platform will thus develop, gather and convey knowledge in order for society to reach both broad and new groups of sports, sports and outdoor recreation. The mission will be finalized in April 2023. Finally, I believe that sport policy must bear the message of the Lill-Pröjsarn Minister. It should simply be possible for a young person to cycle to the hockey hall or, for that matter, the Vällingbyhallen, where Blackeberg Basketball is based. There you could go on Saturdays to hang out, see the older players play their games and talk to their coach Malin Larsson about basketball, society and life in general. I therefore call for the report to be approved and for all reservations to be rejected.
i-WgxaNPipRdx46YKwmx6iwj	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lawen, for a very nice speech! In politics, we share the view that sport is very important, not least for children and young people, and not least the parasport, which many have mentioned today. That is a good thing, but it may also have made certain parts of sport less well off today. I devoted quite a large part of my speech to the lack of sports facilities. The Social Democrats have now been in the government for eight years and have during this time only succeeded in commissioning Boverket to investigate how we will reduce the plant shortage in outdoor sports for children and young people and to give the Centre for Sport Research the task of producing data, which was presented a few weeks ago. I think like this. For over 20 years we have had a plant shortage in Sweden. We need to act now and not just hide behind investigations. I would therefore like to ask Mr Redar: why do we not have an investment fund for sports facilities such as the one in Denmark? It's worked well. And why has it not broadened its horizons in terms of building more innovative, modern sports facilities and sports grounds?
i-V3dbkWN8ZsQQ4fruqKAsHs	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Angelika Bengtsson, for the question! It is absolutely right that the vast majority of sports facilities in our country were built in the 60s and 70s. Many have urgent renovation needs. A great deal has also been done in some municipalities with regard to the renovation and construction of sports facilities. But the difference is that demographics have changed greatly. The population has become much larger. We have an acute housing shortage. When housing is being built, sports facilities also need to be built in order to have that distance that I mentioned – you should be able to cycle to the hockey hall. This is and has largely been the responsibility of municipalities. When building new residential areas, it must be planned for entire communities. There should be cultural houses, libraries and sports halls. But we see, of course, just as Angelika Bengtsson says, that this is not enough. The state will have to intervene. We have put forward some proposals during our term of office and have also investigated some of them. The latest proposal, to give assignments to the Centre for Sport Research, is incredibly important, because this knowledge platform is often what the municipalities are asking for. How can you do this, and in what way can you get support at work? The platform will develop, gather and convey knowledge in order for society to reach both broad and new groups. It should also apply precisely to sports and exercise; it can be combined halls that result from this. I would also like to tell Angelika Bengtsson that we are soon in an election movement, if it is not already very topical. I don't think you should rule out the possibility of election promises coming over time.
i-D6m6m2Wf6e29utE4edCr6L	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lawen Redar, for the clarification and possible election promises ahead! We'll see. We'll have a summer before it's September 11th. That sounds promising. We would like the Social Democrats to arm ourselves with us on a facility fund, so that the state takes responsibility for the current shortage of sports facilities. I am well aware that the population of Sweden has increased. That's where we have different views. We want to see a reduction in immigration, among other things, so that the population does not increase at the same rate. But when it comes to municipal responsibility, that is where the problem lies today: municipalities cannot afford to renovate or build new facilities and do not have the knowledge. Our policy includes a national knowledge centre. If we can hook an arm there, I'll be the first to be happy. This is also something that the National Sports Federation is asking for, as I mentioned in my speech. There are many things to do, and the sports movement has many ideas. I very much hope that the next Parliament and not least the next government, with a minister for sport, will do more and put more energy into building more sports facilities. This is how we can get more children and young people and parasporters to activate and find joy in sport. It has done me very good, and I know it has done good for many. It is really my hope that this will happen.
i-L5XhGJ5RVmGWrfKbtJMXVk	Madam President, I would like The Committee on Culture carried out a study visit to Denmark and learned how to work with the construction funds they have there. I find it problematic that a decision from another country to Swedish conditions should not be made. We often have in cultural policy, but also in sports policy, a different type of funding in terms of both the design of cultural buildings and sports facilities and the form of funding. I think it should also continue to be the three different political levels that should have something to say about this, not least the municipalities. But if there is more government involvement in this, we will of course assist, and now we do so, among other things, through the mission that has been given. I would also like to remind Angelika Bengtsson that we have actually had two years with a very serious pandemic. Up to 4.3 billion have been paid out to the Swedish sports movement to deal with the pandemic, so that no clubs in our country will have to go bankrupt and to ensure that you can restart your business. It was clear from previous speeches that the sports movement is in a very difficult situation. It is not only the facilities that are a serious concern but also the clubs as such – their re-starting process must also be financed. There is therefore much to be done in the context of sport policy in the forthcoming parliamentary term. But one of the issues at the top of our agenda is precisely the issue of construction.
i-UK7MmfoPmFFgD5c2sPABGL	Madam President, I would like The values of outdoor life are discussed in many different forums and contexts. This is good and important, especially in difficult times. When society is put to the test, nature gives breathing space. During the pandemic, interest in outdoor life increased at record speed. One of the greatest joys was being able to socialize with loved ones in a safer way than through indoor activities. Christmas celebrations outdoors around a fire, where grandparents could participate at a proper distance, a walk in the woods when the gym was closed or a fishing trip with the children when the mall was closed – yes, there are several examples of what outdoor life has been able to contribute in difficult times. In recent years, we have been able to see wear and tear and heavy stress on joints in vulnerable nature, among other things. This has resulted in the temporary closure of certain areas in some areas to allow land and nature to recover. In order to prevent the emergence of problems such as these, a review and further an action plan is needed to address various forms of wear and tear in vulnerable nature and environment, including to support and facilitate the work of county boards in this area. Madam President, I would like In December 2020, the Committee on Culture decided on a follow-up to outdoor recreation policy. The starting point of the work was the ten open-air objectives presented to the Riksdag. The focus would be four of the objectives: Right of Alleman, Access to nature for outdoor activities, Attractive urban nature and A rich outdoor life in school. A working group in the committee where I myself had the privilege of participating has carried out the follow-up with the support of the evaluation and research secretariat of the parliamentary committee department. The report was presented to the committee on Tuesday, and a seminar on this will be held on 16 June. The year of outdoor life was completed in 2021 through the national collaboration project Luften is free. The aim was to get more people to try out outdoor life and continue their long-term activities and raise awareness of the values of outdoor life and the right of access. The project was initiated by Svenskt Friluftsliv with the support of the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. This resulted, among other things, in 10 per cent of Sweden's population being out more, and 10 per cent more articles with the keyword Preparedness has become a particularly topical issue in view of the current situation. The SVT Skulled Land series showed a poor level of knowledge among participants regarding the supply of food, water and heat. The outdoor organizations have a great knowledge of how to cope when social functions are knocked out. This knowledge should be exploited and taught in order to increase both the awareness and preparedness of citizens, both young and old. Outdoor day at school could be a tool for teaching important skills at a young age. Nature is always there when we need it, so don't forget to manage it even when you don't need it at the moment. I would also like to ask for the approval of reservation 8 but, of course, I support all our reservations in this report.
i-9cSogXCDdGAZDj2Fix9K7f	Madam President, I would like It is 2022, and there is still much to be done for equality, not least in sport. Five years ago, the Committee on Culture carried out an evaluation of the state's sports policy objectives focusing on children's and young people's sports. One of the conclusions was that a review of state support for sport was needed. The design of the funds needed to be made clearer in terms of accessibility to sport for children and young people from, inter alia, the perspective of gender equality and disability. Let us start with equality. We know that sport is good for both physical and mental well-being. We also know that girls stop playing sports much earlier than boys. This is where we stand today. That's why it's important to find out why girls stop. That is number one when it comes to bringing about a change. We in the Center Party want to conduct a new investigation that leads to actual results. We want proper proposals for solutions to be developed and for the Swedish Sports Federation to have a clearer mission to achieve gender equality in Swedish sport – for the benefit of children and in the next step for the benefit of the whole public health. The distribution of grants and investments in facilities needs to be reviewed from the perspective of gender equality in order to give more children the opportunity to sport and move around. We also need to allow more association life into school and recreation centres. More children would then have the chance to try out new activities and join the association life. The gathering of children around interests also provides opportunities for greater integration. It would also strengthen the association life with more activities and new members of the associations. Madam President, I would like Another important focus is children and young people with disabilities. All children and young people need to be activated, and people with different disabilities need it more than others. But for these young people today, the obstacles are often far too high. We have to change that. We need to give the parasports more attention and inclusion. Here, too, it is appropriate to have an investigation that is seriously tackling the difficulties and to see opportunities that make it easier to participate and compete. Madam President, I would like The Coronapendemy has hit hard in many places. Now we have the opportunity to make a move that makes a real difference. A rich sporting and cultural life is, in fact, a prerequisite for creating attractive societies where people want to live and live, not least our young people.
i-CE5VyDRmyvupSZ1S1kQGci	Madam President, I would like We will debate forests, seas, lakes, wolves, cormorants, moose and perhaps some other – spruce bark drills, for example. It concerns the report by the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture MJU24 on the protection of the environment and biodiversity. I ask you to accept reservation 1. Sweden has a fantastic nature that has a major impact on public health, biodiversity, growth, welfare and economic exchange. We have also signed, like other countries, that we should take our responsibility to ensure the protection of endangered species. We believe that Sweden has a responsibility towards agreements and future generations to preserve, restore and develop biodiversity and ensure species protection at species level. In Sweden there are over 2 000 species that are threatened in different ways. Most of the endangered species are – and should perhaps be – on the coast and in noble leaf forests in South and Central Sweden. The threats come mainly from human activities, because today we are affecting nature and the habitats of species to a greater extent. Forestry and agriculture affect large parts of the land, especially in southern and central Sweden. Agriculture affects many of these species and the environments in which they operate. In the budget proposal for 2022, the government and the cooperation parties proposed a comprehensive effort to protect a valuable nature in order to also promote the forest industry, increase people's opportunities to stay in nature and create jobs close to nature. This fell to some extent as the SD-M-KD budget went through. However, this term of office has made historic efforts to protect biodiversity and living forests and seas. This is needed both for those of us who live today and for future generations. Major measures related to forests have been implemented. The Government proposes initiatives that clarify forest policy for biodiversity, growing bioeconomy and circular economy, reduced climate impact and better climate adaptation to contribute to all forest policy objectives. It is about equal goals, about production and about the environment. This government, together with the cooperation parties, has put forward the bill for strengthening property rights, flexible protection and freedom under responsibility. This is rolling out now. A majority of the parliamentary parties have supported it. Ownership will be formally strengthened. Protection shall be carried out by voluntary means. The basis for the authorities and policy should be freedom with responsibility and the opportunity to take the initiative. New and developed forms of remuneration will be developed and developed. These clarify the conditions for use and preservation. For us Social Democrats, nature conservation is an important part of the policy of survival of species. We have a clear ambition when it comes to protecting protected areas – seas, lakes and forests –. Then that protection does not have to be prohibited. Development and management of protected areas is also required. Madam President, I would like The Swedish forest is a success story. Over the past hundred years, our use has meant growth in the forest in the form of increased biomass, more trees and more and richer animal life. In our forests there are now much more wild game, cloven game, but also predators. I'll get back to it. When it comes to species protection, the majority of the committee proposes an announcement. We therefore call for our reservation to be approved. There is a majority, but we have reserved ourselves in a joint reservation with MP, V and L. We have different starting points and have therefore given specific opinions. We Social Democrats are clear and have taken this issue very seriously. Ever since the first writings from the Swedish Forest Agency and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency came about that a change in species protection was needed to ensure forestry in Sweden, the S-led government has worked with it. Both our ministers – Annika Strandhäll and Anna-Caren Sätherberg – have been clear. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the Swedish Forest Agency are tasked with developing guidance and strategies for how forestry can continue to be conducted, taking into account both the economics of operations and the regulatory requirement for nature conservation. It will remove the uncertainty surrounding the requirements and legislation applicable to landowners. ..................................................... The Species Protection Regulation shall be amended. The species protection provisions of the Birds Directive and the Species and Habitats Directive are to be incorporated separately into the Species Protection Regulation as explicitly stated in the respective EU Directives. We also need, on the basis of the judgments that have come, to review the environmental code on the basis of the relevant elements that have, to some extent, come from the Species Protection Study. It is in order to eliminate the judgments that hinder the functioning and sustainability of forestry. It is of the utmost importance that this can be done. That is why we think that the announcement that the majority is now proposing concerns it, as it also raises other issues that are not relevant here. However, the reimbursement issues raised by the majority may be relevant to future budgetary issues. Then it also needs to be allocated funds for this. Madam President, I would like Wolves are a recurring feature of the Environment and Agriculture Committee's debates. We are on the Scandinavian Peninsula and have a common wolf tribe with Norway. That is why we think there is a need for joint Scandinavian management, and we are part of the majority that proposes a declaration on it. They're the same families. It is also largely the same family groups that move back and forth across the border between Norway and Sweden, especially in Värmland. We therefore believe that there is reason to draw the attention of both governments to the fact that it should be able to be managed in a better way than it is today. Nor do we think it is reasonable for Norway to count the border territory as its own to some extent. Norway also has a responsibility, albeit not as far-reaching, through its EEA agreement. They are also linked to the Species and Habitats Directive. There are many good collaborations between Norway and Sweden, but also with Finland. We believe that much more can be done here. The majority of the committee also proposes an announcement on the reference value for wolf and regional management plans. We have reserved ourselves on the basis that we think that they have landed in a number-fixing. From the Social Democratic point of view, we are concerned both that the EU should not proceed with the announcement that is dormant against Sweden and that the management tools we have in the form of licence hunting and protective hunting can actually be implemented. The inventory results that have now been presented by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency also point to the need for a much larger withdrawal. Then we need to ensure that the management tools that we have put forward can be implemented; the Socialist Government has also ensured that they can go through in court. It is, of course, unfortunate if the majority are doing a bit of numerically, as if it were just to cross-line the level to 170 wolves. We believe that it risks having the opposite effect and that we cannot remove the harmful individuals that may exist. These are the aspects on which we must act. We must ensure that, regardless of number, we can remove those individuals who do harm. Madam President, I would like Forests, seas, lakes, rivers, valleys, wolves, eels, cormorants, seals, moose and spruce bark are real parts of the ecosystem. Nevertheless, people's intrusion into that ecosystem affects. We need to be able to produce food and raw materials. We need recreation and outdoor life. And hunting and fishing must be possible. We must be able to limit and protect. That is why we must have management of our species. Then we have to make sure we don't get tree bark drills. They must be limited. And if we have too many wolves, they must be removed by a functioning administration. Then we need both our tools: protection hunting and license hunting.
i-YTBN52WjkiRHa9wECKNQNK	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by requesting the approval of reservation number 15. Madam President, I would like This term of office has certainly not been like anyone else. So many strange things have happened. As it is, for me, the first term of office, I wonder whether this is the case. But we imagine that this will not be the case for the next parliamentary term. There has been a pandemic, and there is an unfortunate war in Europe. Without reducing one or the other, we have in many ways had a war even when it comes to the Swedish forest. The battle for the Swedish forest has been written a lot about. There are also Members in this House who say that the issue of the forest debate is so polarised. For we are at very different levels when it comes to how we think that forestry policy will look like in the future. Sweden has a fundamentally very good forestry policy. It is based on the 1993 forestry decision, which deals with freedom under responsibility. Forest owners must ensure that a raw material is produced while safeguarding the high biological values of their land. The high biological values on the ground have been protected and managed through, for example, voluntary provisions and formal protection, but also through general consideration. It leaves areas that should be suitable to save for species and other things, in order for the species to thrive. Since 1993, we have increasingly drifted away from the forestry policy we adopted at the time. It has not been a clear enough governance of our authorities, and it should be said that this has been the case regardless of government. But one can say, Madam President, that it has certainly not been to its advantage in the last two terms of office when the Green Party has had an influence on Swedish forestry policy. Then we have drifted even further away from the constitutionally protected right of ownership and use. Ownership may be very strong in the form of government, but when the right of use is curtailed time and again, we have problems. This spring, Madam President, began early with the Forest Board going out and saying that this is a new order in the forest. It was about the species protection regulation, which had just been investigated on 1,800 pages, an investigation that had been handed over to the government without anything else having happened. Already in 2016, the authorities, i.e. the Swedish Forest Agency and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, started to talk about that we had problems with the implementation of the Species Protection Regulation. They wanted more clarity. Then nothing has really happened, and when the Forest Board at the beginning of the year talked about this new order in the forest there was a outcry. Because of the sudden need to investigate species and so on, Swedish forest owners suddenly became extremely limited in their use. The Moderates believe that the forest owner should never have to prove anything against the state when the state intends to restrict constitutionally protected ownership and use. It should be the responsibility of the state to show that they should actually be allowed to restrict, not the other way round. We've been called down by desperate forest owners, and we've received a lot of emails. One story has been told more absurdly than the other. I've heard about bats, birds and other species and restrictions on farming. It may be, but when we limit the possibility of use to the mild degree, we also limit the Swedish forest industry and all its benefits. All the money invested in the Swedish forest industry to produce substitution and the benefits of the forest is also limited, in addition to what affects the constitutionally protected ownership and use. I absolutely believe that the Socialist Government takes this seriously, but it is therefore not possible to make a proposal that will be ready in September 2023. It's not working. We do not usually use the forest as we should right now, and that is why we took the opportunity, together with the Center Party, to present a committee initiative with four points. It has now won the majority of the committee, and we hope that it will win a majority in this House as well. It's about 中 without delay divide the Birds Directive and the Species and Habitats Directive so that the strict rules for endangered species do not apply to all wild birds 中 clarify that national protected species should not be able to significantly hamper on-going land use Clarification that forest owners with different forms of prohibition of use must be offered formal protection or conservation agreements 中 clearly regulate that the State is responsible for investigating the presence of species. Provided that the government ensures the implementation of the announcement hopefully coming from the House next week, we can get back to work. Forest owners should be able to farm their forest as we have done for generations for a long, long time. Madam President, I would like As I said, we have talked about the wolf many times in this Chamber. It's really the same with the wolf: You get emails and phone calls from desperate people who are going to live, use and work in wolfland. You also get a lot of emails from those who think exactly the opposite on the wolf issue. From the Moderates' side, however, we have chosen a line for the people who will live, live and work with the wolf. The wolf management that has existed in Sweden for a long time does not work. Now they are a bit yearish after covid-19, but the Moderates made a proposal already two three years ago where we said we would go towards the lower set goal of 170 wolves as a reference value. The Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats were quick to catch up on this. Now the Center Party has also decided to join in, which means that we have a majority in favour of the proposal for 170 wolves. The Social Democrats call this numerical, but it is about giving a clear signal to those people who feel desperate and unseen, who can no longer let go of their hunting dogs as they have always done, who can no longer have sheep and goats on their pastures and who are worried about having their children playing in the garden. It is for these people that we are now marking clearly: the Swedish wolf tribe should be reduced, and it should be reduced properly. In fact, Madam President, there is research that says that 100 wolves would be enough on the Scandinavian Peninsula even if there was a disaster at regular intervals. The wolf tribe would still be fine. And if we continue to have immigrant individuals, just as we have had this time, genetics will also work. It's even so that we get a faster impact on genetics if the wolf strain is smaller. Madam President, I would like There is nothing we need to apologize for, that is to say that we are now taking responsibility for lowering the wolf population in Sweden and sending this signal. Of course, there will be those who do not think this is the right way to go. But on the part of the Moderates, this is an important mark, and we intend to drive it all the way when we hopefully take over government power in the autumn. We believe that if this decision is to be implemented, a change of government is required.
i-8G1F55f2yNHpwdh7po5xQw	Madam President, I would like Thank you, John Widegren, for your speech. We are both very committed to forestry issues and, I think, quite agree that we need to ensure precisely the use of the Swedish forest, which has been the basis for Sweden's success, growth and welfare. It has landed about ten judgments that have caused the Swedish Forest Board to change its application, and it is clear that if that application goes through with a species protection at individual level, it becomes worrying, just as John Widegren says. Now we are hitting the big drum here, but we believe that we have been very clear about what the government has announced: the rules on species protection will be reviewed. The directives shall be shared. Government missions must be implemented and changed. Relevant changes to the environmental code also need to be made, and in Swedish tradition this also requires a preparation, a consultation round and proposal writing so that it becomes right. We should not end up where the Alliance Government ended up when implementing the Species Protection Regulation without taking into account Swedish forestry. That is, of course, the basis of the judgments which, unfortunately, now seem to restrict forestry. We need to be able to change this, and then we need to do it properly.
i-BSenPMAesy1N7sLRArhiNr	Madam President, I would like I also think that we are very much in agreement on the importance of keeping the forest in use around Sweden. The Social Democrats believe that they had already said that they would take care of this when the Forest Board arrives. But the Swedish Forest Agency and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency have been talking about this since 2016. The Social Democrats have done nothing in the past, but it was only when the January agreement came into being that, together with their cooperation parties, they took the initiative to set up an investigation. When it was finished nothing happened until the Swedish Forest Board just came up with the so-called new order in the forest. At the time, the Social Democratic Government said that it would deal with this, and much more was not. But then when the committee proposed that it become a committee initiative, it became more rapid because it understood that it was serious. You need to deal with the issue. I believe that it is thanks to the two committee initiatives that it has really become a workshop. We cannot allow such an issue to end up in another long bench, that is to say that it will take until next autumn before the forest owners find out what is going on. That is why we have taken the initiative; something needs to happen now. I'm the first person to sign that we need to review the environmental code. It needs to be reviewed in many parts, but we have to deal with that as we go. This proposal is in order not to restrict the constitutionally protected use of forests at the moment. It was in order for something to happen that we put forward the proposals for committee initiatives.
i-2WuvsmuoPdRnr526LE7Rdy	Madam President, I would like I think John Widegren put forward the proposal for an announcement because they were afraid to end up in the back water. It does not look so good if the Social Democrats are holding the steering oar. I'm gonna ask you a simple question. We have now presented freedom under responsibility and strengthened property rights. The bill is also linked to the budget. There's money, even if it got smaller after the M-KD-SD budget. But there is also a large set aside pot Sveaskogmark which increases in value, as the prices of forest land also increase in northern Sweden – more than 2 1⁄2 billion. The third point of the notice means that, in the case of different forms of prohibition of use, formal protection or conservation agreements must be offered to the forest owner. What is the commandment of the Moderates for this? What are you going to bet? Do you have a budget idea? Is there a need to add money? Or should it be done in some other way? We now want to make a declaration that both nature conservation agreements and formal protection are needed. It's something unique to the Moderates, who don't really want to talk about formal protection. Now they say formal protection, and then this is supposed to meet with money. What's it gonna be, John Widegren? Will there be any money, any bets?
i-QeFazdWvmSj9yrLTPb5qHz	Madam President, I would like The forest bill, which hardly became a thumbnote, did not mean freedom under responsibility. We have had that since 1993. The problem is, we haven't lived up to it. A specialization proposal, as it is, leaves a great deal to be desired. We, together with several parties, wanted to have sharp points for several of the proposals precisely so that there would be sharp proposals, not just a directional proposal. Then there was the question of the money in the budget. This budget is historically high when it comes to nature conservation, and so on. The money we took away was in many ways about the mountain forest. That package is the three parties that made up if the budget is not interested in – the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats. That's why we took the money away. There will be money for those who want to protect forests or who will be banned from using their forests in the budget. That budget was higher than the previous year's budget on those lines. So there will be money. I'm not always a big fan of formally protected forest. Absolutely not! But it was about us and the Center Party agreeing on various proposals. And then we landed in this. I still believe that forest owners themselves, with general provisions and other things, can handle most forms of high natural values in terms of vegetation, species, animals and so on. I don't see the problem. The money is there for those who want it.
i-Nf1HNVPopNffPpVAcWMzA2	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the Environment and Agriculture Committee's 24 report on nature conservation and biodiversity. We are behind all our reservations on the part of the SD, but for time winning, I only ask for reservation 5 that Sweden should not enter into international agreements that could lead to increased areas of formally protected forests above the current level. We think it should be decided at home, not in international negotiations. On the other hand, we want to see a new report to the EU that corrects the completely different way of reporting that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has used so far and that has made Sweden look almost the worst in the EU. If the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency reported as other countries, Sweden would instead appear to be one of the leading countries. In fact, Sweden has been a leading country in nature conservation for a very long time, since the beginning of the 20th century when Sweden was among the first countries in the world to establish national parks. But later Sweden has also been prominent in nature conservation, not least in forestry. Since the 1990s, nature conservation and management have been clearly driven both in the same forests and in collaboration with forest owners. They should have freedom under responsibility, as several speakers have said. During this and the previous parliamentary term, forestry workers and also other representatives of rural industries have complained that they have become increasingly difficult to manage their administrative contacts. At the end of the spring of this year, the committee has in any case reached a number of decisions which signal what may be a change of course from the policy that has been pursued in recent years where protection of nature has taken precedence over everything else. With arguments such as the fact that we are living in a dying crisis, it has been argued that everything must be done to prevent this extinction. But in Sweden there is no such extinction crisis. If we look at forest species, the number of species that disappear from Sweden seems rather to decrease over time, not increase. Isak From has already said that the species that die out are almost always bound to older types of management of leafy stocks and in absolutely southernmost part of Sweden. Extinction has almost nothing to do with our usual forestry, which is mainly concentrated in coniferous forest areas. It doesn't look like that all over the world. With a sharp increase in population pressure, forests are being squeezed away in parts of Africa and even in South-East Asia – the most obvious problem areas. There the habitat disappears for many species because the areas become field. There is therefore a very large extinction going on. This does not take place in Sweden. Such a process does not take place in Europe either. On the contrary, the forest area is increasing in almost the whole of Europe. And I would like to take the opportunity to emphasise that there is not a dying crisis in Sweden. The nature conservation policy that has taken place in recent years has not been good. Nature conservation cannot exist only on its own, but must coexist with human activities. We are now in a situation in Sweden that it is almost impossible to obtain a permit for new peat revenue. It can't be like that. This happens despite the fact that we know that both forest plants and vegetable crops need to be cultivated. Self-sufficiency in agriculture will increase, but there is less and less peat to grow in. We use an extremely small part of Sweden's peatlands today, and new peat grows at a much higher rate than we consume it. Conservation must be part of the assessment when we create new businesses. But the main objective of society must be to allow and help entrepreneurs to operate and grow so that our common prosperity is preserved, so that rural areas develop and so that we can afford ambitious nature conservation. That is why we on the part of the Swedish Democrats repeatedly reiterate that the authorities must have a proper promotion mission. Officials should support entrepreneurs, but they should help them to carry out their projects as environmentally friendly as is practicable. Instead, there are, unfortunately, far too many examples of officials deliberately or unconsciously delaying projects with new issues during the permit process so long that, at the end of the day, after high costs, the applicant gives up or perhaps from the outset refrains from being intimidated by the long permit processes and impossible costs of other entrepreneurs. Madam President, I would like Let us look at today's report MJU 24 and at the interface between forestry and nature conservation. There, the committee proposes four announcements to the government about the forest. Firstly, to divide the Species Protection Regulation into two parts so that it matches as clearly as possible the EU Birds Directive and the Species and Habitats Directives respectively. We should not be over-ambitious in Sweden but still fulfil what Europe demands of us. This is based on an announcement from spring 2018. An investigation has already been carried out and completed in May 2021, and there is now a committee initiative. We think that this part should be completed more quickly. I refer to the change of line between Isak From and John Widegren on this issue. Rewriting the Species Protection Regulation to two parts that match the EU directives should be speeded up and reasonably managed during the summer. I think that a Socialist minister said so at the beginning when he announced that he would try to remedy the problem. Secondly, a notice is proposed that nationally protected species should not lead to unnecessarily large restrictions on land use. This is particularly true of certain orchids, such as knee root, which can spread locally over large areas. Thirdly, forest owners who receive conservation agreements or reserves on their land must of course be entitled to compensation. I agree with John Widegren – that money exists, and in addition, there are now exchanges through the deal with Sveaskog. Fourthly, if the presence of different species in the forest really needs to be investigated, it is the state that should have the main responsibility. In this context, however, we would like to point out that it is not rational to take stock of large areas where land use is forestry. It is far more reasonable for the state to keep track of how biodiversity and the presence of different environments such as dead wood and coarse deciduous trees develop in the country and report it to the EU. It is not reasonable for us to keep on and keep a detailed inventory of every area that a forester plans to harvest. We know that several factors in Swedish forestry and Swedish forests are already developing positively, and everything indicates that this will become clearer over time – i.e., the presence of dead wood, the presence of coarse deciduous wood and so on. The Forest Board has also shown that this is increasing and will increase more over time. The committee also proposes two announcements on the wolf tribe. The first is that the majority in the committee wants the reference value for the wolf tribe to be at the bottom of the range of 170 – 270 individuals that the Riksdag decided on already in 2013 and that now have legal force. I don't think it's numerical. We lie down within the span that the Riksdag has decided while the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency with its reference value of 300 actually lies outside the range decided by the elected council. You are now saying that you should lie in the lower part of this span, because it should not really be a span but a fixed value, and then we propose 170. 270 we think the Swedish democrats can rather be a ceiling. When the wolf tribe exceeds 270, you should definitely use license hunting to get down to the middle of the interval. But that is what we think from the Swedish Democrats. We note that in April 2019 the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency reported to the EU that it uses a reference value of 300 individuals and thus does not comply with Parliament's decision. The committee stresses in the report that it is crucial that this time the parliamentary decision is complied with in practice. We should not really have to make such a point. The committee also proposes joint management of Sweden's and Norway's wolf tribes. Our wolf tribe has no direct connection with the Central European. Hence, the Nordic tribe and the Central European tribe should be managed separately. Here we have an example of the EU's unwillingness to update the species lists of the Species Directive being completely unreasonable. The wolf tribes of Sweden and Norway should be managed as a separate unit, in consultation with Finland and with volumes that we decide up here, in no way in common in the EU and not with old figures. We have now heard that much of this came about through a settlement between the Center and the Moderates. However, all the announcements I have talked about so far relate to issues where we in the Swedish Democrats have long advocated corresponding conclusions, so it has not been difficult for us to support them. In addition, the committee proposes an announcement on efforts to build and restore eel grass meadows. We have not been among the initiators here, but we choose from the SD to join the majority of the committee because eel meadows are important for many species. Restoring and building more eel meadows is effective conservation, and that is what we like to support.
i-TS8KMRh95LusPUB9xfe3Ed	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for the approval of reservations 6 and 14. In this report on nature conservation and biodiversity, there is a committee initiative on species protection and forestry which is a combination of two committee initiatives, one from the Center Party and one from the Moderates. The committee has supported the joint initiative and therefore proposes that the Parliament agrees with this and addresses an announcement to the government. The committee wants the government to do the following: 中 without delay divides the Birds Directive and the Species and Habitats Directive so that the strict provisions for endangered species do not cover all wild birds 中 clarifies that national protected species should not be able to significantly hamper on-going land use 中 clarifies that the forest owner must be offered formal protection or conservation agreements in the case of different types of prohibitions on use. 中 clearly regulates that the State is responsible for investigating the presence of species. I will come back to why the government must act urgently, Madam President. There are several proposals from the committee on announcements in this report. Two are linked to predatory policy. It is a reference value for wolf and regional management plans and for the Scandinavian wolf tribe to be co-managed with Norway. The last announcement is on biodiversity and on the need for efforts to build and restore eel grass meadows. Madam President, I would like I now come back to the first committee initiative and the proposal for a declaration on the unfortunate situation that arose when the Forest Board announced changes in the agency's work in February this year in response to a ruling by the European Court of Justice. These changes mean, among other things, that Skogsstyrelsen places a much greater responsibility than before on the forest owner. For example, the forest owner must take into account all wild bird species at individual level as all wild birds are protected under the Species Protection Regulation. The forest owner also needs to take into account a number of other protected plants and animals in forestry measures. With Skogsstyrelsen's new approach, a great responsibility is placed on the forest owner to acquire the knowledge needed to avoid protected species being affected in a way that is contrary to species protection. In many cases, the Swedish Forest Agency has required extensive inventories and surveys to be carried out by forest owners who have submitted logging notifications. These requirements involve high costs and a high administrative burden for the individual forest owner. They can also lead to long processing times and great uncertainty about the scope of the trial. The negative consequences of the Swedish Forest Board's new working methods will be significant for Swedish forestry. The government must therefore take urgent action. In its report, the Species Protection Study proposed that the various nature conservation directives in the current context should be regulated in separate provisions to clarify the regulatory framework and make it easier to interpret and assess how the practice of the European Court of Justice affects its application. However, problems for forest owners are acute. We in the committee therefore stress that the government must implement the promised changes as soon as possible. In addition, the Land and the Environment Court of Appeal has ruled that a measure should be assessed as permissible and exemption granted if the application of the National Preservation Order would significantly impede ongoing land use within the relevant part of a property. This position needs to be clarified in the constitutional text. The government should therefore clarify that nationally protected species should not be able to significantly complicate ongoing land use. The Center Party also believes that the far-reaching investigation requirements against forest owners are not compatible with the Swedish forestry policy model, which is based on dialogue and collaboration, and will hit individual forest owners hard. The government should therefore clearly regulate that in this context it is the State that is responsible for investigating the presence of protected species. Ownership is a fundamental right in society, which means that the individual's property must always be secured. It is also important to ensure that forest owners receive compensation if, in connection with a logging notification, there are restrictions on ownership or use rights with reference to species protection. The government should therefore clarify that the landowner should be offered formal protection or conservation agreements in the case of various forms of prohibition on use. This was also the subject of an exchange of words between Mr From and Mr Widegren. This was the whole reason for the January agreement that forest owners who are not allowed to use their forests because of species protection are entitled to compensation. It is only that interpretation that we in the Center Party have behind that formulation. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Parliament's majority believes that the number of wolves in Sweden should be reduced to 170 individuals. The party's party meeting last autumn decided that the number of wolves in a first step should be reduced to 170 individuals and eventually to 150 individuals. Now in this report there is a majority in Parliament for a reference value of 170 individuals, which is very gratifying. The Swedish Parliament decided in connection with the adoption of predator policy in 2013 that the wolf's reference value for favourable conservation status should be 170 – 270 individuals in order to achieve the least viable population. The decision was based on the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's analysis of the Species and Habitats Directive, which governs the guidelines for the management of wolf. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency announced in 2013 that the smallest viable wolf population in Sweden and Norway is at least 100 individuals. The analysis was carried out on the basis of the EU criteria for the reference value for favourable conservation status. It is crucial to the credibility of the wolf administration that the parliament's decision on the size of the wolf tribe is complied with in practice. A predatory policy that can be accepted by those who live and work in a vargrevir is a prerequisite for us to have a living countryside. The Parliament's decision on predatory policy in 2013 was not only about the numerary but also about a number of other points, such as reduced concentration of wolf and consideration of domestication and pasture farming. The government has not achieved the aims of the predator bill regarding wolf. In the current circumstances – with a more dense wolf population in the country – the reference value should be in the lower range, i.e. around 170 individuals. Madam President, I would like Since the Swedish wolf strain is part of the so-called Scandinavian population, and since this population moves across the border between Norway and Sweden, the size of the wolf strain should be coordinated with Norway. A starting point should be that the Scandinavian wolf tribe should not exceed 230 individuals. Since the wolf population varies across the country, the management of the wolf needs to be locally adapted. The committee, and the Center Party, therefore believe that regional management plans should be developed to regulate the number of wolves at regional level. Madam President, I would like Previously, at the initiative of the Center Party, the Riksdag has decided on faster and more effective hunting of wolves. The Parliament then decided that it should be possible to protect the entire territory. Even genetically important wolves should be able to be protected, and a decision must be able to come close to an ongoing attack. This combined with today's announcement of a reduction in the number of wolves would mean a great deal of acceptance for predators' policies among those affected by it. My colleague Daniel Bäckström, who lives in a wolf's clearing, just as I do, will return to the subject later in this debate.
i-RYCEzjxRKV9dCZsU876kYy	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 3. We are debating nature conservation and biodiversity. Biodiversity is important. Sometimes it's obviously more important than other times. Sometimes it's not important at all, it seems. Some species are more important than others. This can be seen not least when it comes to the wolf, which several have been inside here and which I will come back to a little later in my speech. One of the prerequisites for biodiversity in Sweden is natural grazing. The wolf very much prevents the grazing of nature. It grows again, and diversity disappears, precisely to defend another species to the detriment of a great many species that we find in the grazing of nature. It is also a species that is not endangered. There has been a very strange discussion about this. I'll get back to that later. We also have other species that we should not have here at all, namely invasive species. I would like to quote the father of a good friend of mine: a lot of people are afraid that the Chinese or Russian will take over the world, but they are not the ones who will take over the world. It is the lupin that will take over the world. This should not be seen as a contribution to the NATO debate. You can really agree; it's incredibly beautiful when we're out on the road, but we see which other species it manages to eradicate, along with, for example, park slide and giant balsamine. Our neighbouring country Finland has much stricter rules on this. There is a ban on selling it, spreading seeds and planting it. We should be just as good here. We also have alien invasive animals. The hunters' association is doing a great job to counter these. Now, however, we have a new – or at least relatively new – species: stone mare. It is so far only classified as an alien species and not as an invasive. We see that it is doing enormous damage; for example, it has been inside the particle accelerator in Cern, Switzerland, and destroyed it twice. It's about billions of dollars worth of damage. We really must put a stop to this, Madam President. On February 10, I went out and did something that I think is fantastic: I went on long-distance skating. But all of a sudden, the phone started ringing. Then news had come of what was called a new order in the forest. It rang from organisations and forest owners who had panicked. Would they now have to consider every individual bird? It couldn't be true; it couldn't be. It is a little strange that we have two government agencies which have so diametrically different views on this issue. The Swedish Forest Agency has its answer, and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has its own. Both of them are the state, and it's a total crash. Then the question is, who is right? Just as it has been said before, it was already in 2016 that there had been an over-implementing in Sweden and that Sweden had gone too far. That is why we have exercised that Sweden should not go beyond what is actually required. The committee initiatives that have been mentioned were fully in line with the KD's proposal and therefore easy to support. This is an emergency, just as others have said here in the speaker's chair. There's nothing we can wait for. If I do not remember correctly, a minister has said that something will happen in the matter before midsummer. I sincerely hope that this is true. Either way, the announcement states that things must happen urgently. I note that my time is so fast that I have to skip a little bit; we have to save it for another time. Another thing that I am both pleased and proud that we have finally found a majority around is to bring about a reduction in the wolf population. Why can I say that I am pleased and proud of this? Because at last there is a majority showing that we here in the Swedish Parliament have a majority listening to those who are actually affected by the wolf's presence. It is very easy to have comments, especially if you do not live and work in a vargrevir. Then it is very simple, and you are happy to appeal decisions. But now we have a majority and a clear direction for where we want to go. Several have referred to the previous parliamentary decision from 2013, but when I have talked to county boards and government agencies, I have heard that that decision is over-played. So this comes from state authorities. Madam President, this is a real time to point the way again. Then we can no longer rest in the decision that was taken in 2013. As I said in my introduction, the wolf today is not endangered from a global perspective. Nor is it endangered from a Swedish perspective, as some parties and organisations, however, sound suggestive precisely for them to put their world view. But it's not true. We now note on Facebook how some friends in Örebro who are animal-holding farmers are out patrolling both day and night. It is full of wolves who are wandering around the animals and around the farms there. The wolves are not the most shy, so the farmers get night sleep destroyed because they have to be out looking after their animals. These are the people who produce our food. We need this. But what they face are grated sheep. The cows are in the woods, because as soon as the cows smell the wolf, they stand right out. They can be really hard to get back. This is not how we can handle our farmers, who produce our food. What is quality of life is quite different for us in this House, I think. The quality of life for very many people living in rural areas is being able to hunt. It's to go out and pick berries and mushrooms. It is daring to let the children be alone and play in the courtyard. The elk hunt, the largest cultural heritage we have in Sweden, is in many parts threatened. We are already seeing how many have decided to cancel the moose hunt in the autumn. For many, hunting is life. In addition, it provides climate-smart meat in the freezer if there's any moose left. There was far too much moose in the early 80's. It's perfectly clear. In my game conservation area 63 moose were shot in 1981, at most 21 moose in one day. It was way too much. In 2017, there were as many moose in the same game conservation area as we saw wolves, five of them. Several hunters had wolves around them who went and called them in from a distance. Even though you're sitting there with guns, you're not really tough. When you have this near the wolves, you don't dare let go of the dog either. And you're not so tough anymore when you're gonna let the kids go to the school shooting and the wolf comes with you from a distance out to the road. We must realise and understand this, and I am glad that we have a majority who understand it. There are many of us in the countryside who have had enough. Madam President, I would like When I read the Green Party's special opinion on page 143 of the report, I am a little dismayed. 中 License hunting did not improve coexistence, which was a wish before the license hunt was introduced, but has undoubtedly increased the hatred of wild animals. License hunting on wolf should be completed. That's what the Green Party writes. This shows that there is no understanding whatsoever of the reason why there is largely opposition to having such a large wolf tribe, namely that we cannot manage it. Why do we not have coexistence? you ask yourself. Yes, we have hardly had any licence hunting, because there are so many organisations that are happy to appeal. Now we've only had license hunting in some territories. In winter wolf hunting, 28 of 33 assigned wolves were shot. It happened in 5 out of 74 territories. In the vast majority of territories, therefore, it is not even hunting. It means that you don't get that understanding. I could go on indefinitely, but I have already gone over time, Madam President.
i-9grVCuyYmjX96XJLVhccRK	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation number 26. Of course, we support all our reservations in the report, but for time we do not ask for approval of the others. First of all, I want to talk about species protection. There is, of course, a need to update the laws and regulations relating to our species protection, not least to clarify the landowner's right to compensation when the state infringes on grounds of species protection. The species protection investigation has made suggestions on how we can actually work with the species. The investigation was presented almost a year ago. The government has not yet returned with a bill. The investigation addresses these issues. The majority of committees decided in this case to make the government aware of the need to act. We in the Liberals expect the government to camp on a coal and present how it intends to proceed with the proposal of the Species Protection Investigation in a bill. However, it is difficult to see how the proposal for a declaration decided by the committee would contribute to a faster process or to a better proposal in a future proposal. That you couldn't just take a deep breath and wait for order! The species protection investigation contains constructive proposals for both species protection and compensation to landowners. The study proposes that the bans on birds and protected species should be regulated in separate rules. Preventive work should also be possible. Therefore, it is a proposal based on the proposal of the Species Protection Investigation that should be presented. That is what we should have taken a position on today, not an announcement. That's our way to go. Madam President, I would like I'm concerned. There is a lack of liberally sound farming sense, I have said once and for all. When it comes to the forest, I really want to land in it. Today we are having a debate on decisions on forests and wildlife. I do not think anyone in this House dislikes either the forest or the animals. We want them well. To interfere, to kill, to destroy the nests of birds-- who's up for it and thinks it's good? Put your hands up! No one! And who wants the one who cares for, uses and takes care of his forest to be punished for that? Anyone? No, Madam President, that is not the case either. Yet we are so polarized on this issue. It's strange. As far as animal welfare and food quality are concerned, we are keeping the flag high. We say that we have very good animal welfare and good food quality. But when it comes to the forest, something else happens. It has its reasons. All the talk in motion and in the report on biodiversity, both in Sweden and internationally, contains very big words: for the sake of the climate, for the sake of the environment. What happened to this when we got to the Species Protection? It's just gonna be a shattering cymbal. Liberals' position on the substance is that forest policy's environmental objectives and production targets must be balanced. It's liberal. Both should be reached. The forest shall be managed in such a way as to preserve the environmental values and, where appropriate, to strengthen them. We have forestry methods that need to be adapted to the current situation. For example, the presence of endangered species may be a reason to choose another way of felling and planting. It is a question of adapting the way in which the forest is used. There too, knowledge, research and development need to move forward. Close to nature and varied forestry can provide well-functioning protection, a voluntary one. It will be impossible to achieve environmental objectives unless forest owners themselves feel involved in this work. The state and landowners have a shared responsibility for the knowledge of which areas are sensitive and worthy of protection. The state needs to make inventories and the like. The landowners of course need to know their own forest best, which they usually also do. It is extremely important for the state to contribute with information and education. The species protection investigation proposes that the state should have an increased responsibility and provide a clear knowledge base. But this is difficult if you are not allowed to make inventories, for example of key biotopes. No one who nurtures his forest so that it receives high natural values should be punished for it by losing its value. Madam President, I would like I would also like to say a few words about the wolf. Humans and predators need to coexist. That was also the focus of the bill that came almost ten years ago. I'll take it all over again. A sustainable predator policy is the basis for Swedish predator management. Swedish predator policy assumes that the five large predators will achieve and maintain – what? Yes, a favourable conservation status under the Species and Habitats Directive. That's what the decision lands in. The 2013 parliamentary decision set a reference value for how many wolves we need in Sweden to – what? Well, maintain a favorable conservation status. On this point, the bill makes a clear reference to 170 to 270 individuals. A renewed assessment of the reference value for the wolf's population size in Sweden was carried out in 2015 by two research groups with leading international expertise in conservation biology and wolfgecology. The conclusion was that at least 300 wolves are needed in Sweden and that at least one new immigrant from Finland or Russia will reproduce within the Scandinavian range under natural conditions every five years in order for the wolf in Sweden to be considered to have – what? Well, a favorable conservation status. We'll land in it again, not in numbers. Research is always progressing. Things always happen in research, and the number of wolves we need to have will also change forward. Therefore, the Swedish Parliament should not quantify the number of wolves in the forest. The assessment of how many individuals are needed for the wolf tribe to be regarded as meeting the parliamentary goal if, according to the Liberals, a favourable conservation status is not a political issue. It is the best scientific assessment to be used to determine when the wolf can be considered to have a favourable conservation status in Sweden, Scandinavia and the Nordic region. We in the Liberals see no reason to change that order. When it comes to Scandinavian management, it is good to be able to co-manage the wolf tribe. That's what we're behind. But let me make one thing clear: on the grounds that we reserve the right to digitise a lower reference value, we do not want Parliament to go in with a differentiation in the joint administration either. This should be done scientifically on the basis of the real situation of the wolf tribe. Otherwise, there is a high risk that the wolf strain is driven down on a non-scientific basis at levels that are far too low. Madam President, I would like So a few words about something that concerns me a lot: urban natural environments. I grew up with the woods around the corner. But my boys back home haven't done it, and for them it's incredibly valuable that there's a nice forest near the town. Children and young people need it to have a relationship with the forest and the animals, to understand that the forest can pose dangers and to realize that you can live in coexistence. I never forget when my middle son came home and told me that on the preschool walk he had seen a viper attack. I also saw that at home in the yard. I was glad that he experienced nature in this way. However, we can manage nature and live in coexistence with it.
i-ACoyrDE8FF1rosTry5WDxa	Madam President, I would like I support three reservations: 19, 20 and 21. In government, the Green Party has made historical efforts on nature policy, but now we see a strong backlash. I had hoped to be able to talk about greening nature and strengthening nature policy and how climate and biodiversity are connected. But now the wolf is not only threatened, but also environmental policy. At present, we are facing a global species crisis, with an estimated 1 million species at risk of extinction in the next few decades. The trend in Sweden is in the same direction. The number of red-listed species has increased by 11 percent in five years. Species conservation is not just about one species remaining in the country. Plant and animal species must have habitats around their range in Sweden's various regions. To begin with the best of the report: we are now going to take the decision to restore eel grass meadows. It is probably thanks to the Green Party's consistent work for the marine environment that eel meadows are on the agenda. Isabella Lövin's efforts for the sea and Emma Nohrén's work in the Environmental Objectives Committee have created a broad consensus between parties on certain environmental issues relating to the sea. I'm glad. But the eel grass meadows need stronger protection. Among other things, the protection of the shore must be strengthened. The habitats are also found in the forest. The protection of species may in some cases concern the protection of the entire habitat, while in other cases adaptation of forestry practices may be sufficient. For example, more nature-friendly forestry, such as clean forestry, or active conservation measures with the protection and management of small biotopes in forest areas can provide the most effective protection. Over the decades, the increasingly industrialized kalehygge forest industry has greatly affected Swedish forests. The forest landscape suffers from a lack of continuity and variety of habitats necessary for a long-term diversity of species. Of 15 forest species, 13 are considered insufficient or have poor conservation status. In all regions where they occur, not only the rare species but also the well-known, popular species are decreasing. In parts of Sweden, blueberry rice has decreased by as much as 50 percent. Together with site protection, the Species Protection Regulation is the most important tool for protecting Sweden's biodiversity. There are shortcomings here, but an investigation suggests many good changes. It is important to go back to the Swedish parliament's decided definition of the environmental objective A rich plant and animal life. The definition is clear, and let us remember this sentence in particular: species should be able to survive long-term in viable stocks with sufficient genetic variation. So far, species protection outside protected areas has been weak. Given that it took about 20 years from Sweden's accession to the EU until the rules resulting from the Species and Habitats Directive became applicable in forestry, in 2016, announcements from the Riksdag should go in a completely different direction from those prompted by the Center Party's and Moderates' committee initiatives. Sweden and the Forest Protection Act do not meet EU requirements. The Swedish system does not work preventively. There is a lack of landscape planning, green forest management plans and systematic state inventories of species. Without better conservation work, every logging case becomes very cumbersome, and the legislation is perceived by landowners as completely unreasonable. The existing Species and Habitats Directive requires all EU Member States, including Sweden, to establish a strict system for the protection of animal and plant species. How the preventive work is to be carried out is up to the Member States, and I am pleased with the commission the Government has given to the Swedish Forest Agency and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, even if it came late. Center Party leader Annie Lööf usually says that influence from the Swedish Democrats can threaten democracy. Is it not surprising, then, that the Center Party is so keen to cooperate closely with the Swedish democrats when it comes to pushing Swedish environmental policy into action? Madam President, I would like With regard to the announcements, I note that for many years the Center Party and the right-wing parties have been pushing for the abolition of key biotope inventories by the state, and now the Forest Board is no longer carrying out key biotope inventories. But now the same parties are coming forward with a requirement that the state must carry out and take full responsibility for species inventories in forestry. What's it gonna be? For many years, the Center Party has said that it is important to be voluntary in nature conservation for forestry, and we have recently voted in favour of a forest bill for voluntary formal protection here in Parliament. Now the Center wants each species to be protected in the forest to form a nature reserve or biotop protection. It will be clarified that the landowners will receive compensation, says the Center Party. At the same time, the Center Party has agreed with the Swedish Democrats, the Moderates and the Christian Democrats to remove SEK 2.4 billion from the government's budget last autumn. 700 forest owners are waiting to receive compensation for the forest, and it is these parties that are today demanding that they receive compensation. What's it gonna be? The Green Party is opposed to the decision in Parliament that seriously threatens to impair the protection of forest plants, fungi and animals. If the government implements the announcement, Sweden would move further away from complying with the EU's conservation directives, and this would have negative consequences for the credibility of Swedish forestry policy, for Swedish forestry and for the Swedish forest industry. It would also affect the possibility of long-term export of Swedish forest products. Madam President, I would like Herman Sundqvist is Director General of the Swedish Forest Board. On 10 February 2022, the Swedish Forest Board wrote in a press release that all wild species of birds must be taken into account at individual level, and on 17 February 2022 Herman Sundqvist wrote that individual individuals must be monitored when planning felling and that one must prove that not a single individual bird is harmed or adversely affected by forestry measures. The reason why I am highlighting this is that it is the Board of Forestry's assessment that forms the basis for the committee initiative that was taken in the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture. The other day the same Herman Sundqvist wrote in Altinget: a protected and endangered species should of course be protected, but it is not reasonable for forest owners to take account of all individuals. What's he gonna do? In everyday terms, the Swedish Forest Board's expansion has come to be called the Bofinks ban. The Bofinken got Minister for the Environment Strandhäll to reveal his ignorance. The government probably wanted to go to the Center and the Moderates to avoid the announcement that we have today, but it actually had the opposite effect. Strandhäll shot herself in the foot, Sweden's environmental work deteriorates and the Center is further radicalized so that the decisions here in Parliament become worse and worse for Swedish environmental policy. Herman Sundqvist has come out as a provocateur and opinion-former against EU directives. He is obstrusing to bring about changes to the species protection rules. At the same time, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency says that the assessment is that the practice does not entail individual protection for birds. The Environmental Protection Agency considers that the Land and Environmental Court of Appeal has not yet changed the legal situation. Thus, the Forest Board has taken far-reaching measures without ensuring that the State has a joint assessment of the legal situation, although this is an obligation for the Authority in accordance with the Administrative Act. Madam President, I would like If the right-wing parties are serious about providing formal protection as soon as there is some kind of restriction of use, the resources for protection need to be greatly increased. These parties work for less funding for protection, and the Moderates have even stated that they do not want more protected forest in Sweden. After all, there is a risk that there will be no species protection at all. This is scary. The wolf is a threatened animal in Sweden, and when you hear Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson it becomes obvious that it is also a hated animal. The threat increases with the decisions that the Riksdag is about to make. The Green Party questions the recent assessment of the favourable conservation status of the wolf, given the inbreeding rate and the fact that the Species Data Bank has classified the species as red-listed in the category of highly threatened and, in addition, the worryingly high proportion of wolves with cryptographicism found during the autopsy of wolves convicted during the licence hunt. Me and my party want wild animal species to be found in long-term viable strains. Unless Sweden alone can hold such large tribes, there is an opportunity to achieve this together in Scandinavia and Finland. Long-term viability means that the strain is large enough to maintain sufficient genetic variation in the long term. It may be good to remember that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency 2015 assessed that this means a strain not less than 1 700 wolves. It should also be remembered that this can be translated into at least 300 wolves and that there is also an immigration of wolves from the Finnish Russian subpopulations each year. In this perspective, it is not reasonable that Sweden should only have 170 wolves, nor that Scandinavia should only have 230 wolves. Long-term viability is also the European Commission's view of what is needed for species to have a favourable conservation status. Since favourable conservation status is a concept of EU law, each country cannot arbitrarily set its benchmarks. For a period of time Sweden tried to limit the wolf tribe to about 200 animals, but the then alliance government had to back away from this because of the criticisms from the European Commission. Greater focus must be placed in the wolf debate on achieving co-existence between humans and predators, but also on achieving a greater understanding between people in the predatory debate where you stick to the facts and try to maintain a calm and good debate. We in the Green Party have put forward a proposal that farmers living near Vargrevir should receive preventive compensation, just as the Sami get. We think this is an extremely important proposal to improve the interaction between the state and individuals, who are often sheep farmers but sometimes farm farmers or other farmers. It goes without saying that the farmer affected by the wolf should be able to both carry out preventive work and receive strong support, a strong protection for his animals and also the possibility of hunting for protection on wolves.
i-Bh6Sz6ME7iE3XdXHaTVqBP	There is an agreement between our group leaders that only one, a maximum of two, reservations should be accepted. I will put it down as three reservations, but in future it will be good if the honourable Member knows that the agreement is as it is.
i-QKzZs6VcRgsnXpd7XESg9w	Madam President, I would like I was not really going to take a line, but Maria Gardfjell called for a calm and good debate. I'm really trying to get my opinions scratched — words that don't add up. This is not the first time, Madam President, but it has happened earlier in the committee, where Maria Gardfjell has called me a wolf. Here we go again. There was quite a lot of criticism from my friends in committee when it happened last time. Apparently, Maria Gardfjell has not learned from this. Madam President, I would like No, it's not about wolfhat. It is about seeing the people who are actually in different ways affected by the wolf's presence and seeing the despair that they display over not being seen, not being heard and not being believed. This is what it is all about. I have not said in any way that the wolf will be exterminated. Not in one word have I said it. But we must have an administration that also works for those who live and work in Vargrevir. If we had more license hunting, we would have had to have less protection hunting, because then we would not have had so many problem individuals. If we start hunting the wolf, it learns that man is dangerous. Today the wolf largely does not know because it has not been hunted. This gives us these unscrupulous wolves.
i-7g3kfrfcWrAZu9H6uZTKGo	Madam President, I would like Many thanks for the question, Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson! I think this is a very important debate. What I said in my speech was that the wolf is a threatened animal in Sweden and obviously also hated when you listen to your speech. What I meant then is that when you talk about not wanting to exterminate the wolf tribe, I can't get that math together, because favorable conservation status is about the wolf not being exterminated. And favorable conservation status requires more wolves than what you suggest. What I think is important in this discussion is precisely what you highlighted. You used some kind of scare tactics and said that children don't dare to be out playing because there are wolves in some areas. It's very disturbing if many people think that the wolf is dangerous that way. When it comes to the Green Party policy on wolf and hunting for wolf, we have said that we are totally opposed to illegal hunting. I hope Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson is too. We are also opposed to the licence hunt, because we see that it would be much more effective for the wolves to actually be hunted in Sweden to be hunted in the protection hunt. Then you can hunt more effectively the wolves who learn to cross predator-repellent fences and the wolves who start to behave unreasonablely and approach the locals and the like. In order to create this space for a clear and good protection hunt, we need to phase out the licence hunt. ( FIRST VICE PRESIDENT: I would like to point out that we are talking through the President and are not using you and you. )
i-QXCmVpHSsvAhfRUBNLYUa9	Madam President, I would like I am absolutely against the illegal hunting of wolves, because it destroys the legal hunt. There's no doubt about it. No, it's not some kind of scare tactics. That is the truth, and that is what people are experiencing in the countryside in Vargrevir, but the Green Party is unable to take on board with all the necessary clarity. These are the stories that I come up with and that the Green Party does not listen to. They come from people especially in Central Sweden where we have the largest part of the wolf tribe. Favourable conservation status is a politically set figure. It's politicians who put it. It is based on the smallest viable stock. And we know that the smallest viable population in Scandinavia is 100 individuals. In fact, we could easily solve this if we jump back in time and take back the eastern part of the country, as it is called, that is, if we draw the border with Finland further east. Then we get more wolves in Sweden and Scandinavia, and then the tribe is all right because then we have more wolves. So it is national borders that are involved, which makes it very difficult. That is why we need to have a greater share of joint management. Maria Gardfjell says that the license hunt is only evil. If we're just going to have protective hunting, how many individuals are we going to have before Maria Gardfjell is happy and wants to start limiting the wolf tribe? The 1,700 individuals mentioned by Maria Gardfjell apply if we had not had contact with the Russian Finnish tribe, but we have.
i-HVS97fV1fEypbHkcau2FHw	Madam President, I would like I'm sorry I wasn't formal in my last line. I think it is incredibly important to remind you that the Green Party is the only party in the Swedish parliament that wants to tighten up the hunt for protection on wolves and create reduced conflicts between wolves and people in a more concrete way by creating a new system for the people who live in areas with vargrevir. If the risk of infestation with grazing animals means more work and, as Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson mentioned in his speech, reduces the important grazing – because biodiversity is due to grazing animals – which is also a very important issue, we need to find a way of co-existence between humans and wolves. One way to find this coexistence is to work much better with preventive measures. Then I do not mean that the state should only pay for the fence cost that a farmer has, but that the state should also take more initiatives and be involved in building this fence. There should be better and clearer cooperation between the county administrative board and the farmer. Care should be taken to ensure that there are specially trained dogs that can help protect the livestock so that the farmer slips you up all night. This is exactly what the Green Party is proposing, and I think that a moderate wolf debate must be about how we increase the coexistence between the wolf and man.
i-UAwukKCkozMRXCtTk1bw7b	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. It is at least ten years that I have followed both the debate and the work of getting a predatory policy and a management in practice. The 2013 decision is about Swedish predators being able to achieve and maintain a favourable conservation status. At the same time, domestic animal husbandry should not be significantly impeded and socio-economic considerations should be taken into account. Prior to this parliamentary decision, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency reported an analysis that the smallest viable wolf population in Sweden and Norway is at least 100 individuals. Looking back on the years from 2013 to today, there is much else to be desired when it comes to both implementation and compliance with the decision, but also when it comes to confidence that this decision will also become an internship. It is crucial that decisions taken become a reality and are implemented in accordance with the intentions of the decision, otherwise we have a lack of confidence in the state and its authorities in many contexts. Acceptance is important and those who operate and live in rural areas and where there is vargrevir can have a living countryside. We know that there were 460 wolves in Sweden on 1 October last autumn. There are different ways of dealing with the future. With the data used by the researchers – i.e. ten years average for the growth of the wolf strain – it can be assumed that there will be 500 wolves in the autumn. If you look at the growth of recent years and assume that this year's growth is at least the same, you can expect 550 wolves this autumn. But based on the current distribution, not least in southern Sweden where there are both larger areas to move on and where the population as a whole has greater possibilities to reproduce, it is not incredible that there may be 600 wolves coming autumn. Madam President, I would like 600 wolves are considerably more than the interval decided by the Riksdag in 2013. I am very pleased that there is now a proposal for the Riksdag to take a position on, about an announcement of 170 wolves and that it will have a consequence for the government's governance of the policy forward. When you read, among other things, the Social Democrats' specific opinions on this, the questions about where the goal lies for the Social Democrats, who are currently responsible for the governance of the authorities and predatory policy – and have had it for many years, together with the Green Party. In the past we heard about number-fixing, but when you read the special opinion you can see, among other things, that we should relate to what it looks like in 2019 – 2025. We do not yet know if there are 600, 700 or 800 wolves when we arrive at 2025. At the same time, the Social Democrats state in their special opinion that the aim should be to adapt the reference value to the level decided by the Riksdag in 2013, i.e. 170 – 270 wolves. This is the use of numbers. The question I still have, regardless of the different parts presented, is what is the clear aim of the Social Democrats regarding the number of wolves in Sweden. This is very important, because if there is no clear governance from the government towards the authorities, then the consequence is that others are taking these issues forward. I am extremely concerned about what the situation may be in a few years' time if there is no proper regulation and management of and administration of the wolf tribe. There will be many telephone calls from new areas that live with the consequences of the wolf's spread. Then I am no longer talking about Värmland, even though I myself know what it is like to put up predator fences and to come out into sheep pasture and take care of predator-killed game and predator-killed lambs, but I am talking about areas in Skaraborg and Kronoberg in Jönköping County – but also about Skåne, Sörmland and Östergötland. We see that this is no longer a matter for Central Sweden, but that it is Central Sweden and southern Sweden that will now be affected. It is growing rapidly, and there is a great risk of losing control in future years' work with the administration. It is therefore an important position that the Riksdag now faces, both in relation to 170 wolves and in relation to joint management with Norway. These are steps in the right direction, and they are necessary steps to deal with the situation, which is going out of control. Madam President, I would like I have used my six-minute speaking time, but I have done so from a local perspective where it is we who live in the countryside that should have influence on administrative decisions and governance of issues – not from a supranational perspective where local stakeholders can adapt and can have no influence. For the Center Party, this is an extremely important issue, both today and in the future, in terms of the development of Sweden's rural areas and food production. It is a question of strengthening our food supply in a very challenging situation in terms of security policy.
i-4wqpvvj8WDPpCTjPaWL8VT	Madam President, I would like I have a few brief questions for Daniel Bäckström. My first question is whether Daniel Bäckström believes that it is in accordance with scientific knowledge and facts that 170 wolves would be within the framework of the wolf's favourable conservation status. My second question is whether Daniel Bäckström is concerned about the high percentage of male wolves with cryptographicism detected during the autopsy.
i-MmWHUD3wC1XYKxig5VQXpK	Madam President, I would like I thank Maria Gardfjell for these questions. It is clear that it is troubling in a longer perspective if there is no reproductive capacity in individuals within this population. It is important to follow up the overall picture and also to learn from other countries' studies on how to handle this. Then it is also important to see the Swedish administration in a Scandinavian perspective and see how you can get a development that includes not only the Norwegian side but also the Finnish side, which I know the Environmental Party is lifting in one of its special opinions. When it comes to the number of wolves, the starting point for us is the interval that the Swedish Parliament decided in 2013. That is the starting point for this position. It is also based on what the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency reported prior to the parliamentary decision that the smallest viable wolf population in Sweden and Norway is 100 individuals.
i-8eZJU7ACxBs9ipMLv9aXRJ	Madam President, I would like The report with the 100 individuals was based on scientific data that very clearly shows that no consideration had been given to the inbreeding of the wolf tribe. If you take into account inbreeding when you calculate the figure for a favourable conservation status, you will find the number of 300 individuals – if we also have a migration of wolves from Finland and Russia to Sweden every year. Now there is not so much migration of wolves, given that the hunting pressure is so very high in the northern parts of the country. Therefore, one might also have to look at the second figure that the Environmental Protection Agency reported in 2015, namely that 1 700 wolves would be needed. The question is why the Center Party does not lean on scientific facts and data when drawing up its political proposal.
i-4MVF97c4q2pouEduSxE4uN	Madam President, I would like Now it's not that the hunting pressure on wolf is high anywhere in Sweden; we have a flashing growth in the number of wolves, and we now have forecasts pointing to 600 – and even beyond 600 – wolves. If this continues in the coming years, the trend is in the direction that Maria Gardfjell wishes, or at least has expressed herself on, that is to say towards 1,700 individuals. No, we urgently need an administrative hunt that both strengthens legitimacy in the countryside and reduces the stock there, in accordance with the parliamentary decision taken in 2013, the concentration is at its highest. This applies to Värmland, Örebro and Gävleborg – all of Central Sweden. But the expansion is now on such a scale that there will soon be many, many more parishes, municipalities and regions that will have comprehensive vargrevir. This has economic consequences for the lamb industry, the rearing of sheep, in various places in Sweden. The development of livestock husbandry in other parts is also seriously threatened if the distribution continues in the direction desired by the Green Party. The Center Party now wants to see a proper adaptation of licence hunting and a developed protection hunt so that the alarming situation can be resolved quickly.
i-B5d6AGhH5CyFxKm7674PRC	Madam President, I would like I give Daniel Bäckström a reply when he quotes the Social Democrats – that we have raised precisely the problem we see with a fixed reference value, as the announcement now gives. I would like to start by saying that today the government has decided on a new management mandate for the cormorants. First we take the cormorant, and then we get to take the wolf. The breeding policy is actually based on the conservation bill that came in 2013. Just as Daniel Bäckström also highlighted, the portal clause states that Sweden should achieve favourable conservation status; it is the focus on conservation. Since we have now built up large predator tribes in Sweden, we need to move to management. Daniel Bäckström pointed out that it is South and Middle Sweden that has the highest pressure; it is clear in any case. I would like to say, however, that it is actually Jämtland which has the highest predatory pressure. It is the reindeer industry that suffers the greatest damage from the fact that in some places we have too large predators. Of course, we need the addresses. What needs to be done now, which is also highlighted, is to ensure that the major inventory results that are now on the basis get results in the form of licence hunting. We are concerned that the European Commission's infringement case against Sweden is still pending. We are concerned that such a fixed reference value makes hunting impossible. As I said in my speech, we must ensure that all individuals can be removed. We need to speed up protection hunting decisions and ensure that we get long-term licensing decisions that reduce the strain.
i-MpS6qkCV4LMmt2DyS7GvHA	Madam President, I would like This report is clear in the sense that the announcement now before Parliament specifically deals with the number of wolves. It is clear that predator pressure varies depending on what predators we relate to and live in different areas in Sweden. I fully understand that the problem in Jämtland and other regions to the north looks like it does, but also looks different than in Central Sweden. Where the wolf has spread over the past few decades, it has had huge socio-economic consequences, both for animal husbandry and living conditions as well as for hunting issues – loose dog hunting and the presence of other wild animals. In view of 2025, to which reference is made, it is very important – I agree with what the Social Democrats are writing – that for the next reporting period, one should not report an exact population but simply state how large the tribe has been. It is important not to report an exact population, but there needs to be a change there. But my question to the Social Democrats is: In relation to what? Is it in relation to the expected level of the number of wolves in 2025, with today's growth rate that can be well over 600 wolves? Is that what the Social Democrats think is an appropriate level? In that case, it is far from the 2013 decision on a range of 170 to 270 wolves.
i-F5skobavTeYD8hrK71skry	Madam President, I would like We have now been working on this a number of times. Now the government has sent it out for a referral, and the referral has come in. The idea is that we should get away from the minimum levels at county level, which has meant that each county administrative board has set a level of security when you have reported possible hunting withdrawals and requested license hunting. What the government is now proposing is that the minimum level be set for the respective predatory areas, i.e. that there should be a minimum level for Central Sweden. Then we come from the braces and life belts that we have had out in the counties, which also allows for more flexible management. It will also allow for greater withdrawals, which is absolutely necessary. Another thing that I think is positive is that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has announced that the inventory period should be re-established so that we can actually count the puppies that have not been counted before. This is perhaps one of the reasons why we have now had continuous growth: the whole growth has not been taken into account when we have calculated possible withdrawals. This is what we need to do. We count the puppies and set a minimum level for the whole administrative area. Then we can also enable a larger withdrawal. That is the Social Democratic way to ensure the pursuit of licences and protection.
i-2vrTBopKhacRxJHSnNn3kz	Madam President, I would like For the Center Party, it is important to have clarity in governance, and then it is often very important to be able to give figures. With regard to the proposal for the parliamentary review next week, it is extremely important to indicate in the parliamentary decision a reference value based on the lower level. This is fully in line with the decision at the last General Assembly of the Center Party to reach a level for wolves of 170 individuals. I hope that in the near future we will also receive clear information from the Social Democrats about how many wolves they believe should exist in Sweden so that there will not be a freely growing population. There are enormous values at stake, both in a short- and long-term perspective. We know what changes have become in the areas of Central Sweden that have long had to bear the consequences of the wolf's spread – at home in Värmland, Örebro and elsewhere. We dread how further areas will now have more trials and will see how everyday life changes. It is of course very important to have a durability and endurance for the wolf tribe. This can be achieved by going to this announcement. It also feels stable that there is now a proposal that will be able to gather a majority in the Swedish Parliament.
