i-Snntpdgy7iEdAcZpBx83qj	Madam President, I would like Tobias Andersson has asked me what measures I and the Government intend to take to curb the development of youth robbery and whether I and the Government intend to take any specific measures to further investigate or act against Swedish hostility. He has also asked me whether I and the government intend to investigate the question of a reduced age of criminal authority and whether I and the government intend to return to Parliament with other proposals to get to the offenders aged 15 to 17 years. Mikael Damsgaard has asked me what measures I intend to take to increase the clearance of personal robbery and whether I intend to change the penalty rebate for offenders aged 15-17. Robbery is a very serious crime that in the victim can cause fear and anxiety long after the crime. Moreover, such crime can often lead to a continued criminal life - style. In 2015 – 2019 the number of youth robberies increased. Fortunately, we have now seen a sharp decline in 2020 – 2021. The number of reported robberys against young people decreased by 12 per cent in 2020, and this trend has since continued. In 2021, reported youth robbery decreased by 26 per cent compared to 2020 according to the preliminary statistics. Between 2019 and 2021, the decrease corresponds to 35 percent. It is urgent that this reduction continues. The Police Authority works actively against juvenile robberies, including through increased police presence in places and times where such crimes are often committed. The implementation of the historic effort to increase the number of police officers continues. In order to increase the resolution of criminal offences, the Police Authority has decided in 2021 on a comprehensive strategy for how the investigation activities should be conducted in order to be legally secure, effective and uniform. The criminal law framework is also important. The criminal investigation's proposal for an increased minimum penalty for robbery is now being prepared in the Government Office. The government has also recently decided on a Council of Law referral with proposals to tighten penalties for knife crimes. Brå's study shows that in cases where weapons have been used in juvenile robbery, knife is by far the most common weapon. A robbery or any other crime that has the motive to violate the victim because of his or her Swedish origin can be judged as a hate crime. Thus, as I have pointed out in several answers to parliamentary questions in recent years, such a crime can already lead to a stricter penalty under the current rules. As I also previously replied to Tobias Andersson when he asked a parliamentary question on this subject, I believe that the age of 15 is well balanced. However, this does not mean that society should remain passive when very young people commit crimes or risk being involved in crime. It's worth it. The dispute over children suspected of offences proposes measures to investigate more crimes committed by children under 15 years of age by the police. The investigation also proposes to introduce a new general rule that prosecutors should bring an action for damages when a child under the age of 15 is suspected of having committed a criminal offence with a minimum sentence of five years of imprisonment, such as aggravated robbery. With regard to offenders aged 15 to 17, I note that both the investigation that produced proposals for the abolition of penalty rebates for young adults and, in principle, all the referral bodies have considered that it is not a good idea to change the penalty rebate for these offenders. Furthermore, as recently as November 2021, the Committee on Justice has stated that the current system of sanctions for this age group has good reasons for doing so. Having said that, it is important that we have credible sanctions for young offenders, and the government has also tightened the regulation in several respects. It is about the introduction of the penalty of youth monitoring, which can be used, for example, for serious violent crimes and robberies. At the turn of the year, the penalty for young adults in serious crime was also abolished. In addition, the Government has commissioned a special investigator to review the regulation on detention of offenders under 18 years of age. It is a question of reviewing the terms of the sentence, but also of ensuring that we have a system that includes adequate relapse prevention even after release. The causes of crime must also be combated. This government has as its priority the turning of every stone to combat segregation. In the framework of the 34-point programme, the Government proposes several initiatives on prevention, including giving municipalities a statutory responsibility to work crime prevention. The government has also ensured that municipalities are subsidised from the turn of the year when they need to place young people according to LVU at Staten's special youth centre to prevent continued crime and relapse. In conclusion, the Council has therefore taken a large number of measures aimed at young people who have committed crimes or who are at risk of being involved in crime.
i-J1QzF1fFa8zjMb6GrgggCM	Madam President, I would like As we will now be debating three interpellations at the same time, there is a risk that things will get a little messy and incoherent. I would therefore like to begin by explaining that in this speech I wish to focus on my interpellation on the Crime Prevention Council's report on youth robbery and then, in my next speech, to touch on my interpellation on the prosecution of criminal youth. In between, as we know, Mikael Damsgaard and his interpellation about youth robbery are joining us. Having said that, it stands to begin with a brief presentation of the report by the Crime Prevention Council which initiated one of my interpellations. Brå chose to study youth robbery as a phenomenon in his report 2021:19, and the statistics are depressing to say the least. This is a phenomenon that I have highlighted, problematized and opposed for a long time and which Morgan Johansson and I have had reason to debate repeatedly. This applies not least when the government has abstained from certain well-needed measures and has been taking a long time with others. More on that in my next speech. Although the report's results for me were in no way foreign or unexpected, it may be a wake-up call for those who so far did not want to recognise the problem, and hopefully it can lead to political action. The number of juvenile robberies has doubled during Morgan Johansson's time in power, although we have seen some decrease during the pandemic when people have stayed at home and have not been allowed to be out in environments where youth robberies often take place. If I'd been in Morgan Johansson's shoes, it's not something I'd been bragging about. I had understood that the reduction was linked to the limited movement patterns that were during the pandemic. Over time, however, it has increased sharply. Brå's report shows that as many as 66 per cent of suspects have foreign background, while 77 per cent of victims have Swedish backgrounds. Add to that that Brå counts Swedish background as a person with at least one Swedish-born parent – not two, which are expected in some other countries. Given this, one cannot ignore that Swedish hostility is probably one of the motives of these robberies. This is a phenomenon that Morgan Johansson has consistently refrained from admitting. The thesis is reinforced by the fact that a frighteningly high proportion of robberies are demeaning. Undeniably, this cannot be explained by the fact that the perpetrator is in a bad situation and is only robbing for economic reasons. If you rob someone on a jacket for freezing and cannot afford to buy your own, socio-economic factors can partly be a factor in the crime. But if you then film and spread the robbery, there are other things behind it. The fact that some perpetrators go further than necessary to usurp possessions after transfer and also continues the abuse and often film and share it with friends suggests that there is a desire on the part of the perpetrator to establish dominance and spread terror. If the government does not consider juvenile robbery to be serious enough in itself, at least the now established violence, humiliation and the spread in social media of the abuse together should be considered sufficient for action. On the basis of the report, it is clear to me, in terms of both perpetrators and victims and the widespread humiliations, that Swedish hostility is a factor when it comes to youth robbery. Does Morgan Johansson accept this?
i-SqMF7bB4r7PaSPAoGRFG9B	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for your answer. When a young boy or girl is robbed on his phone, computer, or jacket on his way home from school or on his way to soccer practice, the victim is deeply affected. But it also spreads a fear and a sense of insecurity among many other young people and their parents. The same applies, of course, to others who are victims of robbery, not least the elderly. My hometown of Västerås is one of the municipalities in the country where young people are most at risk of being robbed. During the years 2015 – 2019 162 youth robberies have been reported in Västerås. And the robbery wave continues. More or less daily we can read in the local press about new robbery. It has been about moped robbery, about how brokers have been robbed in connection with shows and about the perpetrators entering housing. There have also been a large number of muggings in public places. Among other things, an 80-year-old woman in a residential area was robbed on an ordinary afternoon in November. A group that is particularly exposed to the risk of being robbed are young people, not least young guys. We have seen a number of examples where children and young people have been robbed on their way to or from school and activities. In one recent case, two boys were as young as ten years of age robbed at four o'clock an afternoon after school. Last week another border was crossed. Two masked and knife-armed perpetrators entered a classroom in Rudbeckian high school and robbed the students of their school computers. Although my hometown is hard hit by the robberies, this development is not in any way unique to Västerås. In Sweden, the number of youth robberies doubled during the years 2015– 2019, and just as Tobias Andersson developed in his post, the decline we see in 2020 and 2021 can mainly be explained by the pandemic and that young people have stayed at home. To break the trend, crime prevention is crucial, but at the same time the judiciary must be able to clearly highlight the seriousness of the crimes. The most important part of crime prevention is the family. Parents have ultimate responsibility for their children. When parenthood is not enough, social services can often offer important support. In addition, well-functioning schooling is an important protection factor for young people at risk. However, a prerequisite for the good functioning of crime prevention work with family, school and social services is that young people's crime can be cleared up and effective sanctions can be imposed and enforced. We know that young people who succeed in their first robbery often continue and commit far more until someone stops. Unfortunately, the clearance rate of these crimes is low, and once people under the age of 18 are convicted, the penalties are not sufficient to clearly indicate the seriousness of the crime. In its reply, the Government refers to the new sanction for youth surveillance. Of the perpetrators we are now discussing, however, it is primarily those who are convicted of aggravated robbery that are subject to this penalty, because the value of the penalty needs to be at least six months' imprisonment in order for youth surveillance to be condemned. I would therefore like to ask the Government whether he considers it satisfactory that minors convicted of robbery of normal status are very rarely sentenced to the more interventional new penalty referred to by the Government in its reply.
i-9EVV9FSkFCkz9ipGzt7Fq9	Madam President, I would like There's blood running from my face. There'll be a pool of blood underneath me. The glasses fly away in a stroke, and then they take my phone and want me to open it. But the phone doesn't recognize my face. This is a testimony from the Brå report on the violence and robberies against young people. How can our society, which has the Convention on the Rights of the Child as a law, and where children's rights are pointed out in every context, allow this to go so far? And what is being done about the fact that there is a division in society? As my colleagues pointed out, it is mainly young people of immigrant origin who attack young people who are considered ethnic Swedes. How could it have gone so far? In his reply, the Minister says that there is an opportunity to judge a person for hate crimes when the crimes are directed against ethnic Swedes. I would like the Minister to give examples and provide statistics. How many juvenile offenders have been sentenced to more severe penalties for committing crimes against ethnic Swedes? This is not a new phenomenon. As early as 2005, an essay was written at Lund University on this subject: the attacks on young people coming from the majority society. Among other things, they quoted young perpetrators who said: "When we're out on the town robbing, we're at war. We're fighting the Swedes. There's a great feeling coming through the body when we rob. You feel satisfied and happy. It feels like you've succeeded. When asked by the researcher about what power is, they answer: For me, it is that the Swedes should lie down on the ground. I wonder if the minister can reverse the perspective. How would it have been if it were the other way around – if ethnic Swedes had said that power for them is to force immigrants to lie down on the ground and kiss their feet? What would it be like if ethnic Swedes confessed that they go out on the town looking for immigrants because they are wimps and do not resist? This is very serious. These youths, who are robbed, humiliated and beaten to the point that their mobile cameras do not recognize their face, are betrayed by society. Because it is true that Swedes do not seek justice themselves. It's not the clan you're counting on; you're counting on the state. It's the state that's going to fix justice. It is the state that is to stand up and punish those who violate the laws. I would like to have the Minister's point of view on this.
i-FHgZienebGk5dpYqrd7HAq	Madam President, I would like First a general comment: This is how it will sound now from the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats, the new right, who are competing in whipping up contradictions between Swedes and immigrants. It was extremely clear in what we just heard. It doesn't matter to me whether you're black or white. If you commit crimes, you're going to be jailed for those crimes. Then you should have a penalty. I will never fall into some kind of rhetoric about whipping up contradictions between groups in Sweden. The Swedish Democrats have been doing that for years. It's their favorite branch. But now that I hear the Moderates go into exactly the same kind of rhetoric, I understand that your cooperation has gone much deeper than might have been thought. No, let us concentrate on crime in itself rather than whipping up contradictions between Swedes and immigrants. This can only lead to increased mistrust, increased problems and increased conflicts in Swedish society. Of course, I regard robbery as a very serious crime. That is exactly what I am saying in my answer. That is why I am pleased to see that the number of robberies has fallen sharply in recent years. This is 35 percent decrease since 2019. We are now in fact at the lowest level since 2017 when it comes to robbery against young people. Then you say it has nothing to do with the pandemic. But the truth is that the clearance of juvenile robbery is also increasing. My assessment and conclusion is that this may well have to do with the fact that in recent years the police have given priority to these crimes and made sure to intervene against the young people involved in this very serious crime. We have tightened the penalties considerably in recent years. We have made sure that the courts impose more severe penalties by increasing the minimum penalty. We have removed the penalty reduction for 18 to 20-year-olds for serious violent crimes – there are also the robberies. We have introduced the new youth monitoring sanction, which has already been applied on 66 occasions last year. We will proceed with this in order to ensure that sanctions are improved and strengthened, targeted precisely at those who rob. Now there is an investigation proposal on my table which is about tightening the minimum penalty for robbery to 18 months' imprisonment and at the same time lowering the limit for the presumption of detention to 18 months. That means we're going to get a warrant for robbery. What does that mean? Well, that means that anyone suspected of a robbery will be detained pending trial in a completely different way from what is happening today, so that we can simply get that individual off the streets. It is a very powerful measure. That's what we did when it came to the serious weapons crimes. After we changed it in 2018, the arrests of people suspected of serious gun crimes increased five times. If we go ashore with this whole investigation proposal from the gang investigation that we received this summer, which we are now working on and which we will continue to do, it is also a cost of over half a billion for the Prison Service. It testifies to how strong measures are actually being taken when we need to expand detention centres and prisons for this. At the moment, we also have more police officers in place than we have ever had in Sweden. 21 929 was the top entry in January – all-time-high for the number of police officers. That is the effect of the fact that we have strengthened the judiciary on that side. This spring there will be another 800 police officers from our new police training courses. We will continue to fight all forms of crime. We will continue to strengthen the judiciary. We will continue to give priority to the crimes that affect young people. But when you make this an issue where you whip up hatred, contradictions and distrust among peoples, there are major problems in Swedish society. I would strongly advise against that.
i-5oxhwUbAbB18YCb6kHjmTY	Madam President, I would like Morgan Johansson blames me and the other debaters for whipping up hatred between groups in Swedish society. Then I'd like to explain what I did. I gave statistics from an authority under Morgan Johansson himself as Minister of Justice. That's what I did. If Morgan Johansson doesn't want me to that way whip up the mood between groups, maybe he wouldn't let his authority... oh, now I forgot. Morgan Johansson has not asked his authority to investigate this. Morgan Johansson has not asked Brå to study ethnicity linked to crime or background. You didn't want that. This is what the Social Democrats wanted to do. When Brå now produced this report on youth robbery and when Brå also produced a report about the perpetrator's background during the autumn, it was on her own authority. The Social Democrats have not dared to impose it. They wanted to cover this up. Madam President, I would like However, I think we should leave the low level of the debate there and talk about what we really should be. I asked in my interpellation about the prosecution of criminal youths about why the government has not done more to get effective action in place. Youth robbery is, of course, committed by young people, and the victims are just other young people. Unfortunately, today we are not in a position to deal with this reasonably. Instead, young offenders get away without reasonable penalties – which applies to more types of crime than just robbery, may be added. Younger and younger children are committing more and more crimes. Organised crime is well aware of the discharge that exists for those under 15, and these are being used for a number of criminal acts, such as drug trafficking. However, persons who are not of criminal age commit more types of crime than only those for which they are used by criminal gangs. Rape and robbery occur with a worrying frequency. It should be clear that if you are able to commit such acts, you are also able to face the rightful consequences: a punishment for the action you have carried out. The government acted, as Morgan Johansson mentioned, in a closely related area in the autumn, namely the penalty reduction for young offenders. The Swedish democrats then chose to go further than the government in their follow-up motion, as usual, by also attacking the penalty reduction for the offenders who are 15 – 17 years old – thus not only the adults, who were the government focused on. Politics must act decisively against the runaway youth robberies. We demand, among other things, a reduction in the age of the criminal authorities, a very limited youth discount for underage and real youth prisons. In our other policies, we also go further by advocating an investigation into this. The government must at least begin to dare address the question of the young offenders who have not yet become of age. This was something that we highlighted when that report was handled by Parliament, and that is something I am highlighting here today. What has now happened when the government chose only to regulate the penalty reduction for the aged 18, 19 and 20, is that there will be a large threshold between a 17-year-old and an 18-year-old convicted of crime, such as robbery. This will mean creating an incentive structure to commit robbery and other crimes before becoming of age because the threshold will then be so high, as a consequence of Morgan Johansson and the government not limiting the penalty reduction for 15-, 16- and 17-year-olds. Is this something that Morgan Johansson will realise was wrong and act on afterwards?
i-AJQyfCE9Bx7Zudp6c12b2B	Madam President, I would like I stated in my previous speech that, since the perpetrators are often young, the sentences are mild when someone is convicted of robbery. The penalty is often only a few hours' youth service or care. I note that, in his previous speech, the Council of State did not comment on my question whether he is satisfied that minors convicted of the normal rate of robbery are rarely sentenced to the more intrusive sanction of youth surveillance. We Moderates see the need for a wide range of changes regarding the sanctions for robberies and for young people in general. The minimum penalty for robbery should be increased from today's one-year prison to at least one-and-a-half-year prison. Degrading elements associated with robbery should form the basis for the robbery to be classified as serious and thus lead to a minimum of five years in prison. Moreover, as robbery is just one example of young people accounting for very serious crime, penalties for young people should be reviewed in general. Punishment rebates for young people combined with quantity rebates mean that young people who repeatedly commit crimes receive provocative, mild penalties. We therefore want the penalties for young people between the ages of 18 and 21 to be abolished completely. In addition, the quantity rebate in its current form should be abolished. There is also a need to review and tighten penalties for young people aged 15 to 17. In addition to sanctions, it is crucial that more juvenile robberies are also cleared up. For that, the police need to be present throughout the country and have the capacity to investigate crimes. This is necessary for more crimes to be cleared up, but it is also necessary for the police's preventive work locally around Sweden to be successful. It concerns me then that the number of police officers in Västmanland is fewer today than when the government took office in 2014, despite the fact that the number of westerners has since become 15 000 more. Sweden is at the very bottom of the EU in terms of the number of police officers. It is good that the number of places at police colleges is expanded, but it does not help when half of the places are empty. It is obvious that the government is not doing enough to make the police profession more attractive, so that more people will seek the profession, choose to stay or perhaps come back. Thanks to the fact that moderate budgets have won the approval of Parliament on a couple of occasions, proper police pay efforts have been made, and they can also continue in 2022 and onwards. My question to Morgan Johansson is, therefore, whether he can promise here and now that the continued police wage effort that came about thanks to the budget from M, KD and SD will continue after 2022, even if the accident is there and the Social Democrats will continue to rule. Another characteristic of youth robberies is that robberies are most common in places where there are many young people. It is about shopping centres, public transport hubs and primary and secondary schools. It is therefore astounding that Morgan Johansson repeatedly beats his chest because in 2020 and 2021, during the pandemic, the youth robbery has returned. Of course it's like that! As well as the bar fights become fewer when the pubs are closed, there will be fewer youth robberies when the young people are at home and do not go out. When you have distance education in upper secondary schools, when cultural life is closed down and when sports life is closed down, it is clear that fewer youth robberies are committed. It's not something for Morgan Johansson to beat his chest for.
i-RamHJvSxUEchL1zbB8S7Xm	Madam President, I would like I think Morgan Johansson's outcome was directly indecent but also symptomatic for the government. When you lack answers and when you lack ability to act, you attack your opponents with low charges. It's not worthy of a Minister of Justice. I recognise the rhetoric of the debate on honour problems a number of years ago. Those who pointed out the problems first were called racists. At that time, exactly the same rhetoric that Morgan Johansson used against us a few minutes ago was used. It's how to create divisions in society and how to talk about us and them. I won't. All I want is an answer to why children rob other children. What makes a person feel so deeply aggressive that he goes out and robs and demeans other individuals? This is a question that Morgan Johansson should also be interested in getting answers to in order to tackle the problem, preferably before it occurs.
i-NkhppJff1x3r9m5m7nAfip	Madam President, I would like I think it is a completely new note that has come from the Moderates in particular. It is a completely new tone, and it is due to the close cooperation that now exists between Swedish democrats and Moderates. Virtually everything about criminal policy nowadays makes the Moderates also an immigrant issue. That's something new. This was not the case before, for example in Reinfeldt's time, absolutely not. Then you would never have ever gone into that kind of rhetoric. But now the Moderates are doing so, and it is, of course, because they are making provision for future government cooperation with the Swedish Democrats. This kind of rhetoric has been heard by the Swedish democrats at all times. It is, as it were, part of this way of arguing. Crimes committed by immigrants are inflated. You don't want to talk about crimes that Swedes commit. That is why the Swedish Democrats are never able to stand up for what is the fundamental principle of the rule of law, namely the equality of all before the law. The rhetoric is carried out in such a way that all criticism is always directed at immigrants but nothing against Swedes. That is precisely the kind of rhetoric that is tearing a society apart, and in that trap the Moderates have apparently also gone. I'll turn to the point. I have reported that the basic thing is that the number of robberies has decreased by 35 percent since 2019. The clearance of these juvenile robberies is on the increase. The police are putting more resources in place for these gangs and also have more tools to access them. We have a new sanction dealing with youth monitoring and increased resources. Mikael Damsgaard says there's got to be more cops. Yes, I agree. When Mikael Damsgaard's own party was in government, you cut down on police training by 90 percent in two years to finance your tax cuts. The upswing that has now come is an effect of the government that I represent and what we have done since we took office in 2014. We started new police training courses in Borås and Malmö. We previously had courses in Växjö and Umeå. The Moderates have never ever started a new police training program. Never. We have now made sure that we have 3,000 in police training. That's the highest number ever. We have just passed the all-time high when it comes to the number of police officers, and in the spring, as has been said, there will be another 800. They come to the whole country. I can't answer exactly what it's like in Västerås, but it's clear that the more we fill in from the courses, the better it gets. The police have more funds than ever before, better tools than ever before, more resources overall than ever before and more employees than ever before, and that is the way forward. Then I have also touched on the need to do more in the area of criminal law. We have a proposal now before us that we should tighten the penalties for robbery to 18 months' imprisonment as a minimum penalty, and then we should also introduce a presumption of detention so that those who engage in it are detained while awaiting trial. It is a very powerful measure which will mean that the young people who are doing this will increasingly be put behind bars. But then don't forget, I think, that we can do a great deal about criminal law, the police and all the repressive measures, but if this is really to work in the long term, it is also other actors in society who have to do their part. You have to invest in school, leisure and social services. When I see the proposals coming from the right, there may be investments in the judiciary, but there are almost always cuts in welfare, precisely at school, precisely in leisure and social services – precisely on all measures that can break the new recruitment to the criminal gangs. On this point, Madam President, the right is completely empty of proposals.
i-29tUtL9kbBmjyrjAyv3ofH	Madam President, I would like I find it telling that Morgan Johansson prefers to talk about what tone he thinks I and the moderate debaters in the debate have rather than about the questions that we are actually asking Morgan Johansson. He returns to a mantra which can basically be boiled down to the fact that he believes that the Social Democrats and not least he himself are the main representatives of the Swedish people in manna memory and that they have done more than any other government or Minister of Justice. No one else could come close to the greatness that Morgan Johansson and the Social Democrats themselves feel they possess. This is pretty talking. It is an often recurring rhetoric on the part of Morgan Johansson to accuse me and in this case also moderates of wanting to add to the hatred in society while at the same time being the good knight who will solve all the problems he has not yet solved. What I have repeatedly wanted answers to in this debate, Morgan Johansson has moved the focus away from by saying that it is about adding hatred between groupings. But I want to know why in Brå's report we see that 66 per cent of the perpetrators of juvenile robbery have a foreign background, while 77 per cent of those affected, the victims, have a Swedish background. Why is that? I have not heard any explanation from Morgan Johansson for that. Madam President, I would like I must be able to point this out. I must be able to reproduce what the Crime Prevention Council, which is under Morgan Johansson, has produced. I must be able to say that it is interesting and something I could have suspected. I must be able to ask whether Morgan Johansson could have suspected it and whether he has a solution to it, any explanation for this clear difference between the perpetrators and the victims. Please, Madam President, can Morgan Johansson come up with an answer to that question?
i-CsAoAkWLP7CDePRks11XeS	Madam President, I would like My municipality of residence Västerås is one of the municipalities where young people are most at risk of being robbed. But the development is not unique to Västerås but applies to the whole country. As regards youth robbery, we have seen dramatic developments from 2015 to 2019, with the exception of a pandemic effect in the last two years. It's clear. The situation in Sweden is serious. We Moderates know that it is not a law of nature that makes it look like this. It is possible to reverse the trend if you really decide to do so. Children and young people have the right to move around safely in society without the risk of being exposed to crime. Their insecurity needs to be taken seriously. But then we need a new government that can get Sweden in order. We can't go on like this. We cannot have a government that blames events that took place ten years ago. When the objective of 20,000 police officers was reached during the alliance government, a temporary reduction in police training was made. They then went back to the average of the level that Göran Persson's government had. That's the truth, Morgan Johansson. When you have been a Minister of Justice for almost eight years, you cannot blame events that took place almost ten years ago. It's time Morgan Johansson took responsibility for the position he has. Sweden needs a new government.
i-B8UdC953DAM1KcLeBSdeQJ	Madam President, I would like Tobias Andersson says I beat my chest and brag about everything we've done. There's a saying in Skåne that says, "We're not bragging; we're just saying it as it is." And we say as it is, namely that this government has done more than any other government precisely in terms of combating crime and extending the judiciary. This applies not least to the police. If we look at the police funds from 2014 to 2025, we see that it was just over 20 billion in 2014. By 2025 it will be nearly 40 billion. We're almost doubling the police funds in that ten-year period. There is no other authority, at least what I know, which in modern times has grown as strongly and received as much funding as the police receive during these years. I'm proud of that. I believe that the police have been underfunded for a long time and have had far too little resources and far too little staffing. Mikael Damsgaard says that the reduction made by the moderate-led government when they reduced police training by 90 percent in two years was only temporary and then returned to an average. No, after that they went to 600 - 700 training places a year, while only the number of retirements from the police was 400 - 500. At that rate, you understand that the police can't grow. Now we train almost three times as many police officers and have started police training in two new locations, while the Moderates have never started a new training place. I'm proud of what we've done. At the same time, I see that we have to do a lot more. That is why I also have suggestions for, among other things, penalties, increased resources and increased tools for the police in the future. We will be able to continue to do this in the spring.
i-3dGaPtaU8eqSfebMUb9F3W	Madam President, I would like AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson has asked me whether I intend to go to work in order to put in place rapid settlement processes where it will not be possible for one party to delay and prevent division of property from taking place. She has also asked me whether I intend to implement a change in legislation requiring an active process of division of property with a sharp deadline for the completion of the division of property so that it is decided before the 2022 elections. In 2020 there were just over 25,000 divorces. In most cases, the spouses can agree on a division of property by common accord. During the year, a total of 1 100 applications were made for a court to appoint a deportee, and 259 apportioned to a court. Thus, relatively few divorces lead to the appointment of a bailiff or to a dispute in court. It is important to remember that there are rules to protect a financially weaker spouse during a division of property. A person who is unable to pay the costs of a division of property may apply for initial support in the form of a guarantee of payment to the holder of the division. Furthermore, a court may decide that one spouse shall have a right of detention in the former joint dwelling or that a spouse's property shall be placed under special administration in order to prevent the spouse from hiding property. A spouse who does not participate in the division of property may be subject to a penalty payment in respect of the disclosure of information on his or her assets and liabilities. The spouse may also be required to confirm, under oath and criminal liability, the information contained in a estate inventory. If a spouse does not attend a divisional meeting to which the spouse has been summoned, the absence of the division of property does not prevent it from being carried out. If a spouse has caused an increase in costs due to negligence or negligence, the holder of the division may decide that the spouse will be responsible for a higher share of the costs. It is worrying that one spouse is allowed to delay the division of property. The law imposes requirements on the spouses and provides the holder with several legal tools to drive the division of property forward. It is important that the tools are also used when there are conditions for it. I intend to follow the issue and do not rule out considering whether there are measures that can be taken to help to speed up the implementation of long-term settlements.
i-BNodtxUM1S5Qk5FUvjyQfL	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer to this urgent question of division of property! This is an issue that is of great importance and which mainly affects women's lives, since it is mostly those with the lowest incomes. Many times the woman has been the one who has cared for family life while the other party has worked and given the family financial opportunities and more space to create the golden edge needed, such as vacations and investments such as buying a car and housing. In its reply, the Government states that the legislation on rules and protection provides for the possibility to apply for initial support in the form of a guarantee of payment to the bail-in holder. I would like to ask the Government whether there is an awareness that the compensation guarantee only applies to the lawyer's cost for a few hours to investigate whether to proceed with a division of property. The Government also highlights the possibility of applying for a spouse's property to be placed under special administration in order to prevent the spouse from hiding property. This tool, which is contained in the legislation, is very expensive when you are going to hire a person for special management. For me, the legislation is far from what is happening in reality, in reality. It is both costly and expensive with its own representative, the estate manager and the good man. This could be huge sums of money for the little man. And if one might be right, the little that remains will be eaten up by all the great costs involved. Detention in housing is also a tool that the Government mentions and highlights. This applies in cases where there are children to consider. There are therefore many cases of women in their 50s and 60s – of course it can also be reversed, but it is, as I said, most common for women – who have lived with their partner for many years and where the children are flown out. Then the woman stands there with little or no income.
i-3KUrJT2N2JTw7JpTnPLHHT	Nothing is done to obtain missing information on the matter and what is needed to produce economic calculations of assets and liabilities and other things that need to be included. There are estate owners who want to settle down but the counterparty does not account for their share. I have received a number of stories about the country. The more I discuss this issue, the more obvious it becomes that strangeness and unpleasantness are emerging. The last thing I heard was that the estate manager had contented himself with an Excelark from one party and thus considered the matter closed. In that case, the other party has been allowed to pursue its proceedings through a lawyer. It costs SEK 1,500 per letter sent, and it can last for several years. As in previous answers, the Minister of Justice refers to the fact that it is only in a few of all divorces that the division of property becomes problematic. I have given a lot of thought to that wording and that statement by the Government and the Government. What information is there about what is happening around the country? I just brought it up and said it again. There is a high degree of ignorance about what is going on. Under these statistics, women are hiding who give up on the road. They have no way of carrying out their part in order to get right and to obtain funds in their lives. They are hidden under a dark surface of statistics, and that is very problematic.
i-DBG77N1euQFmMHMjcvvz27	Madam President, I would like That's 25,000 divorces a year. Of them there are a few where you get problems this way. But it is clear that any such individual case poses major problems for the individual. That is why tools already exist today to ensure that such a process can be pushed forward. I think Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson said that you can only receive a grant for a few hours when it comes to the initial work with the landowner. But it's the first five hours we're talking about. That is the initial contribution that can be made. If we expect a rate of approximately SEK 1 300 per hour – that's where it is – the contribution from the community is between SEK 7 000 and SEK 8 000. This can then be obtained in order to start the process of division of property itself, if you do not have the money to start it. Then the entire cost will be taken off the nest, so to speak. But in order to initiate the process itself, there is such a contribution. Generally speaking, the Moderates are not happy with grants, but this is actually a long-standing contribution that can be used. In addition, there are tools for the right-of-occupational guardians to deal with trivial spouses, for example, if someone wants to hide what assets he or she has. A husband's property can be placed under special management, thus preventing property, so to speak, from being hidden away. But what may be even more important is to have a husband with a fine. If you do not report the assets you have, you simply have to pay a penalty. According to the information we have collected, that penalty may vary. In some cases it is about 5 000 crowns. It can be up to $5,000. In the case of 60 000 kroner, it was a continuous penalty payment, which can actually be imposed. Then you'll have to pay as long as you don't account for your expenses. It is then a continuous penalty payment that you have to pay. So it is between SEK 5 000 and SEK 60 000. So we can force this to happen. There are tools to force data from a falling party. My view is that these tools should be used by bailiffs and district courts in cases where the process cannot be pushed forward. Then I am a little interested in what Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson thinks should be done, because in this debate I have not heard any proposals from Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson on what to do. I know that there is a proposal about having some sort of sharp deadline. If this is not resolved within 18 months or so, you should go to the district court. I do not think this is a well-thought-out proposal, because it would mean that an incomplete investigation would be submitted to the district court. In that case, the district court would have to be the one to do the investigation itself, i.e. produce all the data, do values, produce bank data and so on. That is not how courts and tribunals work. Courts always assume that you come to the court with completed investigations. They are not equipped to do this. This must be done before you get there. If you're going to get to this problem, it's the existing tools that need to be used more, but those tools are sharp.
i-FYJepCxN6Uxs89XBxTGRxm	Madam President, I would like In this interpellation debate on division of property, the Government says that the tools exist. I say you get compensation for a couple of hours. Instead, it's five. It is like strangeness at the margin because it is about the whole life of these people, mainly women, and their financial opportunities after a divorce. Then Morgan Johansson makes a bit of fun that the Moderates are not happy with contributions. No, in the best of worlds it takes care of itself, and it works. What we're not happy about is women getting hurt. I think we should be on the same side. Although the tools exist – and although in my first speech I did not address the solutions to this that I see – I do not share the position of Minister Morgan Johansson, that this should not be limited in time. The problem is that this is being used against those people who do not have the means to move forward. These are lengthy processes. They run year after year and don't stop. One party has no means, because it can't get to them. And the other party can claim to have no buts attached to large parts of them. So it is a very unbalanced issue, one of which is really in trouble after many years of marriage. The Think Tank Ownershift has produced a report entitled Ownership in distress and lust – A survey of ownership in our love relationships. It notes that on average men own 17 percent more than women during marriage. After the divorce, it increases to 75 percent, in men's favor. In my previous speech, I noted something about the legislation. The Government of Morgan Johansson highlights the opportunities offered. It does not work in practice, even if the tools exist and they are said to work. But when they do not, and we stand here time and again discussing the same question, I wonder: Is the government willing to look at this at all and see if it can make the tools work, so that women – and the men who are exposed to it – can avoid this? I'll be at the end of the day. The Government addresses the District Court. How it is done does not matter, but a time limit is needed. There is also a need to address the problem of letters passing between the parties via lawyers or bailiffs. It's not supposed to last. You have to get serious answers, and there should be clear answers that allow the processes to be taken forward so that it does not become classy. Because that's what's happening. All cards need to come up on the table to get all the parts out. You're not supposed to have home-made accounts on Excelblad. Detention officers settle with them and then say: Now it's done. Now just split this up. We're happy with that. This is also about other things. There are those who have a business. One party may have a pension, and that pension may be retained by that party. But if one party has a company where it has its whole life's income, it should be shared with the other. Knowledge of limited liability companies is poor in the legal system. It turns out that those who are able to push their own question can tell them within the legal system how it will work and why it is problematic to break the law and get advice to do so. There is a frightening part in this. Someone has got a penalty payment from the court fisher, which you don't have to do. You have 14 days to appeal. That's where the justice system breaks down.
i-QyGRbc9uTf5ZwBRwY3XTny	Madam President, I would like The rules are such that you can already today request that a penalty be imposed on those who do not want to account for their assets. This is the possibility that should be looked at: Can this possibility be used more? I do not think that we should enter into a discussion where we are told that we are going to hand over the matter to the district court when there is no investigation. In that case, the question is how we ensure that the resident goes to court to a greater extent and asks that a penalty be imposed. As I said, this possibility exists, and the current examples I pointed out range from SEK 5 000 to SEK 60 000. I would be happy to look further at whether there is anything you can do to ensure that more such periodic penalty payments are imposed. On the other hand, I do not believe in a sharp deadline for going to the District Court for investigation. Let us continue to have a dialogue on this and see if we can find something that we can do to sharpen this tool further. I'm not ruling that out at all. I would like to say once again that the contribution that can be made for the first five hours is for the start of such a process. So if you don't have the money to start the process, society stands up with the initial cost, which is perhaps SEK 7 000 – 8 000. I think that's a pretty good system so you can get started anyway. Then the costs will be taken off the nest as such. As I said, let me look further at whether there are opportunities to ensure that more periodic penalty payments are imposed. I'd be happy to take that question back to the department.
i-NVC5MvqhdkC9TYRTeevM6U	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I should like to welcome the fact that the Government is now opening up to look at the issue. I would like the question to be looked at from the point of view of what has come along, because there are many women who can testify to this. I note that there is no longer a time limit for how long a division of property may take. The division of property may take over three years. It's not working. A lot of women are stuck in major economic problems when their capital is stuck in lengthy processes. It's scary. Many cannot afford an attorney, lawyer or lawyer for years when they will send these letters. I know that those who can and, for example, have parents who volunteer take loans and try in various ways to rattle this money together in order to persevere themselves and eventually be able to come to a date when they will get redress on the matter. Both parties pay the same amount to the landowner, but one party has a much greater mobility thanks to its economy and can therefore starve the other party. Nor does a deportee have any obligation to report or report to the district court how it works, but can, because the proceedings are stuck, hold on and send these, as it becomes, a matter of no concern, back and forth, back and forth. In the meantime, you charge. For me, this is a hole in the law. In some way this must be stopped, otherwise we will have poor people in the future, women who are allowed to restart from scratch from having previously had a life with someone else where they have also taken a great responsibility. I find it frightening that these people can be hugged by charging along the way.
i-3uNFY94MCudDw9K7ebaZwQ	Madam President, I would like If we put aside the question of a sharp deadline for the district courts and they have to make investigations in a way that they are not equipped for and instead focus on how we can ensure that more periodic penalty payments are passed and that those who are in trouble and do not want to account for their assets are put down harder, I still think we will get somewhere in this debate. Then there may be some screws to screw on and some tools to use. In this debate I have opened up to do just that, because I, too, see the problem itself as it may be with the long, lengthy processes. As I said, I'd be happy to take the question back to the department and see what we can do. Then we will certainly have to continue to have a dialogue on this. I agree that it may be a problem for many people who get caught up in this situation, so let us move forward in a constructive spirit and see if we can find something that we can do on that point.
i-CM35t9w9hH2PYXLMTwZDJn	Madam President, I would like AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson has asked me whether I intend to take steps to ensure that those who have bad intentions cannot commit crimes against principals by taking on duties as good men and stewards for them. AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson has also asked me if there will be legislative proposals on this issue before the 2022 elections. An important part of the Swedish welfare society is that people who, due to illness, for example, cannot manage their affairs are helped with this. To this end, many people throughout the country stand up as good men and stewards. Unfortunately, a deputy is mismanaging his mission. Society has a responsibility to prevent mismanagement and to act decisively when that happens. It is therefore important that the system of representation and supervision of it function satisfactorily. On behalf of the government, the Vice-President last year made several interesting suggestions. These include compulsory training and better support for deputies and improved supervision in this area. The investigation also proposes a legal obligation for the transferor to report to the prosecutor if a good man or trustee is suspected of having committed an offence against his principal. The government takes the work to improve the regulatory framework for deputy representation very seriously. The report of the study is comprehensive and a large number of consultation bodies have commented on the many different proposals. All the proposals therefore need to be carefully analysed. The Government will then consider which changes to the legislation should be implemented.
i-LNBfYyCBZ2awEVQwJmVXo9	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The reason I have chosen to send in this interpellation is that for several years I have been involved in the matter and because I was recently contacted by a journalist who has read my motions about good men and stewards. The Government takes up interesting proposals from the Deputies Investigation with compulsory training, better support for deputies and improved supervision and that the transferor should report to the prosecutor if a good man or trustee is suspected of having committed a breach of his principal. I look forward to these proposals becoming a reality. The fact that the government says that it takes the regulations very seriously is also important information. The reason I'm standing here now is because I'm concerned about what I've heard and heard along the way. These are stories from individuals about how their relatives have been in trouble. I understand that the Government will not be able to answer questions on the individual matters I am addressing here, but I think it is important that those affected and everyone else in our country who sees and hears this are told that this is being examined and that the issue is being taken seriously. Much is happening in silence, and action is needed. One of my stories is about a woman who was appointed steward for her ex-husband. Reportedly, she was replaced by the transfer board without prior notice or explanation. It is even so bad that she does not know where the man is, how he is or whether he is alive. That's what the woman told you. In addition, the husband's home and belongings have been sold without the former wife and daughter being given any explanation. I can understand if the ex-wife does not get all the information, because they have divorced and she is not part of the family anymore, but a daughter, I imagine from my own perspective, wants to know what happened to the father and his possessions. The fact that a relative is suddenly given a protected identity and that his possessions are disappearing is unpleasant. The description also includes the presence of the person who has taken over the administration in a large number of criminal investigations. My own experience is not about the disappearance or protection of a person's identity, but is about a clearly designed way of accessing funds from the principal. This is done by combining brokers and brokers and doing business together when a property is to be sold. So they sell a home at a lower price than is possible to get, and then, when it goes back, they can sell the house at a higher value and take the money that comes between. This is unpleasant, unworthy and tragic, and it harms honest people who take on assignments as good men or stewards. It is a question of very voluntary work and other complex processes for individuals. I find the government's proposal interesting, and it is important to get it in place. This applies in particular to the transferor's courage to act in cases where there are complaints about strange circumstances and on issues of legal clarity. It is important that it is possible to lean against the law.
i-62Hp4aL4LE4WXvh5sDN428	Madam President, I would like Generally speaking, good men and other deputies do a fantastic and good job of helping people in vulnerable situations. There are many thousands of people in Sweden who would not be able to do without a good man or deputy to help. As in all other human activities, situations may well arise when inappropriate individuals, simply inappropriate people, take on missions– look to them to a certain extent. At worst, they take advantage of these situations. They steal, embezzle, and behave badly toward the principal. Then it is important that there is strong supervision. The good man shall be suitable for the mission. Criminals should not be good men, but should be people who are suitable for the mission, feel for the mission and who are possessed by helping a person in a vulnerable situation. A few years ago, not least through an element in SVT, a number of examples of good men having embezzled, stolen and exploited their position in relation to the principal were revealed. I remembered very well when this was revealed, and of course I was interviewed in those contexts. I also acted in such a way that I called together the seven county boards in Sweden that have the overall supervisory responsibility for the goodsman's system. We gave these county boards a special task to strengthen their supervision. We did that in 2016. I say that since then the supervision of the system has been increased and strengthened. In addition, we added the study that Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson raised and which last year submitted its report. The whole system has been reviewed on the basis of how the system can be strengthened and improved. A large number of proposals have been made, on the one hand, for further improvement of supervision, on a new authority, on the other hand on strengthening the transferee's activities and, on the other hand, on a statutory obligation to report suspected offences. It may seem obvious to a transferor that if there is suspicion of a crime, report to the prosecutor – just like everything else. There are also proposals for stricter requirements for accounting and auditing of good men and more compulsory education. In certain specific cases, there shall be staffed representatives for particularly large and difficult situations. Then there are proposals for a national register of good men and deputies. There are a number of proposals in the report, which were made on behalf of the government. This is associated with high costs. For municipalities, the estimated cost is approximately SEK 200 million per year over time. In terms of central government costs, the cost is estimated at SEK 30 million per year. The report came in last year. The investigation suggested that the changes can be implemented at best from 2023. No money was set aside for 2022 because the investigation was out for a referral. We will not be able to make any proposals before the elections, but this will be a reform for the next parliamentary term. But with the report, there is a good and solid basis to proceed with, and we will return to Parliament when there is funding in place and when the legislative proposals are ready.
i-BVGS1YQLHD5vHhNSvtUkXo	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. These are important questions. They are about crime, that is, the back of these issues. But I would also like to say that all these non-profit forces are doing an amazing job. They don't get much money for the work, but they run along the way. We are grateful for that, and more of them are needed. The Government mentioned the report in the Mission review from seven years back. Crime was detected in 25 municipalities. It is good that the operation was strengthened in 2016, which the Government raised. Furthermore, there were problems in 2015 with migration flows. There were people who took on 50, 60 or 70 assignments. After all, it was not even possible to carry out the missions, but they were just looking to shoe themselves on these people. It has come to my attention that crime can be studied. It is perhaps not strange in today's Sweden, but it is tragic that there are pages on Facebook, for example, where you tell each other how to access these funds in the principals by doing this or that. It's like the tips pages for shoeing on these people. This is a police task, but it is important to overcome these problems so that we know that our loved ones receive help and support when such needs exist. There are both relatives and those who are not relatives who care for these people's lives, and there are others in their vicinity who wear them. If you are related, you can think that this will be solved in a smooth way, but then all parts of the legislation are needed for the submission of data and so on to work because others can use them. I was going to ask if the government would be shot before the 2022 elections. The government has already responded. The legislation dates from 1924, and we have been discussing for many years an overall old legislation, how society worked at that time and what has happened since then. The Government says that the investigation is complete and is on the table but that it does not have time to make proposals for the 2022 elections, and so I wonder how far into the future the evidence will come. I know that it is difficult and complex to make a whole chapter of the law book, but it is important to get the measures that the Government has addressed in place. Then we can have a robust system where you can't abuse someone else's lives.
i-A6cQbokF3rm8Vv8ucCMbsY	Madam President, I would like When these issues came up in 2016, we acted already then. Just as Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson says, it is true that in addition to examples of rogue good men, it was an extreme situation when it came to the availability of good men. It was the major migration crisis in 2015 when 35 000 unaccompanied minors came here. It placed very high demands on the system. The vast majority who went in as good men did not do it to shoe themselves, to be honest, but the vast majority did it to help people in a vulnerable situation. Then there may be inappropriate people who seek out the activities precisely because they want to try to skin their principals – but they are exceptions. It does, however, play a minor role because there must be supervision that allows them to be accessed. But we're not going to put the picture of everyone else standing up for their fellow human being being being unserious. My picture is that most people are serious, work hard and help vulnerable people in difficult situations. Anyway! When a number of examples of these problems came up, we acted. We called together the county boards, we gave special assignments to the county boards and we appointed the review to produce proposals that could improve the system. There are now a large number of proposals that we are working on. When can we get to Parliament with this? Let me put it this way: at the beginning of the next parliamentary term, we should be able to do it. As I said, we must also arrange for the funding itself. That's 200 million kronor for the municipalities. It is another 30 million if we are to proceed with the state proposals. Then it's important that we have it in place. So this will be a reform for the next parliamentary term, but I can say that we should try to do this at the beginning of it.
i-GEzudhnxhzHwnqKtWM6Me2	Madam President, I would like I'll start with this about the good men during the 2015 migration period. I didn't say most people did this, but there were cases where a good man had 50, 60 or 70 principals. And there were not only five good men, but a number. In this context, I would also like to say that one of the Members of Parliament, who was a good man, told me the other day that she accompanied her principal to the dentist. It's part of this. In the dentist practice, they said, "Oh, you're here! No one else has brought theirs. So there have been people who have done certain things but not others. Whether you call it a mismanagement or not, there are probably a lot of tasks that have not been done, if you say so. I am looking at all these proposals that the government has – compulsory training, better support for deputies, better supervision in this area, statutory obligation for transferees to report suspected crimes to prosecutors, this about hiring deputies and so on. I've been working on a national register myself. You have to think about GDPR and those parts, but you should still know who has these missions. It should also be considered whether an authority should be responsible for this. Is an authority needed, or how is knowledge of these issues coordinated? In 2017, I went to Falun, to the County Administrative Board there. It was the same week that the Government was there. I know that there is very solid knowledge there to produce data, and there was already then. I was impressed by the knowledge that exists, and I am glad that Falun has this mission. I look forward to a new government bringing forward this proposal so that it will be in place after the September 2022 elections.
i-8HEMrknBJzPK9VNstnPRTz	Madam President, I would like It may also be the current government that does so after the 2022 elections. It is not entirely impossible for this to happen. Now, as I said, we have a solid basis that we can move on with. I am not going to lock myself in any of the details, but I see this as a task at the beginning of the next parliamentary term to reform this part too. It is true that Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson said that in the situation we had in 2015 and 20 16 there were a number of good men who took on very many assignments, which one often could not see because there is no national register. A national register would have made it easier to keep track of how many assignments someone has. You can have assignments in many different municipalities, and there is, like, no coordination at all of that. Then, of course, different assignments have different weight. Some are harder than others. It's hard to draw a sharp line and say you can't have more than this many missions. It depends entirely on what kind of problem the principal has. However, a national register would in any case facilitate supervision. The question of whether we should have our own authority is a suggestion in the investigation. We will also have to come back to that question. But the message to Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson today is that we intend to work very actively on this. I see this as a reform for the beginning of the next parliamentary term.
i-GUfsKnxD86zinWcqL5HiCA	Madam President, I would like Sten Bergheden has asked me why I have not followed Parliament's decisions and announcements regarding facilitation for the country's hunters and sportsmen. The Parliament has taken decisions on a number of announcements on arms legislation concerning, for example, the regulation of silencers, the so-called arms guard and the processing times in arms licensing matters. First of all, let me say that the Council is working hard to combat gun violence in criminal settings. The legislation has been tightened up, and the penalties have been increased. At the same time, the government is actively working to make it easier for hunters and sportsmen. To do so responsibly requires careful consideration. During 2021, the Government has decided on a bill with proposals to ease the authorisation requirement for silencers. The proposal provides for silencers to be regulated in principle in the same way as ammunition. In addition, the memo More arms parts in the hunting armory have been referred. The proposal extends the hunting armory to a number of additional pipes and end pieces. At the government's initiative, a reform work is also ongoing at the Police Authority, which aims, among other things, to shorten the processing times for arms cases. The government has recently decided on the Political Authority's regulation letter for 2022, which states that the agency will report on how the processing times in arms permits have developed and how the work to streamline the process of arms permits is progressing. The government is therefore actively working on a number of issues in the field of weapons to make it easier for hunters and sportsmen and will continue to do so. With regard to the issue of abolishing the requirement for renewal of authorisations every five years, it is important to bear in mind that this requirement applies only to fully automatic and one-handed multi-shot weapons. These are weapons that are particularly arduous and particularly dangerous. The government is not prepared to casually reduce the control of these dangerous weapons.
i-Hi19vbRFihu7rdesTFKenj	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply, but the answer only mentioned two announcements. I would now like to tell the listener what announcements we have made to the Government and to the Minister over the last two and a half years. We have given announcements to remove the five-year licenses on several occasions. We first requested the creation of a game agency in 2015 and next time in 2017. It's still not delivered. The government has not moved license management from the police to the game agency. The government has not succeeded in shortening the processing times for the arms licences. They are still unreasonably long. We have given the mandate to implement the Weapons Directive at a minimum level. The government has obstinately tried to over-implement the arms directive. We have given the mandate to carry out a complete overhaul of arms legislation, Madam President. We have requested that the government remove extraordinary reasons. We also called for the licensing of arms transfers to be facilitated directly by the arms dealer, which could mean further reducing the police's work in this process. Madam President, I would like We've requested an extended weapons wardrobe. We have requested that trade be facilitated for arms dealers. We have also requested that responsibility for shooting tracks be transferred from the police to the Wildlife Authority. Today, Swedish police are out measuring grain size in gravel pits that are shooting tracks. This can be done by another authority. The police have more important things to do. This is also not delivered. Madam President, I would like We have asked for the same rules to be introduced with regard to the EU passport. We also called for the entire arms legislation to be reviewed with a view to dividing it into a part that applies to hunters and shooters and a part for serious criminals. In this way, we can tighten the requirements further for serious criminals without spilling entirely disproportionately on hunters and shooters. All of this, Madam President, has not been delivered. Today, the Minister raises two points in this House, silencers and five-year licenses. There are more than 20 announcements that the government has been given to make it easier for the country's hunters, shooters and collectors. I have to say that it is with great disregard and in a totally unacceptable way that the Social Democratic Government deals with parliamentary announcements when it so clearly ignores the decisions made by Parliament. It ignores decisions made democratically, Madam President. It is very serious in a democracy like ours, especially when during this parliamentary term we celebrate the 100th anniversary of democracy here in Sweden. The government's disregard for decisions made democratically is serious and certainly does not belong in democracies like Sweden. The decisions made here in the Swedish Parliament apply to all who live and live in this country, and they must also be followed by the Swedish Government. Here we see clearly that this has been obstinate and skipped.
i-DAiipEs3QEDhiSTC3KPcFV	I would like to remind everyone, with a view to prevention, that it is the spoken word that applies in this House and nothing else. I hope we avoid other means.
i-LCcu7arG9PNQwgf685eAMP	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I would like to thank Sten Bergheden for listing all the 20 announcements made and for this important debate. I ask myself, of course, the same question as the interpeller: why has the Government not complied with Parliament's decision on announcements regarding facilitation for the country's hunters and sportsmen? At this time, representatives of different nations are competing in the Olympics, and biathlons are on the agenda. The gentlemen left today at ten o'clock, and at eight o'clock this morning the ladies left. The Swedish people cheer them up from the sofa at home or, a daily life like this, perhaps from the office during a break if you have the opportunity, or you look at the results along the way. It will be strange that, in the meantime, the government is delaying announcements here in the Swedish Parliament. I would like to ask Minister Johansson to answer if the weapons used by the sportsmen in our country are a problem. I can answer the question myself: No, they don't. How do you view these 20 announcements? Surely it must be the illegal weapons that the Member of Parliament, Sten Bergheden, was previously involved in getting rid of and which are problematic? We know that the legislation is incredibly clear and that all those people who practise their sport or hunt know that they will be deprived of their weapons if they misbehave in different ways. In other words, it is action against the illegal arms smuggling that the government needs to ensure that it is carried out in order to get rid of the weapons that should not be out there among people. It is also an absurd situation when the Minister of Justice in the media makes statements that the country's gunmen use terrorist weapons. Then, for my part, the debate has taken a completely biased turn. As far as I'm concerned, we don't have a problem with our sportsmen and hunters. They have sat in a position that causes them to be caught in the event of anything happening. It will be strange in this situation to highlight individuals who have committed crimes or have otherwise gone beyond what is to be followed by law. This should be dealt with exactly as is done in all other areas of society. It therefore gets strange to me that the debate highlights them and says: Look at these people – it becomes a problem. It's not like that at all. In addition, historically, in our country we have been hunting for a long time, and the shooting is going on so far anyway. If you don't have it, that's what you have to tell the sportsmen. At least that's what they want to know for themselves if they're not allowed to exist anymore. It is a better message than a few half-days where nothing happens and you cannot practice the sport you want to practice and are worried about. This long tradition means that there is no political party or any citizen, more than a small group in a large country, who might have anything against this. On the contrary, there is solid support for both hunting and shooting. Then we must also have reasonableness in how to deal with their opportunities. The 20 announcements are exactly in line with what we have wanted to happen, and there is a majority for this in Parliament. So I would also like to hear the Government's response to this.
i-FA9uAaNGU8sWrdtRoLimn2	Madam President, I would like I will concentrate on the five-year licences because it is them and the announcement that is there that Sten Bergheden brings up in his interpellation. I may begin by saying that I never thought I would have to stand in the Swedish parliament and discuss proposals from the Moderates that increase the risk of terrorist acts in Sweden. Because that's what we're talking about. This is not basically about hunting weapons but about automatic weapons. It is about the world's most dangerous small arms, which in the wrong hands, I say, can become terrorist weapons. It is these automatic weapons that the Moderates and also the Swedish Democrats want to reduce society's control over. These are, for example, automatic carbines, the AK47, which have been used in a large number of terrorist attacks in Europe. It is about the machine gun, the K-piste of model 45, which I myself am trained in. True, it's been 30 years since I did military service, but still. The K-piste is one of the weapons covered by the five-year license; it was the standard weapon of the defence for many years. It is about Glock pistols of exactly the same character that Breivik used during his terrorist attack at Utøya more than ten years ago. These are not basically hunting weapons. Nobody's chasing moose with a k-piste. These are automatic weapons, the world's most dangerous small arms, which are used and have been used in terrorist attacks and which, if they fall into the wrong hands, allow us to end up in very dangerous situations. My view is that these are not weapons to which individuals in general should have access. It is the military and police who use these weapons as their tools. They should not be something to which the public generally has access. Yet we make exceptions. We make exceptions for individuals who, for example, use these weapons in sporting activities, as part of their hobby. Then we say yes, you can do that, but only during the time you really do sports. On the day you no longer engage in sports shooting, you should not retain the license; I think that is reasonable. This is therefore tested every five years. What the Moderates and, by the way, the Swedish Democrats are now arguing for, I think, is completely unreasonable. This would mean that if you join a sporting activity when you are 20 to 22 years old, acquire a k-piste or an automatic carbine and engage in sports shooting in the first few years, you will then be entitled to this weapon for life. You do not need to renew the license. That is the practical meaning of the proposals of the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats: that, in that case, there should be a weapon in your closet throughout your life. In the run-up to this debate, I collected evidence from the Security Service and the police. I asked them the question: how do you see this? Then I got evidence from them, and they are very clear, both the police and the Security Service. The Security Service says that abolishing five-year licences will undermine the control of these weapons. The police say that they are strongly opposed to the abolition of fixed-term licences because these weapons are highly sought-after in criminal circles and particularly in need of theft. I am saying, Madam President, that if we were to implement what the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats are after, we would seriously hamper and, at worst, lead the development towards a situation in which we increase the risk of serious acts of violence in Sweden.
i-FRxaExDrFakNgdWxSg7njg	Madam President, I would like I might be able to update the Minister's knowledge situation somewhat – it might help a little in the further work. In fact, we have not proposed the removal of control activities. For all listeners who wonder: Today, all gun owners in Sweden are controlled every day. They're being run through criminal records and suspicions. If you commit a crime in Sweden, you often lose your weapons directly, before the investigation of possible crime has even begun. We have the hardest control of our gun owners in Sweden, every day. The Minister tells us that we want to remove five-year licences, that is, a five-year trial. There are already checks on gun owners every day. Nor have we proposed to remove the requirement to be a member and active shooter. The Minister will probably have to update his levels of knowledge here, because that is not what this is all about. A shooter may have seven or eight weapons and competes in two to three different sports. He has at least two guns with him for each race because one can fail. He has different license years for the weapons he has with him – one license he took in year 1, the other was taken in year 3. Every five years, the licenses will be re-examined, and it will be decided whether or not to keep that particular weapon, but he has the other weapons left. Madam President, I would like The Minister must get in touch with the shooting federations and others and learn how these questions work, otherwise there will be the wrong answer in this House. I can send you this with the Minister. There are therefore over 600 000 gun owners in Sweden. It's hunters, sportsmen and collectors. These people, the Minister suggests, are a threat. The Minister lists acts of terrorism abroad and applies this to the Swedish hunters and shooters and takes it as a pretext not to alleviate the demands of Swedish hunters and shooters. We have the hardest demands. We have the hardest training requirements. We have the hardest storage requirements. We have checks on Swedish gun owners every day. There are very few weapons that come out and are used in some form of criminal activity. Madam President, I would like Hear and marvel: The biggest threat of last year – the largest amount of weapons leaked – was a number of guns that ran out of the Government Office. It was eight to ten Glock 17. A similar weapon was carried by Breivik in Oslo. They were stolen from the Government Office. Had this been done by a hunter or a sportsman, he would never have received his gun licenses back. You may need to clean your own house before you go to accuse Sweden's hunters and shooters of being a threat through terrorist activities and other things. Sportsmanship is Sweden's seventh largest leisure activity and interest. There are lots of people who train, compete and participate in international competitions and make great progress. The minister has no confidence in them. He does not want to facilitate their work, training and competition. It's a mistake.
i-GXQpjdhtvYKk8yjmtqZ961	Madam President, I would like There has just been a message: we must congratulate Martin Ponsiluoma on the silver in the biathlon mass tart! I agree with Sten Bergheden's statement, of course. These gun owners are controlled from head to toe every day. You can't do anything illegal if you want to do this sport or go hunting. It is important that all the information is on the table when we discuss this, so that we do not get completely wrong. There are 20 announcements from a majority in Parliament, I can see. That leaves the question of what the government will do about this. We must not get into a discussion about hunters' and shooters' weapons being used for terror or other purposes. There is also a discussion about the delay in processing licences from the police. It's about turning in your weapons and getting them approved again. This must be done in very good time. You warn against having to hand in the weapon six months in advance, because if the cut-off date is passed and the license expires, you can be told that you can no longer have the weapon even though you submitted it in good time before. There will be a delay in handling. You have to get your gun back in time. It's not supposed to be lying with the police. We need to be properly informed about the 20 announcements, so that we can get the system in order. Finally, I would like to ask the Government how he views our history and culture, given that this is also about collectibles. People have spent money, time and energy on them and are very concerned about their weapons. They are concerned about what is happening to them.
i-33n9PcWtRqo6r2fm7FNTSg	Madam President, I would like I wonder who is the worst learned in this debate, in fact. It's not me. Here Sten Bergheden goes up and says that you control sportsmen every day. No, you don't do that when it comes to whether or not they're active sportsmen. You do that every five years. If we were to do what the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats want and remove the five-year trial, as I said in my first post, there will be no active trial of whether you are still active sportsman. If you have been a sportsman once when you were 20 years old, you will be able to keep your K-piste or any other weapon in your closet for the rest of your life. That is exactly what the law enforcement authorities are afraid of. Again, this is not about hunting weapons. It's about automatic weapons. These are automatic carbs and k-pistars – the world's most dangerous small arms. Why does Sten Bergheden believe that Säpo and the police are against removing the five-year trial? I read out their wording before, and I can continue. The police say: It is not justified to ease regulation around and thus access to the most dangerous and in criminal circles the most sought-after weapons on the market. This is a recent report from the police on this matter. Security says the same thing. It is said that this would undermine control over these weapons. Why, does Sten Bergheden believe, is the Security Service and the police against this? It's for two reasons. One is that it increases the risk of these weapons coming into the wrong hands and eventually being used for acts of terrorism. The second is the risk of individual police being confronted by an attacker with such a dangerous weapon. I often think of the situation that two police officers in Trollhättan met when Anton Lundin Pettersson entered a school and stabbed three people with a sword. There were two police officers who came to the scene. They interrupted the ongoing deadly violence by incapacitating the offender. If, instead of a sword, the offender had had a k-piste or an automatic carbine, how would that situation have been handled? It's a nightmare for a cop to be put in that situation. Perhaps they had tried to intervene anyway – hopefully they had – or had had to wait for the national task force. How many children had been killed during that time? Perhaps policemen had also been attacked and killed? So this is also what lies in the reasoning of the police and the Security Service. It's about not releasing too many of these weapons. Care should be taken to ensure that there is control over the world's most dangerous small arms and who has access to them. Sten Bergheden says that the government must implement what is Parliament's announcement. There I think Sten Bergheden should talk to his colleagues in the Constitutional Committee. The Government's obligation in relation to announcements is to report to the Riksdag how to handle them. In fact, the government is not obliged to follow them on the substance, but we will report to the Riksdag how we handle the announcements. We do this every year in letter 35. The message I have today is that I am not going to present any proposals to the Swedish Parliament that increase the risk of terrorist acts. Never! If a parliamentary majority wants to change these rules, they can do so themselves. In that case, the right wing of the Riksdag may take responsibility for the possible consequences of this. But the government that I represent will not put forward proposals that increase the risk of terrorist attacks in Sweden.
i-6UCMxLFN7zQu1awb42JG4M	Madam President, I would like Once again, we are told clearly by the Minister that he does not intend to contribute to the implementation of what Parliament has decided on with the announcement of the five-year licenses. Madam President, I would like Minister Morgan Johansson has also failed to explain why he and the government have not implemented the proposals in the 20 other announcements, for example on a game agency, from 2015, on a review of arms legislation and on the division of arms legislation. The Socialist Government has ignored a lot of announcements, and now we are also being confirmed by the Minister that it intends to continue to ignore them. Madam President, I would like I would probably have to sit down with the minister and sort out some factual problems. If we are not up-to-date on what our proposal actually means, the risk of the Minister becoming wrong will naturally increase. We have never suggested that you do not have to be active in a shooting association in order to have these weapons. We have proposed that five-year licences be removed so that every year you do not have to reconsider every single weapon. If you have perhaps eight weapons, you need to reconsider a couple of weapons every two years to continue shooting. The extreme bureaucracy surrounding the shooting activity is unreasonable, and if you miss a re-examination, you hold an illegal weapon and risk all the weapons. It's this concern our shooters feel. Madam President, I would like I thank you for the debate, but I think I will have to come back later and update the Minister further with more facts.
i-T25n9ZwErDTWEfrXfjM9sH	Madam President, I would like It is probably not only me, but also the Police and Security Authority that Sten Bergheden will sit down and try to teach. He must explain to them that there is no risk whatsoever of removing five-year controls on the world's most dangerous small arms. Sten Bergheden will still think about what situation he puts his party and parliament in if he goes ahead with this. I have clearly stated that for me, Sweden's safety comes first. I will not put forward proposals that increase the risk of terrorist attacks in Sweden. These are automatic carbines, k-pistars and other automatic weapons – including Glock pistols, which Breivik used. These are typical weapons of terrorism in Europe and the rest of the world, and I am not going to reduce their control. If Sten Bergheden, the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats intend to reduce the control of the world's most dangerous small arms in Sweden, they may do so themselves. The Riksdag will then have to enforce such legislation. But what if someone then commits an act of terror with just such a weapon? Where is Sten Bergheden then in the debate? Well, he's going to run away to the woods and not want to comment on it because he doesn't want to take the consequences of the action he could possibly carry out. Madam President, I would like You can't take this lightly. It takes a lot of seriosity. As I said, I will not contribute to reducing protection and increasing the risk of terrorist attacks in Sweden. It is always possible to look at the policy authority's procedures, but if you can renew your passport every five years, you can reasonably demand that those who have access to the world's most dangerous small arms are able to renew their weapons licence every five years.
i-MH6fY3ydczM8nnTkJBZ8zw	Madam President, I would like Julia Kronlid has asked me what measures I intend to take in my area of responsibility to prevent sick leave due to mental illness and to ensure that people affected by mental illness have access to adequate rehabilitation and to adapt assessments of sick leave following mental illness in order to avoid legal uncertainty and inhumane insurance. Those who fall ill should be able to expect financial security, good support and rehabilitation to return to health and work. The government is working to reform health insurance in order to both increase the financial security of the individual and provide time for rehabilitation. The starting point for the government's work has been the proposals made by the U n safe health insurance centred on the person and by the Investigation on sickness and activity benefits and rehabilitation benefits. New rules for assessing work capacity after day 180 entered into force on 15 March 2021. The new rules create more room for people to finish ongoing rehabilitation and return to work with their employer. Having a psychiatric diagnosis is not, unlike before, an obstacle to it. With effect from 1 February 2022, new provisions providing conditions for the return to work of the ordinary employer also apply to those who need a longer period of rehabilitation. The new provisions allow the examination of working capacity for normal work to be postponed until 550 in the sick period if there are special reasons. These changes are of particular importance for people with psychiatric diagnoses where recovery may take time and the disease cures therefore tend to be long. G return to work is often an important part of rehabilitation and return to work in several psychiatric conditions. In order to make it easier for those on sick leave to be able to return to work gradually through part-time sick leave, new provisions on part-time sick leave came into force on 1 February 2022. A person on part-time sick leave must be able to work on the basis of working conditions and his or her own health. It may also be mentioned that, from 1 September 2022, the assessment of the capacity to work must be made vis-à-vis an employed person in a defined occupational group. The aim is to make decisions on sickness benefit understandable and transparent. In the framework of a government assignment to the Swedish Social Insurance Agency and the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare, the authorities have taken steps to correct the deficiencies identified in the handling of cases where psychiatric diagnoses and other symptom-based diagnoses are relevant. Particularly important in this context are the clarifications made by the authorities regarding objective investigation findings and the requirements for data on the patient's functional and activity limitations, the so-called DFA chain. This means that the absence of findings or the absence of a DFA chain is not in itself a reason for rejection. All information on the case shall be assessed and taken into account in the assessment of the right to compensation. An overall assessment shall be carried out in all cases. The authorities' problem analysis has shown that doctors need more support in their work on sick leave. This is particularly true in more complex diagnoses such as ME, postcovid and fatigue conditions or where co-morbidity occurs. The Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare has therefore begun work on developing the insurance medicine decision support for a more general knowledge support. The knowledge support will also provide advice on appropriate rehabilitation measures. The National Board of Health and Welfare has received permanently increased funding for the work by supporting and developing health care work on sick leave and rehabilitation from 2022 onwards. A good working environment and a sustainable working life are very important factors that help prevent mental illness and sick leave. The social partners have a key role to play here. The government will continue to monitor the parties' work for a sustainable working life. It is important that the work of the parties promotes concrete work in the workplace to achieve a good working environment and to provide support for employees affected by ill health. We need a safe health insurance that provides support and time for rehabilitation.
i-EVW6fLVDqjV5WskRP9Xtu1	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Social Security Ardalan Shekarabi for his reply. I am grateful that we can have this debate today because it has been postponed because of illness in both our families. For a long time, health insurance has had many shortcomings, which have hit severely ill people hard. I would like to emphasise that it is positive that some reforms have been or will be implemented to address some of these shortcomings. However, the work is not finished, I think. There is still much more to be done, including for those affected by mental illness. Mental illness is today the most common cause of sick leave and has been so for some time. A major contributory factor is the lack of working conditions, particularly in the public sector, where women are particularly affected. I would say that this is also a problem of equality. The most common psychiatric diagnosis is reactions to stress, which leads to burnout. This is an alarming trend that needs to be reversed. Of course, the measures that need to be taken are not only within the remit of the Minister for Social Security, but also in terms of working conditions and reconciling family life and work. Nevertheless, I believe that we must be able to guarantee that those who suffer serious illness and are obliged to be on sick leave for a period of time will be treated with respect and dignity. The decisions taken must be reasonable and rooted in reality, regardless of whether a person is affected by mental or physical illness. Today, unfortunately, many people feel distrusted by authorities, and doctors experience great difficulties in writing medical certificates that are good enough for the Social Insurance Agency. The person may receive a sick leave from the doctor, comes to Försäkringskassan who says that the person has the capacity to work and then comes to Arbetsförmedlingen which says that the person is prevented from working and that there is no work for the person. According to the report from the Swedish National Audit Office and the Social Security Inspection, there are major shortcomings in the sickness and rehabilitation process linked to mental illness. It is positive that the government will produce more basis for decision and knowledge, but a proposal that the Swedish Democrats have made several times in committee movements is to increase the competence of the Swedish Social Insurance Agency and invest resources in it. Is this something that the Minister for Social Security might consider looking at? Another problem raised is the one raised by the Minister for Social Security in his reply to the very reports that the Social Insurance Office has called for objective findings and that it has been refused. It is positive that the Minister is now making it clear that there should not be a rejection on this basis alone, but that there should be an overall assessment. However, I am a little concerned that such rejections can still be given and that further clarification is needed. My question to the Minister is whether the Minister for Social Security is willing to clarify this further in letters of regulation and governance and perhaps investigate whether the legislation needs to be further clarified in terms of the assessment of people with mental illness, so that they do not get caught up in and be judged on the basis of a regulatory framework that might actually be adapted for people with physical ill health. Many people who have been insured have experienced that they have been very unfairly treated and have been squeezed between different authorities. In my next speech, I would like to go further into prevention and rehabilitation, where there are many shortcomings. To sum up a little: Can the competence of the Social Insurance Agency be broadened much more to deal with people with mental illness, and can the Minister of Social Security consider further clarifying how to assess people with mental illness when there are no objective findings?
i-tNeuS7Zep26tvM6GqPEKs	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Julia Kronlid, for the interpellation! It is important that we discuss this issue and highlight the problems that we have, both in terms of ill health and the shortcomings of health insurance, from different perspectives in order for policies to take the necessary steps to improve the financial security of our citizens in the event of illness, as well as support and preventive measures to ensure that as few people as possible are affected by disease. Swedish health insurance has undergone severe deterioration in recent decades. From 2008 onwards we have had a very negative trend that has made Sweden the country in the Nordic countries that has the worst protection for the sick. This is remarkable given that Sweden was one of the first countries in the world to introduce public health insurance and to extend financial security for the sick. What we have done over the past two years is to put a lot of energy into breaking the trend and increasing the security of the sick. As a result, the regulatory framework for the examination of working capacity at day 180 could finally be amended last March. As a result, we changed the governance of Försäkringskassan and focused on security and the need for support and early intervention. This also led us to have a new framework for the other parts of sickness benefit and the right to sickness benefit as of 1 February. I share Julia Kronlid's view that more needs to be done if we are to reach a level that is satisfactory. We have had serious shortcomings in health insurance that we want to address. Here it is about continuing to follow the change work that Försäkringskassan has. The Government, through its governance, has focused on the need for the Social Insurance Agency to provide better support for those on sick leave. We have been very careful that better health rates should not be achieved through insurance, but through early intervention so that people have the opportunity to rehabilitate and go back. The more flexible and generous rules now in place provide better conditions for Försäkringskassan to actually give the time and support that the insured person needs in order to have the opportunity to be fully rehabilitated and go back to work. When it comes to Försäkringskassan's change work, we follow this process closely, and we also have an external evaluation in order for the government to gain the necessary knowledge, if the governance of Försäkringskassan needs to be adjusted. We have a new regulatory letter with a clear focus on the insured's safety and on the Swedish Social Insurance Agency focusing on early intervention and providing support to our insured. I do not rule out that the evaluations carried out, both by Försäkringskassan itself and the external evaluation, will require adjustments and efforts from the Government and the Riksdag in the future. I am pleased that the legislative proposals that we put on Parliament's table finally went through, but it is regrettable that there is still quite a large part of this House that does not want to strengthen health insurance but, on the contrary, proposes a deterioration in health insurance. It is good that we have got through the proposals that give people better financial security. We also intend to come back with proposals in the parts relating to sickness and activity benefits, which are the security systems for people who are long-term ill. Basically, these systems are about respect for our citizens and for all those who work hard every day. There should be financial security on the day of illness, but this has not been the case in recent decades.
i-Nz8JeEqFWtpuBguX5rgaDo	Madam President, I would like Thank you for some of the answers, Minister of Social Security Ardalan Shekarabi. However, I miss a little, namely that we are making it very clear now that there are no more insurance policies in relation to objective findings and that the government is addressing the issue so that there are no more misunderstandings and insurances such as, in any case, I believe are at great risk of being wrong. We move on to preventive work. We had a debate here in Sweden yesterday about the preventive work and the Swedish National Audit Office's report. I think there are worrying figures coming up, both in the National Audit Office's report and in the report from the Social Security Inspection. There the government has failed to give a clear mandate to Försäkringskassan regarding how preventive work and preventive sickness benefit should be used and used. It has not been given sufficient priority. Mental illness is one of the main reasons for sick leave, and I believe that there really should be potential to prevent it before it goes so far that a person suffers from burnout and fatigue. Measures must be available both with preventive sickness benefit and measures relating to working conditions, even if it is not the responsibility of the Minister for Social Security. Preventive work should be used. Preventive sickness benefit has not been used at all here. Stakeholders hardly know that it exists, and municipalities and regions hardly know that it exists, plus that the regulatory framework itself is problematic. Health care sometimes does not even recommend it for people with mental illness because they feel that it is so complicated and that this type of intervention does not fit in with the regulations. The Government has appointed an inquiry into the sickness and activity benefit, SOU 2021:69, where there is a proposal for a new benefit, prevention benefit. It addresses some of the problems, including the fact that a quarter of the working time has to be lost today. The new proposal provides for hourly compensation. For example, it could help a person who needs call support for an hour. It is not possible today, because you have to be away a quarter of the working day. It's gonna be too complicated. My question is: will the Minister for Social Security work to return to Parliament with a new form of compensation? It is quite clear that the current preventive sickness benefit is not being used in the way it should and is not doing the good it could do with early intervention. Another issue is that there are also bureaucratic obstacles and narrow legal texts that cause people to end up in long sick leave without a clear rehabilitation plan and without rehabilitation compensation. Here, SOU 2021:69 has developed concrete proposals on how to change the regulations so that, for example, the rehabilitation chain's deadlines do not cause problems when you are in the middle of a rehabilitation process. Will the Minister of Social Security also look at the concrete proposals that could actually lead to a proper rehabilitation of people, including people with mental health problems? The Government also states in its response that it may be useful to have a flexible framework for gradual return to work. And that is a good thing about the proposals that exist. But here, too, we, the Christian Democrats and perhaps a little more party have put forward proposals to remove the fixed time limits of 25, 50 and 75 per cent in order that people might be able to return to 5 or 10 per cent work. I think that could be particularly valuable for those who have suffered from mental illness and burnout to be able to take small steps back to working life. I wonder whether this is something that the government might consider looking further at for a gradual return to work and for the possibility of rehabilitation at the rate appropriate for the individual.
i-BSoAHLtMWDEG8UwJ8jUVYd	Madam President, I would like These are important issues that Julia Kronlid highlights here. First of all, with regard to objective findings, I should like to say that it is clear, not least after the state inquiry that looked at the health insurance issue and the evaluation of the Social Security Inspection, that there were serious deficiencies in the Social Insurance Fund's investigations and that the obligation to investigate was not being complied with well enough. This meant that the application was also very restrictive. In combination with the restrictive legislation, the lack of compliance with the obligation to investigate was one of the reasons why we had such a restrictive development in health insurance. Now we have changed the governance of Försäkringskassan and set very clear goals with security in focus. In turn, the Social Insurance Agency itself has initiated a change in the treatment of health insurance matters. We also have an external evaluation of that process. We are therefore following this closely. The Social Insurance Agency has also shown, through its initiatives in the internal handling of health insurance cases, that they have now begun a journey of change in the application of legislation. In combination with the legislative changes that were finally passed in this House, important steps have been taken. Then Julia Kronlid rightly points out the issue of preventive sickness benefit and at all this type of assistance. It is clear that these possibilities are not being used sufficiently. This is one of the reasons why we have a major problem, not least with mental ill-health and not least among employees in welfare. There we have a tool with preventive measures and benefits that can be used to shorten and at best completely prevent disease. And there are suggestions about this on our table, which Julia Kronlid points out, which we have referred to. We have now received the referrals and are analysing these answers. Of course, we want a regulatory framework that better enables disease prevention also within the social security system. We have concrete proposals from the investigator. And I have begun to analyse the referrals to see if there is support also among stakeholders and experts in this area for the focus that the investigator had. We all benefit from prevention of disease. And if we can build social security systems that better reward such behaviour on the part of employers, insured persons and the Social Insurance Agency, we should of course take these steps. Prevention of mental illness, not least workplace-related issues, are not easy issues. But we in politics and the social partners must come together and do what is necessary to reverse this trend. We cannot reverse this trend by making health insurance more restrictive, but there must be more prevention and better support once you are ill.
i-DSjixcFN2MrjpAxtpGRKHo	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Social Security for his answer. I very much hope that the proposals that exist can become a reality and that they can be adapted to the situation that we have today and that people affected by mental illness are also in mind if we get a new regulatory framework that will actually be able to work in practice to also prevent the occurrence of serious illness. Another point that came to light was that preventive sickness benefit is often used for people who have already become ill in order to shorten the period of illness. But there are very few cases where it is actually used to really prevent. I therefore very much hope that this will be put in place. It is precisely through preventive work and rehabilitation that people should be helped. It is in this way that we will get the sick leave rates down. I am pleased that we have come out of the policy of reducing the rates of sick leave through out-of-insurance, as it has worked in the past during the period of the Social Democratic government, when insurance went up in order to reduce the rates of sick leave. I hope that we can now leave this behind and instead focus on prevention and rehabilitation and really support people for better health and that the regulatory framework is also adapted in different ways for people with mental illness. I will also closely monitor the overall assessment of people with mental illness. With regard to this particular objective finding, many people feel that they have been hit very negatively by these insurance policies. One final question is: Has the government looked at anything about how to treat those people who have previously been insured precisely on the basis of objective findings, and whether they feel that they have been unfairly treated and that it has not been an adequate investigation? Will the government look at it?
i-DfAzrn6EtiKpxuE6n81hc5	Madam President, I would like I thank Mrs Julia for this important debate. With regard to the last question, we have given a special mandate to look at errors and maladministration in the application of the law in relation to health insurance back in time. It is important that this work provides a basis for us to be able to assess what the Government and the Riksdag need to do. It is, of course, ultimately a matter of respect for the citizens. That is an important aspect. It is not a simple matter, but we have started that process and given a special mission to make an analysis of what has been and the shortcomings that have been in the application back in time. Health insurance was under severe attack for many decades. But now I am very happy that this negative trend has been broken. Most recently, there have been reports of a radical decline in insurance policies. It is incredibly pleasing, and in the end it is gratifying for our citizens because this means that people have time to be rehabilitated so that they can go back to work. Madam President, I would like Every time I visit Försäkringskassan, I meet administrators who remind me of this very thing, which means that if we give people time to be rehabilitated, they also have the opportunity to return to their work. That must be one of the most important objectives of health insurance. There we have taken very good steps over the past year. But more will be required, and we will have to follow up developments. With regard, for example, to the flexible framework for part-time sick leave, introduced on 1 February, we will have to monitor its effects and see if further measures are needed, as Julia Kronlid previously touched upon.
i-MeBVVx9AJS2RVs6gKHCgz6	Madam President, I would like Maria Ferm has asked me whether I intend to change the Swedish aid policy in breach of the OECD-Dac acquis and to use aid as a means of exerting pressure on forced expulsions and in what way I intend to ensure that the changed policy does not go beyond the development policy objectives. My brief answer is: N not, the government does not intend to change Swedish aid policy in violation of the OECD-Dac rule. Aid should be used, in accordance with the Riksdag's decision, to create the conditions for better living conditions for people in poverty and oppression. Swedish aid must comply with the OECD-Dac regulations for aid, which states that the starting point should be to promote economic development and welfare in the partner country. That is the basis of the government's aid policy. I would like to point out that a long-term sustainable migration policy that protects the right of asylum requires that those who have been refused their asylum application or for other reasons should not be allowed to stay in Sweden. Recovering one's own citizens is an obligation of international law, and compliance with international law is a fundamental principle of Swedish foreign policy and something we are constantly working on in dialogue with other countries. We expect bilateral cooperation to be based on mutual respect. We use the tools, both nationally and within the framework of EU cooperation, which are most appropriate for achieving results in the area of return. As the honourable Member writes, it can be noted that a limited part of Sweden's bilateral aid goes to states. By building long-term, broad and sustainable partnerships, we increase the opportunity to have a favourable dialogue with partner countries, including on readmission and return. Aid can play an important role in promoting conditions for safe return, both from Sweden and other countries, and it can contribute to opportunities for sustainable reintegration. Actions shall be implemented in a way that contributes to development in the partner country as a whole. Migration is largely a cross-cutting issue that is relevant in most sectors. The Government has decided on a mission to Sida to deepen and broaden reporting on the agency's existing work e with migration and development, including regarding support given for safe return and sustainable reintegration. Among other things, it will be used as a basis for Sweden's reporting on the UN's global framework for migration.
i-MyDX6qSasYxeZYAupPFNQV	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by describing why I put this question to Minister Ernkrans. It is about the fact that, on 29 December last year, ministers Ygeman and Johansson presented a number of proposals to increase the number of expulsions. One of these concerns the area of aid and is very worrying. The ministers in question stated that the assistance should be conditional on the requirement of cooperation on return. Aid should therefore be used as a means of exerting pressure on countries to which it is difficult to expel people. I see this as an alarming change in the core values of Swedish aid. The Green Party is actively working to ensure that aid is not eroded. Aid should go to people living in poverty, and it should never finance military operations or be conditional on expulsion. Sweden's aid will be sustainable, strengthen democracy and equip communities to reduce poverty and vulnerability, meet the climate challenge, counter corruption and drive for peace and stability in the world in line with the global sustainability goals of Agenda 2030. Sweden must also stand by the 1% target for Swedish aid. Of course, we should have an orderly and effective migration policy, but the debate on how people who have been refused their asylum applications should be treated has really edged. There are many reasons why people hide or not be rejected. It may be that they cannot be expelled because their country of origin refuses to accept them or that their nationality is unclear. It may also be that they cannot be rejected because they would risk torture, capital punishment or other inhuman or degrading treatment. It can also be about people who are terrified of returning or feel that they have nothing to return to. Return is a difficult issue, and most often it works best if it is voluntary, if decisions on asylum have been taken in a legally secure manner with reasonable and not too restrictive legislation and if the decision has not been delayed for too long. The Coronapendemy has had devastating consequences for people living in poverty. The fact that the S-government wants, at this point, to make aid conditional and make it more difficult for people on the run shows that it has abandoned its basic values of international solidarity. Of course, countries should accept their own citizens, but using aid as a means of exerting pressure to force, for example, return agreements is something that will only affect those who are in the greatest need of assistance. Threatening the suspension of aid is therefore quite the wrong way to go in order to bring about an effective and dignified return. It is also counterproductive to withdraw aid to countries where many people are already internally displaced or in financial distress and lack of food. It will not reduce vulnerability or the number of people who want or need to flee. In addition to that, to ralli over the vulnerable situation that undocumented people find themselves in, as Prime Minister Ygeman did in a recent interview by saying that it is like beating the ball with your hand in football and getting mad at the fact that the goal is counted off, shows reluctance, ignorance of the situation of undocumented and also lack of commitment to aid policy. Can Minister Ernkrans assure me that the government will stand up for Swedish aid to go to people in poverty and not be used as a means of exerting pressure to carry out more forced expulsions?
i-TKmBdiw36hprbiABzNybLu	Madam President, I would like It is good that we have this debate, I think, so that we can sort out some things that have been highlighted, not least on the basis of the press conference to which the honourable Member refers. I did not participate as the responsible minister in that press conference, simply because it was not a press conference on aid policy. It was a press conference where ministers Ygeman and Johansson presented proposals on their areas of return and new information that had been given to the Migration Agency and the Police Authority. However, as I said, I have taken note of the attention given to the press conference, and it is good that we can have this debate. I would just like to reiterate that Swedish aid policy is solid. It should be in line with the OECD-DAC framework for aid, and the regulatory framework states that the main objective is to promote economic development and welfare in low and middle income countries. According to Parliament's decision, aid should be used to create the conditions for better living conditions for people living in poverty and oppression. Sweden's development cooperation takes its starting point in and is characterized by poor people's perspectives on development and a rights perspective. Important work in this regard is also to promote the rights of migrants. Swedish development cooperation should also be based on a conflict perspective, a gender perspective and an environmental and climate perspective. It's government policy. Then I think that, for the sake of the debate, we should add that anyone seeking asylum in Sweden should have an individual examination of their application. After all, you must not send someone back to an area where the person risks his or her life or freedom or risks being subjected to torture or other inhumane treatment, and this is a principle that should always be respected. Having said that, I am very convinced that the person who has been refused his/her asylum application or for other reasons cannot stay in Sweden need to be able to return to his/her home country. There we have a principle of international law which says that all countries are actually responsible for their citizens, and of course we need to work on this in a good, wise and constructive way. However, aid policy is solid.
i-K6FzowbhanvPcDVNuNgWPV	Madam President, I would like The Government of Ernkrans believes that the Government's proposal will not go against the DAC acquis or change the direction of aid, which is a good clarification, but it is difficult to fully trust this given how the proposal was presented and described by her ministerial colleagues in December. In interviews after the press conference where the Social Democrats presented the proposals, Minister Ygeman said that it is about countries such as Iraq, Lebanon and Somalia and said that if the countries fail to meet their obligations, Sweden's interest will cool off. Sweden's interest in aid and in helping people in humanitarian vulnerability would thus cool off depending on how their governments act. As Minister Ernkrans says, very little of Sweden's aid goes directly to states. The effect of withdrawing aid would therefore be very small for the states in question, but very great for the poverty-affected citizens of these countries, who would no longer be helped. In addition, in the example of Lebanon, it is not the government that is opposed to receiving rejection, so it really misses the goal in several ways if you try to use aid as a means of exerting pressure on the government. On the other hand, it would have a major impact on the many hundreds of thousands of people in Lebanon who would be affected by the withdrawal of aid. There is also an international agreement from 2017 that states that humanitarian aid must not be conditional on forced expulsion. The Government of Johansson argued in an interview in connection with the presentation of the proposal that it can be used both for persons who are to be expelled due to crime and for voluntary or forced return and that assistance is based on respect between the country that gives and the country that receives. This would therefore run counter to the existing agreement on humanitarian aid. It would also be completely different from the regime that Sweden has long had for the purposes of aid. I would like to quote Sweden's humanitarian aid strategy for 2021 – 2025:中 The goal of Swedish humanitarian aid is to save lives, alleviate distress and maintain human dignity, in favour of the needy people who have been exposed to, or are threatened with, armed conflicts, natural disasters or other disaster-like conditions. ..................................................... There is nothing about aid being withdrawn if Sweden feels a lack of respect or if Sweden's interest in maintaining human dignity starts to cool off. I really hope it stays that way.
i-Cw27mRAJJVJGuqZYk61eXv	Madam President, I would like Sweden is a great humanitarian power. It is based on humanitarian principles. I can be absolutely clear about that too on this issue. We're not talking about humanitarian aid here. We are a humanitarian superpower and will continue to be so – a cornerstone of international solidarity work. On the other hand, the government will need to continue to analyse how Swedish aid can further strengthen work on secure, orderly and regulated global migration within the framework of OECD-DAC directives. The focus is on poverty reduction. For this reason, the government, as I said earlier, gave a mission to Sida in December to deepen and broaden reporting on how the agency is already today – this is a mission that is already on the agency – working with migration and development including support given for a safe return with sustainable reintegration. Of course, key elements of this work will be to promote the rights of migrants, to support effective return and to counter the root causes of irregular migration. With this, I hope that we can correct some of the questions that have been raised in the debate. We in Sweden have a long tradition of broad and ambitious aid characterised by precisely international solidarity. We'll be proud of that. As far back as 1974, Sweden, as the first country, achieved the UN's objective of providing aid to 0.7% of the country's GDP. The government's objective today is significantly higher – we are going to give 1% of gross national income in aid. That's what we're delivering. The government has made it very clear that the 1% target is fixed. We are one of the largest donors internationally. We are considered to be one of the best development collaborations in the world. Over the years, we in Sweden have repeatedly received very high grades of focus and results in our development cooperation in OECD evaluations. I would argue that it is the Social Democrats who have laid the foundations for this Swedish aid policy. We in the government, as Social Democrats, will continue to engage in aid which goes to what it is intended for and which corresponds to 1% of GDP. What I still want to be a little frank about in this debate is that the threat to an ambitious Swedish development policy is not here. The threat is the fact that the Moderates, supported by the Swedish Democrats, want to form a government this autumn. These two parties agree that they want to make Sweden and the world insecure by making major cuts in aid. They also think that other countries should take advantage of this reduction in aid. This would seriously affect long-term development cooperation and all the people living in countries with acute food shortages. It would affect support for democratic movements, our work on women's right to safe abortions and the work to ensure that environmental and climate change is fair. It's here, Maria Ferm, that we have our real opponents. I would like the Social Democrats and the Green Party to be able to work together on those issues where our parties actually agree, such as aid policy, to create the conditions for people here in Sweden to get a better understanding of what international aid is going to and show that it is actually the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats who are the threat here – nothing else.
i-R8b7bJmmSmMnkMMgUdhKuJ	Madam President, I would like I can only agree with what the real threat to Swedish aid is. I am very concerned about the proposals to reduce aid to 0.7%. I certainly believe that this can be a consequence if a right-wing conservative government comes to power, so let us really hope that this does not happen. I welcome the fact that I have received several clarifications as to what the government's line is on aid. I take Matilda Ernkrans as saying that there is no intention to make the aid conditional or to use it in any way as a means of exerting pressure to force more people to be rejected. However, it sounds very different from what was presented in December. It is a good thing that the government's line is not sprawling but is made clear in a debate like this. Nevertheless, I will continue to follow this issue closely, because my accumulated experience of cooperation with the Social Democracy over the years means that I do not completely dismiss the risk. However, I wish Matilda Ernkrans a great success in the work ahead.
i-KL6X9bjNKybAaRNhWrbzR2	Madam President, I would like I have taken note of the attention this has received. It is important that the government can nevertheless contribute to a common line on these issues. I have stated here that the government intends to continue to pursue Swedish development policy in full compliance with the OECD-DAC regulatory framework. I share the view that the objectives of aid policy should be in focus. It is about creating the conditions for improving the living conditions of people living in poverty and oppression. This is the goal of Swedish development policy. I maintain, as can be seen here in the debate, that the Social Democrats agree with the Green Party that we have a joint work to do. It is partly about strengthening knowledge about what Swedish aid contributes to the world and how it serves Sweden well, and partly about our joint commitment to international solidarity and to the forces that in Sweden are the Moderates, who want to remove 40 percent of the development budget, and the Swedish Democrats, who want to halve the development budget. Therein lies the greatest threat to an ambitious international development policy that serves both Sweden and the world well. This is also found in a global arena. Conservative and authoritarian forces also have the picture here that we are going towards a world that is shrinking people's chances of improving their living conditions, which is shrinking the opportunities for democracy and expression, and which is shrinking the opportunities to cope with women's rights, environmental and climate change. Here we have our greatest resistance. Here the Social Democrats and the Green Party should work together. I look forward to doing that.
i-GRUoDzCwHEFMxFce1hWZQk	Madam President, I would like Alexandra Anstrell has asked me what initiatives I intend to take as a new gender equality minister to increase the freedom of all girls and women living in honour-related violence and oppression in Swedish society and whether I will take any initiatives to set up an investigation with the aim of introducing a veiled ban in pre- and primary school. Breaking segregation is one of the government's priorities. It includes working against sexual violence and oppression, which is a serious social problem that mainly affects girls and young women. It is unacceptable and must be vigorously combated. The government is therefore working to build a sustainable structure to prevent and combat honour-related violence and oppression. This requires long-term work and strategic collaboration between key actors. A significant measure is that the Government within the framework of the budget bill for 2021 decided that the competence team against honor-related violence and repression will remain permanent. The County Administrative Board of Östergötland was also tasked with preparing the establishment of a national competence centre on honor-related violence and repression. During the autumn several important decisions have been made, including a mandate to the Swedish Agency for Family Law and Parental Support to promote the development of violence prevention work through support for parents focused on families in an honorary context. The Gender Equality Agency has been tasked with identifying and disseminating knowledge about experiences of violence and repression abroad. The mission aims to compile and analyse individuals' stories in order to develop preventive and treatment efforts in Sweden. The government has permanent funds and state subsidies to prevent men's violence against women and to protect those exposed. In December, the Government decided on an action programme to prevent and combat men's violence against women in 2021 – 2023. The action programme states that the work against honour-related violence and repression remains a priority area for the government in the coming years. At the turn of the year, the minimum penalty for gross violations of peace and for the violation of a ban on contact with women was also tightened. Last year, an investigator was also tasked with reviewing criminal law protection against psychological violence. The assignment shall be presented no later than 1 August 2022. Freedom of religion is constitutionally protected in the form of government and is one of the rights deriving from both the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the European Convention. The child's right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion shall be respected. At the same time, children have the right to be protected against all forms of violence and exploitation, even when they are cared for by their parents. Freedom of religion can never be used as a reason for exerting oppression and violence against a child. Women and girls should be able to feel safe in the public room no matter what clothing they wear. Therefore, I do not believe that a veiled school ban is the right way forward, and the government has no plans to initiate such an investigation. If preschool or school is concerned that a child is ill, the social services should be contacted and a complaint made. Force is never acceptable. With strengthened competence and close cooperation between responsible authorities, prevention of honour-related violence and repression can be strengthened and support for victims improved. All the professions concerned must have sufficient knowledge and procedures to do so.
i-83GFUtvYFRRK7szCskwS68	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. Today, in Sweden, we have parallel societies where some of the Swedish population live in freedom while others are restricted in their freedom and denied their human rights – in Sweden, 2022. In some localities, women are subjected to harassment because they do not follow established dress and lifestyle rules that men in their residential area have set up. Of course, there are also men who allow their women not to wear veils, but they are often very affected in groups. They are affected a lot, and a lot is happening. We have girls and women whose choices are limited by their families and relatives. Some even lose their lives. They must not dress as they please, not move freely in society, nor love and marry anyone they want. The concerns of those who are subjected to honour-related violence and oppression are very great. Especially has it been during the pandemic. Then the number of calls decreased to different help lines a little. Many were extremely limited at home. The pandemic has had a very negative impact on women and girls who are subjected to honorary oppression. This shows, among other things, a survey that the women's shelter in Lund has done.
i-AYFmLpsoJqBNMyPpavcF7H	Origo, which is Sweden's first authority-wide resource centre against honour-related violence and oppression here in Stockholm and which I have also been involved in starting, works with both young people and professionals in different municipalities and authorities. It has resulted in 367 new cases for professionals during the period January – August 2021. Madam President, I would like Honorary oppression and violence are rampant around us, and Sweden is failing. Despite the fact that Sweden has introduced enforcement measures against forced, child and polygamy, it is clear that more measures are needed. I am, of course, pleased with the decisions that have been taken in this House and with the Government to prevent honour-related violence and repression in Sweden. Here the government has a huge responsibility. This government has been responsible for this for two terms of office. It's almost eight years old. If you are eight years old, they are a very long time and a lot that will happen in your life before you are sixteen years old. It is sometimes difficult to take into account how long eight years really are, because it depends on what you relate to. Eight years is a really long time in a young woman's life. Eight years for a girl in a family with an honorary context can be the very time when she gets to be a child before she has to wear comprehensive clothes and veil. These eight years can be absolutely crucial if this child is given the right to his or her freedom and democratic rights or not. If a girl has been married for eight years to an older man who owns her and her body, eight years is probably a lifelong hell. Eight years is a long time to indoctrinate a girl that she will suffer the flames of hell if she does not wear a veil. To force children to wear a veil is an expression of a culture of honour that needs to be countered. The veil is basically a symbol of female oppression. Covering hair and body is made so that girls and women do not arouse desires in men. Does the Minister really mean that you are not going to do anything about it?
i-SeXcwbWA2kKqHCnPp9C2DR	Madam President, I would like Honorary oppression is to be removed. That was the Prime Minister's very clear message in the Government Declaration, and it is extremely important to me as Minister for Employment and Equal Opportunities. The government will turn every stone to fight crime and break segregation. The fight against honour-related violence and repression is an obvious part of this work. My message to all girls and women who are at risk of being oppressed by honour is: You have the right to control your body and your life. You have the right to love whoever you want. You also have the right to dress as you please. On that right, we shall not compromise a single millimetre. That's why a veiled school is also a bad idea. If a girl or woman wears a veil of her own free will, society should not force her to take it off. She has the right to exercise her freedom of religion. She has the right to decide for herself. If, on the other hand, a girl or woman is forced to wear a veil, she must be met by the support of the community. Honor-related violence and oppression should not occur in preschool or school, not in any form. If the staff are concerned that a child is ill, the social services should be contacted, and a report of concern should also be made. Force is never acceptable. Where children spend their days, the environment should also be safe for these children. There, the readiness should be high to see and help children who get hurt at home. Therefore, the government has taken several measures to strengthen the knowledge of honor-related violence and repression among all staff working in school. Among other things, the National Agency for Education and the National Board of Health and Welfare has received important assignments. In the autumn, new curricula will also begin to be applied. There it is clear that the school should counteract, prevent and respond to honour-related violence and oppression with knowledge and active efforts. For preschool and school staff, it is important to be able to quickly and with the right knowledge to catch children and young people who are oppressed in the name of honour.
i-HkzQuc6f57TebT2EkqW7Q9	Madam President, I would like There are many good decisions and many good efforts that are made, and yet the result is not what is envisaged. Then you need more and better efforts. The Minister refers to freedom of religion and to the right of all women to dress as they please. These are perfectly legitimate arguments. We Moderates are the first to stand up for freedom of choice, and to decide for ourselves whether their clothing is essential. But the fact that girls of school age, sometimes in pre-school age, have to cover themselves up is an expression of a view of boys and girls that we do not want to be established and developed in Sweden. The veil is actually not a common garment, but the veil is a symbol of visible oppression and sexualizes children at a very early age. Then we must also act on the basis of that reality. How should the minister or someone else know what is voluntary or not after, for example, eight years of indoctrination? Here I think it is important that Swedish society is clear. We should not tolerate coercion or honorary culture in Sweden. Why should we allow a symbol that violates half the world's population? We must not be so tolerant as to tolerate the intolerant. If men can't keep their fingers in check because they see a woman who doesn't have covered hair, they're the ones who should be at home. In Sweden, we have come a relatively long way in terms of equality between women and men. We are celebrating the 100th anniversary of democracy this year, which means that it is 100 years since women got the right to vote in Sweden. But we are far from finished, and we have girls and women in Sweden who are not allowed to dress as they want, who are not allowed to live the life they want and who are not allowed to love the one they want. The fight must continue, because we are not finished. We Moderates will always fight for the honored and for them to have the same opportunities as everyone else in Sweden, because they do not today. We must combat outdated cultures that create parallel societies in Sweden. Children's freedom should not be restricted because of their gender. Young girls must not be sexualized by being covered with veils at an early age. If you see this problem, you also have to act on that reality. I therefore call on the government to reconsider. Give all children the same opportunities! That's why there's a need to investigate a veiled ban in preschool and primary school. This education that the Minister talks about and the competence around Sweden and in our schools is also needed at our recreation centres and around in Sports Sweden. There are a lot of people who are exposed to this, and there are a lot of people who don't know how to handle it. It will take a long time before we are at the point where everyone knows how to deal with this problem. I hope that the problem will disappear, but at the moment, Madam President, we have a culture of honour that only spreads out regardless of all the decisions that have been made, and that is not really how we can do it. We don't know enough. We do far too few studies. There are municipalities that survey honour-related violence and oppression, and there are municipalities that refuse to do so. Yet we ask school students around Sweden all the time about their drinking habits, safety, drug use and so on. Then you can also white action. But for some reason we refrain from acquiring the necessary knowledge of honour culture, and then it is difficult to make the right efforts, I think. How many children are at risk of being abducted? The answer to that question, Madam President, is that we do not know. Therefore, I would like to ask the Minister whether the Minister and the Government know how many children live in honour culture, how many children are at risk of being taken away and how many children are at risk of being married off against their will, for example, during the next sport break or Easter break.
i-7BtEfhx2GqiQDgXscEzaNv	Madam President, I would like I will begin with what is mentioned most recently in the speech on the knowledge of honour-related violence and repression. I share the interpellier's view of the need and importance for us to know more. We have therefore given a mandate to the national competence centre to regularly investigate the extent of honour-related violence in Sweden. It is important to say that the numbers of darkness can be large, and there is a risk of underreporting. It is therefore extremely important that we continue to take steps and learn more about this. So this is an important mission. As I said in my last speech, the oppression of honour is to be removed. It is a priority for the government, but a ban on veils is not the way forward. I would like to mention some of the measures taken by the government to combat the repression of honour. As I mentioned earlier, we increase knowledge, we prevent, we support those who are exposed and we tighten the penalties. I also share the interpellier's analysis: more needs to be done. During this year, the Government is investing a total of SEK 565 million in strengthening the work against men's violence against women. 125 million of them are earmarked to combat honour-related violence and oppression. An important part is to raise knowledge because the oppression of honour must be discovered early and earlier. Social services, health care and school should be better guided so that everyone who meets children and young people in their profession knows how to act. Several punitive measures have been taken, and more are also on the way. The Government has, among other things, introduced a special child marriage crime and a special penalty that means that it should be aggravating if the crime has been committed with honorary motives. We have also abolished the limitation period for genital mutilation of women if the crime has been committed against a person who has not reached the age of 18, and we have set up an investigation to review how we can prevent girls and women from being subjected to various forms of restrictions and controls on their sexuality. The next step is to introduce a special offence of honour in the summer. It shall be punishable to commit certain criminal acts against a person in order to preserve or maintain the honour of a person or family. Madam President, I would like I would also like to mention the importance of active labour market policies. I am upset that the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats have stopped the extra services which are an important way for foreign-born women to get a foothold in the labour market. We know that it is more common for young people with unemployed parents to live with virginity and with standards of violence, especially if mothers are unemployed. In order to break the segregation and combat the oppression of honour, more foreign-born women also need to have a job. It is my top priority as Minister of Labour and Equal Opportunities that everyone who can work should work. And the economy should never be an obstacle to leaving a violent relationship or an environment of honour.
i-VZ5SFie5cXiddsCFfPNQk	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for the developed answer! It's nice that we agree on the problem picture. Unfortunately, we are not about the stakes. If the government and the minister are ready to turn over every stone to move forward, I wonder why the government and the minister do not want to turn the stone with the veil underneath them. We need to tackle these problems, Madam President, so that women and girls in Sweden are not oppressed by the veil. It's crazy that half of the world's population can be oppressed by a veil. In our schools and preschools, children are to be raised as democratic citizens, and all education is to convey and anchor respect for human rights and the fundamental democratic values on which Swedish society is founded. We must be clear that Swedish law and human rights apply to everyone here in Sweden. There are no exceptions, no matter what religion you have or what culture you come from. It will then be strange, Madam President, if we allow oppression of little girls who are forced to cover their hair and go into comprehensive clothes already at preschool. It sexualizes the girls and places responsibility for the man's flaws on little girls. Thank you, but no, thank you, I'll tell you. Freedom and responsibility to be able to influence your everyday life and to support yourself is the foundation of equality. I want to see a society where all people are given the same opportunity to reach their full potential. Then we need to stand up to the oppression of women and never ever accept the parallel societies that have now emerged. Among other things, at my home in Haninge it can be seen, as well as around Stockholm. We have statistics showing that every municipality around this county is affected by honour violence, and it is spreading even more. The government, you have to do more! Why don't you want to turn over every stone?
i-F3Y14tM8aXE9ZKmMBBtMRx	Madam President, I would like Honorary oppression does not belong in our society. In Sweden we all have the right to live as we want, love who we want and dress as we want – no matter what sex we have, what religion we have or where we come from. It is a good thing that the fight against honour-related violence and repression is taking more and more space in politics and social debate. It is important, both to break segregation and to increase gender equality. Therefore, I would like to take this opportunity to thank Alexandra Anstrell for this interpellation debate. Madam President, I would like The government is prepared to turn over every stone to stop the oppression of honour. But we also reserve the right to say no to bad proposals, such as a veiled school ban. We shall deal with control, coercion and violence in the name of honour. And we will defend the right of all people to make their own life choices. This also applies to the right of girls and women to decide whether or not to wear a veil.
i-XrFss6MojSQVHDx27BtmE4	Madam President, I would like Ali Esbati has asked me why I want to carry out a reform of the Public Employment Service, which has neither the support of research nor of the majority of the consultation bodies and despite the fact that the January agreement has fallen. Furthermore, he has asked me why analyses of the impact and costs of the reform have not been carried out and whether I intend to take into account in the further work the extensive criticisms made by IFAU, the Trade Union ST, the Academic Association SSR and the majority of municipalities. Two clear political priorities for the government are breaking segregation and creating jobs throughout the country. The government therefore continues its efforts to ensure that jobseekers receive better support to get to work and to make it easier for employers to find the skills they are looking for. In this work, the Council takes advantage of the work carried out under the JA. There is a broad consensus in the Riksdag that the Employment Service needs to be reformed. This consensus can lay the foundations for a more long-term and stable reform. Labour market policy will continue to contain a wide range of actions that can meet different needs of job seekers and employers and are carried out by, for example, suppliers, municipalities and ideas-based actors or by the Public Employment Service itself. These include subsidised employment for people with a weak link to the labour market, labour market training for job seekers to acquire the skills and skills required and for disabled people. There is support in the research that such efforts generally have positive effects for the unemployed to get to work. A memorandum that has been referred proposes, among other things, legislative changes to enable a more effective exchange of information between Arbetsförmedlingen and the suppliers of operations, but there are also proposals to improve the conditions for the agency's control work and to provide information on individuals with a high level of protection. The consequences of the proposed legislative changes are described in the memo. In the consultation of the legislative proposals, consultation bodies have highlighted various possible risks with the reform or put forward additional aspects that should be taken into account. I am grateful for the recordings we have received. We take these points very seriously and take them with us in the further reform process. The more detailed nature of the reformed system, such as the scope of matching services, other labour market policies and the work of the Employment Service itself, is also a budgetary issue and a question of government governance through, for example, mandates and regulatory letters. An important part of Arbetsförmedlingen's toolbox will be brokering activities acquired from suppliers. There is support in the research to strengthen matching support can help to shorten unemployment times for broad groups of job seekers. The Government considers that strengthening the matching work can have positive effects, regardless of the performer. The government has made it clear that the reform of the Public Employment Service will take place in an orderly and gradual manner. In addition to the work on legislative proposals, the Government has submitted several assignments to Arbetsförmedlingen to prepare for the reform and develop important parts of the business. Arbetsförmedlingen has also been tasked with ensuring an appropriate local presence and equivalent service throughout the country. The administrative resources of the Employment Service will be strengthened in the coming years compared to previously calculated levels. The reform of the Employment Service is a process that will continue even after the main regulatory framework enters into force at the end of 2022. There must be conditions for continuous development and improvement based on knowledge of how the system works. Labour market policy should be effective with a focus on results.
i-MXbkoVNgEBeFR6JutJrU4s	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. But I note that the Minister chooses to face the issue of a political creation and, I would say, veritable breakdown in Swedish labour market policy with rather empty bureaucratic words. Then it will be difficult to get to grips with the political differences. I must therefore begin by reminding you of the situation. This is a process that started with the January agreement and has been going on for a while. All along, in addition to the Left Party, a series of instances, researchers, practitioners and experts have come up with warnings and criticisms. Criticism has often been dismissed by waiting and looking at the next step. Now we're at another next step. Let me therefore make a few downfalls in what is now being highlighted. The Institute for Labour Market Policy Evaluation, IFAU, notes that they have already pointed out shortcomings in the construction of what is known as the "Customer Choice" fit and match, the major marketing project, but that it is unclear what has been done with those comments. There is no proper description of how the objectives of equal service across the country can be achieved. It is a little cautiously pointed out that it may seem strange that such a far-reaching reform can be carried out without a careful analysis of the effects and costs. At the heart of privatisation, i.e. the ideological hope that commercial operators will be more effective, they will analyse it as follows: ..................................................... We can look at those who actually do the job. The trade unions at Arbetsförmedlingen have all the way been very hard and very concrete in their criticism. The trade union ST writes in a referral that the government's latest government letter is alarmingly thin when it comes to substantive content. For its part, the Federation of Trade Unions (SSR) believes that this historic change does not once meet the preparation requirements of the government and rejects the proposals as a whole. A number of representatives of the municipalities have publicly expressed criticism, sometimes desperation. This proposal should be relegated to the wastebasket of history. "Well said, I think, but the words come from a party colleague to the minister, the municipal council chairman of Fagersta. Oskarshamn's municipality expresses the concerns that it has long been evident that one should have: that people who are far from the labour market will not be a sufficiently interesting and profitable target group for suppliers to work with. The National Association for Children, Young People and Adults with Intellectual Disabilities, FUB, asks the government to act because they believe that the long-term unemployed with disabilities are among the major losers in this process. From the Swedish Agency for Participation comes a survey that shows – again unfortunately not a bit surprising for those of us who have followed the question for a while – that many employees at the Swedish Employment Service who have worked with work-oriented rehabilitation, which plays a major role in this target group, have stopped. It is a group that is in great need of that very support. I would have been able to line up more examples if I had had more time. I haven't. But in view of this, and given that the Minister has not really answered my questions in the interpellation, I could actually ask one question: why? Why continue to dismantle, despite a growing high of negative and fully predictable results? Why bax on the Center Party's market fundamentalist desk product? Why should a Social Democratic government provide for such a dismantling of Swedish labour market policy? Why?
i-VjjtHaHX8ZZBCoNKQ3VTkT	Madam President, I would like Labour market policy must be developed. The government takes with it the experience of the good cooperation that we had during the January agreement. As I said in my introduction, we have referred to a memorandum proposing legislative amendments that will allow for good control and the development of labour market policies. There are a great many points of view. We are now preparing to be able to return on the basis of the referrals that have come in and that we are currently dealing with. We take it with us in the further reform work. Of course, it's absolutely central. I would also like to remind you that labour market policy is largely governed by regulations and not by legislation. So this is only a part. The work of the regulation is crucial, as is the work on the budget ahead. It is about the fact that there are resources for labour market policy, as I mentioned in my introduction. I would also like to remind you that we have just been through a very serious crisis in the Swedish labour market, the largest in modern times, as a result of the pandemic. Then it has been the full focus on making sure to save as many jobs and businesses as possible. Now we have a new situation in the Swedish labour market. So we have 100 000 fewer registered unemployed today than we had at worst during the pandemic. In January, there were a total of 369 607 persons enrolled at the Employment Service. We also see people coming back to work. There is light on the Swedish labour market, and many employers are currently looking with light and lantern for staff to hire. When it comes to finding each other, matching services are very important. And what is the Government's ambition is, of course, to develop and streamline labour market policy. It is about ensuring that we have a wide toolbox with many different efforts that can help match and equip. It is about ensuring that people receive education if that is what they need and that there is the possibility of labour market training. I regret that the right-wing opposition took away from us the possibility of extra services, which is an important tool. But that is what it is all about. There is clear support in the research that strengthening matching support can help to reduce unemployment times for broad groups. At the same time, we know that there are others who need other types of action. That is exactly how we need to develop labour market policy. I would like to state once again that the Employment Service will also continue to be a large and important authority responsible for the functioning of labour market policies throughout the country. As is the case today, the Public Employment Service will have access to a wide range of tools, which I would like to see widened further. We are now preparing for start-up jobs. All of this should be able to be used based on the needs of the individual and the labour market. Arbetsförmedlingen must work to ensure that there continues to be a wide range of actions carried out by various actors, such as suppliers, municipalities and idea-based actors, or by the Arbetsförmedlingen itself.
i-28s3fvJ7E9EMdmuEkh37Ke	Madam President, I would like The Minister for Labour is concerned with the pandemic and developments that have been. I find that interesting. As I see it, it is precisely the opposite conclusions that should be drawn from what is said here. I am also very happy and in a way impressed by how good the Swedish labour market, so to speak, has bounced back after the crisis that has been and which is going on in many places. This concerns the effects of the pandemic on the labour market. But what is also happening – the Minister should be fully aware of this – is that the division that has existed for a while on the Swedish labour market is now deepening. So many people who have been short-term unemployed and lost their jobs are doing quite well, perhaps just in connection with the outbreak of the pandemic. But things are going pretty bad for a lot of people who have been unemployed for a long time. It is the long-term unemployed who are in danger of being the ones who are most affected by the so-called reform, in which I have been criticising and pointing out shortcomings for quite some time. It's only been a month since the Chief Analyst at Arbetsförmedlingen left. It was precisely linked to criticism of the developments that have taken place in the long-term unemployed. It is the long-term unemployed who get caught up in almost compulsive reliance on so-called external actors on these issues, i.e. in practice, a large part of what is Swedish labour market policy privatises. If you think it is important that the role of the public is to help people who have fallen into long-term unemployment, the development that is taking place becomes particularly problematic. The Minister says: Yes, labour market policy should be developed. I don't mind. We are against the direction in which it develops. If it develops towards disadvantaging the long-term unemployed and people living in rural and sparsely populated areas, it is not a good development. You have to be able to see the warning signals that come from those who do the jobs and from those who study what is happening. You have to do something about it and take political responsibility for it. It is distressing that we have a Social Democratic Minister who does not at all reflect on the fact that what is happening is a major privatisation, marketisation, of a social function. At the same time, the Social Democratic Party is now out talking about all the problems that have arisen in the field of education, for example, when the major privatisations have been carried out. Now one realizes that there will be problems with the growing control apparatus that is needed. It becomes a problem when non-commercial private alternatives find it difficult to survive or act. There will be a problem with the deepening of existing social divides. It's like none of those experiences – the insights – can be transferred to this area. On the contrary, you just do more of the same and hope that it will go well. But there are many who point out that this can have effects that we will have to drag on for decades to come. I find this regrettable.
i-E4EyEV7ZYDuDF4jjY16M78	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by reminding Ali Esbati that we have spent a long time in labour market policy using many different actors to ensure that people are properly supported in order to get them into education and work. It is no wonder that we have suppliers and idea-based non-profit organisations that contribute and that the Public Employment Service can perform services in its own right. I have pointed out here today that it will also be an important part of the development of the agency in the future. It is about having a focus on results and ensuring that people really get support. Then we'll use all the good powers. Of course it should be control, and we shall ensure that we use taxpayers' money effectively. I would really like to emphasise that we have two major challenges in the Swedish labour market today. One is about employers screaming for labor. They need support in finding the workforce they need. The second, and the really big, challenge is long-term unemployment. We see it now after the pandemic – a risk of it getting stuck. It is a major challenge that many of the long-term unemployed lack basic upper secondary education. We need more people to go to regular education. That is also how the government governs the authority. We are very clear about the objectives of the agency – long-term unemployment should be reduced. It has been super tough for the Arbetsförmedlingen during the pandemic that has been. Thousands of workers have worked from home. At the same time, we have expected from politics that they will develop and reform the Agency. I have to say that they have done well. Now we have a new situation in the labour market. It's getting bright. More and more people are coming to work. Thousands of jobs are being created here and now. It will make it easier for the Authority to focus on the long-term unemployed. We also provide new tools in the Employment Service's toolbox. The creation jobs will be very important. They will give thousands of people who are long-term unemployed and newcomers the opportunity to get a job. But we Social Democrats also see other system errors. One such thing is that employers today choose to employ people from completely other parts of the world for jobs that can be done with a very short education, instead of giving a short education to people who are long-term unemployed at home in Sweden so that they can support themselves. We will turn every stone around to make sure that both break long-term unemployment and break segregation. It is a very clear priority from Prime Minister Magdalena Andersson.
i-Afncd548YQtGsYj49YuEdf	Madam President, I would like I mentioned earlier the criticisms from the National Association for Children, Young People and Adults with Intellectual Disabilities. I quote from an article in which they write: Today, a grandiose has completely taken over. ..................................................... This may sound like something great that plays very well with what the Minister says about a wide toolbox and so on. The problem, however, is that when you talk to representatives of this sector, they are often deeply distressed by the development of the Employment Service. It will be commercial market forces that dominate, and that will make this type of operator much more difficult to operate. It is the same here as in a wide range of other welfare sectors and public services, which is actually quite expected. It's just that it becomes a very big problem for people who are in very great need of support and help. The Minister mentions that regular education is a good thing. I'm very much in favour of that, and we've been pushing for too long. I thought the Minister indicated that it would be good to change the rules on labour immigration, which is also a good thing. But it is not the core issue here, namely the fact that an ideologically driven change is being made to the Public Employment Service, which has a number of quite obviously negative effects that we will have to bear for decades to come. I am still rather perplexed about why a social democratic-led government continues to pursue this policy despite the fall of the January agreement.
i-STWqds8gFGJJdHVfbiQUjg	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by saying that I share Mr Ali's commitment to labour market policy. What is mentioned here with the importance of local projects in collaboration is also something that the government has indicated that we want to promote and something that is clear in the governance of the agency Arbetsförmedlingen. I would also like to say that there is a broad consensus in the Swedish Parliament that we need to reform Arbetsförmedlingen and develop labour market policy. I am not satisfied with the results I see today, and that is why it is so important that we continue to develop labour market policies and ensure that the agency is able to work more effectively, ensure that the results are better and that people get to work faster, and that employers are able to employ the skills they need more quickly. That's also how we build a society without segregation. That is how we build a society that is equal, and that is how we build our prosperity. In conclusion, I would like to say that it is very positive to see the strong recovery that the Swedish economy has made here at the end. So we have 100 000 fewer unemployed now than we had at worst during the pandemic, and thousands of jobs are being created here and now. There are currently more than 219 000 vacancies in the Employment Service's place bank, which is a record record. The future of the Swedish labour market is bright, and we must now do everything to ensure that long-term unemployment is broken and the segregation of the Swedish labour market is broken and that employers can employ the skills they need. This is how we build a better and stronger Sweden.
i-HZwicukyfxvAYCGaAv8k4m	Madam President, I would like Mattias Karlsson has asked me what has been done so far in the form of preparation of the Riksdag's announcement, for which reasons I have not yet completed the investigation directives in accordance with the Riksdag's announcement and when I expect to take decisions on supplementing the directives that are designed in accordance with the decisions of a majority in the Riksdag. Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson has asked me when I and the government will announce new directives that follow Parliament's announcement and whether I see the same concerns about the partial report that many parties are pointing out and whether I am therefore also willing to act on this issue so that the matter is dealt with as necessary for it to land in a sustainable decision. I choose to respond to the interpellations in a context. The Supreme Court has found in the Girjas judgment that Girja Sami Village has an exclusive right in relation to the state to allow hunting and fishing, even though the reindeer industry law does not confer such a right on the Sami. After the Girjas judgment, the current reindeer-nutrition legislation can no longer be considered generally applicable to all Sami villages. The Government considers it important to give priority to the issues of the rules of assignment following the Supreme Court's conclusions in the Girjas judgment. The provisions relating to the exclusive right of Sami villages in relation to the State to grant hunting and fishing shall therefore be dealt with in an interim report. The Committee shall make proposals for the regulation of the rental provisions of the reindeer industry law which may be applied temporarily until a new permanent regulation is in place. The interim report shall be presented by 21 November 2022. The Swedish Parliament announced to the Government on 22 June 2021 what the Environment Committee and the Agriculture Committee stated about supplementing the committee directives for the investigation of new reindeer husbandry legislation. In May 2021, the Government decided on committee directives for a new reindeer husbandry legislation. The reindeer husbandry legislation regulates the conditions for reindeer husbandry, which in Sweden according to the Constitution is an exclusive network for the Sami people. The government is well aware that these are complex issues with difficult balances and that the Committee's proposals are of great importance to many people. Therefore, the government's decision was preceded by a comprehensive and broad process of anchoring. In addition, the Parliamentary Committee is assisted by 10 experts and 26 experts, including representatives of organisations gathering hunters, fishermen and forest interests. In addition, the Secretariat carries out a large number of meetings with stakeholders that will be affected by the Committee's proposals. Among other things, the Directives show that the impact of the proposals on property rights and other rights of use for land and other industries must be analysed and described, as well as what such consequences may have for the wider development of society. The committee shall then take into account the objectives set by the Riksdag for the conduct of these industries. The Committee shall also take account of the competitiveness of industry. When drawing up proposals for new regulations that may affect other industries, the Committee should ensure as far as possible that the investment climate and opportunities for regional development, international competitiveness and growth do not deteriorate. As I stated in a question answer to Mattias Karlsson on February 2, 2022, the announcement is prepared within the Government Office. Given that these are complex issues, it is important for me to have a proper scrutiny so that the government can make balanced decisions.
i-PV2dt1iT8XR5xyv4hdXSX3	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking the Government for the historical review and the background to why this investigation was set up. It was following an initiative by the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture on 22 June 2021 that a notice was issued to the Government regarding the directives to the parliamentary assembly committee, and it is that committee that is to submit a proposal for a new reindeer husbandry legislation. The announcement shows that a parliamentary majority believes that the current investigation directive has created too much uncertainty among the local population and others who have hunted and fished for generations in the areas to which the Sami people now have exclusive rights. These groups are not mentioned in the current directives, nor are the organisations that gather hunters. Furthermore, the notice states that the Directives should also take greater account of other economic activities, such as forestry and tourism. Therefore, it is Parliament's view that the investigation's directive should be supplemented with the proposals to be made and take into account the rights of the Sami village, but also take into account the other more than 90 per cent of Sami people who are not members of a Sami village, the local population as well as other Swedes' tradition, interest and need to hunt and fish in the way that has happened for a long time. According to the Riksdag, this should take place in an inclusive dialogue with stakeholders in order to find a sustainable way forward. The Committee has begun its work, and the interim report of the investigation, which will indicate whether more Sami villages will be granted exclusive rights to the hunt and the fishing is scheduled to be submitted to the Government by 21 November this year. In practice, this means that the proposal must essentially be ready before the summer. The fact that the Government has not yet amended the directives may have the effect of delaying the first part of the report. The government has had almost eight months to prepare the announcement. It is extremely strange and provocative that the Government chooses to come to the interpellation debate with only a historical description of why the investigation was set up instead of answering the three questions I have asked. In this connection, I would like to ask these three questions once again to the Government: what has been done so far in the form of the preparation of Parliament's announcement? For what reasons has the Government not yet completed the investigation directives in accordance with the Riksdag's announcement? When does the Government expect to take decisions on additions to the directive that are designed in accordance with the aforementioned decisions by a majority in the Riksdag?
i-W36BbcGHZ22GdxXmMXjU1Y	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Rural Development for his answer. This is a question that the Minister for Rural Development has inherited. It was not Anna-Anna-Caren Sätherberg who held the post when we started with the question, but the issue is the responsibility of the Minister for Rural Development regardless of who the person is. I would have expected something more than the traditional answer we get whether it's written questions or interpellations: the matter is being prepared at the Government Office – and so nothing more. It's a little boring. The notice was adopted on 22 June. Today we write on 18 February. From what we've seen, nothing has happened. The interim report will be presented on 21 November. As my colleague Mattias Karlsson said, this means that we in the committee must be ready before the summer in order for the questions to be met. Then it is really high time something happened. Is it possible that the government has decided not to face the announcement? If the government chooses not to comply with the announcement, it must in any way notify it. I have not seen such a message. If I have missed it, the Minister for Rural Affairs would be happy to point this out. In his reply, the Minister for Rural Development mentioned a comprehensive and broad process of anchoring. There are clearly many who have been involved, but despite this, such an important element has not been taken up, which has been included in the Environment and Agriculture Committee's announcement. This, in turn, means that there are a lot of people who feel a great dissension. The fact that the answer waits gives rise to even more uncertainty and unfortunately even more discord. I do not know how many emails, messages and phone calls I have received during the process, but there are an incredible number of people who are extremely concerned about what this will lead to. The directives refer to the Girjas judgment. But the Girjas judgment also makes it clear that it has not taken into account whether it is other groups that have equal or better rights than Girja to rights. This should mean that the issue should be highlighted in a much broader way than we are doing now. As we are now acting in adopting the interim report, it is going to be wrong. First, we shall quickly adopt an interim report. Then we should go back to the basic questions, those which we really should answer first, namely who has any rights. But it comes in stage two, and it becomes very strange. I would like to ask a question similar to Mattias Karlsson's questions. Does the Minister and the Government intend to follow Parliament's announcement of 22 June, or will the Minister state here that the announcement will not be met?
i-FThywPc2fXMmdMPAHUzR3D	Madam President, I would like I thank Members for the questions. Both Members testify to the complexity of these issues. The answer cannot be different from the fact that, due to the complexity, the questions are being prepared in the Government Office. But of course, as Minister, I will return. The questions have not slipped anyone by, if the honourable Member thinks so, but I will come back to them. The mission is also bigger. I know that the members of the committee are active. I know that there is broad dialogue. I myself come from Åre, and I am really on the issues from all sides. I also know that the secretariat has broadened from one group of experts and experts to include more. As Members say, it is about land use where we have lived and operated historically, and what it should look like now needs to be investigated. Of course, I have confidence in the members and the work of the Committee. I take for granted that we are also doing what is stated in the directives, that is to say that it should be a broad process of anchoring, looking at what the issue is like for other industries, income opportunities and not destroying competitiveness. I take it for granted that existing directives are being complied with.
i-QMFZudUQu4TFZ5LGagGuhH	Madam President, I would like Time and again, we see examples of the government failing to comply with decisions taken in the Riksdag. It is nothing but scandalous that the government is delaying and delaying the announcements of Parliament. Outwardly – and we have also heard this in this debate – it is said that the matter is being prepared. In fact, however, it seems that the announcement has been put at the bottom of the drawer to be forgotten. When the Government deliberately chooses to ignore the majority of the Riksdag, it risks undermining the legitimacy of the reindeerland investigation and that, in the long run, no decisions will be made on the outcome of the investigation. There is a great risk that the investigation will end up in the trash can. This is a direct mockery of all those who spend an enormous amount of time on the investigation and who hope that the investigation will solve many of the knots that make up the complex issue. With the great hope that the Government is not merely referring to the preparation of the matter, I would like to ask the question once again: when does the Government intend to take decisions on complements to the directives drawn up in accordance with the decisions of the parliamentary majority?
i-9RFMfGNeEZkh5w2v7baGdL	Madam President, I would like I note that the Government refers to the following paragraph of the Directive: When drawing up proposals for new regulations that may affect other industries, the Committee should ensure as far as possible that the investment climate and opportunities for regional development, international competitiveness and growth do not deteriorate. ..................................................... The committee should, it says. However, the mandate of the directive itself does not refer to this. It's just a part of the bread text. If you read the mission, you can't find it. This is of course a very important part in view of all the major initiatives we now see in the north, which are extremely important for Norrland, for Sweden and for the climate. It is very important that we manage to recruit people and that people want to settle and work up there. Then there must be meaningful leisure activities, and then hunting, fishing and outdoor life are extremely important. Equally important is it for those who already live there, who today are terrified of losing the absolute importance of their quality of life. I have been up there several times and noticed the division and discord that unfortunately exists and, as all camps say, has become much harder after the Girjas judgment. This is something we have to face, because it's really serious. And one way to face it is to get an investigation that meets all the needs. The Minister also said that the interim report would be temporary. But what if we only get a partial report? If you do not finish the rest of the investigation, the interim report will be the law that stands, and we will have to start again from the beginning. Then we can have even more contradictions and even more discord. We should be very clear that the Swedish state has not only behaved well towards the Sami population. There is no doubt about it. But this is still state land. Then even those who are not reindeer husbandry Sami or part of a Sami village should have the same rights. It is people who live in Sweden and who use it here and have done it for many hundreds of years in exactly the same way as the Sami population. The Sami people are mentioned in the title of the directive, but the conclusions requested by the directive leave the rest of the local population, the rest of the population in Sweden and just over 90% of the Sami people completely outside. Is it worthy of a democratic state? As I said, there is not much time left. We must get the new directives to the committee, preferably yesterday, otherwise we will not be able to reach the goal. Can the Minister give us those directives?
i-ALZG4DzyWUnGq4Ly18HMVC	Madam President, I would like I would just like to remind Members that, regardless of whether it is a parliament or a government, it is someone who has a preparation requirement. And if the Riksdag makes an announcement, as in this case, it still needs to be prepared. I must also remind Members that I have just left Parliament. I do not share the view that the government does not listen to Parliament's announcements. I have sat on Parliament's committees and dealt with very many of them, and I think that there is usually a very listening and many cases of good cooperation. There's still an orderly process right now. The Renmark Committee works and runs that process and will then present its proposals to the government. Then there will be a political discussion of these proposals, which will then return to the Swedish Parliament. I can still only say that the additional directives themselves are being prepared and prepared seriously. What a government always looks at is what it says in the Riksdag's announcement, what a majority in parliament wants and how it can be made a reality. However, these are complex issues, and I will come back to that matter. Both Members are, I understand, also members of the Renmark Committee. Of course, they have good insight into the way in which the Committee works and understand the importance of extending the mandate, even if it does not appear in the directives, to more than what has been said so far, just as I know the Committee has done. There I know that the Renmark Committee and the Secretariat are doing a very good job. These are complex issues. It is about land use, for example where I live and where several others live, and it is about access to outdoor life, hunting and fishing. So these are complex issues.
i-SSTee2pCZ5FeLgc1u4E6Tm	Madam President, I would like In previous reviews of the government's handling of announcements, the Constitutional Committee has stated that it is totally unacceptable for the government to comment only on the fact that the issue is under consideration, as it is a completely inconclusive statement. Complementing these directives on the basis of the decision of the parliamentary majority is not so complicated. There are a couple of three sentences that need to be added, and they have been produced by the Riksdag during its preparation. It is not only tragic, but also deeply undemocratic, that the Government is obstinate against the Riksdag's decision in this way. It risks creating mistrust of the investigation, such as its being ordered by the Social Democratic Government, that the result is given in advance and that the investigation is only a game for the gallery. It seems that the questions in my interpellation will not be answered today, but I would still like to ask a final question. Is there going to be a supplement at all? The Government does not need to express when it comes, but is it the Government's firm opinion that there will be a supplement after the preparation of the matter is completed?
i-W5m9K4ww7ZkDnZAMsvCrU5	Madam President, I would like It is gratifying to hear from the Government that this is being prepared seriously. I hope there is something behind it and that it is not just fine words. During the visits that I have made, mainly up in Norrbotten, I have experienced the fear and despair that many feel. We should have had a meeting inside Kiruna. We had to move to a place outside Kiruna, because they did not dare to appear with us. It is local hunters and business representatives, not least those who run tourist companies with a focus on outdoor activities. They're really worried and scared. The longer it takes to move forward in this, the longer we have to wait to get the Additional Directive, the more it builds up. I am concerned about what this will lead to. The Government says that those of us who sit on the committee have good transparency. Yes, in some parts we do. But by this week we have seen in the media that things are happening – parts of the secretariat are working on things that we in the committee have not decided on. We will have to read about this in the media, and these are things that we certainly do not fully support. The broadness of the text of the bread does not help us. However, we as a committee must comply with the directives, even if we want other directives and want them to be different. We have announced that things will be different. Nevertheless, we must stick to the letter that stands; we must relate to the directive. I am very excited to hear the answer to the final question put by Mattias Karlsson.
i-KbB1nU1Tyb5JS5sAEd1kYT	Madam President, I would like Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for your commitment. You in the Renmark Committee have a mission that is very important to very many and also very difficult. I have complete confidence that you will come up with good things. When you say that the question is being prepared in the Government Office, that is exactly the way it is. The question is prepared to see if anything can be done and if so, what and how. That is still the only answer I can give Members today. But I also know that Members are working on the basis of the supplementary directive that they have laid down themselves. It has broadened, it hears more and it also takes advantage of the views of the local population and others who have a great interest in what the Committee will come up with. I would also like to say something about what Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson says: that the problem of uncertainty is not good. I therefore hope that we will be able to make progress in this process. I think that the uncertainty is precisely the difficult thing in this. I thank Members for the debate and wish the Renmark Committee every success in the future.
