i-5sKLr6CxVFWPTCzdwfeufT	Mr President, I would like to The additional amending budget that we are now debating is prompted by Russia's invasion of Ukraine. I was going to start by paraphrase Olof Palme: You should call things by their right name, and what is now going on in Ukraine is a form of torture. What you do is torment people, low a nation to humiliate it, force it to submit to the language of power, and so the bombings are an atrocity. And of that we have many examples in history: Oradour, Lidice, Babij Jar, Treblinka, Srebrenica. There, violence has triumphed. But the judgment of posterity has fallen hard upon those who have borne the responsibility. Unfortunately, we seem to have to add additional cities to the list of cities that are forever associated with atrocities: Butja, March 2022. Those responsible must, of course, be held accountable for the serious war crimes that are now taking place. Our message to everyone and everyone must be that we see, we will not forget and we will hold you accountable for what you are doing now.
i-57edXWMkhUQ2LZCoUi9gsN	At the same time, of course, we will continue to support Ukraine, push for further sanctions against Russia and strengthen Sweden. Mr President, I would like to The report we are now debating contains the government's draft supplementary amending budget to strengthen Sweden's military capabilities and compensate households for high electricity prices following Russia's invasion. The proposal means increased expenditure by SEK 2.9 billion in 2022. In order to strengthen Sweden's defence capabilities, it is proposed to strengthen defence expenditure by SEK 2 billion this year. That is a lot of money, but the real big increase is that we are increasing future defence spending. Here we give order appropriations which already means an increase in defence expenditure by a total of SEK 30.9 billion between 2023 and 2030. In order to compensate households affected by high electricity prices, an extension of the electricity price compensation decided on 24 February is proposed. The support will go to households in southern and central Sweden, electricity price areas 3 and 4, and meet everyone who had an electricity consumption of 400 kilowatt t-hours or more during the month of March. The compensation is given after consumption with a minimum of SEK 100 and a maximum of SEK 1,000. The cost of the proposal is estimated at a total of SEK 920 million. Mr President, I would like to The report also contains the proposal by the majority of committees for measures to reduce the prices of petrol and diesel. The Russian invasion of Ukraine has led to an increase in the world market price of oil, which in turn has caused exceptionally high prices of fuel in Sweden. Ordinary people have been hit very hard. That is why the Socialist Government presented a comprehensive package of measures to address the effects on households in both the short and long term. Among other things, the government's package of measures includes a proposal to reduce temporarily the energy tax on petrol and diesel to the EU minimum. It is a strong and workable measure on which there is also broad agreement in committee. However, the majority of committees' proposals also contain other things that are more difficult to implement. Moreover, one of the proposals has a very uncertain effect. One proposal is to ask for derogations in the EU in order to completely abolish the energy tax on petrol and diesel, which today would be contrary to the EU's single tax directive. The government's assessment is that it will be difficult to get this through at EU level. Changing the directive requires full agreement among the Member States – a fundamentally important principle that Sweden traditionally holds hard on. Nevertheless, the government has pushed to get to grips with this issue. Not least, the Prime Minister himself has raised the issue at the European Council, but without hearing it. This can change, of course, but for us it is important to support households. It is therefore important that households are given clear answers. Will the other parties in Parliament support our proposal to support the high fuel costs of households by SEK 1 000 – SEK 1 500 per car, or will there be no money at all if the 27 Member States of the European Union cannot agree? This is a message that hard-pressed households need, and they probably expect it in today's debate. The message from us Social Democrats is clear: what is important is that households receive support, not how the aid is designed. That is why we have presented proposals that we know can be implemented without the approval of the other 26 EU Member States. The Government's package of measures also proposes freezing the levels of the reduction obligation for 2023 at 2022 levels. However, the majority of committees want to see a reduction in levels already this year – a measure that does not necessarily lead to lower prices but risks damaging the long-term viability of biofuels producers. Finally, the majority of the committee proposes that the government investigate a system to transfer the risk of price shocks on fuel from households and companies to the state. It is, in fact, an astounding proposal from parties who claim to see the benefits of a market economy. It is not by chance that such measures are usually followed by shortages and rationing. Such a proposal would in practice mean price regulation or subsidies that eliminate the price signals on the market. It poses a risk of serious economic consequences such as distortion of competition, a shortage of goods and ultimately a dampening of investment and growth. For the state, this would involve large fluctuations in public spending, which would be heavily dependent on the pricing of oil on the international market. In fact, this goes against the fundamental principle of prioritising public commitments to each other in order to maximise the benefits for our society. This probably also means that large amounts of money from Swedish taxpayers will be used directly or indirectly to support oil companies abroad – some of them also in Russia. This isn't serious politics. Mr President, I would like to Of course, Russia's invasion of Ukraine primarily affects the Ukrainian population. But the war also has effects in Europe and in Sweden, and of course we best meet this difficult situation and time together by supporting those who are most affected. At the same time, we face great economic uncertainties. Not least, high energy prices risk spreading to other parts of the economy and leading to higher inflation. The Swedish economy is still strong. But we in this Chamber have a great responsibility, and there is reason to be careful. Measures against high energy prices must be well targeted and well thought out. Otherwise, we risk further boosting inflation. We must also remember that no state will be able to compensate its citizens fully for all the consequences of the war. Mr President, I would like to The war has not lost the importance of climate change. The climate threat remains, and that is one of the reasons why our proposals for action does not focus solely on lowering the price of fuel and thus locking us into fossil dependence. Instead, in addition to our proposal for a thousand-piece car-based household, we also want to support those households with small economic margins and therefore suffer most from, for example, increased housing allowance for families with children and a guarantee supplement for the country's most deprived pensioners. Mr President, I would like to I would like to support the proposal and reject the paragraph in the report which refers to the transfer of the risk of high prices to the State. I don't know what number it is, but I'm sure it'll work out.
i-WNMnQrzcJTiSGTSKTigWtB	Mr President, I would like to It is difficult not to put what we are discussing now – a mix of important proposals – in the perspective that we all suffer, sometimes personally, sometimes via the media, in terms of the existential struggle for freedom that the Ukrainian people are now going through. Ultimately, at this point, we must think about what we are doing for the most vulnerable – what we are doing for the people of Ukraine, Mr President – who are fighting for our ideals and sometimes sacrificing everything they have to defend our freedom. That is not the subject of the debate, but I would like to mention it again: sanctions must be tightened up. The gas must be stopped. More weapons must be sent. And at this point we must all learn to prioritise. As far as the supplementary amending budget is concerned, my party is very proud to support the proposed additions of funds and increased ordering appropriations in order to strengthen Sweden's defence, to strengthen the capacity on Gotland, to employ more and to acquire more ammunition and fuel. All this must increase dramatically now that, as we in our party have long wanted, we are finally moving towards 2% of GDP towards defence expenditure, in order to meet the needs we have today. As Thorbjörn Fälldin said, it is now a question of keeping the border, in this new security policy situation. We're starting to do it now, but much more needs to be done. This is the core of the Swedish state, together with the core of welfare – care, care and school – and the measures to get the engine in the Swedish economy back on track and get back the jobs we have lost, reduce unemployment and secure Swedish food supply. These are basic tasks that we must prioritise in this situation. I received a letter in my mailbox that said, "You will receive electricity price support because of winter's high electricity prices." You get 4 800 SEK in electricity price support. This is what I and our household get. That's not good. I think anyone who is watching now can google out what a Member of Parliament earns, and all of us in here know that too. Those of us who sit in Parliament do not need 4 800 SEK in electricity price support. Just so that it is quite clear: we were completely in favour of and did not stop the government's proposal, which was supported by the Committee on Finance, to provide support for households that have received extreme electricity bills. But we would certainly have liked to have been able to agree on a model aimed at the high taxes on electricity, which was a realistic proposal, not the one put on the table. Perhaps we would also have liked it to have been directed at those who have the smallest margins and not as it is now. You can't always get what you want in parliament, and then it's better that something happens at all. But again: We must learn to prioritise in doing so. We know that it is the hundreds of thousands of households in Sweden that depend on direct electricity that get the highest electricity bills, and now that we spend billions on compensation, it would have been nice if something had also been put in place to offer them to switch to heat pumps and make energy savings so that they can reduce their bills in the long term. The same applies to fuel. We now have an extreme situation, Mr President, in connection with Russia's illegal invasion of Ukraine. Fuel prices are rushing, and households have not had a chance to adapt, especially those who depend on the car in rural areas. Of course we must resolve this situation. We wish, like the majority here, that we could have vigorously pushed for an exemption from the minimum level of the EU energy tax directive for a temporary period, at least five months, so that we can reduce the tax on diesel and petrol. We wish that we had also thought a little longer-term. We now need to increase our energy independence, and we need to increase the production of domestic green energy. Then we would have liked us to have been able to obtain a longer-term derogation from the EU's energy tax directive in order to remove the tax entirely on involved biofuels in various forms. I commend one of our reservations. We reject the proposal to halve or stop the reduction obligation, as it is called, i.e. the involvement of biofuels. There are many reasons for that. We really want to do everything that is both realistic and sensible and that can be implemented in order to reduce the price at pump, but the proposal that has been on the table was unrealistic to implement in practice because the companies have already made the involvement of biofuels that is set for this year. It is also highly doubtful whether price co-operation between biofuels producers, as proposed, can bring the price down. Normally, when petrol companies and fuel companies cooperate in Sweden, they unfortunately drive up the price. One often sees how they raise and lower at the same time in a way that unfortunately sometimes puts part of the competition in a somewhat hesitant light. Strengthening this cooperation is not at all good. So we have a situation where we cannot do this in practice and reduce the involvement of biofuels. In addition, diesel is so expensive now that replacing the blend of biofuels and instead adding diesel where the price difference is so small, the effect on the price will not be very great. Above all, we cut off the branch on which we sit. The long-term production of domestic biofuels that is just emerging and where it is now announced that billions of investments are being put on ice is threatened to be halted by the fact that we want to cut back the involvement of biofuels. Then it will continue as it has done so far – that almost everything is imported and that the domestic production that we want to support in other ways does not happen. However, we should be careful with the reduction obligation at the control station that will evaluate. We have said that we think it is important to pause the reduction obligation, Mr President, next year while waiting for us to move forward, but we should not remove it. Finally, unfortunately, I also have to say something about our reservation on the proposal to regulate fuel prices. It is very strange to stand in this House and argue against a proposal by parties called bourgeois and in favour of a market economy, which so explicitly speaks of the state taking over the pricing of fuels. It is now, as Tegnér had said, both obscurely written and obscurely said, and we receive different messages from different parts of the opposition. The Left Party says one thing about the investigation and the Moderates another, but in essence the proposal is about price regulation for fuel. Such a planned economic price model has been tested in many economies and in many times, every time with a devastating result, especially for the most vulnerable. In the end, it will be the taxpayers who take over and account for the price margins of petrol companies. There'll be queues. In the end, it may also be rationing. We have live examples of oil producers like Venezuela showing how bad things end when regulations on fuel pricing begin to be investigated. I'll sum up. These are many important proposals. Let us do them here and now for the defence, to help Swedish rural areas in the situation that they are currently having with fuel and to help also Swedish households that have been affected. But let us also be able to think longer, be long-term, and not let the short-term take over the crucial long-term perspective when we are in this new security policy situation.
i-NTtcjvLB5TuqEP4hguLpAT	Mr President, I would like to The horrors of war and the images of what Putin's armies have done to innocents fill the news. These are terrible pictures and stories that will forever be on our retinas. It is crimes committed that must be atoned for and that must not be forgotten. The security situation in Europe is completely changed with Putin's invasion of Ukraine, and our part of the world will not be the same as before this happened. Therefore, Sweden now needs to strengthen its defence faster than we saw before the invasion, and we are on the Green Party's side behind what is now being done. We also see that major efforts must be made on civil defence, and we are very pleased that we also got the voice of the government and the other parties to do more there too. Besides strengthening ourselves, we have to stop Putin. We must use all the means at our disposal with stricter sanctions where they play a role. If Putin were not dependent on us buying his oil and gas, he would have already strangled exports in the same way that he trixed gas supplies to raise electricity prices in Europe. The fact that Putin needs the money we pay every day for his fossil fuel proves that it is there that it would make a difference if we imposed sanctions. Instead, to continue to buy his oil and gas and fill his war fund with more and more money and, as this House now wants, to reduce the price of Russian fuel in Sweden does not go together. But that is what this proposal is now on Parliament's table. Mr President, I would like to The other day we received a new report from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). It is the UN body that is set to summarise and assess science related to global warming. And their message is crystal clear: The situation is acute, and emissions continue to increase. It's untenable. We are in a climate emergency. Now emissions must be drastically reduced, and time is running out. We don't have many years. The very week in which this report was released, and the situation has once again been found to be acute, we are here with today's proposal. It is not, as one might think, proposals for drastic measures to reduce emissions quickly. No, instead, the proposal, supported by all parliamentary parties except the Green Party, is to reduce the price of emissions of precisely the pollutants that we need to reduce if we are to manage to stop this runaway climate crisis. How is that possible? The only explanation I can see is that no other party really cares about the climate issue – not when it comes to. They go from denying climate change to thinking that they should be solved by someone else, some other time and elsewhere. But then it won't happen. We must also reduce our own emissions. No one else will reduce them for us. Sweden is also well placed to do so. The possibilities are there. We have a lot of coasts to expand offshore wind power. We have the opportunity to get more solar power from all of Sweden's roofs and biofuels on everything from residual products in agriculture and forestry to food waste and more. All we have to do is get to work. Press the start button for the 71 terawatt hours of wind power that the Moderates have stopped around Sweden's municipalities, and do so now so that we can compete for Russian energy in Europe too! It's about energy solidarity and climate change. All of this is becoming more difficult and less competitive if the parties in the Swedish parliament instead of competing to get rid of Putin's oil and gas compete to lower their prices by pump. It is a costly policy. Not taking action against climate change will cost infinitely more, both in money and in human suffering. We see droughts with lost crops or large fires as a result, heavy rain that strikes and kills both animals and plants, as well as floods that sweep people, houses, roads and destroy everything in their path. We have seen it in sub-Saharan Africa for many years now. And we see it in California and around Europe, not least in Germany last summer. Perhaps the other parties would like to forget today. But this does not disappear because a Swedish parliamentary majority stick its head in the sand. Mr President, I would like to Should Swedish households not be helped to meet the running costs of electricity, the necessary transport and food? Yes, we in the Green Party think that is obvious. That is why we have also proposed our own strong package of support. This package is, in fact, aimed at those households that have the most difficulty in coping with rising prices. It also gives freedom of choice in how they want to spend the money best. It is not just contributions to those who use the most unsustainable fuels. In our proposal there is more money for those living in rural areas, both as a one-off subsidy and as a reduced tax. It would give up to SEK 4,000 more per person per year. We propose temporary halving of VAT on food for six months, because food prices will increase a great deal in the future. Half VAT offsets the increase in expenditure that many households will have. We also want targeted support for public transport, higher electricity car bonuses for those in rural areas, but also more for those with the smallest margins – students and pensioners living on the poverty line. This is a powerful package that would provide more security and freedom for all, also for the economy for those of you who are worried these days. But this is what both the government and all the other parliamentary parties are saying no to. I very much hope that we will soon see a different focus on climate policy. Climate change is our greatest security policy threat in addition to the war being waged. The IPCC report states that it is possible to stem the runaway climate change if we want to, but then we must act together now. The fact that Sweden instead chooses to encourage emissions and also lowers the price of Putin's oil is clearly under criticism. We have to do more, not less. Mr President, I would like to I commend our reservations 1, 2, 3 and 4.
i-SYVCCr4toN5f3fiDeppMYJ	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the proposal in the report to be approved. Is it something we have been reminded of in recent years but which has become painfully clear in recent months is that we cannot take anything for granted – not least in terms of peace and freedom in our neighbourhood. Since Russia's invasion of Ukraine, we are in a completely new situation in Sweden, Europe and the world. Today we have all seen terrible pictures of mass graves in Ukrainian cities where Russian troops have recently drawn. One picture that has been etched especially on my retina is the picture of a hand sticking up out of sand and dirt, a hand that has just grasped the key to a home that is now likely destroyed by Russian troops. Mr President, I would like to Putin shall be held accountable for his actions. And we in Sweden are going to give all the support we can to Ukraine, because Ukraine's thing is also ours. What is happening now also reminds us of the most important task of a state: to protect its citizens from external threats at its borders, but also to ensure that, as a citizen, you can feel safe within its borders. That is why, Mr President, Sweden needs to adapt its readiness for a new era, an uncertain time, which requires action. Defence must be strong and well equipped for the new reality in which we live. That is why our defence capabilities need to begin to be strengthened already this year. The country that cannot defend itself can lose its freedom any day. And security and freedom must cost. Investing in freedom and security can never be compromised. Anyone who wants to attack Sweden, who even thinks that thought, should know that on this side of the Baltic Sea it will face a strong defence. The security situation requires reinforcement of the defence in both the short and long term. Therefore, I am very pleased that all the parties in Parliament are now gathering around contributions to the defence already this year. It is an important signal, and it is a strength for us as a Parliament. The fact is, however, that if the Moderates and parts of the other opposition had not pushed on the issue, there would not have been any additional money. When the Moderates raised the question of calling in the Defense Committee, the government did not want to do so, and when the government was pressured to call it in, it was the starting point that it would only be about bringing forward already decided measures and not providing new funds. Now we see a united parliament. After tough negotiations where we said from the beginning that we need to see 3 billion, we reached 2.8 billion, which we are deciding on here today. I am delighted, sincerely, that we have been able to agree on this. It is also important, Mr President, that defence efforts continue. We Moderates want to see the target of 2% of GDP achieved by 2025. We do not have time to wait 10, 15 years to continue to strengthen the Swedish defence. Perhaps that is to say the obvious, but I would still like to have it said: the Social Democrats are talking about continuing to invest in the core area of the state, namely defence. There's no need for a new emergency tax. It's about 30 billion. To burden Swedish households with 30 billion at a time when many already go on their knees and feel that deep holes are dug in the wallets is not the way forward. Speaking of pruning deep holes in household wallets, I can see that it has become expensive to be Swedish – not least to be Swedish and dependent on the car to cope with their everyday lives, as very many people in our elongated country are. But you know what? It's not a law of nature. In fact, in many ways it is the result of political decisions. The Social Democrats and the Green Party have raised taxes on petrol and diesel year after year. And there's actually no Putin prices we're talking about. It's Damberg Prizes, or Magdalena Andersson Prizes if you like. Even before the war broke out Sweden had the world's highest diesel price, and now we see new record prices after Russia's invasion of Ukraine. That is why the Moderates in agreement with several other parties gathered majority to bring down the price at pump by 5 crowns. This must happen quickly, because the current situation is certainly not sustainable. We have come to a point where people quit their jobs because commuting has become too expensive. We have come to a point where it no longer always pays farmers to sow before the summer season. We have come to a point where taxi operators, who were severely affected during the pandemic, no longer know whether they will be able to cope with this crisis, too, and where road hauliers are approaching bankruptcy. This has led, among other things, to the tomato price being up to 80 crowns a few weeks ago – all because of high transport costs and the diesel price. Mr President, I would like to The decision we are going to make today is a three-step decision. The first is to reduce the tax from 1 May. The fuel tax is reduced both because the budget put on the table last autumn by the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats, which is now in force, lowers it by 50 cents and, moreover, because we are now lowering the price to the minimum level of the European Union. This gives a drop of 1 crown and 80 öre already on 1 May. The second step in the decision is that the government must now step down from the gallery and become active in the EU. Just to say: the fact that a prime minister mentions this at a European Council does not mean that one is active. Now the government has to submit an application to the European Commission to be exempted from the Energy Taxation Directive. You haven't even started with that. But it's possible. Many other countries are now doing much together with the Commission to make it easier for their country's households. The Swedish Social Democratic Government should do the same. The third step is that the government is given a clear mandate to review the reduction obligation this year. This can lead to a reduction of about SEK 2 at the pump. Only the Center Party and the Green Party are opposed to this decision. I would like to thank the rest of you for supporting it. I would particularly like to thank the Left Party, which has been very constructive throughout this process. Mr President, I would like to So it is not a natural law that the price of diesel and petrol is this high. There's something you can do about it. Why do we do that? Well, to make things easier for people in their everyday lives, for all the men and women around Sweden who are completely dependent on the car but also for all the companies that have been hit hard when the price has risen. Finally, Mr President, the Moderates will continue to be a blowtorch to keep pace with this work because pump prices have to go down, and they have to go down by $5.
i-6CCX4FvSEg8mDNFnvoPVC2	Mr President, I would like to I agree with what Elisabeth Svantesson has said, and I am sorry to have to ask for a reply. I agree with our common struggle to strengthen the Swedish defence. I agree with the need to forcefully reduce taxes temporarily in order to meet the current price shock on fuel. I also agree with the need to help Swedish farmers to strengthen Swedish food production, which was mentioned here and which we work with in all contexts. The reason I asked for a reply is extremely strange that the Moderates have made a deal with the Left Party about an investigation, which must now be carried out, about regulating the price of petrol and diesel or, as it is said, about transferring responsibility from households and companies to the state. I do not think that Nicolá Maduro in Venezuela would have been better able to express what you do when you let the planning economy and the state take over the regulation of prices where we do not want regulation or rationing at all because it always leads to bad outcomes. In particular, I would like to hear the Moderates' description of what this transfer of responsibility for the price of fuel from households and companies to the state means. It would be interesting to know what the Left Party will answer the corresponding question.
i-DgaP3Mwq9ndu5XAckuqcYb	Mr President, I would like to You're never forced to take a line if you don't want to, but Martin Ådahl is so happy to do that. Just to say that, I don't think that so many people who are watching or listening to this are thinking that the Moderates are now going to be part of Venezuela's planning policy of queues for gas stations. It's all about its own absurdity, isn't it? There may be a new crisis with a supply shock, and you need to look at a model. I see that there is an opportunity to deal with such a thing much more quickly via the tax than in this crisis. That is the simple answer – nothing else. I find it far more strange that the Center Party today, together with the Green Party, reserves itself on the issue of the reduction obligation. Unlike Martin Ådahl, I have been talking to the fuel companies about this issue. What we are about to decide on, for example, is a relief for agriculture of SEK 800 million. Why are we so opposed to this year reducing the rate of reduction to make it easier for farmers and for women and men around Sweden, in the countryside and around the big cities, who depend on their car? A lot of people are. I can't believe it. This is a concrete decision; the second is a study to review a model that facilitates. Why is the Center Party voting against it today?
i-6uznJMbCciSo7jkFqDTi6B	Mr President, I would like to Sometimes you have to take these lines. That's amazing. Elisabeth Svantesson here is talking about us being able to lower taxes again if there are new crises. But what the Moderates agree with the Left Party on, which we must now investigate, is to transfer responsibility for the prices of petrol and diesel from households and companies to the state. I still want an explanation. What does this mean about transferring responsibility to the state? That speaks quite clearly. As far as the reduction obligation is concerned, what exactly did they promise you? Have they promised that together they will lower the price this year? We know that the costs of biofuels and diesel are very similar now. If the biofuels are removed, the future of domestic biofuel production in this country is destroyed when Sweden's green industries need to produce their own fuel for Sweden's independence and not to increase dependence on foreign power's production of fossil fuels. Sweden needs to reduce this dependence and produce more of its own. What is it then that the fuel companies have promised you? The costs are very similar for biofuels and diesel today, with the high diesel prices. Should they have some kind of cooperation? I do not understand how, in this discussion on reduction obligations, you promise things that no one can keep and receive promises that cannot be made. What we know is this: If we remove the involvement, we gain very little from the price but lose a great deal when it comes to the possibility of future Swedish green and domestic production of fuel.
i-Tr6e2mNaekDKf7DQigpkcX	Mr President, I would like to What we are doing here today is that the government is taking responsibility to make it easier for households. With the decision we are now making, the price of the pump will be lower. The government gets reduced tax revenue. It is taking responsibility for a situation that has completely derailed for many people around Sweden. That's the first thing. The second, Mr President, concerns the reduction obligation. Martin Ådahl makes it sound like the reduction obligation will now cease. The decisions made by Martin Ådahl's party and other parties, which the Moderates were initially involved in, have had totally unreasonable consequences. The Moderates take responsibility and say that this must be reviewed in the long term, but that we need to do something about the price here and now. It's possible to do. Without being too technical, Mr President, I would like to say that it is perfectly possible this year to ensure that companies, for example, postpone some of their margins to next year. That Martin Ådahl does not understand this is up to him, but it is quite possible to do. I note that the Center Party does not want to touch on the reduction obligation this year, although it has had totally unreasonable consequences for men, women, entrepreneurs, farmers, road hauliers and taxi owners around the country.
i-Rh3tPy6kgZ4zr6iMr3Dwdq	Mr President, I would like to The Moderates claim to be protecting the households that are having a tough time now that fuel prices have gone up. This is welcome and good, but it also requires clear answers to households. Our social democratic message is that we are open to various proposals to resolve this situation. What is important is that households receive support in this tough situation, and that is why we are open both to support the Moderates' proposal and to move forward with our proposal. My question is, of course, whether you in the Moderates are equally open or whether it is to reduce tax, rather than the situation of households, which is really the important thing here. If the Moderates' proposal to reduce the tax further, which, among other things, requires approval from 26 other EU countries, does not prove feasible in the near future, are the Moderates prepared to support our proposal for a package of aid, including up to SEK 1 500 for automobile households?
i-FprYHpcoUd3sYEMFRztw9E	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Åsa Westlund, for the question! The interesting thing here is what we have to consider. Unlike the Social Democrats, we in the Moderates not only hold press meetings and talk about turning every stone around, but we turn every stone around. We are also putting forward concrete proposals here in Parliament on which the whole House is to vote today. Åsa Westlund broadly supports these proposals, which I appreciate. But we don't have a government proposal for this thousand for the car – there is no such proposal. We don't have anything to take a stand on yet, do we? We will have to come back to see if the Social Democrats are able to come up with a proposal to support all car owners. From what I have heard, I do not think it is a well thought-out proposal, but let us see when it comes. Perhaps it feels more straight and clean to lower the tax so that everyone who depends on the car gets a relief. Mr President, I would like to Let me be clear about the debate in Europe. I now see, from what I can see in connection with this report, that the Social Democrats support that proposal. It is good to know that it takes activity and commitment for Sweden's best if you are to gain a hearing in the EU. There is now a discussion between many EU countries together with the Commission, and different countries do in different ways. However, in order to take this matter forward at all, a letter must be sent to the Commission. The government hasn't. From there you can have a discussion – not with the ministers of state, but with Ecofin. That's how it's done, but the government hasn't taken that step. Everything's just impossible. From the beginning, it was impossible to lower the tax. Then it was impossible to do anything in Europe. I don't think so. I think it's quite possible. Should the government fail in this mission, you can see what other countries are doing to lower the price of a pump even further.
i-13gpHJgHb2xDH8QVivNLWg	Mr President, I would like to It was clear that the Moderates are not prepared to tell households whether or not they will receive support. It is therefore more important for the Moderates how the support is designed than for the support to households at all. I understand that it is really nice to campaign as moderate on reduced taxes and then be able to blame the government for not doing so. But it presents impracticable proposals, or at least proposals that are very difficult to implement. We promise to do our best. I am absolutely convinced that the criticism would have been enormous if the Prime Minister had not raised this issue at the European Council. Now you make it look like it's almost ridiculous. I am absolutely convinced that it would have sounded different if she had not done so. We present feasible proposals. It is important for consumers to know what they have in their wallets and what they have to move with in the future. In fact, our proposal gives more to the vast majority of households, while at the same time it does not require European legislation. If you care about households that are having a tough time, it should be easy to answer yes to this question. I put it again: if your proposal does not prove feasible in the near future, despite the government's active efforts, are you prepared to support our proposal for a package of aid, including up to SEK 1 500 for households by car? Yes or no?
i-Ehfy2earSvbd8teFu61kdr	Mr President, I would like to It is problematic if you write your points of speech before you listen to what I say. Just to say: SEK 1 000 per car – I don't know when Åsa Westlund was refueling her car last time, but that's about one tank for a lot of people. Lowering the price at a pump by SEK 5 does a lot for those who depend on the car. The proposals of the Social Democrats will have to be considered if and when. There is also a difference between Åsa Westlund and me when it comes to the view of taxes and subsidies. I think it is better to lower the tax instead of having such high taxes that you have to make contributions to people in order for them to be able to pay the tax. There's a fundamental difference. Basically it is so that 5 crowns at pump is possible to implement. Let's make this decision. A large majority in the Riksdag is behind this. If the government fails to do this, I think that you should do everything you can to get the price down at pump by 5 crowns, as other countries do. That's a tip. Look at what Germany, France and Spain are doing! A price reduction can be achieved at a pump. I care about Swedish households and want everyone who is today dependent on the car to get a relief. With Åsa Westlund's proposal, I can say that even those who do not even use their car will have a relief.
i-R7JjMjmhS6AEa2nxMMe3xy	Mr President, I would like to This is shocking. The IPCC, the UN Panel on Climate Change, has just presented the latest report, which shows that we are now in a climate emergency. The President of Ukraine, Volodymyr Zelenskyj, appealed to us in the Chamber of Parliament: No more barrels of Russian oil! But the Moderates choose to defend fossil fuel in Sweden. The proposals that the Moderates have fought for and that the House will support today are about lowering the price of Russian fossil fuels in Sweden, stopping the phasing out of fossil fuels and preventing the most important reform for Swedish climate change, that is, the change of fuel, the reduction obligation, which is precisely aimed at making Sweden less dependent on dictatorships and Putin's oil. Mr President, I would like to I don't understand how the Moderates get it together. At the same time, this is in line with the moderates' fascination with fossil gas. The Moderates and several other parties fought to classify fossil gas as sustainable in the EU taxonomy. And when we wanted to phase out fossil gas subsidies in the Swedish heating system, the Moderates said no and did everything to prevent this. Mr President, I would like to I can't get it together in any other way than that the Moderates are Sweden's strongest champion of fossil energy, including Putin's fossil energy.
i-KXMmgozb41iAbY7qMThCmr	Mr President, I would like to This was wrong on so many points that I don't really know where to start. Neither in the European Parliament nor here has we ever thought that gas should be part of taxonomy. Let me also say that my picture is that we are now not using Russian oil in fuel. You've stopped trading with it. Annika Hirvonen may have other information, but I understand that it is quite wrong information. Annika Hirvonen began by saying that there are many things that are shocking. Let me tell you what I find shocking. It is that, for seven and a half years in government, the Green Party closed down four nuclear reactors, so that we are now dependent on burning 140 000 litres of oil per day on cold days to cope with the supply of energy. I find that shocking. It is also shocking that the Green Party does not seem to understand the situation of people around the country. The assistant nurse who's going to work to work night must take the car three hundred miles one way. A lot of people have it that way. They do not have high wages, and they can now barely afford to keep the job because it has become so expensive to refuel. If we lower the price at the pump for a few months it may go from 24 to 19 SEK for the diesel. I find it shocking that the Green Party thinks that it is therefore very cheap for people to refuel. A party that, in its seven and a half years in the government, failed to push emissions down at the pace we would need now wants to attack other parties, which have presented a historic climate and environmental budget and, at the same time, want to make it easier for people at a very difficult time. The fact that you can't see this equation is shocking to me.
i-9eMziGUqnLBDcPVNhyv1wm	Mr President, I would like to What many cannot see is that it is possible to support households without subsidising Putin's oil. No, Sweden has not yet introduced a stop to the import of fossil energy from Russia. However, thanks to the brave blockade of the Port Workers' Union, imports are now affected. What the Moderates and other parties in this House have said no to is direct support for households: SEK 4 000 more per month for those living in rural areas, halved food VAT and support for guarantee pensioners and students, who may not be able to afford a car from the beginning. We in the Green Party have shown that climate change can be reconciled with support for the most vulnerable. But the Moderates repeatedly say no. It is clear, Mr President, that the Moderates in one area, namely energy, want to move towards the planned economy. It is denied that the owners of nuclear power knew what they were doing when they invested their money in renewable energy – wind power – instead of much more expensive reforms in their old nuclear power plants. What is it that the Moderates are trying to do in the municipalities? Well, we have said no to and pressed a red button for 71 terawatt hours of wind power that we in Sweden could export to the continent to those countries in Europe that are much more dependent on fossil energy. The Climate Policy Council recently submitted a report showing that the Green Party's reforms with the reduction obligation and other efforts are now slowly moving in the right direction. But that stops the Moderates.
i-2hWekowHCtcLnytks7uVYy	Mr President, I would like to Things don't get any more true because you repeat them. Today, we are making decisions on short-term solutions in order to make it easier for households and businesses. Of course, we also need to land in this House in an energy policy that creates long-term sustainability with reduced emissions. The way to do this is not about closing down the remaining nuclear power plants and just having wind power. That will not be possible for a number of reasons. It's not always windy. We can't handle that transfer either. The whole system would collapse if we only had wind power. Sweden needs more electricity to cope with electrification and conversion. In 20 years' time, we'll need about twice as much electricity as we do today. How will Sweden get twice as much electricity? Well, with a mix where wind power is one part, hydropower another and nuclear power a third. Nuclear power will have to be a very large and important part if we are to cope with conversion and electrification and reduce our emissions. But it is another debate, Mr President. Today we are debating how to make things easier here and now for companies and households that are hard hit.
i-QzezyrzbKpTcuYprSLSoXn	Mr President, I would like to Today, we agree to spend extra money on the defense, and it is long awaited. But it is unfortunate that a war in Europe should be needed in order for the other parties to wake up. The effort on the defence should have taken place a long time before, and perhaps we would not have needed a quick armament if previous governments did not believe that the defence was open to looting. Göran Persson, former Social Democratic Prime Minister, is proud to have halved our original defense. Persson indicated the absence of future threats to Sweden as a reason for dismantling. Fredrik Reinfeldt said in his role as Prime Minister of the Alliance Government as late as 2013 that the defence is a special interest and that there is no threat to Sweden. He followed it up and said that all parties in parliament except the Swedish Democrats were in agreement. After that, he was angry that the Swedish Democrats wanted to increase the funding for the defence. That's right. Since we entered Parliament in 2010, the Swedish Democrats have repeatedly budgeted more for defence than the governments have. We have also been clear about why we wanted to upgrade Sweden's defence. Jimmie Åkesson has pointed to the threat from Russia in this speaker's chair as a reason why the Swedish Democrats have always wanted to equip the defence. But with that said, it seems that all parties now agree to build a strong defence. That is both necessary and right. Today's bill also includes targeted compensation for extremely high electricity prices in March for households in southern Sweden. We support this initiative but would like to remind you that time passes quickly and that we will soon have a chilly winter again. Everything points to extreme electricity prices even in the coming winter. The report contains several committee initiatives. Sweden has among the world's most expensive petrol and diesel prices. This was a fact even before Russia pushed prices up even more. Over the years, the government has significantly increased both fuel and vehicle taxes. Therefore, several parties in the Committee on Finance have pushed forward a decision that Sweden should have the EU's minimum energy tax for five months. The committee also commissions the government to work with all means to ensure that an exemption from EU legislation can be fully removed from the energy tax on fuel for three months. The reduction obligation, i.e. the obligation on fuel suppliers to mix fossil-free fuels into petrol and diesel, is driving prices high. The committee therefore commissions the government, together with the fuel suppliers, to work out a temporary price relief. All in all, these initiatives should lead to a reduction in the price of petrol and diesel of at least SEK 5 per litre at the pump. The government points in the bill to Russia's invasion of Ukraine as the cause of the high electricity prices. Russia and Putin are guilty of a lot. But the reason for high electricity prices is poor policy, both here in Sweden and in many EU countries. With regard to gas prices on the continent, Germany has a great responsibility for the current situation. In the early 2010s, political decisions were taken to phase out nuclear power. Germany decided to replace lost electricity from nuclear power with wind power and fossil gas from Russia. More EU countries than Germany have also become extremely dependent on Putin's gas. Since the annexation of Crimea by Russia in 2014, these countries have continued to increase their purchases of Russian gas. The results of this strategy are now being seen in the light of gas prices and a Europe that is not able to stop gas supplies without risking an economic meltdown. The Russian bear in the room must nevertheless be the gas trade which, for years, Germany, Hungary and Italy, among other things, have been engaged in, and which has helped to build up Putin's war fund. By continuing gas purchases, despite Russia's war on Ukraine, EU countries are actively helping to fund and replenish the Russian war fund. The Swedish reason for the elusive electricity prices in southern Sweden is that nuclear reactors have been shut down. It is naive to phase out clean nuclear power in order to try to replace the fall-out with weather-dependent wind and solar energy. Sweden needs a base of nuclear power to resist running electricity prices and be able to provide enough electricity at good prices. Many other countries believe that nuclear energy is a prerequisite for achieving climate objectives. Even an oil country like the United Arab Emirates is working towards a fossil-free transition. They recently announced that they are starting up another unit in their new nuclear power plant. There, nuclear power will account for 25% of the country's total energy needs, this in a country that has just as much sun as it can. And yes, they are investing heavily in solar energy as well. Mr President, I would like to As I mentioned earlier, the Swedish Democrats see a great risk of continued extremely high energy prices. It is now so bad that one can talk about energy poverty. We want more sustainable pricing. We have tabled a proposal for a committee initiative in the Finance Committee, which unfortunately was not supported. This meant that the excise duty on electricity would be reduced immediately. This would contribute to lower costs for both households and businesses. Today, each kilowatt hour is subject to an excise duty of 36 cents. On top of this, VAT is added. This particular excise duty is illogical. The government wants the whole of Sweden to switch through electrification, but at the same time they are running an energy-disabling policy. Mr President, I would like to The months are fast. I hope that in the coming winter we will see a new energy policy that focuses on building up Sweden's energy capacity throughout the country, so that we do not have households and companies kneeling under absurdly high electricity bills. Electricity should all in Sweden be able to afford, without emergency solutions as today's targeted compensation.
i-Pak98uKosvWAAJ5sHMNfdg	Mr President, I would like to Following this speech, I wonder whether the Member of the Swedish Democrats has really found the right party home. Much was said here about the fight against Putin, but this is the same party that voted against a package of aid – an emergency package – to Ukraine in the weeks before the invasion. It is the same party whose representative in the Committee on Defence recently shared a video thanking Russia for the invasion of Ukraine, mixed with conspiracy theories and the spread of the absolutely most damaging conspiracy theory and disinformation from Moscow, namely that Ukraine has developed biological weapons together with the United States. Why the most harmful? Because that is what might be used as a pretext for using biological weapons of mass destruction against Ukraine. These are extremely serious things. And it is a party that is pictured here as some kind of champion in the fight against Putin, who has repeatedly shown incredible problems in keeping the line against Putin's propaganda and sphere of influence. I am not going to draw the full list, but the representative of the Member of the Committee on Defence also went on a propaganda trip to Moscow and so on. Is it really the case that the Member of the Swedish Democrats is in the right party?
i-3iJQS9gzQvT9V7nu5Szx6C	I would like to remind you that the debate is about electricity price compensation and more.
i-J7GeWeFeH4pG9CtGHKrujr	Mr President, I would like to Since Martin Ådahl asks a personal question, I take the liberty of answering the question. First of all, Martin Ådahl has the opportunity to look at those who represent the party at the top. I would be reported for privacy violations if I commented on what happened to our Member that we had to send out. I can also tell Martin Ådahl that if anyone knows what it means to have the Russian bear after him. My family escaped the Jewish hatred in Russia and found their way home to Gothenburg. We had to leave just about everything. I can therefore tell Martin Ådahl : No, I have never been pro-Russian and will not be, and I am in the right party. Perhaps Martin Ådahl could be kind enough to ask a question relating to the report.
i-47uMnaTNd6BUE6bkkEVyhs	Mr President, I would like to I apologise to both the President and other Members for discussing this issue. However, since such a large part of the speech was just about the attitude of the Swedish Democrats towards Russia, I had to comment on it. Many of us have experienced in various ways the advance of the Russian and former Soviet armed forces towards freedom-seeking peoples in Eastern Europe. And I have no doubt whatsoever that what was said here about this came from the heart. That is why my only question was why the Swedish Democrats, including all the Members there, were not able to keep the Putin propaganda clean until these days. The sad thing is – as it now became personal – that nationalistic and sometimes authoritarian wrangling takes over the criticism that one must consistently be able to direct against that regime for many, many years. Not everyone has had the position, either earlier or now, that the honourable Member has in the speaker's chair here with regard to the Moscow regime.
i-8QKHZ4cBstnktvxd7tN39P	Mr President, I would like to I find it remarkable that Martin Ådahl cannot stick to the report, but is here speaking out for things that I do not have time to respond to here. I agree with the energy issue now. I wonder how the Center Party, which is a party that, ever since I voted for the first time, has been against nuclear power, intends to achieve a fossil-free energy supply without saying yes to nuclear power. I live in southern Sweden and can thank the government and the Green Party for the smell of oil power plants. That's the answer, apparently, to a lot of people. But I don't think so. I think that the Center Party should also be able to agree that we must achieve a fossil-free energy supply. More and more countries believe that there are good opportunities for nuclear power plants. And I wish Martin Ådahl could open his eyes and actually realise that we need nuclear power in Sweden to achieve fossil-free energy supply.
i-DDmDSQBkpWBpf87w1J8HC4	Mr President, I would like to We are discussing increased funding for defence, and Charlotte Quensel said in her speech that all of us have been very naive to Russia. I can readily admit that few of us believed that Russia would go as far as it did when it invaded Ukraine and started a full-scale war, in which civilians were ruthlessly attacked. But we had no difficulty distinguishing between Putin and Macron even before this happened. For us, it was quite simple. It was only a few days ago that the member of the Swedish Democrats on the Committee on Defence ran Putin's affairs and therefore also had to leave the party. I welcome the fact that the Swedish Democrats made this position. It is just that it is embarrassing that it is only one of a number of people that the Swedish Democrats have given responsibility for defence and security policy that has ended up in this situation. Even a former party leader, Mikael Jansson, stood four years after Crimea and celebrated Putin's leadership. He had left the Swedish Democrats, but until then he represented the Swedish Democrats in a number of contexts where he had access to sensitive information that could damage Swedish security if it came to someone else. My question to the Swedish Democrats is of course: Have you made any assessment of what your bad choices of people have cost the Swedish defence in political and economic terms during this time?
i-QNQsuGrbNMveSoKpqQperb	Mr President, I would like to I thank Åsa Westlund for the question and would like me to be able to answer it clearly. But I am not in such a position, as Åsa Westlund very well knows, and is not so high up in the party. I can only regret what happened to the last Member and believe that Åsa Westlund can understand that I was very grateful for the solution that was very quick. When it comes to whether my party leader cannot choose between the leaders of two countries, I think it's a little bit to throw stones in glass houses by Åsa Westlund, because Löfven as Prime Minister 2018 refused to answer the question from Swedish Radio if he could choose between Trump or Putin. He said it was a stupid question and that you should not choose between two countries. I have never been asked, but I respect that answer. But I think you can also give Jimmie Åkesson the opportunity to say: No, I don't want to choose either. It is a bit sad that it is always the members of the Swedish Democrats who are to be held accountable in absurdity when others can escape. Today, the construction of nuclear power is not allowed in 287 out of 290 municipalities. I would like to ask whether the honourable Member believes that this rule should be changed and that more people should be allowed to build small nuclear power stations.
i-6vFdQup2thvyA8os2cyUQY	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Charlotte Quensel, for the question! I support the agreement whereby nuclear power can be built in places where nuclear power has already existed or exists in Sweden. I see no reason to change that legislation. Nor have I seen that the Swedish Democrats have put forward any proposals for real financing of new nuclear power in Sweden at all. Yes, it has been research, but not the construction of new nuclear power. We can have that debate about the Swedish Democrats are serious and present such a solution and also tell us where the money should be taken. I'll get back to you then. This is not just a matter for fun. It is not by chance that the Swedish Democrats are constantly affected by the phenomenon that they have representatives who happen to support Putin or spread Putin propaganda. Also on the website of the Swedish Democrats, they expressed their security policy by writing: It is important to respect the balance between the major powers. It sounds very similar to the way Putin himself reasons. I understand that it was removed quickly. But the suspicion is that it is only when others discover such things that the Swedish Democrats take hold of it. Or is there an example of when you yourself have come to the conclusion: No, but perhaps this was not appropriate. It is about you doing so without the media having first noticed it and ensuring that you do not give assignments to people in the Swedish Democrats who have an attitude towards Russia that can lead to our defence being affected by it. I look forward to the Swedish Democrats presenting what those representatives may have cost the Swedish defence against Russia both politically and economically.
i-QESeeAHvUTpeSXdtDLQVLE	This debate concerns the report of the Committee on Finance 47.
i-2k2BYdNM9pJ7vhYB12gi7Y	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for reminding me why we're standing here. There don't seem to be many people who remember that. I work in the Finance Committee. That is why I have the opportunity to respond to texts concerning fiscal policy in Sweden. I find it very difficult to answer for all the other lyrics. I hope Åsa Westlund can understand that. It is simply not feasible. I've got my things covered. I would have appreciated questions that had touched on the report today. It would have been more constructive. As far as nuclear energy is concerned, I am also aware that we only allow the construction of nuclear power plants in 3 of Sweden's 290 municipalities. It would have been very interesting to see if the Social Democrats see a way forward towards a fossil-free society in Sweden and that in order to achieve the climate goals we open up and give private actors the opportunity to with a safe assurance of a long future for the nuclear power plants to finance the constructions. We will make suggestions. We have mentioned the existence of nuclear power. As long as I've been with you, it's been up on the wallpaper. I am delighted that the honourable Member expects us to make a sharp proposal. I'll hurry to the Industry Committee after this and tell Åsa Westlund that she expects us to come forward with proposals. I simply hope that the Social Democrats will support us in this.
i-BpgCE8eF1w8Dd6HwFMTi69	Mr President, I would like to Russia's attack on and invasion of Ukraine has brought with it some of the most shocking abuses and crimes we have witnessed in our time. Their scale and brutality and the way they are surrounded by systematic lies have already affected security, economics and social life all over the world. Of course, the effects are even more tangible and profound in the immediate region where our country is also present. Sweden's freedom and self-determination rest ultimately on a combination of our own defence will and ability and on an international order with respect for international law, which Russia is so flagrantly violating with its war of aggression. The supplementary amending budget discussed in the report we are debating today adds 2 billion more defence capabilities to Sweden's current budget, plus a substantial increase in the authorisation to order, which creates room for forwarding the procurement of equipment to the Swedish Armed Forces. This is based on the government's assessment of how an appropriate reinforcement of the military part of our total defence can start now in the current financial year. The Left Party shares this assessment and supports the proposals in the bill. It is also reasonable and important that the Swedish defence capabilities have a significant strengthening in the longer term. There, the parties of the Riksdag have joined forces to support such an ambition. That's a good thing. This means that we will see such proposals in future ordinary budget proposals. It also seems obvious to most people that such an increase in ambition needs to be financed in solidarity, where the most well-off – who, moreover, have had an exceptionally good development of income and wealth – are allowed to contribute more in proportion to this. We will certainly have the opportunity to come back to this later both in the general debate and here in Parliament. Mr President, I would like to The supplementary amending budget also contains a number of proposals on compensation for high electricity prices. This is something the government was previously pressured to come up with proposals for. The Left Party, together with the Green Party, then presented a well-drafted proposal which the Riksdag could have supported and directly taken into account in the design of the system. Unfortunately, that was not the case. I am pleased that some of the elements of that proposal are now included in the additional amending budget of the government that we are discussing today. It provides a more fair and accurate model for compensation. There will be better differentiation geographically, which is reasonable because price changes have been very different in the different so-called electricity price areas. This will be better distributed by reducing the minimum consumption of electricity that can trigger support, and that is a good thing. We still believe that support for those who have very small margins and therefore need financial assistance through other systems would be appropriate. It is also about more forward-looking support for the kind of conversion that we put forward in the draft committee initiative that I mentioned. Today, however, we support the government's proposal for an extraordinary amending budget. The report also contains a number of proposals for announcements on fuel prices. These are prompted by a committee initiative on the proposal of the Left Party and the Moderates. Earlier in the parliamentary term, not least as a result of the pandemic and even after Russia's invasion, we have been prepared to take the initiative and, if necessary, to make arrangements in Parliament's committees together with most parties on specific issues where it is possible to find good solutions and the lowest common denominator. I am therefore pleased that the proposals have found support in the Committee on Finance and, later today, the Parliament's decision is also reasonable. These are temporary reductions within the framework of what the current EU regulatory framework allows for on petrol and diesel taxes. This leads to lower prices for consumers during that period. It is a question of the government promoting also temporary derogations from the EU acquis that would allow for further reductions. It is about reviewing the so-called reduction obligation in different parts. It is also a question of finding a longer-term mechanism for dealing with sudden price shocks in this area. From the perspective of the Left Party, it is important that the public can take responsibility for problems and challenges that are societal. There, individual households and companies have very different conditions for coping with sudden and unexpected events that they can difficult influence. Heavy and sudden increases in fuel prices constitute such a situation. It is something that strikes very different depending on who is able to quickly change their usage pattern. It is very different what consequences it has and what conditions it has to deal with those consequences in a reasonable way. The Left Party also presented a proposal earlier this year for a geographically differentiated support for car owners in rural areas based on the existing division into so-called assisted areas. That was a proposal which, unfortunately, was rejected at the time. Other measures would have been needed with this too. But it was a step in the right direction that had helped in a time - sensitive situation. Mr President, I would like to I have a great deal of sympathy for those who are concerned about the climate impact of such a price reduction. I think it is important to emphasise that this is an explicit temporary reduction. But it is also important to be able to have a discussion that takes a broader approach. Price mechanisms around various emissions or activities that cause climate-damaging emissions will also in the future be a tool for achieving climate targets. But it cannot, and it should not, be the only tool. It will also always be a tool that has certain types of impact because it is based on the financial resources available at individual and household level. For the Left Party it is very clear that Sweden needs to do much more to cope with a necessary climate change change. Such a change must, in principle, affect all sectors of the economy and society. It must therefore be systematic and powerful and must gather broad popular support. This requires very large investments, which can change, among other things, how our transport system works. This is about fundamental changes in society. For the Left Party, this is not only an important issue but the very thread of our economic policy. I will not use this debate to extend the text on this; there will be more occasions. However, I note that, among other things, we have presented a proposal for changes to the rather strange and untimely surplus objective of the state's finances, which today hampers a sensible investment policy for this vital climate change. In any case, it is entirely in line with such a long-term policy focus that it is also possible to act flexibly when temporary obstacles arise that need to be addressed. It is not through economic shock therapy that we can create the economic, political and social conditions for reaching the climate target, which affects those with the least margin. Mr President, I would like to Several of the announcements addressed in the report to the government are that the government is called upon to act more actively within the EU system. I would say that Sweden's approach to the EU acquis and the ongoing negotiation processes in Brussels have all too often been characterised by abstinence. In the current situation, the references to unanimity being cumbersome and so on become a much weaker argument. We know, and we see, that there is an EU-wide interest in acting quickly to deal with the effects of Russia's invasion. There are also interests from various quarters that make it possible to reason and negotiate if the will exists, and so it should do so, in order to achieve pragmatic and – note – temporary changes. If the government does not want to do this on its own, it will be necessary to make such announcements from the Riksdag. To conclude, I would like to say something brief about the fourth announcement, which is about investigating a more permanent system for dealing with price shocks of the kind that we have now witnessed. So what we are calling for is a mechanism, for example some form of price cap from the consumer perspective with accompanying measures, to ensure that the risks of such unforeseen events can be dealt with differently from today. It can be an important part of the emergency preparedness to create greater security around the supply of important resources, in this case fuel. It is also something that can strengthen the long-term sustainability of the transition work that both companies and households need to be involved in. If the risk is more reasonably distributed, more people will be able to act in the longer term. It is a more general insight that should also be included in these reasonings. All in all, I therefore support the committee's proposal in the report and reject the reservation.
i-TwFdGdSENYeAotWheZmniq	I would like to remind you that we have received information from the Committee on Finance that we need to vote on this report today. Today's vote takes place at 3:20 p.m., and the Prime Minister's Question Time takes place between 14 and 15. There are now 26 minutes left until then. We have two lines requested. If fully exploited, it will be mathematically calculated 16 minutes. We have two registered speakers, and that will also be 16 minutes. It's 32 minutes. We can squeeze in 15 minutes between the Prime Minister and the vote. You see? We need to finish.
i-3uPNYeqfJ7LG9YBp7KcmLu	Mr President, I would like to Ali Esbati talks about the common thread of the Left Party's climate policy. I can see that the common thread of the Left Party's climate policy is that it is cut off when it comes to it. Once it is possible to take a stand for climate change and against increased fossil subsidies, the Left Party says no. In the Committee on Finance, the Green Party presented a proposal that had a better distributional profile, in which we gave more to people who have little margin and less to rich car owners in the big cities. But we also made sure to do so in a way that supports climate change rather than delaying it. Instead, the proposal supported by the Left Party gives less to a single mother who cannot even afford to have a car. In the Green Party's proposal, we therefore give SEK 4 000 in support to everyone in rural areas, including those who are less well-off. We halve the VAT on food, increase the levels of supply aid, target public transport aid and increase the electricity car bonus, student aid and support for guarantee pensioners. Instead, the left side makes it cheaper to refuel Putin's petrol and pauses the reduction obligation. Then they call it climate policy. That is the opposite, Mr President.
i-VkRP35Nbiw6NYYmLi4oVxn	Mr President, I would like to I shall start by saying that I am pleased and sympathise with the perhaps a little recently aroused interest on the part of the Green Party in putting forward proposals with a good distribution profile. This is gratifying, and it will make it possible for us to find common solutions to problems more often in the future. We are already doing so, among other things, as I mentioned in my speech, about the compensation of electricity prices. There we had a joint proposal which had a better distribution profile, which was unfortunately rejected. However, elements of this are included in the government's proposal today. That's good. It is also important to say that it works so with political proposals that all the policies you stand for and all the ambitions you have cannot be reflected in every proposal every time. It'll be the whole thing that counts. As far as we are concerned, in this case, as I mentioned, it is a matter of putting forward a proposal which could have a short-term effect on precisely what we wanted to achieve. It is therefore about fuel prices, which affect people in a way that they have very different conditions to deal with. There's one thing. For example, when it comes to those who cannot afford or for other reasons do not have a car, it is possible to imagine that they use public transport. We have just put forward another proposal, which hopefully receives the entire support of Parliament, to add significant funds to public transport. This is how it works if you want an effective policy that can have good effects in different ways and take height for different types of problems that arise in people's everyday lives.
i-9EnoUgPymoG4tmwhNMvqzg	Mr President, I would like to Yeah, it's the whole thing that counts. We're in a climate emergency. Then, with one hand, we cannot pursue a policy that reduces the price of emissions and fattens Putin war fund and shows with the other hand that we should do other things to cope with climate change. We must do everything in our power to avoid a climate disaster. It is just as the Ukrainian representative in the IPCC said: This is connected. Fossil fuels are the cause of the climate crisis, and that is also the central issue when it comes to Putin's war. We in the Green Party do not want a single crown to go to Putin's war fund. Therefore, we say no to lowering the price of fossil fuel pump. Instead, we want to support people – all the people who are now suffering from all the price increases that are the consequences of Russia's invasion of Ukraine – through cash support to people in rural areas, halved VAT on food and special support for guarantee pensioners and students. These are groups that are not actually achieved in the same way by the support that the Left Party has supported. This is a fair climate transition. This is to respond to Volodymyr Zelenskyj appeal to the Swedish Parliament: No more conrels of Russian oil.
i-GdvB31CqZiu9wXCWir348q	Mr President, I would like to Much is connected, but it may not always do everything in Annika Hirvonen's post. What Zelenskyj called for was probably not precise ideas as to what price would prevail on Swedish petrol and diesel. On the other hand, there was a call for an end to imports of Russian fossil fuels. I think Annika Hirvonen knows that we agree on this, and we have voted the same when the issue has been raised – just so that it is clear. When it comes to reaching people with different types of support, we also agree. That's it. Different types of technical solutions can be found that have different effects. But what I hear from Annika Hirvonen is that they simply don't think it's particularly strange that fuel prices get extremely high in a very short time. We don't agree on that. It has dramatic effects on individuals and small businesses. Then it is important that the public can intervene and take part of that blow, of that risk. That is why we have pushed forward these proposals and agreed with other parties on them. If we want to do something about our climate emergency, we need a change in society and the economy as a whole. And to do so requires much longer-term proposals. It is a change that requires very large investments. If this is to be possible, people's everyday situations need to be raised and brought with them in terms of the necessary climate change. That is what the Left Party policy is based on.
i-3Ffk1pb5j1N7qJf8vyt2yT	Mr President, I would like to I will heed your wish to keep this brief. In short, I shall put a question to Ali Esbati on the proposal to investigate the transfer of responsibility for the prices of petrol and diesel from households and companies to the state. It contains, among other things, your proposals on price caps on petrol and diesel, which I understood. Should you interpret it that way?
i-SzHzfKZiZQwBwMNpXGpyQM	Mr President, I would like to The proposal for a decision is set out in the report called FIU47. It reads that the proposal is that the Riksdag agrees with what the committee argues that the government should urgently investigate how a system could be designed to transfer the risk of fuel price shocks in the event of a crisis from households and companies to the state and announce this to the government. As I said, it is possible to work with the idea that in times of crisis we should have, for example, some kind of target price and accompanying measures to be able to deal with what happens if the price moves around that target price. However, there may also be other models for carrying out that risk transfer. This is in this particular situation quite interesting to mention as something impossible, because what we are now discussing and have been discussing for almost two hours are different ways and proposals that we are trying to come up with to deal with an extraordinary crisis situation. What we are proposing is to investigate a model that might be in place in advance, if in future there is a similar situation and hopefully for quite different reasons in that case. But Martin Ådahl suddenly thinks that this is very problematic, and he starts discussing Venezuela and various plan economic models that he has imagined. I can only regret that this concerns Martin Ådahl. But I don't think it's going to be part of the investigation mission.
i-3REvMgpb6k9Shk8TKfWM83	Mr President, I would like to It is not I who have fantasized about the models on price caps, but it is the Left Party that has proposed it. It has also presented the deal with the Moderates as a response to the idea of caps on petrol and diesel, which the Left Party has, in any case, as far as I recall, presented. So it is thought that this has won. Isn't that right, Ali Esbati? This is not the case, then, with the temporary tax cuts in crisis situations that we are behind and which Elisabeth Svantesson has just described, but with something else. It is more like the Left Party's proposal on price caps for petrol and diesel and price regulation, a target price or how Mr Ali now described this.
i-AfALqLgXswrmxJNEogpjNw	Mr President, I would like to I hear that Martin Ådahl has many ideas about how such a system could be designed or not. I suggest he get in touch with them, perhaps as a contribution to the government once the government has been given the assignment. We will certainly not agree on what is the best model. But yes, I think there are models that are good to have in place in Sweden to handle that type of price shock and the risk that then arises. It is reasonable that it does not go straight through on consumer prices in the same way as it normally does when you have more opportunities to anticipate what is going to happen tomorrow and the day after tomorrow and can take heights for it through all sorts of things, for example by saving, having insurance and so on. That's the point. We've been doing this for quite some time. Both during the pandemic and now we have tried to make various types of emergency response to deal with unexpected situations, in order to protect citizens' incomes sometimes, security sometimes and so on. We propose to look at a model for having this in place in the face of possible future shocks; in this case, fuel prices. Of course, what is a price shock and what is an extraordinary situation will always be a matter of assessment. Perhaps we will agree on that assessment then, perhaps not. But let us make sure that there is such a system in place. I think that would be good for Sweden.
i-5UzfUupTnDyzWXucnUNsqK	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report. This report is largely prompted by Russia's invasion of Ukraine. I very much appreciate the fact that several speakers have been very clear that it is a question of war crimes and of violent violations of human rights and of Ukraine's right as a country to defend its freedom. When we see the massacre in Butja, and when we see babies born prematurely and brought down into the shelters, it is a cry to us to do more, more than we are doing right now. We need to do more. We need to inventory for more possible weapons deliveries. We need to take stock and see what further we can do with sanctions. Which other banks are on the list? How can we stop Russian gas and oil from continuing to be part of Putin's war fund? Mr President, I would like to This also puts Sweden in a different situation. I am pleased that we Christian Democrats have been able to contribute to putting in place enhanced resources for Swedish defence in this situation. Now we can increase the supply of equipment and can hire more, make sure to protect Swedish units better and to have better and higher resilience when we see this type of aggression in Europe. It is shaking the European security regime. It's shaking us. We need to act now. We are doing so today in a first step with this amending budget. We also see that this affects Swedish households, Swedish companies and Swedish farmers in a very significant way. In these areas too, I note that the opposition in this report has pushed forward and is still pushing forward changes. It was we who were able to start work before Christmas and before the invasion to promote support for Swedish consumers of electricity when prices skyrocketed. This was caused by, among other things, a weak energy policy in Sweden. We note that the proposal which has now been introduced and which is now being extended by this report is certainly not perfect. We would like to have it in a different way, but it would not be justifiable at this point to go in and change that system. However, I regret that it does not reach all households, that it does not reach companies and that it does not reach organisations and others who are also struggling with high electricity bills and who have done so during this winter. We must have a different policy so that we avoid this in the coming years, Mr President. We also see a situation in which fuel prices have risen. They rose before the invasion, and they have risen further and dramatically after it. In such a situation, policy must act. We are now doing this in the Committee on Finance, together and widely between the parties. It is about lowering the price of fuel by reducing taxes, by reviewing the reduction obligation, by doing what can be done in the short term to ensure that hauliers do not close down their business, that farmers are able and want to continue, that Swedish households are able to cope and that Swedish nurses, Swedish metal workers and who can now continue to be able to take the car to work. It is about keeping Sweden going in the very vulnerable situation that we find ourselves in. We believe that these measures are necessary, but we are happy to do more to be able to cope with this very severe price shock, which I do not think anyone could have seen in this way. That is why I am pleased, Mr President, that we are now acting and that we are now trying to do what is possible. We are also pushing the government to act within the EU system to ensure that we can save Swedish jobs and ensure that Swedish households are doing reasonably through this crisis. I am thinking in particular of those who depend on the car and who are unable to transport themselves in other ways. Mr President, I would like to We will have the opportunity to come back to these issues several times; I am absolutely convinced of that. But for time winning, I'm staying here.
i-LAT4vEzgsroBS2tRcviP1b	Mr President, I would like to February 24, 2022 is a day that at least I, and certainly several in here, will never forget. It was the day Vladimir Putin started his horrendous war in Ukraine, where evil showed his face. Those of us who believe in love, solidarity, peace and democracy were faced with choosing which side to take. We then chose to side with Ukraine. Ukraine is up to Sweden, and it is up to us to do everything we can to bring peace and to counter Vladimir Putin and Russia. Mr President, I would like to This also raises new questions to Sweden. We will need a very strong rearmament of the Swedish defence. It is about reaching NATO's 2% demand as soon as possible. On the Liberal side, we have said that it should be achieved by 2024. Let me be very clear: it is Sweden itself that is choosing its security policy way forward. It is not destabilising to be clear at this point that we should belong to the European Community in NATO cooperation. Sweden should be included in full. Mr President, I would like to Putin's invasion also means that we are now seeing dramatic increases in fuel prices. People see brutal prices when they're about to refuel their car. It is clear that we in this House need to do everything we can to ensure that the everyday lives of the people who are going to get to work and to football training and who are trying to make their everyday lives work while at the same time there is war in Europe. That is why I am very pleased that a majority in Parliament's Committee on Finance, including the Liberals, is now pushing the government forward to ensure that the pump price is significantly lower than it is today. Mr President, I would like to Long before Russia's invasion of Ukraine, Sweden was characterised by very high electricity prices. It is enough to open a newspaper in southern Sweden, where I live, to see it. In recent years the debate has taken place, and households have a feeling that electricity prices and energy policy are completely crazy. That feeling is widespread. Only the fact that we have electricity pricing areas where the price for a villa owner in Lund is hundreds of percent higher than the price for a villa owner in Luleå – the villas are equally large – shows that this is not a market. It is a state policy that has failed fatally. The closure of nuclear power is one of the biggest mistakes in Swedish energy policy in modern times, and now we see the consequence of this. The government's support, the so-called electricity grant, is inadequate. We in the Liberals would have liked to see another solution. We will work actively and in the long term to reduce the electricity tax. It is the only reasonable way forward in this situation. I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-Uu1tifBEnKUiEyFrb9UruD	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Security Service estimates that every third Russian diplomat in Sweden is actually a Russian intelligence officer. There are about a dozen individuals who pose a threat to our country. In recent years several attacks have been carried out which Russia is believed to be behind, in Salisbury and Berlin, but also in Gävle, where a Chechen regime critic was subjected to an attempted murder. With Russia's war of aggression against Ukraine and the overall support from the West to Ukraine, the Russian threat must be taken even more seriously. According to Säpo's head of counter-intelligence, sensitive data that can be used to destabilise Sweden is constantly being collected. Many EU countries are therefore now expelling a large number of Russian spies operating from Russia's embassies. Germany shows 40, France 35 and Italy 30. Estonia and Latvia together exhibit 27. Poland expels 45, and Denmark expels 15 Russian spies. On Tuesday the government announced that Sweden will expel three Russian spies – three! Not 13. The Danish Foreign Minister justified their expulsions by wanting to protect the security and security of the country. The Swedish Foreign Minister's motivation was that Russia will respond and expel real Swedish diplomats and that this would make Sweden's work more difficult at our own embassy. My question to the Prime Minister is this: what is it really that justifies that Sweden does not expel Russian spies to the same extent as other Western countries?
i-Vx9TiEh2gse6QXKwXXSTgm	Madam President, I would like Of course, the government always starts from what is best for Sweden's security and the policy that needs to be implemented. It is, of course, an important signal at this point in time to expel Russian diplomats and, of course, also a question of the security of countries. At the same time, it is important that there is continued diplomatic activity in Russia as well. Then it is a question of finding a balance between the various interests that exist and of assessing what is most important for the country. Different countries can also make different assessments based on the size of their diplomatic activities in Russia. At this point, the government has concluded that we think it is appropriate to expel three people working at the Russian Embassy in Sweden. However, we are open to, when we follow developments, taking further action if we consider that it is in Sweden's interest and is the best for Sweden's security.
i-RGd7FYSRTugGFmnuBz4L5W	Madam President, I would like That answer said nothing but that since the government has done as the government has done, it is right that the government has done as the government has done. That's not what I asked you. I asked why the government has made this assessment. I think everyone understands that this is an assessment. Of course it is. That the assessment of course does not aim to harm Sweden was also not what I asked about. What is it that makes Sweden in relation to size show a tenth as many as Denmark? What is it that makes us expose significantly fewer than other countries? Something must make us have a different kind of work that means that we make a different assessment of the balance between Swedish security interests at home and what we think is important at the Swedish Embassy in Moscow. I think there is reason to account for it. In a situation where so many countries think it is important to limit this damage, Sweden makes a different assessment than other countries. Then my question is: What assessment does Sweden make?
i-TpywKL49CArkw2HUNeRRcz	Madam President, I would like It is no wonder that different countries make different assessments. Different countries make different assessments of the size of their activities at embassies in different countries, which is based on the specific situation in the individual country. As I say to Ulf Kristersson, we balance what we consider best for Sweden's security interests, but also for the activities carried out at embassies around the world, including in Russia, and how best to serve Sweden's interests. It is against this background that the government has made this decision, but we are also clear that we are, of course, prepared to make other decisions if we consider it better for Sweden and for Sweden's safety. As Ulf Kristersson is well aware, there is in this context and when it comes to national security some information is kept within a limited circle.
i-UGRPErn4khtbkLsVhuA3gT	Madam President and the Prime Minister. This year, on average, we have had one shooting a day in our country. It's the deadliest year ever with 18 killed people. My party, among other things, has been pushing for a long time for the government to take a strong stand against crime and to give victims redress. Now, just in time for the elections, the government is doing some of the things we've asked for. That is good, but it is very late and also far from enough. I sometimes wonder why the government does not seem to take this issue as seriously as we do. Why is the government not pushing itself to make Sweden safer? Why is it always the opposition that has to do so? These are such things that the police and the whole judiciary could do much more if they were given more resources. It is also a question of powers and methods that could possibly lead to the resolution of more crimes. These methods could be explored and seen as appropriate to introduce them. Madam President, I would like The government does some of these things, but they don't want to go as far as we want on these issues. I would therefore like to ask: why does the Prime Minister not think that the government should do everything it can to stop the horrendous development that is currently spreading in our country?
i-SZDim57tKmXbjj71SNSwLA	Madam President, I would like The government has worked hard for a long time to tighten the penalties and expand the legal chain in Sweden. We have tightened up a large number of penalties, and we have criminalised acts that were not criminal in the past. We are well on the way to the expansion to 10 000 more police officers, and we have increased the resources available to the prosecution service, the courts, the Ecocrime Agency, the Prison Service and virtually all the law enforcement authorities that exist. We have also given the police new tools to work with, and we have increased the exchange of information between the authorities in order to combat the serious crime that exists in Sweden more effectively. The government is working hard to keep us safe in our country. We believe that the policy has produced results. Many gang criminals now sit behind bars, and they sit for a long time. Now there is the largest amount of punishment, i.e. condemned prison years, that has existed in Sweden. It's important. But what we see is that when the gang criminals are behind bars, new generations are ready to take their place. It is important to continue to tighten the penalties and continue to expand the judiciary, but we must also make sure that young people see a different future from being lured into the criminal gangs. They need to see their parents go to work, to jobs that pay so well that they have a good standard of living. That's the way forward they're going to choose. There must be a preschool and school that supports all children, so that they can take their upper secondary school degree, which is the entry ticket to the Swedish labour market. We need to put as much effort into this as we need to raise the penalties and expand the police, but here the Swedish Democrats have got answers.
i-E4qhWQVgRVNCKXYFFiSK2q	Madam President, I would like Now we've been talking about killings and gang violence, and that's a terrible development. But there's so much more. It is a question of robbery and other types of violent crimes, burglaries and sexual crimes. It is a variety of crimes with real victims, people who sometimes have their lives completely broken. It is a insecurity that is experienced around our country, in people's everyday lives, in schools, in residential areas. In many ways these are the major social problems of our time. I hear what the Prime Minister says, and I think it is good that the government has done some things that we have asked for, but there is much more to be done. I would like to send a request to the Prime Minister to consider this from the perspective of the victims. Viewing this from their perspective makes it clear that this is something that needs to be resolved before much else. Give the judiciary the resources it needs. Dare to investigate the new methods, and give victims the redress they deserve.
i-TZeMqvMEn7vJNPBLYtpAKv	Madam President, I would like Yes, that is exactly why this is one of the most important priorities of the government. That is why I am saying that we should turn every stone around to break the segregation that lies at the root of the crime that we see spreading in our country. I see the victims, the young people being robbed and the workplace crime that creates insecurity around the country, not to mention the gangs and all the shootings. It's terrible. That is why, since I became Prime Minister in Sweden, I have said that all my ministers will work to see what can be done to break segregation, stop crime and ensure that we can live safe in our Sweden.
i-M3YqxqUBDkHXRmpTcqyd3S	Madam President, I would like Women raped at gunpoint before their children, held in their homes by Russian soldiers, raped over and over again. People who are being exploited as part of a ruthless systematic warfare. Reports of sexual abuse against Ukrainian women and children come in a steady stream, and unfortunately this is just another example. Sexual violence is in conflict all over the world. According to the UN, one in five women fleeing from war or humanitarian disasters has been subjected to sexual violence. It is abuse that sets deep and hurtful scars, causes bottomless suffering, divides families, and destroys human dignity and faith in the future. It is our duty to stand up for the victims of war and act. Investigations into war crimes by the police and the Prosecutor's Office must be given increased resources. More cases need to be run under universal jurisdiction law. Above all, however, we must strengthen international work and cooperation in order to stop and investigate these heinous crimes. Rape, like other war crimes, should never be accepted no matter where in the world the offender is. The situation is very serious and alarming. The call for help oaks, and Sweden can make a difference here. What is the Prime Minister doing to strengthen Sweden's role in the fight against war crimes? What is the government's plan to assist, for example, the work of the International Criminal Court and other international bodies to protect some of the most vulnerable children and women of the war?
i-TuNrnHJfiP7JEVse3wMrKT	Madam President, I would like I thank Annie Lööf for raising such an important issue. What we see in wars and conflicts is that women and children are often victims of sexual violence. We have seen it in previous conflicts in Europe and other parts of the world, and we are hearing evidence from Ukraine today. Of course all of us are touched by what we hear. It is a crime to do so, and it is a violation of the laws of war. We must not go after civilians in either way, nor, of course, in the case of sexual crimes. Therefore, those responsible for the war and for all war crimes should be held responsible for their actions. For this we have the International Criminal Court in The Hague. Here it is important that evidence is collected and that testimony is taken so that the guilty can be held to account. Together with other countries, Sweden has reported the war in Ukraine to the International Criminal Court. We have also sent additional financial resources there to provide funds to investigate crime. We have also provided staff so that there will be access to the staff required to conduct the investigations. In addition, Swedish prosecutors have opened cases of war crimes in Ukraine in order to collect evidence – if available in Sweden. There are various bodies to work through, and the Swedish Government supports them. And we get important support from the Riksdag in this.
i-KZK1mzFKNKXpyLPC4gmFkD	Madam President, I would like These are totally indescribable and deliberate brutal acts of war against civilians in Ukraine. And that requires swift and vigorous action. The reason I am addressing this today is that the cases leading to prosecution and prosecution are so few. During the war in Bosnia, 20 000 rapes are estimated to have taken place. However, according to the organisation Kvinna till Kvinna, only 30 cases led to prosecution. It can't happen again. That is why it is important to act offensively. It needs to be scaled up. The Police Authority and the Swedish Prosecution Authority need increased resources to work on these issues. We need to help the international community to push the issues of the International Criminal Court. The work simply needs to be intensified. I welcome the fact that the work is being done, but I would like to stress even more that more resources are needed so that universal jurisdiction can be used at the Prosecutor's Office in an even more powerful way than it is today.
i-EJgL4946j1wVR5frg5ZuNo	Madam President, I would like Of course, we in the government are prepared to do more if there is a shortage of resources at the International Criminal Court in The Hague. We are, of course, prepared to look at additional resources financially and personally. That goes without saying. As Annie Lööf says, it is incredibly central that people are held accountable for the actions they commit. It is also important that we in Sweden pay attention to the women and children who come to Sweden on these issues so that they do not end up here in the hands of rogue people. It is good that there are authorities working in connection with the ferry terminals, where many of the Ukrainian women and children who come to Sweden come. We will ensure that when they arrive in Sweden they end up in safe and secure hands.
i-WpapEhoRdzfV5pzysfq9rg	Madam President, I would like Russia's invasion war is so brutal that many of the world's leaders today speak of genocide – the worst crime against humanity. It is therefore our duty to do all we can to stop this. Since the outbreak of the war on 24 February, the EU has purchased Russian oil and gas from the Russian state for SEK 360 billion. It goes right into the war treasury. Today, Europe, through its imports, finances the executioners who murder children, bomb children's hospitals and rape women in Ukraine. This compares with the aid in the form of weapons that the EU has given Ukraine, which is only EUR 1 billion. On 30 March, Latvia's radio announced that the Baltic States Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania no longer intend to import Russian gas. Poland stopped its imports of Russian coal on 30 March, and then the EU came up with a new package of sanctions proposing a ban on imports of coal and the inclusion of Russian vessels and trucks in this package of sanctions. The United States has already stopped imports of Russian oil and gas since before.
i-GfcnQqtegsdvo9baGd4hHF	Madam President, I would like What has enabled the West – together with other countries, let us say – to respond so strongly to the Russian invasion in Ukraine is that we have been able to act together and in unity. After all, it is when many countries do the same thing that it has a great effect. Here we see how the sanctions that have been imposed have had a clear effect on the Russian economy, and the sanctions will have an increased effect while they appear. Having said that, we are now working on another package of sanctions, and from the Swedish side we are pushing for it to be comprehensive. We would like to see imports not only of Russian coal but also of Russian oil and gas stopped. This is not something we from the Swedish side oppose, but on the contrary we think it is urgent to do. On the other hand, we see great points in the fact that we are acting together on behalf of the European Union, because that is when we have the major effects of this. Here it may also be useful to remind you that Sweden does not have its own gas pipeline from Russia, so it is not that we can turn off a gas pipeline and thus stop imports of Russian gas. Instead, our gas comes via Denmark in particular, and it is difficult to know exactly what the mixture of the gas that is there looks like. Therefore, the government has now invited a dialogue with gas importers in Sweden, to see if there are ways to ensure that the gas that comes to Sweden is not Russian but comes from other parts of the world.
i-T6aVHeYwc6MueDFEcKy86R	Madam President, I would like Everyone agrees that it would be best for the whole of Europe to act together, but someone has to take the lead. The government has pointed this out by the fact that there is no gas pipeline, but SVT's survey showed that over 20 shipments of gas from Russia to Sweden go directly. There is, of course, the possibility of not accepting these. Last year alone Russian natural gas was imported for SEK 1.3 billion. What is it that this government thinks was wrong about Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania saying no to Russian gas themselves, as their own countries? What is it that prevents Sweden from doing the same thing? Today, the Swedish Harbour Workers' Association and the Transport Workers' Association appeal to the government to say: Do not accept Russian ships! Today, we are funding this war with Swedish funds. What prevents the government from putting an end to this?
i-YQHfJZtBZT5jRycahvini5	Madam President, I would like We're gonna do things that really make a difference, not wave symbol acts. If only Sweden closes its ports, and no other EU countries, then the ships will enter other ports. It won't be effective. I want to make a real difference; that is why I am in politics. Therefore, Sweden in the EU is pushing us to stop all Russian ships to all EU ports. Then we'll have an effect. That's how I and the government run politics.
i-2cuETPv53gxfTYyXUBsDZ8	Madam President, I would like I do not really understand the Prime Minister's answer to the previous question. So we have a situation in which the export of fossil energy is a Russian cash cow which feeds the arms power now directed against Ukraine. Stopping these revenues is one of the most important things Sweden and the EU can do to stop Russian aggression. I understand the position that it is better to do so together with others, united in the European Union, but there is, of course, also – even for the Prime Minister, I suppose – a line that goes on to see that it will not be possible in the short term, at the same time as the war is going on, to achieve this. I note that the minister in the Prime Minister's own government says that it was brave and good for Lithuania to go ahead and stop Russian gas – but if Sweden did so, it would only be symbolic policy. Symbol politics can be important. It could be putting pressure on other countries, saying: See, we're doing this-- can't you do it, too?
i-V4aYdKXvtHqk1iWcAxsbpc	Madam President, I would like It is precisely stopping ships only at Swedish ports that I consider to be more of a symbolic policy because those ships then only call on other ports in the EU. On the other hand, I share Jakob Forssmed's view that it is spectacular and shocking that we are helping to finance this war through the dependence on Russian fossil fuels. That is why we from the Swedish side would like to see increased sanctions in the EU and also push for increased sanctions in the EU – among other things, to stop Russian ships to all European ports and to move on with Russian coal. We would like to see oil and gas too, but of course we see the dependence of some of our neighbours on gas. From the Swedish Government, however, we are happy to see additional sanctions against Russia.
i-3FaYrkaBMGkxnTM2qKWT3S	Madam President, I would like I thank you for the clear message, which I welcome, that the government will do everything to stop this and ensure that the EU imposes sanctions so that we do not import Russian oil and gas. However, I think there is more to be done with regard to Sweden. I think we can go ahead. The question is therefore to the Prime Minister, who here mentioned dialogue with suppliers: is the government prepared to act for a clear origin marking, and is the government prepared to grant permission so that we can connect the LNG terminal in Gothenburg with the rest of the gas network so that we are not forced to import Russian gas?
i-FRRLeAzEd48mEKH3SsGR7T	Madam President, I would like The government is absolutely prepared to continue working on this issue, because we naturally want to see that Europe does not contribute to financing the war. We shall do so in a way that is effective, and we shall try to make it possible for us to do so together in Europe. But in addition, we also have a dialogue with the Swedish gas importers to see if it is possible to ensure that we do not get Russian gas into Sweden.
i-JoWjPtfCa7bFUZDQzWuh5o	Madam President, I would like The gas issue is highly topical, so I am taking a small step off there on behalf of the Liberals. The President of the European Commission is actually visiting Stockholm right now. Liberals have shared the government's input that it is important to seek unity and power. After all, it would be better for the EU to halve its gas imports than for Sweden to completely remove its, because what we are doing will not, to be perfectly honest, affect Russia. What can influence and help the Ukrainian people in their fight against Russian aggression is that we send more weapons and continue to support them in other ways, not least financially. But, Madam President, security issues are crucial. We in this House and the Government have the task of protecting the Swedish people – the citizens in the gallery and outside the Parliament House – from external and internal threats. This must be done cleverly, strategically and in the long term. The threats are obvious. We have the Russian war, with its disgusting modus operandi where people are slaughtered. It is no news that the Russian army behaves in such a way – it has been doing so for a thousand years. We have internal threats. Today is the anniversary of the monstrous terrorist attack on Drottninggatan; it is in 23 minutes exactly five years since it happened. The threats are widespread. We have gang crime, we have a pandemic and we have climate threats. Can the government consider creating a national security council to deal with the threats that Swedish citizens face in the nation of Sweden in the long term and strategically, a council that becomes more operational and not just a discussion council like what is currently at the Government Office?
i-6ryJSSffTyC6KVmnhEKjvj	Madam President, I would like Johan Pehrson points to many threats to Sweden. I can only agree that it is extremely central that the government works long-term and strategicly to strengthen Sweden's preparedness and resilience. It is of course about the purely military, where we have started the most extensive construction of the Swedish defence since the 1950s, against the backdrop of an increased armament and a more threatening tone of voice from Russia. With the Russian invasion, it is now clear that we need to speed up this structure and do even more. But we also need to strengthen civilian preparedness. Together with other parties in the Riksdag, the Government has agreed on a comprehensive expansion of civil defence, and we have now also come up with additional resources. Here we need to do a lot more in terms of emergency stocks, shelters and awareness among the population. The business community also needs to have the task of setting up if Sweden finds itself in a situation where this is required. Many of these issues are discussed in the Security Council, which is in the government and which I myself have participated in many times since I became Prime Minister. We have met at very short intervals during this crisis. I do not share Johan Pehrson's view that it is a discussion club, but we draw conclusions from the discussions there which we then of course take further out in our departments so that they can become reality in terms of missions to authorities or government decisions. It is an important forum for discussing these issues and providing a basis for government action.
i-XZ6w22k7eVH4fXLof57kDF	Madam President, I would like I note that the Prime Minister is not prepared to develop this activity in a National Security Council, which has been held up in many other countries and which has historically taken great responsibility for bringing together the authorities. This is about gathering the military intelligence service, the FRA, the Security Service, the defence, the national operational department of the police, the Agency for Psychological Defence and so on to get this together and get more power. The Liberals have no reason to believe that Magdalena Andersson is not doing her utmost for Sweden's safety in this difficult situation. But in counsel like this, you can see things coming. All of us here meet authorities, talk to researchers and so on and come to different conclusions. Liberals have long argued for NATO and are following the important issue with great interest and are prepared to support the government. We have talked about the fact that we are going to renovate Gotland – we did that ten fifteen years ago. Now everyone is for it all of a sudden. We have talked about the need to equip the Swedish, national police, and now it is also under way. But it is important to come to the right decision and see things come.
i-Nuf7Vrap298de84K6nM6qE	Madam President, I would like It is very interesting to hear Johan Pehrson say that he wanted to rebuild Gotland ten fifteen years ago. Then the Liberals sat in the government and carried out a comprehensive disarmament of Sweden's defence. Then it may have been thought that it was the wrong policy, but it was still in the government and was responsible for the disarmament that took place. We Social Democrats have also been in the government arming the defence, but just ten fifteen years ago it was the Liberals who were carrying out disarmament. I think it's good for Sweden that we got a Social Democratic government in 2014 so that we could start the biggest renovation of the Swedish defence that we have seen since the 50's. It is important for Sweden's security and security. We Social Democrats have prioritised this over the major tax cuts that took place while the Liberals were in government.
i-T9SGPej7xR5diUBJAjhaPa	Madam President, I would like For me, it is difficult to understand how a question can be asked in this House at the moment about something other than the war in Ukraine, when we see the terrible events there. Thousands of Ukrainians have been killed by the Russian armed forces, and millions have been forced to flee. It's a total devastation. It is an enormous pain and a bottomless despair of the Ukrainian people. Now we also see terrible examples of war crimes against civilians and sexual violence in the name of the war. We can be proud that Sweden has acted, even nationally and not only jointly. We have also been able to cooperate within the EU and with other countries in order to impose major sanctions on Russia. But it should be clear to all of us that we must take more steps and that we must do so now. When Ukraine's President Zelenskyj spoke to us in this Chamber, he was very clear: the only language Putin understands is sanctions. It's about fossil fuels. As Zelenskyj said: Every barrel of oil that Sweden buys and every Russian tanker that unloads its cargo in Swedish ports helps Putin to continue its warfare. This war will depend on whether we can stop financing Putin's military power. Now several countries, such as our Baltic neighbours, have already gone ahead. They've strangled the fossil cranes from Russia. We say that it is time for Sweden to do the same. Only minutes before President Zelenskyj spoke here in Parliament, the parliament voted against the Green Party's proposal to immediately stop imports of Russian energy. Then all parties but one were against. Since then, more and more parties have joined our line, and this shows just the opposite of what the Prime Minister says. Sometimes it takes someone to take the lead for others to follow. My question to the Prime Minister is: Why is the government refusing, even though we know that sanctions in the field of energy are the most effective way to stop Putin's war, to do as our Baltic neighbours and to stop Russian energy imports into Sweden?
i-LPf4d8MKEy1JWUxUhHRXna	Madam President, I would like Sweden has done a lot to support Ukraine and to push for sanctions against Russia. I would like to thank the Swedish Parliament for its good cooperation, not least with the Green Party, which also took part in the historic decision to send arms to Ukraine – something we have not done since 1939 and which I am sure meant, as for me as a Social Democrat, a big and difficult position for the Green Party. But the Green Party really stood up to support Ukraine. We are giving a great deal of humanitarian support to Ukraine, but we are also supporting it militarily with helmets and safety vests, but also with ammunition. I think this is important to recall. Having said that, we in Sweden are also pushing for further sanctions against Russia. I am meeting the President of the Commission, Mrs von der Leyen, this afternoon, and I will of course be addressing this issue. We are also pushing ahead in the Council formations responsible for this, including the foreign ministers. A fifth package of sanctions will now be discussed, and we from the Swedish side are happy to see that we stop Russian ships in European ports and that we stop the import of coal. But we are also open to a stop to oil and gas from the Swedish side, although there is still some resistance in some Member States on these issues. Having said that, we have also invited to dialogue with the companies that import gas in Sweden to see if it is possible to distinguish what is Russian gas in what comes to Sweden via Denmark and whether it is possible to stop it.
i-Vs96M3tDVRJqkmsvPpkhgm	Madam President, I would like I agree with the Prime Minister that it is very good when the EU can act together, but just passively waiting for the EU to get together is, of course, giving power to those countries that want to do the least to stop the imports of fossil fuels, those who want to go the shortest way in reducing the financing of Putin's war fund. We have seen examples of this. When there was talk of no-fly zones, many EU countries went ahead and introduced no-fly zones nationally. This then helped the EU to take the decision to establish a no-fly zone throughout the Union. That it would in some way be a problem for countries to take precedence is very difficult to understand. We have seen so many examples of this throughout history. Countries such as Sweden have been able to take the lead in the area by area and have decisions to come about also at EU level. It has to happen here, too. Right now, a new oil tanker with Russian oil is entering Malmö harbour. The question then is: does the Prime Minister expect the dock workers to take the battle again, or will the government act to stop it and thus not allow the financing of Russian armed forces to continue?
i-8dUwGe88Bfu38CWVhou4Ga	Madam President, I would like I am not sure that unilaterally stopping ships in ports is a particularly effective measure. It is only for the ship to go and unload the cargo in another port somewhere else in Europe in that case. That is why we are pushing the European Union for us to be able to make such a decision together. It is then that such a decision would also be effective. Having said that, we are now also working together with the companies to see how we can ensure that we do not have a Swedish import here. Above all, however, we are not passive in the European Union, but we are pushing in the European Union for us to be able to jointly take additional measures for even more comprehensive sanctions against Russia in order to get the Russians to immediately end the war that they have started on their own accord.
i-4baaEyATHi7U62WsUrYbDc	Madam President, I would like The Swedish pension system is fundamentally robust and stable, and it is a prerequisite for safe and sustainable pensions. But there is a serious shortage, and that is that far too many Swedish pensioners receive too low pensions. 45% of female pensioners and as many as seven out of ten female municipal authorities receive some kind of guarantee pension because their income pension is too low. We can't have that. We Social Democrats are in favour of increased contributions to the pension system, so that pensions can be increased for everyone who has worked. Moreover, the government has proposed an increase of up to SEK 1 000 per month tax-free for those with low-level pensions. But there are many who are now wondering, and I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister: will this guarantee supplement and, if so, when become a reality?
i-PXgumh4fHNGZdY6FFgqcTa	Madam President, I would like Mrs Carvalho raises an extremely important issue. Far too many older people in our country have too low a pension, and it is still the elderly who have built up this country that we are so proud of. It is clear that they should have reasonable conditions when they retire. It is basically a matter of respect. That is why, in cooperation with other parties, we are now putting forward a proposal that can give up to SEK 1 000 per month entirely tax-free to pensioners who have the worst pension, and this can apply from August this year. Unfortunately, however, we need to fight for this. It is not clear that this will go through in Parliament, and I would therefore strongly urge all Members of Parliament to vote in favour of this proposal. This was important before the war, but now, with the Putin Prizes, it's urgent.
i-A8YXXM94SgBfUCG2nQ3Gne	Madam President, I would like When the Social Democrats and Magdalena Andersson went to elections in 2014, it was on the promise that by 2020 Sweden would have the EU's lowest unemployment rate. After eight years of Social Democratic rule with Magdalena Andersson as the architect of politics, Sweden has lost 14 placements in the EU. Sweden now has the fourth highest unemployment rate across the EU. Sweden is not the only country that has had a pandemic. I would like to ask Prime Magdalena Andersson what lessons she learns from her failure here and what reviews of the failed Social Democratic employment policy she sees now need to be done. I think, Madam President, that Magdalena Andersson is obliged to give the record number of long-term unemployed and the almost half a million unemployed an answer to that question.
i-M9vaGzyCCDEGy4RWAPpnMi	Madam President, I would like I think it's important to start with some facts. Sweden's employment rate is among the absolute highest in the EU, i.e. more people work in Sweden than in other EU countries. At the same time, we have too high unemployment and, not least, long-term unemployment, and that is because, unlike in many other EU countries, it is a very large part of the Swedish people who are in the labour market looking for jobs, not least women. What we have seen in recent years is that more women born in other countries are entering the Swedish labour market. The conclusion of this is, of course, that we should support them better by also getting into work, including with extra services. Unfortunately, the Moderates are opposed to the very measures that allow foreign-born women to get to work more easily. This is what you are cutting down on in your budget. It is important for women born abroad, and it is also important to stop the recruitment of criminal gangs.
i-Rk2VnYyLwcxFuXcqKTsWhw	Madam President, I would like Up to 30 000 war refugees from Ukraine have arrived so far, and more are expected. After all, I do not need to remind the House of the problems that can follow large flows of refugees. Despite this, the government chooses to continue receiving quota refugees, i.e. people who come from completely other parts of the world – people that we know are difficult to integrate and who in very many cases do not manage their own livelihoods. It is also about people who have already found a sanctuary in another country in their own neighbourhood and do not need to come to Sweden to ensure their personal safety. Does the Prime Minister think that there is a difference in terms of the need to come to Europe or Sweden between, for example, a Syrian who has lived in Turkey for the last ten years and a person from Ukraine? And if so, does the Prime Minister believe that Sweden should give priority to any of these groups, even if both can be worthy in themselves?
i-3yFWZMgLS49wz7R6QHHagd	Madam President, I would like The question is asked from the point of view that there would be Ukrainian refugees seeking refuge in Sweden but not receiving it. But it is the case that those who come to Sweden from Ukraine get a refuge here through the EU's mass refugee directive, where, of course, we from the Swedish side take our share of responsibility for people fleeing Ukraine. However, we are clear that we will not be able to take disproportionate responsibility in the way we did in 2015. But they have the opportunity to get a sanctuary in Sweden. Quota refugees are a system managed by the UN. These are people who are particularly in need of protection and in a vulnerable position who have the opportunity to resettle through an orderly system. It is an advantage of the quota refugee system that it is precisely an orderly way for people to obtain permanent refuge.
i-ASihVv1vVCsmTReWuCgufn	Madam President, I would like When the war in Syria began and when the terror cult Daish attacked the civilian population, it was the Kurdish freedom fighters who stood up and made the biggest effort. Many times the Swedish government and other European governments have praised the Kurds for their efforts in the fight against the terror cult Daish. In Turkey, the Kurdish party HDP has been in the front line to fight for democracy and justice in the country. At the same time, a hunt is currently taking place from the Swedish authority Säpo against Swedish Kurds, where children's families are being shown that have no connection whatsoever with the political groups. How do you do? Is Sweden behind the Kurdish freedom fighters and the Kurdish people, or will Sweden continue to hunt for Kurds who are in our country?
i-D1UXbJ68mtiwwJQ8dUrJGj	Madam President, I would like Many important efforts have been made during and after the war in Syria, and many populations and surrounding areas have been set up in various ways, also as a refuge for refugees. How individual authorities in Sweden act is a matter for the authorities. I cannot comment on that, because then I would be notified to the KU for government control. But of course, all our authorities must comply with the laws and regulations and follow the instructions they have.
i-WGEdTjtWvbChNc9DCgwsJg	Madam President, I would like There is a terrible war going on, and Ukraine needs more help. When Russian troops now withdraw from northern Ukraine, for example, they unfortunately take the opportunity to spread thousands of mines in fields around, just as spring use is about to begin. This risks being a disaster for Ukraine, but also for Africa, Europe and our country. Sweden could contribute with drones specially equipped with cameras that see mines, which facilitates mine clearance. We could contribute 30 of these for 3 million. Ukraine also needs vehicles, and we have vans to retire from the Swedish Armed Forces. We also have 2,000 rifles, Carl Gustaf, to be retired from the Home Guard. My question, which I think many parts, is: Will there be a third package of support from Sweden to Ukraine?
i-HgX8uzmBP2CjQ999WGY9Bn	Madam President, I would like The government is, of course, constantly looking at the opportunities we have to provide further support to Ukraine in a wide range of areas. Precisely mine clearance equipment is one of the things Sweden has contributed, and we have also contributed with vests, helmets and ammunition. In addition, the police have supported the Ukrainian police with drones and other police equipment that they needed. In addition to this and tents, food, water cans, field rations and more, we have contributed purely financially to humanitarian aid and directly to the Ukrainian Central Bank, also via the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank. But, as I said, the government is working continuously to review what further opportunities there are to support Ukraine in its struggle for freedom, democracy and independence.
i-YRrgEmNXzk3bjh12MCg1P4	Madam President, I would like Over the past few weeks, I have been to schools and accommodations that have received refugees from the Ukraine of the war, and no one can walk away untouched by what the women and not least the children have experienced. After five or six weeks, there are still many children who haven't come out to school, but I know it's coming. What concerns me is the idleness that is at risk of affecting the adults in these accommodations because they do not receive activities, advice and support to enter the labour market. This morning the government announced that they will be informed about the labour market situation, but after being out on accommodation and meeting these people, it is recognised that they need a much more active education and labour market input.
i-LVkh4rYJBr2nSCLUvgpqWC	Madam President, I would like Children who come to Sweden via the mass refugee directive have the right to preschool and school. On the other hand, there is no compulsory schooling for them, so some children are taught digitally from Ukraine. Other children start in Swedish school, and Swedish school systems are now ready to receive them. I hope that many people choose to join the Swedish school in order to be able to make contacts. Mothers can receive Swedish education from day one. This is an important way to start practising quickly in your Swedish language. We will also go out with further information about the Swedish labour market. Many Ukrainians have previously worked in Sweden, so there should be good opportunities for these women to come to work in Sweden. But if the war continues, further efforts will, of course, be needed to ensure access to the labour market and to school.
i-WzS7t8htyqJdShZhv2YaD5	Madam President, I would like Almost every day we see examples of the school becoming a market. We see that students have become customers and teachers service staff. We see free schools with unfair queue systems sorting out the most profitable students, and we see a school money that overcompensates the free school groups for costs that they do not actually have. We see that lower teacher density and lower wages are tools to increase profits.
i-PDM4MtC5vgLfRtKVzUEGji	Madam President, I would like Swedish school is unique. Not in any other developed country is it free for private companies, international companies, groups and venture capital companies to make big profits at school and perhaps send them abroad to some tax haven. This is therefore money that the Riksdag has decided to go to teachers, school materials, gymnasiums, school curators and school nurses but that instead goes to profits. And these gains are, of course, made by reducing quality. In addition, we have a school system in which all municipal schools are unfairly treated in relation to the free schools, which can thus make even greater profits. This is completely unreasonable. In the elections this autumn, the Swedish people must decide. Do you want it this way? If you do not want that, you vote for the Social Democrats.
i-SwSs7GP3xS59NiU3tCBZts	Madam President, I would like Gang crime continues to spread in Sweden. Shootings remain at record levels, and there have never been so many dead s shootings as in the first quarter of this year. The police have pointed out several concrete initiatives needed to stop the shootings and break the new recruitment. For example, a letter to the government points to the importance of getting legislation that makes it punishable to be part of a criminal gang. There has also been a call for the immediate introduction of preventive coercive measures against the criminal gangs as well as the opportunity to testify anonymously – something that is already legal in Norway, Finland and Denmark. We just heard the Prime Minister say she's going to turn all the stones in her work against the criminal gangs. Is it not hypocritical, then, that at the same time the government is saying no to implementing these very three concrete reforms that the police have asked for in order to stop the criminal gangs?
i-M2XDop1mYWMoHEiyontk5R	Madam President, I would like The government is working to reverse a long line of stones to stop the criminal gangs, and the measures we are taking will be effective so that we really get to the criminal gangs. That's why we're raising the penalties for the crimes that gang criminals often commit. We consider this to be more effective than investigating in the exact context of a crime. We are working on a wide range of ways to tighten the penalties, but we are trying to do this in such a way that we can use as effectively as possible the resources we have to fight the gangs, instead of working on some issues that may rather have the character of symbolic politics.
i-J7PiEetKbw4JMCUKEfcUz1	Madam President, I would like 86% of all those who have fled to Sweden from Ukraine are women and children. The children have the right to school, as noted here, but the women are left today wind by wave. There are information campaigns, such as Swedish from day one and study circles, but what these women need is SFI and to get their coordination numbers quickly. Today it takes 16 weeks to get these. Both Kvinna till Kvinna and Unicef and the police have warned that these women risk being exploited if they do not receive the right support. We in the Liberals are clear that we believe that these women should be entitled to SFI so that they can get the right input and get into work and not risk being exploited. We want the women to be able to work this summer and send money back to family and friends who are still in Ukraine.
i-MTEUwPUuKZfcZHQonACChM	Madam President, I would like The government has ensured increased resources to Swedish from day one, in order for women to have the opportunity to start their studies when they come to Sweden. That being said, many Ukrainians worked in Sweden before the war. Now many of them have returned to Ukraine to fight for their country's freedom and democracy. Given that there are many Ukrainians working in Sweden, I believe that there are good opportunities for Ukrainian women to get to work quickly in Sweden. There, Swedish from day one can be a push on the road, but many men from Ukraine have entered the Swedish labour market even without courses in Swedish. There are opportunities for women to combine work with studies in Swedish. If the war lasts, we need to look deeper at how we will integrate Ukrainian women and children in Sweden in the long term. Here in Sweden you should of course work and earn a living.
i-E1eKHcAJdfT7eBiefYjAh2	Madam President, I would like Springtime is now. In some parts of our elongated country it is already clear; in others it is still a while. For me, spring use is normally a time of hope, a time when we know that the darkest period lies behind us, when the light and heat await, when what we have sown will sprout, grow and eventually harvest. But this spring usage is not as usual. The darkness envelops Europe and, above all, Ukraine. The links between Sweden and Ukraine are strong even when it comes to agriculture, and we are probably many that are impressed by the strength and courage of Ukrainian farmers. The Ukrainian farmer pulls out the seed drill despite the risk of being shot at by Russian attack planes, even though day after day one hears of the Russian regime's monstrous war crimes against the Ukrainian population – yes, under totally inhuman conditions the Ukrainian farmer sits in his tractor to grow food for his family, to his country and to the world. We in Sweden must do everything we can to contribute to an end to Russia's vile war. And once the day comes when Ukraine will be rebuilt, yes, then I hope that in Swedish politics and the Swedish agricultural industry we will do what we can to support our colleagues in Ukraine by building a strong agricultural industry. But the dark clouds of unrest are towering in the Swedish sky as well. The last time Europe was at war, Sweden's then Prime Minister Per Albin Hansson said that our preparedness is good for Sweden's food supply. Although the similarities with the 40s in general are disappointing many, Swedish food readiness is unfortunately in no way good. Swedish production has been slowly but surely declining for a long time, and the role of Swedish food production from a security policy perspective has been forgotten for a long time. Our dependence on imports of, for example, fuel and fertiliser makes Sweden vulnerable. But the lack of profitability and competitiveness in agriculture also create vulnerabilities. The geographical and climate conditions for producing food in Sweden are extremely good, but unfortunately the political conditions for the same are not. As early as 2021, the prices of inputs started to climb up, and since Russia's war of attacks against a free and independent neighbouring country began, the prices of diesel, commercial fertilisers, feed and other inputs have rushed. We already see concrete consequences in Swedish livestock production. Beef producers are slaughtering. Slaughter pig producers and chicken producers do not put in new rounds to avoid millions of losses as feed prices skyrocket. One possible scenario is that the supply of Swedish pigmeat has decreased by 25 per cent already in the summer. I am genuinely concerned about where this will land and what consequences it will have for Swedish food production in the short and long term. The coming weeks and months are critical. There must be positive political signals that we in this House are prepared to act. What needs to be done, Madam President? I think we need to see policy action from three different time horizons. We need short-term measures to take urgent action here and now, medium-term measures for 2023/ 24 and long-term measures for the 2030 food strategy target year. And we must be able to focus on all three horizons at once. First of all, measures are needed in the short term, where it is about how Swedish livestock production will even survive the year out. Since the beginning of the crisis and war, the Center Party has been in the lead to push through targeted measures to strengthen Swedish agricultural liquidity here and now. We have proposed maximizing the refund of the diesel tax from 1 January 2022, and we have proposed targeted support for, in particular, livestock production by first 1 billion and then a further 11⁄2 billion. We have also supported all proposals for temporary reductions in taxes on petrol and diesel put on Parliament's table. We appreciate that the government has met us in some parts, and the discussions on a crisis package currently under way in the Committee on Finance are constructive. We are very much in favour of this, because now we need cooperation for the best interests of Swedish agriculture. But we also need to think now about how to deal with future growing seasons. The Commission recognises the possibility of amending the strategic plan on the basis of the changed security situation. We should take this opportunity to ensure that the strategic plan 2023 – 2027 addresses Swedish security of supply more clearly. The government must also have a plan for how to ensure the availability of fertiliser before harvesting in 2023 and be prepared to temporarily adapt regulations to ensure availability of, for example, plant nutrients. Rules at EU level also need to be adapted to allow full production in 2023. Finally, action is needed in the long term. By 2030, only eight harvests are lost, and the goal of increasing Swedish food production and reducing vulnerability in the food chain is more important than ever before. The Center Party sees three areas as particularly important for us to meet the objectives of the food strategy. Firstly, we need to increase the competitiveness and profitability of primary production through regulatory simplification. In negotiations since 2019, the Center Party has ensured that the Swedish Board of Agriculture and the Swedish Food Administration have been given a clearer mandate in their regulatory letters to focus on the business operator's conditions and reduce the regulatory burden. The Swedish Agency for Growth has been tasked with identifying rules that impair competitiveness in the food chain and making proposals for changes. We have also ensured that work on a digital system for fewer government contacts has been launched. But that's not enough. Permit processes must be shortened and biotopes must be changed so that they do not stop the development of agriculture. The legislation on plant breeding needs to be modernised so that new technologies can benefit agriculture. Secondly, we need to strengthen innovation and strengthen the supply of skills in the food chain. The Center Party has ensured that the food sector has a very prominent role in the research bill, but we need to step up efforts on innovation and applied research in the food chain even more. We also need to review state aid rules and other regulatory frameworks to promote innovation and collaboration. The efforts at knowledge centres and collaborative platforms such as Grogrund and Sweden Food Arena must continue. The emphasis on food exports, which is a clear engine of innovation, needs to be further strengthened. There is also a need for more systematic and strategic work on the supply of skills in the food chain. Thirdly, we must make Swedish food production more resistant to both a changed climate and an uncertain environment. This has been a clear priority for the Center Party in negotiations on the rural development programme, but more funding needs to be earmarked for investments in drainage and irrigation dams. We need to adapt regulations on, for example, water abstraction in order to implement climate adaptation measures. At the same time, we must focus on increasing security of supply and domestic production of inputs. Increasing self-sufficiency in food is a laudable goal, but if we do not solve Swedish agriculture's dependence on imported inputs, Swedish agriculture remains vulnerable in a changing environment, as the current crisis shows more clearly than ever. That is why we in the Center Party want security of supply in crisis and war to be highlighted as a strategic area in the work on the implementation of the food strategy. We want to make strong investments in domestic biofuel production. We want to remove the tax on biofuels and introduce an agricultural deduction and a climate premium for those farmers who think renewablely. We also want to promote domestic production of fossil-free mineral fertilisers and increase the reuse of phosphorus from Sweden's wastewater treatment plants. Madam President, I would like I began my speech by expressing my respect and support for Ukrainian farmers. I would like to conclude my speech by expressing my respect for and gratitude to Sweden's farmers. You are a vital cog for Sweden both in peacetime and in war. For this you should have our thanks. I promise that we in the Center Party will continue to do everything we can to improve the conditions for Swedish agriculture and for Swedish agriculture to emerge from the crisis it is now in. I hope that the speakers who come after me are prepared to promise the same. I request the approval of reservation 19.
i-QRp3vXMeFnqBpoxKnZzvef	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to endorse reservation 14. Agricultural policy is on schedule for the day, and rarely or never has this been as topical as it is right now. Some of us in here have been nagging about how important these issues are for almost a full term of office, but now even people outside this circle are beginning to understand how important this really is. I can agree with what the representative of the Center Party pointed out about brave and struggling farmers in Ukraine. We're looking at pictures of the troubles they're facing. When you get signals that 40% of Ukraine's arable land is not arable, you begin to understand the greatness of this. It is perhaps 12 – 14 million hectares that just disappear at a glance this year, and we do not know for how long. Then how much is it? In Sweden we have 2 1⁄2 million hectares of arable land, half of which can only be grown on grass. Then you understand how much this is all about. What does this mean? This means, of course, that there is a great deal of food going away from the world market; there is nothing to hide from. Nor do we know how Russia will act. The last time I received signals from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats that Russia intends to make this war more and more a war on food. It's an effective means to use when there's war. We hear signals from down north Africa and the countries around us about the growth of famine. These are countries that are largely dependent on wheat from Russia and Ukraine. Nevertheless, it is important that we ensure that we produce as much as we can within Sweden's borders. It may be that we do not have the same areas and the same opportunities, but we have good farmers who can deliver high production on the arable land that we have available anyway. That is why I am pleased that the European Union is prepared to mess with certain things, such as the fact that we will be able to grow trees for a short period of time in order to keep production as high as possible. After all, there is no reason whatsoever to set aside good arable land for grain production in a situation where millions of people are starving. I guess it's peace and joy, someone's thinking. We grow on here in Sweden. And of course – what was sown in autumn 2021 looks good so far, although some autumn rape and autumn wheat areas have been beaten by the swinging spring. But then comes the next problem, namely that the prices of inputs have reached levels that we have never seen before. When bought last summer a kilo of Axan, a common fertilizer for wheat production, for example, it cost $1 (U.S.). Then we should also remember that it was historically high. Today, the same manure costs somewhere between $1 and $2 pounds (U.S.). Wheat prices are absolutely high on the world market, but if you don't know that you're going to have a high harvest in the autumn – if you're a little worried after the winter – you might not really fertilize as much as you could do to maximize this. Instead, in a situation when we need to produce as much as we can and can, we would be able to reduce Swedish wheat production in principle. I believe that we will reduce production from Swedish livestock production, regardless of the crisis aid we manage to squeeze forward in this House over the next few weeks. We're already hearing it. I last heard at the beginning of the week how a neighbor with egg production decided to slaughter a number of thousands of hens prematurely. There is no reason whatsoever for him to produce when he goes with negative results every day and for every kilogram of eggs. Just as Kristina Yngwe highlighted, they choose not to buy calves and piglets for their stables. The poultry industry is starting to switch down. This is already happening, whether we get additional crisis support or not. Swedish food production is very likely to decrease this year. We already have a low self-sufficiency situation today. You can also use the term self-sufficiency. It is even worse, because today we do not have any stocks of inputs for Swedish agriculture. One of the first and most important steps for us to maintain and increase production is to ensure that there is access to inputs. The Government, together with the other countries of the EU, has a major task in ensuring that there is input for Swedish agriculture. Speaking of the government, Madam President, there is, of course, an opportunity for a Swedish Minister for Rural Development to step forward and show decisiveness: now we are serious! Let's reverse the trend! We're going ahead! We're going in the front row! But where is the Swedish government on this issue? We are waiting for the opposition to come up with proposals on how to reverse the crisis. That is why I am very pleased, Madam President, that today the Moderates, together with the Center Party, have agreed on a number of important points that have been highlighted in the Committee on Finance. Swedish livestock production will receive more money, in a first step one and a half billion. If we also manage to work through exemptions for the block exemption at EU level, it is about equal money for Swedish livestock production. We also have 1 billion to Swedish grain cultivation, where wheat is the flagship. I think it will be extremely effective. You might as well call it aid for purchasing inputs. Now we do not call it that, but this is done to keep Swedish production going. It is not only necessary for wheat for the world market, but also for the production of feed material for Swedish livestock production. There are, which was highlighted before, a number of things in the strategic plan that we need to work on. We need exceptions to various greening rules, crop rotation rules and other things. All these things we have to put aside right now, because now it is about keeping production going. There are also a number of other proposals which were put on the table today in the Committee on Finance and which I believe will be useful. For some, it is already too late. But we are doing what we can to keep Swedish food production going at this point. I also think that we need to think about food production in the long term. One should not set any end dates for the various subsidies, because we do not know how long we will have this crisis situation. But in the long term we need to strengthen Swedish agriculture, so that we don't have to talk about crisis support as soon as it's a bit tough and difficult. Now this situation is extreme, and we have not seen anything like it before, so it was quite natural to have more crisis support in this situation. But Swedish agriculture needs better conditions to produce in the long term. The Moderates have politics for that, and we have had that for a long time. We need to lower the tax burden. We need long-term ownership and use conditions. We need to reduce the regulatory burden. We need to review the environmental code. We need to look at grazing legislation and meat control fees. There are a number of different things we can do to strengthen Swedish agriculture in the long term. But now it is about strengthening it in the short term and maintaining Swedish food production in 2022.
i-ErSqUzh7YnGNDARfLWrdZg	Madam President, I would like Swedish agriculture has a very difficult time now. The cost of intervention funds has increased very sharply, as we have heard previous speakers say. But perhaps many have forgotten that the increase in the cost of intervention funds began this summer. I think it is very good that many parties now realise that there is a crisis for agriculture and that they are supporting support measures. Many proposals for committee initiatives to facilitate agriculture have been put forward, and that is a good thing. I would like to commend those who have been active in this, regardless of the party. I would, of course, also like to commend ourselves. Perhaps it is someone who looks at this and thinks it is a matter of special interest and something that is interesting for a small group of farmers. I can then say that it is important to keep fuel prices and food prices down so that we do not add to the inflation that we have today, which can lead to interest rate increases. Then anyone can figure out that this concerns us all. I want to put a little bit of thought into the way the Center Party thinks. During its term of office, the Centre Party has put forward good proposals, had good negotiating bids and taken initiatives to promote agriculture and rural areas. But with the cooperation of the Center Party with the red - green side, much of what the Center Party has sown has fallen on the rock mountain. In a conservative government, the soil would have been better and richer, I would point out. As I said, support measures are needed and are good, because we have a crisis. But actually, the situation with aid packages and other initiatives is a bit sad. After all, the crisis has been exacerbated by the lack of political concern in the past. It has been many years of bad agricultural policy. For political reasons, Swedish agriculture has had too little margin for far too long. What will happen when the crisis is over? Does the question of the profitability and competitiveness of agriculture sink into oblivion again? Remember, most of the reliefs we're talking about are temporary. If profitability and competitiveness do not improve permanently, crises will arise again and again as soon as the next strain comes. We must not repeat the same mistakes. We Swedish democrats want to improve the conditions of Swedish agriculture permanently. The most important thing is that the costs of agriculture are reduced so that our farmers can compete with foreign farmers on more equal terms. We have proposed a reduction in diesel tax for as long as I can remember. We have proposed a reduction in electricity tax and the abolition of the general salary fee for three employees. We also want to take action on the revenue side. I would like to remind you that the budget reservation of the three conservative parties includes an additional billion in national co-financing for the rural development programme in addition to the government's draft budget. For example, this billion could be used for investment aid and/or increased environmental benefits for both the economy and the environment. Sweden has imposed on Swedish farmers a number of national requirements that competing farmers in other countries do not have. These are often animal welfare requirements. We Swedish democrats are proud of the high level of animal welfare in Swedish agriculture, but we understand that it costs. That is why we are looking for ways of compensating farmers financially for such demands. Previously, we always budgeted for a grazing premium of SEK 1 000 per dairy cow to compensate for Sweden's demand for dairy cows to graze in the summer. This is probably no longer possible after the negotiations on new agricultural rules in Brussels last year. That is why I am today in favour of the Swedish Democrats' reservation number l. If this claim goes through, the government will work to influence the EU to create future opportunities for Sweden to provide support for Swedish special requirements for animal welfare, such as grazing compensation for dairy cows or reduced slaughterhouse fees. Madam President, I would like I would like to dwell for a moment on the negotiations on the possibility for Member States to provide support for stricter national animal welfare requirements, such as grazing payments for dairy cows. I want to make it easier for listeners to understand why the Swedish Democrats are no longer budgeting for a grazing allowance, and I want to clarify what we and others have done and have not done. This also leads to our reservation 1, for which we want a majority in this House. In all possible contexts, the Swedish Democrats pressed for the government to raise the issue in Brussels in order, among other things, to allow for a grazing allowance for dairy cows. We were really nagging for two years. The Christian Democrats and the Moderates were also active, especially the Christian Democrats. The government raised the issue and worked forward. There was resistance in Brussels, but there was an opening. Some other Member States and the European Parliament were in favour of the proposal provided that Member States would also have the opportunity to support stricter national environmental requirements. Then the government went down. We believe that Sweden could have accepted this requirement. We should not forget that the measures to which the aid could be applied are stricter requirements than those of operators in other Member States and that the stricter requirements only result in a reimbursement of the higher costs. It is therefore competitively neutral at EU level, but for Sweden and for Sweden's dairy farmers it will be an improvement. If you look at it, you can see that this possibility of support means that Member States can voluntarily take precedence in the context of animal welfare without jeopardising the competitiveness of the industry. The Swedish Democrats want to see both strong animal welfare and higher profitability. I therefore call on all parties to vote for reservation 1, when you have the opportunity in this House in a few days' time. I think that this example shows that agricultural policy today needs to be pursued at least as much in Brussels and that it should be done in time and not patch and fix afterwards, as we now have to do in the strategic plan to increase the food production crisis. It should be a matter of course to have the best interests of Sweden in every context down there in Brussels. This is something that comes naturally to us Swedish democrats. Finally, I would like to highlight a committee initiative that the Swedish Democrats took last week. Additives for diesel vehicles are needed today to function effectively while at the same time emitting as little nitrogen pollution as possible. If the engine power is exhausted, the engine output will be reduced unless the exhaust gas cleaning system is exempted. The additive is best known under the name Adblue. The supply of raw materials to the additive threatens to decline as a result, among other things, of the war in Ukraine. That is why we want to act quickly in order for the government to operate within the EU to allow a temporary exemption for exhaust gas cleaning in the event of a shortage in the future. We should not wait until the crisis becomes a reality. We have to see it come. Finally, I would just like to emphasise the following: Swedish agriculture is currently in a cost crisis and is in a negative spiral. We were before the war in Ukraine. If we can increase profitability and competitiveness, we can enter a positive spiral with greater optimism, greater investment, increased confidence in the future and increased profitability in the future. It will also be easier to recruit. This in turn leads to greater optimism, more investment, higher profitability and so on. If we succeed in entering a positive spiral, we will also have more opportunities to take environmental considerations into account. But for this to happen, we need to ensure that profitability and competitiveness are higher permanently, not just temporarily in crisis.
i-3KbdEFHTp3ERXcsyuChcP1	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Staffan Eklöf, for your speech and for the positive words on the Center Party's agricultural policy! I appreciate that. It is positive that we are both very committed to these issues. I appreciate Staffan Eklöf's commitment, but I do not exactly share the picture that he presents that the issues of the Center Party have not had an impact during the past period. Thanks to the January agreement and negotiations within it, we have ensured that the food strategy decided by the Parliament has been reoriented. There is now more focus on regulations, competitiveness, profitability and innovation. We have ensured that co-financing for the rural development programme is higher than ever before. When the levels have been reduced at European level, we have ensured that compensation has been made at national level. The research proposal has previously largely not concerned food supply and the food chain at all, but has been given large funds to invest in food research and to play a clear role. We have also made it clear in regulatory letters and other information to the relevant authorities that we should work with regulatory simplifications and ensure that primary production is in good condition. On the other hand, I have a little question that Staffan Eklöf refers to the budgets of the three conservative parties and that they have invested more money. In fact, there is no more money for agriculture in the budget that they have received in Parliament. Why should farmers believe what Staffan Eklöf says here when this has not been demonstrated before in practical action?
i-Eyf8dcrYZERPXoazo311N7	Madam President, I would like Let me first answer the last question. The Swedish Democrats have spent most of their budgets during this term of office on Category 23 Areella industries. Kristina Yngwe listed a number of good proposals that have been implemented. You should give it to the Center, who has worked well to get through a lot of things. It's a lot, but it's not enough. And it would have been more in other company. That's the essence of it. One can probably not find very many farmers who would say that they are satisfied with the conditions of competition today. I think everyone would be in the front row of this House. Although the Center Party is working well on rural and agricultural issues, it will ultimately be a worse result, as other issues are prioritised higher than rural and agricultural ones. After that, another company had been sought.
i-LPVcEX35WTtX9ajRqiFvxa	Madam President, I would like It is interesting that Staffan Eklöf talks about priorities. You can stand in the speaker's chair and talk as much as possible about what bets you want to make. You can present budget motions with texts and money for things you want to do, but what actually makes a difference is when you get the opportunity to influence and sit at the negotiating table and negotiate money. That is what the priorities are about. Whether it was a letter of regulation, a budget or something else, that is what the Center Party has invested in and prioritised rural areas at any given time. In view of the budget that came last autumn, that is, the budget that is now in force, we had three parties – the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats – who had all spent more money on agriculture in their own budgets than the government had. They were on the same level as the Center Party. But when the three negotiated together, they did not even manage to agree on the higher level that they were all actually behind, leaving it at the level that the government had presented. These three parties say they want to simplify beach protection. Yesterday it became clear that they are saying no to the simplification of beach protection when concrete proposals were made at Parliament's table. You can stand and talk as much as you like, but if you don't prioritise and deliver and make a reality of what you say, you can stop talking.
i-DHKQiNvVkvQBk4xgtERPQm	Madam President, I would like I keep talking, which means I don't agree with Kristina Yngwe's conclusion. We say 'no' to the simplifications in beach protection because they are too few, not too many. Kristina Yngwe now said what I said at the beginning of my speech, that is to say that the Center Party has pushed forward in its negotiations for agriculture and rural areas. I gave the Center Party credit for that. But the result has been cracker, because you are in the wrong company. As Kristina Yngwe does, one cannot compare a budget negotiation as a whole with a budget reservation agreed after a few weeks. Naturally, it cannot contain much. But M, KD and SD still managed to do something historic. We managed to add an extra 1 billion to national co-financing for the rural development programme starting in 2023, that is, when the programming period begins. So in this short time we managed to agree 1 billion more for agriculture. Then the thought experiment can be made that if, instead of rejecting productive possibilities, the Center had made use of productive possibilities, the result could have been even better.
i-6qtjho7spzvV4jvDtarWiU	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating agricultural policy in this House. I would like to begin with, so that it is not forgotten, to ask for the approval of reservation 16. Much has already been said, and yet there are still some speakers. I am in danger of repeating much of what has been said, and much of what has been said has been very good. I have to say that it is difficult to stand here in the speaker's seat and not mention anything about what is happening in Ukraine right now. Both Mr Yngwe and Mr Widegren were concerned about this. John Widegren mentioned how many millions of hectares can't be sown now. There was a message that when the Russians retreat back to their country, they put a lot of mines in the agricultural fields, which they usually get a lot of harvest from. It is very serious and will affect very much, of course for Ukraine but also for Sweden, Africa and all countries that are totally dependent on wheat growing. We see in Sweden how prices are accelerating something terrible right now. I have only been here for eight years, and I don't think I've ever seen so much talk about agricultural policy in Parliament. It is of course very good, and in my opinion it is also about time. I stood here eight years ago and spoke in this very speaker's seat about the country's low food readiness. It was then and still, Madam President, below 50%. We make it in our country for about seven days, then it is empty on the store shelves, and here in Stockholm it takes only two days until it is empty. After my speech, a Member came to me and said: Magnus, don't talk like that! It's passé. We have the EU. It's fine, as we say in Destiny High. Now we can say that no one would say right now that it is, because everyone knows enough, Madam President, how bad it is. We're still on these low numbers. Nothing's happened. I believe that the government has not conducted this policy responsibly. It's like an ostrich putting his head in the sand and hoping it'll be all right when it comes up. No, it doesn't. We must, of course, have good food readiness in our country. At least we Christian Democrats think so. Madam President, I would like A few years ago – you who have been around for a while perhaps remember that – the then Social Democratic Minister for the Interior was asked what would happen if there were to be a crisis or war situation. He was honest and replied: We may have to ask our neighbours if they can help us. I don't know, but the fact is that our country is so bad that we're just self-sufficient in carrots, wheat flour, sugar, and to some extent eggs. And that was before the crisis came, because as Widegren was into it, many are now closing down. We can't go on like this. I've said this several times and you may think I'm almost nagging about it, but I still want to put it forward. In 2017, we had a solid discussion with Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht if we were to have a food strategy, and we were some who thought it was important. We supported it and said that it is clear that we must have a food strategy. All parties were in on it, and we adopted it. A farmer called me and said: Magnus, this was good. Now I dare to bet. You say in politics that you want to move forward. That farmer does not say that today, I can say, but he says like many others: Magnus, nothing happens. The fact is that the food strategy says that we should have more food production, more profitability, better competitiveness and greater self-sufficiency of food. So, how's it going? There you go. The food strategy was adopted in 2017, and when we adopted it, I thought in my oblivion that it would now be worked on, that there would be directives and that everyone would work towards the same goal. But not said Nicke, because in 2020 the Director General of MSB was asked how to work with this in the agency, and he answered: This question we are not working on at all. It's a non-question. It took until October 2020 until the government gave instructions to some authorities to come up with a proposal or to start working on it. But, my friends, on March 29th this year there was a press conference – it's not many days ago – where the government said that they had now included various actors working on the issue and that they should be finished in December 2023. Then my question is rhetorical, of course, but still: Is it fast work? No, it's not fast work. I think the government will not be approved for this, because it is not good enough that this is the way it is. We can only look at our neighbour Finland and how incredibly good they are there. We have so much to learn from them. They have a limit that says that you should not come below 80 per cent, because then it is dangerous on the road, and in Sweden we are, as I said, below 50 per cent. In Finland, you can last six months and more without having to take in a single grain. This is not the case in Sweden, as I said before. Here we manage for seven days and in Stockholm for two days. Madam President, I would like Our farmers – as has also been said with emphasis by previous speakers and friends in this House – are in a deep economic crisis right now. Then what does the government do? Well, they first say 1 billion. That's a good start. And now there was a press release that speaks of 100 million, as I understood. Then you might think: Yes, that was good. Maybe every penny is important, but here it is important that there is more money. That is why it is so very good that proposals for 2.1 million are now coming from the Center Party and from the Moderates over 4 billion. And we in the KD say we're in on everything, as long as it gives more money to the peasants, because it's important. At the same time, however, I must say that it is a good thing that we give support and want to help, but the fact is that what the farmers say is: we are not just beneficiaries, we are entrepreneurs. We want you to show, with decisions in this House, how much we can actually get in the future and that we have the rules of the game. It's very important. We had Milk and Beef Day here in Parliament. It was very interesting to listen to those who attended. The dairy farmers said, "Let's get on our knees." It's so tough for us now. We know and have read about that many people are closing down, not least in Norrland. The meat farmers say that they go 4 000 – 5 000 kroner minus per animal. That's not good enough. We must, of course, support this in a completely different way. It is so important that we make a difference, and I hope that we will. It was a consensus when we discussed this politically. That was the green thread when we discussed it afterwards with all parties. Everyone said, "We have to support this." We need to be involved in seeing that we make a difference. Madam President, I would like I want to stop reading a little short letter. It says, "Hello, Magnus! I run a dairy production with my partner. Last year at this time, our new barn would have been finished. But since our part of Sweden has not received much precipitation in recent years, we had to stop our future vision and instead sell a large part of our animals. It is too expensive to buy forage. Me and my partner have had a tough start as a dairy producer since we took over the family farm in 2017. We go back when we grow grain, peas and beans. Our vision for the future was to feed Sweden's hungry stomachs, vegans and omnivores. We are trying to find new visions about how to achieve sustainable agriculture and our mental well-being. We're not old, about 30 years old. We need to get paid better for what we grow. In autumn or maybe in winter, our job on this farm will probably be over. Spring use is soon up and running, we'll see how much we can grow on our land. Everything is about what diesel, the purchase of fertilizers, plastic and seeds cost. We can't afford to feed the Swedish population any more. We can no longer afford to go with loss. Swedish farmers need support NOW! The support package that the government is handing out is embarrassing. I'm not even going to put any energy into explaining my frustration on it. This was brief about our situation. We are not alone in this. Our future is ruined. Our vision is ruined. Help us to be farmers so Sweden can eat. .....................................................
i-8qJ9hot7J9WKvNxMFuCPmm	Madam President, I would like Every other bite we eat in Sweden is Swedish, they say. That's not true. It is lower than that if we include all the food produced in Swedish agriculture and that it is heavily dependent on imported goods. Swedish agriculture is dependent on imports of energy, chemical fertilizers, pesticides, feed soup, seeds, machinery, labor and more. It is similar to the calf jam that is said to be produced in Småland but where the raw materials come from other countries. The wheat grown in Östergötland on the fields of Mr John Widegren can only be harvested later this autumn thanks to the import of fertilizers from Russia, among others. We have to change that. Today Russia is the world's largest exporter of raw materials for fertilizers. Russia's invasion of Ukraine has put its finger on how vulnerable Swedish agriculture is. Most of Swedish farmers rely on imported inputs. Yesterday, the government came up with a new emergency package. The problem is that the government's proposals are about sending in tax revenue so that dependence on imports risks increasing even further. The government is opening up to lower environmental and climate requirements for agriculture and is focusing unilaterally on increased harvests. This could ultimately threaten the entire productive capacity of agriculture. The Green Party calls for a review of the food strategy so that agriculture in Sweden and the EU becomes less dependent on fossil energy. The supply of chemical fertilisers from Russia must be stopped, as must imports of oil and natural gas. Self-sufficiency in Sweden and the EU must be increased. We must continue to trade in sustainable food but build regional self-sufficiency on what we can produce ourselves. We need to build emergency stocks, or as it is also called turnover stocks, together with the business community. In this respect, trade must contribute by regionalising its stock systems. Central warehouses are way too vulnerable. We cannot continue to lay down agricultural land in Sweden. Dairys, bakeries, slaughterhouses with several food businesses must be around the country. A review of the food strategy is needed to give Sweden a stronger preparedness. There may be new crises. Then we must be able to handle them better. The government proposes about 1 billion extra mainly for diesel support and to keep poultry and pig production under arms. That's not good enough. What is needed is strong grassland and livestock support that helps small and medium-sized family farms throughout the country. There is a need for extra Norrland support. A bio-premia is needed for farmers who have already replaced the use of biofuels in their tractors. Then there is the really big problem, the diesel subsidy. I do not close my eyes to the fact that all farmers, whether organic or conventional, have significantly increased costs for diesel. But providing a diesel subsidy is not the way forward. The study The road to fossil-independent agriculture has already presented the solution: instead, to introduce a general deduction for farmers. All farmers will then be compensated with reduced taxes. The Green Party proposes differentiation so that small farmers, farm farmers and small and medium-sized family farms are compensated extra. Not spending money on diesel but on farmers means that Sweden's farmers can continue to be at the forefront in order to also speed up the phasing out of diesel. As it is now, they risk losing the support they receive if they switch to biogas or renewable fuels. That is not acceptable. Madam President, I would like EU Commissioner Frans Timmermans visited the Environment and Agriculture Committee on Friday. He had clear messages: every politician in Europe must dare to address citizens and entrepreneurs and say that energy will be expensive, and we can all save energy. What are the government and irresponsible right-wing parties doing now? They spend money on continuing high and increased diesel use and increased energy consumption. It's serious. We must phase out energy imports into the EU from Russia. We must make ourselves independent of fossil fertilizers. As we all know, it contributes to Putin's war fund. The EU has decided on special crisis support for Sweden, where we will receive SEK 90 million. The EU proposes to distribute it to sectors affected by market disruption or where support for increased food security is needed. Beneficiaries must be active in the circular economy and have climate and environmentally friendly production methods. The Swedish Board of Agriculture proposes that the funds be directed at the dairy farmers. But the Green Party wants the aid to be directed to the eco-farmers. They meet the criteria. Madam President, I would like No sector is literally more central to the survival of our world than the food sector. About half of all habitable land on earth is used for agriculture. All too often, however, agriculture, or to be more precise, is destroying conventional and more industrial agriculture, the natural systems on which it also depends. Over the past 50 years, more than a third of the world's agricultural land has been destroyed or degraded by human activity. The global food system is also responsible for more than one third of all greenhouse gas emissions. How to produce, market and consume food has a major impact on the earth's ability to support us and thus affect human health and our economic prosperity. Farmers are versatile professional artists. I had the privilege of meeting Erik from Klövsjö, who is a farm farmer with 40 cows, here in Parliament today. If all the world's farmers grow well and work with nature and not against it, agriculture will not only increase the production of more nutritious food and generate more employment, but the ability of nature to keep the whole system going will also be promoted. Madam President, I would like There's a first time for everything. For the first time, the Green Party, or a party at all, has written a motion on regenerative agriculture here in the Swedish Parliament. Regenerative agriculture is about enabling the vitality of ecosystems by satisfying human needs for food, energy and materials effectively. By changing to regenerative agricultural practices, large parts of greenhouse gas emissions and toxins and the eutrophication generated by today's industrial agriculture can be avoided. Regenerative agriculture consists of maintaining good soil health, which includes restoring the natural carbon balance in the soil, avoiding inputs such as fertiliser and promoting biodiversity. With regenerative farming methods, we can deal with the environmental problems of agriculture and, in fact, also create important carbon sinks. Swedish agriculture should integrate regenerative agricultural practices on a larger scale to 2035. Some of the emissions produced by agriculture itself in terms of climate emissions are difficult to reduce. Therefore, measures that contribute to increased carbon storage in agricultural land are extremely important. The government must revise the strategic plan following the widespread criticism from the EU that came at the end of last week. The government must ensure that we strengthen environmental and climate work, strengthen organic production and strengthen the conditions for small and medium-sized family farms throughout the country. We know that the war in Ukraine is terrible. Those most affected are those living and living in Ukraine. But we hear here in the Swedish Parliament complaints about high petrol prices and higher food costs. They are not serious in comparison, but they are important issues to deal with. As politicians, we need to deal with higher food prices with stronger welfare policies and better distribution policies alongside the efforts we make on agriculture. We must also promote Swedish food in public kitchens and by means of origin labelling in a restaurant. The effects of the war in Ukraine can lead to famines globally. Therefore, here in the Swedish Parliament, we need to have a stronger focus on international development cooperation and contribute with a stronger aid budget – not to weaken it. Madam President, I would like The environmental party has movements on origin labelling, Swedish production of cut flowers, reduction of spraying, small slaughterhouses so that animals do not need to be transported so far, reduced eutrophication and to secure clean water. In a few weeks' time, we will be discussing a spring change budget. I hope that many parties will come up with proposals to strengthen Eldrimner's important work for increased food production throughout the country. I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 3.
i-DEo3hXNPt172fZoBrPNCgP	Madam President, I would like Thank you to Maria Gardfjell for your speech. I have a question for Maria Gardfjell, to which I will return. It is short and good: can it not be a good idea to act differently in the short term from in the long term? We heard here that Maria Gardfjell and the Green Party expressed support for high energy costs, as I understood it anyway. The Green Party therefore voted against an hour ago in this House to reduce fuel prices. If high fuel prices now contribute to increased inflation and to increased food prices, which in turn also contribute to higher inflation, this inflation will lead to an increase in interest rates. We've already heard it might be going on. Then it will lead to higher housing costs. Thus, citizens will have more expensive fuel, more expensive food and more expensive housing – if one does not envisage allowing reductions in fuel prices, including fossil fuels, in the short term to make agriculture survive the crisis and to make it change from a position of strength where it has more money at its disposal. The question I come back to is: is it not good to act differently in the short term in order to achieve the long-term objectives?
i-AuwZFRZqccvjcwu67HttUG	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Staffan Eklöf, for the question! With regard to the Green Party's attitude to how to face the crisis, we naturally believe that we need to make a strong contribution to meet the problems that Swedish households are facing. These are higher prices, both fuel prices, energy prices, food prices and so on. But if you don't think about it, it's easy to get it wrong. Then, instead of contributing to policies that actually solve the problems, money is being pruned out that contribute to increased use. What are the increased costs of fuel? One thing that almost all politicians tend to agree on is that people living in rural areas get higher costs, and they have to use their car. That is why the Green Party is proposing to make substantial tax cuts for rural people instead of using the money to subsidise diesel for every motorist. It is because if you look at the effects of the tax cut on diesel that Parliament has just decided on, you can see that it affects the climate and, above all, the countryside, because most of the money goes straight into the pockets of people living in the city. High-income people in town are most favoured, and the question is whether they could save a little on diesel use now instead.
i-XXGfAS8htUPJt3FNNcorFP	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Maria Gardfjell, for your answer! Now, Sweden is part of the EU, and even the investigator said that farmers' deductions may not be possible under current EU rules, if I remember correctly. Farmers' deductions may otherwise be a positive reform that we need to look at, but it is therefore not certain that it will be implemented. There is a lot of support that cannot be implemented now that we have the straitjacket called Europe on us. But to lower the tax on diesel – it's possible! After all, we have much higher taxes on diesel in our country than they do in other EU countries. So it is also a question of what can be done in the short term, what is realistic and what is unrealistic. If we now limit the discussion on the reduction of diesel tax to farmers and foresters, it is not in that way that a farmer drives much more in his field if diesel prices are lower. Some higher consumption may be due to the fact that you may have a shift at a slightly longer distance that you would otherwise have released. But such use benefits biodiversity well, since it is often small shifts that are good for biodiversity. And if they grow again, it'll be bad. That a reduction in diesel tax would go down into rich people's pockets sounds like a construction. However, the bonus malus system is designed to take from those who have little and give to those who have much. Nevertheless, I believe that in practice the Green Party is acting differently in the short term from in the long term. In fact, they support organic farming, and in organic farming they use a lot of diesel, because they do not have the same tools as others. You have to drive, for example, in mechanical weed processing instead of using chemical weed processing. So it is a little more diesel-intensive per hectare.
i-UKLuwLh7qkzjiFkMNm3vz9	Madam President, I would like Organic farmers use absolutely tractors that need diesel. But the fact is that the organic farmers' organisation wrote in Altinget today that they are demanding that the government introduce an agricultural deduction instead of a diesel deduction. Because they're looking forward. They see that there are many farmers out there who can save energy and who can try to drive a little less. You can be at the forefront and perhaps switch to using biogas instead of diesel. This is important. It is also about managing climate change. We are now facing a crisis with high costs due to Putin's war in Ukraine. Staffan Eklöf said in the speaker's chair earlier that the price increases came already this autumn. That's correct. As early as last autumn, Russia prepared the war that we are now seeing. E the effects of it became high energy prices even before the war started, and they skyrocketed even more when the war started. The Green Party wants to strengthen the Swedish farmers. We do not think that agricultural land should be closed down. We do not think farmers should be allowed to stop. We believe that support should be given to small and medium-sized farms throughout the country. Therefore, we believe that there is a need for animal support, a grassland support and a strengthened Norrland support. Unlike the Swedish Democrats, who advocate highly industrialised agriculture, the Green Party stands up for Swedish agriculture.
i-HQmcyQC267pHHCXCh8Xf6C	Madam President, I would like We are debating the annual report on agricultural policy. The benefits from the general exercise period came well before 24 February. When the motions were written, Putin might already know that this war was going to happen. We don't know anything about that. Nevertheless, we are now largely discussing the effects of the war instead of the motions on which the report is based. Having said that, I understand very well the concerns of all the farmers in the country about the high cost situation that has partly been created because of high prices of inputs, diesel and fertilizers. Many have become aware of the importance of strengthening Sweden. Magdalena Andersson has been clear: We will strengthen Sweden. That's the foundation. For us Social Democrats, it is very important. It is good, absolutely necessary, that we ensure that we have quality food on our kitchen tables. But it is also a matter of priorities. We give priority to the weak groups. We need to prioritise that pensioners can choose Swedish. We therefore propose a guarantee supplement to the pension. In this support package, we also propose that the housing allowance should be available for those who really need it, for those families with children who need Swedish food on their kitchen tables. Not all processing operations have Swedish products in their products. I want to lift up the Sauna Träsk Charkuteri in Norsjö. It is over 100 years old and was created when the main railway was built in the hinterland of Norrland. Holmlund's sausage is now re-launched, a product that has over 100 years on its neck. That recipe disappeared, but now they have used the skills of old employees to recreate it with Swedish products and get it on the market. This also applies to puddle, jammed pork and other things. We need to ensure that there are such processing facilities. This is also the effect of having a food strategy. Although it sounds like that food strategy does not contribute anything, we probably mean that it has been of great importance. We have a competitive market in which each operation must be approved in the structural plan approved by the Commission. We can probably say that the plan we have been working on since 2014, when S took office as a government leader, has been quite full of flaws. And a new programming period will only be added in 2023. We are now in a transitional situation. We need to listen to all representatives, to agriculture and to food processors. We also need to see the long-term. Swedish agriculture is at the forefront of many issues when it comes to environmental and climate aspects. I would like to highlight the innovation seminar held yesterday by Malin Larsson, Kristina Yngwe and Betty Malmberg. This illustrates very well that this is a sector that can take several steps. A lot has certainly happened. When I was five years old, I went with my grandfather to Vilhelmina and bought a hayturner to start turning hay after the tractor instead of hushing hay and building hay dryer. Some things have happened since then. But agriculture is in fact somewhat behind schedule. When it comes to new steps, agriculture has not been the first to seek the money that actually exists in the climate. Now it's starting to look a little different. There are indications that this money is being sought to install electrical means of transport, not least inside the barns, rather than driving diesel tractors inside the barns. There is great reason to raise the fact that Swedish agriculture will be an absolutely crucial factor for us to meet the climate goals. We must ensure that we take advantage of all the biogas that can actually be produced in agriculture in a way that we do not do today. We also see that most agricultural entrepreneurs have very large roofs and great opportunities to install solar cells and actually become self-sufficient on electricity. In the short term, action may be needed. Minister for Rural Development Anna-Caren Sätherberg made proposals yesterday. Due to the increased costs of inputs, the Government proposes in the bill for the spring change budget measures aimed at supporting agriculture. The billion of aid announced in the past – it is a billion-dollar subsidy, not anything – is actually a billion-dollar subsidy from taxpayers' money. It is increased by proposing a temporary increase in the tax reduction for diesel used in agriculture and forestry so that, in principle, agricultural and forestry entrepreneurs will not pay any tax on their use of diesel over a 12-month period. In the longer term, we need to look forward. We also need to look at which parts of Helena Jonsson's study on carbon-free agriculture we can carry out. We need to have a greater discussion about taxes, whether we are going to review taxes or whether there is going to be a tax deduction. Then we need broad political agreement on it. Several of the measures for which support can be sought should be highlighted. Residual heat can be used and refuelling stations for renewable fuels can be expanded. Then you may not necessarily have to reduce the reduction obligation. Perhaps it is the case that we should ensure the reduction obligation. This is also the basis for achieving the environmental objectives that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency says we can achieve if the reduction obligation actually persists. As I have said before, this programming period has been faced with many problems. When we took office in 2014, not one of these programmes was approved by the Commission. This has led to long-term payments, sanctions from the EU and non-functioning management systems. Three rural ministers have worked very hard on this in order to simplify the support system and learn lessons from the problems of the current aid design. Fewer and simpler support in the Strategic Plan will provide better conditions for a robust support system. A simplified support system has also been implemented. The government has chosen to put support outside the second pillar and instead focused on national measures in order to actually meet these challenges. We believe that research into modern plant breeding is important, just as genetic research is important. It is an important future issue for Swedish food security, for the environment and for the climate. This is also why we have welcomed SLU Grogrund as the centre for national plant research. It has been established and will drive plant breeding cooperation. As Kristina Yngwe said in her reply, I am, in fact, seriously concerned about the right-wing parties. It is announced that it will vote against the beach protection bill, which has the whole basis to strengthen the conditions for green industries in rural areas. When you say no to this and say that it is too little you announce at the same time that it is in the metropolitan areas it should be built. The right-wing parties will have to think about this. Should we strengthen rural conditions to build on the country and the ability of the green industries to develop? Or should we build more in densely populated cities? That is the question that this is actually about. We Social Democrats are telling the truth. We intend to do what is necessary. We say that citizens must make active choices. Choose Swedish on the table! Choose Swedish on the grill! Shop locally! Ask at the restaurant about the country of origin! We will continue to pursue the issue of origin marking. Together we make it possible with Swedish food on our tables.
i-P6brqxqVzHsoA6WPNKQaQ1	Madam President, I would like I must take this opportunity to put a question to Isak From on his speech. He says: We should not reduce the reduction obligation. Just before we had this debate, we had a vote in which the Social Democrats actually reduced the burden of reduction. Only the Green Party and the Center Party were against it. It is important to listen to representatives of various kinds," says Isak From. Then I would like to hear a little bit about which representatives Isak From are actually listening to. Organic farmers today say that it is urgent to switch to food production that is not dependent on imports. Today, Sweden's agriculture is extremely dependent on imports of energy, commercial fertilisers, pesticides, feed soya, seeds, machinery and labour. Swedish agriculture is extremely vulnerable. How do the Social Democrats want to ensure that we are coping with a crisis for Swedish agriculture, for example if the possibility of importing fertilizers is reduced? In what way do the Social Democrats believe that we must make use of the knowledge and experience of, for example, organic farmers? To conclude, I would like to ask Isak From whether he is prepared not only to talk about introducing an origin mark for meat in a restaurant but also to do so.
i-Kwiaey7q3Qqca2X4fKYtd6	Madam President, I would like That's a lot of questions. I believe that we as a country have learned to be quite dependent on imports. I do not think we want to go back to the self-sufficiency that preceded the time of coffee, chocolate and citrus fruits. Then it is quite reasonable that we actually ensure that we have stocks of food in Sweden, inputs, which make us manage. We have always, as long as the oil existed, been dependent on imports of oil. Gradually, we need to phase it out. We therefore believe that the reduction obligation is an important tool. But on the basis of the current situation, we're doing what we need to do. Let's make a short-term pause. But we work and hope that more people, especially the industry, will also make their voice heard and say: The reduction obligation is actually what is required to enable us to meet environmental objectives. I think the government and AnnaAnna-Caren Sätherberg have done a good job. We have now been there during six EU meetings and raised the issue of origin labelling in a restaurant. It seems to have been a concern in the past. Now we have a pure S-government, and we intend to continue to pursue the issues that are important for Sweden in its contacts with the Commission, together with like-minded EU countries.
i-2aPshw2t4ucPPGTxQGDfr5	Madam President, I would like I am concerned when Isak From says that he does not want to lower the reduction obligation but then says: Yes, a little bit we want to lower the reduction obligation. I believe that more parties in the Swedish Parliament must stand up for the Swedish bioeconomy strategy. This is not good enough. When it comes to issues relating to self-sufficiency, it is obvious that we in Sweden should continue to import sustainable products such as coffee, chocolate, oranges and everything else that we cannot produce here. But why should 50% of the meat consumed in Sweden be imported? Why should a large amount of our vegetables be imported? We in Sweden have an incredibly lower degree of self-sufficiency in vegetables than in Finland, despite the fact that Finland has a worse geographical location. Why are incredible quantities of cheese imported? This is about what is called competitiveness. If it is cheaper to produce elsewhere, the Social Democrats obviously want us to buy imported food instead of producing it ourselves here in Sweden and find the forms for it. It often raises the issue of the competitiveness of Swedish agriculture, but it also contains a measure of structural rationalization that leads to agriculture around Sweden, including in Västerbotten where Isak From comes from, being closed down. What do the Social Democrats want to do to save the small farms in forest and middle areas?
i-M285EsdciR1rQGP6jC1u7k	Madam President, I would like I will begin at the end with perhaps the most important question: we are seeing this, and that is a major concern. Perhaps the question of change of generation is the great question of agriculture. More people must want to go in and take over. Then it is about what we have been pushing very hard now, namely that young farmers should be supported. Investment aid shall be specifically targeted at young farmers. Perhaps we also need a state investment guarantee. There are great opportunities. The agriculture that we have now built up after EU entry and, as Maria Gardfjell says, has benefited the large farms. The large grain fields in southern Sweden have benefited at the expense of other things. The common direction of this House has been that we should have a competitive agriculture. The competition investigation under the alliance government also showed very clearly that it is the large farms that have the conditions. That is why we have pushed the Norrland aid, the compensation aid for northern Sweden, towards the Commission in order to emphasise that these distinctions exist. We may need to do more about it. We also need to ensure that more people make use of the environmental compensation and subsidies that actually exist for grazing mules on pastures. We need to do more, but this is something that Sweden has chosen. If we are to change that, we need to ensure that the system that we have actually continues to work. We need to think carefully for whom we support with Swedish tax funds. It is very clear from the Social Democrats that pensioners and families with children are at the forefront.
i-JgUfKmKNkimKJaNbzvt5Ly	Madam President, I would like It will be a bit of a rhetorical question because the Green Party is not still in the debate, but here you are asking the question Why? to the Social Democrats in their lines when you have been part of the government for seven years. It's only a few months at the end that you haven't been, so you've had every opportunity to influence this in a direction that you'd like more. Madam President, I would like The Social Democrats and the Green Party have been in government since the food strategy came about five years ago. It's been like that, you might say. We are not exactly close to achieving the objectives of the food strategy, and recent events have not helped. It is high time to evaluate and revise the food strategy and get a new focus that leans more towards production, where we have with those who are actually going to produce on the track. We don't now. It has been spoken over the heads of farmers all the way since the food strategy came into being. Clearly, no one has asked them what they actually need to increase food production. Now we are in a position, Madam President, with a negative curve for Swedish food production due to very high input prices and so on. We have opposition parties who have put forward proposals to resolve the situation in the short term, and I think perhaps it would have been nice if the Social Democrats at least talked about these proposals and whether they are positive or negative about the proposals. It is these proposals that will help Swedish agriculture in the short term in this crisis situation, not the big and nice stories about where agriculture is in a number of years. They may not even be around in a number of years; it is now!
i-MsBJAPsS27KaE6hmyAwojS	Madam President, I would like However, this particular market has the advantage that we all need to eat. Of course we're working very hard on this. It will also be a rhetorical question, but the fact that the Green Party is asking questions here to the Social Democrats may be due to the fact that they did not always get what they wanted. The government has presented three food strategy action programmes. I, too, hear when I'm on farms that the food strategy has not contributed to anything. But then let me come back to what the conditions are. The preconditions are that the EU's agricultural policy and the CAP programmes that we had came into existence before the food strategy. The food strategy was something that the Alliance Government and the Moderates did not want during the alliance years. I'm sure John Widegren wanted it. He's a farmer. He understands the meaning. Then his party has changed its mind, which we welcome. What one can do, and as one saw, is about innovation, support programmes, education, regulatory simplifications and various forms of research, sustainable plant protection and plant breeding. How do we take the next step to develop farms and livestock production so that we are not stuck in what it was like 50 years ago? All this is said when you lift it up, and then we have exports. Of course we import a lot of French cheese, but we also want to export Västerbottensost, priest's cheese and a little of each. We do not necessarily want to import Serranoskinka, but we want to export Christmas ham.
i-Swi3ZKU3YjhRrJ4MAhXjgy	Madam President, I would like I understand that it is difficult to answer the questions about how to save agriculture in the short term, because unfortunately these questions are not mentioned in one word. As I said, the action plans in the food strategy have gone over the heads of farmers. We can see that. That we do not have the animals in the way we had 50 years ago, the peasants themselves have seen to it. This was seen by Swedish farmers in the 1980s when they decided that we should adapt our systems to the animals and not do as the rest of Europe and try to adapt the animals to our systems. The peasants did it themselves. It's the market that's done it. In terms of technology development and other things, the market is fantastic on the agricultural side. Today we use precision cultivation, GPS control and other things. That is not what we need to invent in the food strategy. Instead, we need to give farmers the tools to increase food production. But Social Democrats do not like reduced taxes. I thought Social Democrats liked long-term rules on property ownership, utility rights and property protection. I think we are in agreement on regulatory simplification and less administration and complexity. However, no one has yet managed to reduce this burden because we are giving it as a government mission. Give the Swedish Board of Agriculture the responsibility to take care of this together with the industry, year after year to see what we can do to simplify Swedish agriculture. I ask the question again, Madam President: how do the Social Democrats view themselves as a powerful crisis package in order to save Swedish food production at present?
i-76YVfWbWmZueFpjwdvKkPc	Madam President, I would like We'll do whatever it takes. Now John Widegren cannot reply, but I note that in principle the only thing I hear from the Moderates, apart from wanting to build nuclear power a little here and there in the country, are reduced diesel prices and reduced taxes. When John Widegren talks, however, it sounds like you also want something else. We welcome that. The government is looking at the opportunities we have and what support measures we can actually take to ensure that dairy farmers, meat farmers, pig farmers and egg producers can survive. Everyone is probably right to agree that the large grain growers and farmers in southern Sweden have good conditions. Demand on the European market in Swedish products will also increase. The cost situation has increased, but the price picture to charge is also higher. The government has announced that it will do whatever it takes.
i-4JmHR3RS7B3a6iUPiQmEgT	Madam President, I would like I thank Isak From for his speech. I first have a comment about the beach shelter. Isak From criticised us from the speaker's seat for rejecting the proposal, but the proposal represents too little a change. It'll be too bad for the countryside. It should be remembered that there was a review in 2009, and it led to a very meagre result. We're not gonna make the same mistake again. A new investigation must therefore be set up. Otherwise, beach protection will continue to be used for nature conservation, instead of using protection that is adapted to nature conservation and therefore more appropriate. That was an example. Redo and do the right thing! But we will soon have a full debate on this, so I will leave it there. I want to talk about the reduction obligation. I think Isak From said that the Social Democrats do not want to reduce the burden of reduction. I wonder whether the reduction obligation is an intrinsic value for the Social Democrats. That's my question. Do the Social Democrats want to reduce the reduction obligation, even if it turns out counterproductive to the climate, harm the industries and burden the citizens? Is reduced reduction a self-worth for the Social Democrats?
i-FJZ3hqx6faWHuxJpPT4SHT	Madam President, I would like No! Maybe I can stay there. It is clear that, on the issue of beach protection, it is quite clear that the Alliance government presented a bill in which the Moderates ruled. It became easier to build close to the beach in metropolitan areas and more difficult in sparsely populated areas. It is a national law that governs. The precedent from all over the country means that there is now a stop in Västerbotten, where one should be able to build, where it should be the opposite. Now Staffan Eklöf and the Swedish Democrats have been fooled by the Moderates again. Now one should say no to something that actually takes good steps along the way to ensure in particular the green industries in rural areas. It is a proposal on beach protection that will make it better and easier to build coastal areas in rural areas. We have ensured that we need restrictions in metropolitan areas. It is exactly, Staffan Eklöf, as in the budget negotiations. The Swedish Democrats make a lot of proposals, negotiate with the Moderates, and the Moderates' proposals remain. I believe that many people in the country will ask legitimate questions about this. Why on earth can't you take that step? Let's just say you want to take another step later. Is there going to be a long-term investigation? The investigation and the bill are too bad. Staffan Eklöf said so. I think the answer will be guilty. The reduction obligation is good.
i-9QWwtvhyKG7EebJBUr26BJ	Madam President, I would like I didn't think Isak From would have time for the reduction duty, but he did a good sprint at the end. First of all, I would like to briefly address the protection of the beach – the smaller issue right now. The proposal before us is a bad one. For example, in Isak From's home constituency, the proposal will ensure that no construction can take place at all along the Västerbotten coast. Well! Isak From says the reduction obligation is good. But until the turn of the year, palm oil from plantations where rainforests have been cleared could be put into the tank. It was allowed biofuels. Counting on it gave it more climate pressure than the fossil alternative, according to Dagens Nyheter. I believe that it has become an intrinsic value for the Social Democrats, as it has for the Green Party. Getting ideas fixed and sticking to them is dangerous in politics, even if they're counterproductive. We say that you have to assess the consequences before you can decide what is good or bad. The reduction obligation at the current level will continue to provide high levels of nutrition and citizens, as well as effects on profitability and jobs. How can citizens trust the Social Democrats, who have previously pushed for bonus malus? It's probably the same way. Bonus Malus has taken money from those who have little money and given it to those in the upper middle class, who still have plenty of money. A reverse Robin Hood effect. I don't even have to ask. The reduction obligation is an intrinsic value to the Social Democrats, and the goal will be followed blindly without taking account of the consequences. Correct me if I'm wrong, Isak From.
i-VEKRaS7ReTZDzAXkN3p6AF	Madam President, I would like I think it is clear to everyone who listens that the Social Democrats as an industrial party will ensure that investments by the forest industry, which has invested large amounts of money, many billions of dollars, in taking advantage of residues from the forest, will be carried out. During a number of meetings with the Commission and other like-minded countries, the question of why it is not possible to see rough chips as long-term sustainable products has been raised. Why on earth are the Benelux countries and Germany holding back? Could it be that you're stuck in the Russian gas? We think that's the case. Now, however, a newly awakened interest is beginning to lift up. We are concerned if the issue moves on. With like-minded countries and a new perceptiveness from the Commission and some Member States, we still believe that there is a newly awakened interest in ensuring that we can use forest residues to produce biofuels.
i-75wrenzaZYByGakfPWovrG	Madam President, I would like TU9 is a major report that we are debating today. It is about the implementation of the EU's so-called fourth railway package in Swedish law. Most of this is already done. That is why there are not so much concrete changes. The report contains a great deal of exercise from the general exercise time. We in the Left Party have also been involved in bringing about motions on the matter. From our point of view, we are now living in an emergency for the climate. The need to quickly switch to reduced emissions is acute. The transport sector accounts for about one third of Sweden's emissions, and the vast majority of these emissions come from road transport. Moving passenger transport and freight transport from road to rail is therefore crucial to achieving our climate goals. That is why today's debate is incredibly important from a climate perspective, alongside all other important perspectives. Unfortunately, the railways in Sweden have been treated rigidly for a long time. The railway is a system that is not stronger than its weakest link, and it does not matter if SJ buys super modern trains and wagons – if the maintenance of the rails is not managed, the trains will not arrive in time. Unfortunately, this is increasingly the case today. In recent decades, governments, regardless of colour, have treated the railways as an experimental workshop for liberalisation and privatisation. It has worked very badly. Today, Sweden may have Europe's most liberalised railway; there are barely some that are not competitive. But do we have the best railway in Europe? No, far from it. Madam President, I would like I believe that we should strive for a railway such as that in Switzerland. In Switzerland, politicians, regardless of their political colour, see the railways as a system in which all links must function and move in step. The country's equivalent to SJ, the state-owned company SBB, operates virtually all national passenger trains, which is then complemented by a network of a number of canton-owned regional railway companies. SBB also has overall responsibility for maintenance, which is done continuously and efficiently. Do I need to mention that the punctuality of the Swiss railways is world-class? Over 97 percent of the trains arrive on time. We think we travel a lot by train in Sweden, but the Swiss beat us with horse lengths. When you travel about 2,500 kilometres per person per year in Switzerland, the figure in Sweden is a little over half. Why does it look like this? Because the railroad works so incredibly well in Switzerland. Nor is it simply the case that Switzerland sees rail as a system rather than a market experiment, but Switzerland also spends a lot of money on maintenance and new investment in rail. Furthermore, in Switzerland, truck transport accounts for a large part of the financing of maintenance through the mileage tax imposed 20 years ago on lorries. The revenue goes to the Swiss Railway Fund, which is used precisely to renovate the railways. We in the Committee on Transport are able to do this because we were in Switzerland on study visits in 2019, and I think there were more members of the committee than I were very impressed by the Swiss system thinking. I remember seeing a liberal politician. Even he didn't want to remove that truck tax that was introduced in Switzerland, if you remember. With this, Madam President, let me say: let us do as in Switzerland! Stop treating rail as a market experiment, and let us prioritise long-term system solutions. A few steps along this road that we in the Left Party are proposing are the following, Madam President. We want to start by increasing investment in the railways. We want to spend more money on new tracks and better rail maintenance. The Left Party is the party that devotes the most obvious money to this; we spend SEK 170 billion more than the government for the coming planning period, i.e. from 2022 to 2033. We want to complete Norrbotniabanan, the double track between Gävle and Härnösand and the lighthouse track Uppsala – Stockholm. We want a four track between Alingsås and Gothenburg, and the South East link in Blekinge must be built. The new high-speed rail lines from Stockholm to Malmö and from Stockholm to Gothenburg will also be completed. We also want to invest in regional tracks, such as Tjustbanan, Stångådalsbanan, Kinnekullebanan and Bohusbanan, to name a few. However, not only do we need more money, but we also need a better organisation to safeguard the railways we have today. Let us set up a railway maintenance service on our own, in which the Finnish Transport Agency has the competence to quickly address problems that arise on the rails! The latest track cracks at Nässjö and Flen show how poor control our responsible authority unfortunately has on these tracks. And no wonder – Trafikverket does not perform any railway maintenance, it is completely laid out on external companies. It is therefore very difficult for the authority to keep track of the track. Here I would like to ask the Social Democrats why the government has not done any of the study on better rail maintenance, partly in its own right, which was presented two years ago. I am in favour of reservation 8, which deals with this very issue. We in the Left Party also want to finance railway maintenance with a kilometre tax on lorry transport, as is done in Switzerland. Today, it is absurdly enough for the railways to pay mileage taxes in the form of constantly increasing rail charges. And speaking of rail charges: lower them and strengthen the competitiveness of rail with truck transport – at least as long as we are in the crisis we are in now! Let us remember that during the last 15 years rail charges in Sweden have been increased by up to 300 per cent. Madam President, I would like We also need better night trains, both in Sweden and out into Europe. Well-functioning night trains have great potential to replace flights – you get on the train in the evening and arrive, rested and happy, perhaps in a whole new city. We in the Left Party want well-functioning night rail routes in the Nordic region and out into Europe, and we want to establish a joint Nordic night train company in cooperation with the other state rail companies in the Nordic region. When it comes to the night trains here in Sweden, we want SJ to be commissioned to run them in Norrland, instead of companies constantly inviting each other in procurements. I wonder what the point is that the Norwegian State through the company Vy will offer under the Swedish State through the company SJ in a procurement for the night train. By having long contracts we also get a better long-term perspective so that real investments can be made in good night train traffic. Madam President, I would like We also need to lift the staff of Swedish railways. Unfortunately, the working environment of those working on board our trains has deteriorated. This is something that is closely related to liberalisation, as I mentioned earlier, and that we now have a procurement system based on the fact that the company that is best at pushing its employees wins the contract, because they can, of course, present the lowest price. The latest example is MTR, which now removes the train hosts from the commuter trains in Stockholm. This will lead to greater insecurity and worse service for travellers. But also state-owned SJ does not behave as a good employer should. We have their personnel planning system in fresh memory, but there are also problems with low staffing and long tours. This is beneath all criticism. We in the Left Party want to solve this through new ownership directives to SJ, where good working conditions need to be clarified. However, we also want legislation on a manning requirement and a ban on cooperation in rail transport. These are reforms which, of course, must be developed in conjunction with the trade unions. Madam President, I would like Finally, we in the Left Party are very pleased that this report proposes a concrete call, an announcement, for the Government to give a mandate to the Swedish Transport Administration to start work on a functioning railway between Stockholm and Oslo. This will be done together with the Norwegian equivalent of the Swedish Transport Administration's Jernbane Directorate. The stretch Stockholm – Oslo is about 400 km long and passes a total of 50 municipalities where there are approximately 3 1⁄2 million people. Today, this route takes a very long time to travel, which has led to the vast majority travelling by air and not by train between our Nordic capitals. With the proposals we are now making, this journey can be made in less than three hours, and then no one will have to take the flight. Here, it is the collaboration between our Nordic metropolises and the climate that becomes the great winners – and also the locations that lie between the ends. I am thinking not least of places in Värmland and Örebro, which will have an equipped and improved railway.
i-EgoM6FVWf8uk3EJCbDAWg3	Madam President, I would like Today is exactly five years since the terrorist attack on Drottninggatan. And today there is a brutal war in Europe. It is not possible to start a speech in Parliament's pulpit without recalling the heinous attacks on democracy. When we talk about democracy, Madam President, we all know that this House is a complex building. It is a building that requires time, patience, sensitivity, transparency and a lot of resources. The subject of today's debate, the railways, is very similar to that. You can't take the railroad either for giving the n. You need a lot of money for maintenance. It needs to be expanded in order to cope with the infrastructure of the railways. If you, Madam President, are going to describe a little more closely, in figures, what it really is we are going to maintain, you can say that it is 14 200 kilometres of track. It's 525 stations. That's more than 15,000 switches. It's 4,100 bridges. It's 165 tunnels. And there are also tens of thousands of miles of cables of various kinds. It is a rather complex facility, and it is not only complex but also has different service life in different parts and different maintenance needs. In order to do this, Madam President, we in this House have decided every four years on a national plan. Now the government has given us the basis, and we have actually decided on 799 billion. In addition, a further number of billions will be added, so it will be almost 900 billion for the period 2022–2033. Madam President, I would like Even when an S-led government took office in 2014, there was a national plan, amounting to 522 billion. Note that the current is at 799 billion. We have increased our ambition very much during this time. In terms of maintenance, we have increased from EUR 86 billion then to EUR 165 billion for the current eleven-year period – almost doubling. Madam President, I would like Today we had a visit from the Swedish Transport Administration, which told us what challenges they have. One of these challenges is that we can face the cost increases that arise eating up the high ambitions we have. It is therefore important to address this problem. Sometimes there is a need for urgent procurement. When the railway cracks, for example, Trafikverket makes an emergency procurement, and it can cost two or three times more than a regular procurement. That means, Madam President, that we need to review the organisation for maintenance. Therefore, the government has given a commission regarding what Jens Holm told us about, maintenance in his own direction. The Government has commissioned the Swedish Transport Administration to return with a proposal on how to work under its own direction. This will be reported by the Finnish Transport Administration on 20 April. Madam President, I would like Today we are debating, among other things, the fourth railway package, and there is most of it, as Jens Holm has already said, already decided. It can be said that these are two blocks, one technology block and one market block. The ambition and goal is to harness the potential of the railways – to get faster and better deliveries and more energy efficient transport. As we all know, rail transport has high volumes. However, we can see that today we have a market which is largely made up of state-owned companies. We know that we have state companies on the road side of the railways; they are the Swedish, Norwegian and Chinese state companies. This is because capital-intensive investments are needed to make this market work. So we need the opportunity, like aviation, to cross national borders in order to be able to both transport goods, as we do today, and to operate passenger transport, which could help us in the climate change that we are aiming for and have objectives around. This can be said as far as the market is concerned. As far as technology is concerned, there is an interesting point here. It is about coordinating Ertms, the new European signalling system. That is a positive thing. The committee was, in fact, concerned with the idea of synchronising this already in the last parliamentary term. Madam President, I would like I would also like to say a few words about the reservation we have with the Center Party. I would like to vote in favour of reservation 2 in paragraph 4. One might wonder if we are against Stockholm – Oslo. No, of course we're not. On the other hand, we think that this is a little irresponsible. It has become apparent now that a committee initiative is being launched and those who support the reservation still want a specific opinion because they want to show that it is not just that – there is also that, and that. Someone's going to prioritize south and someone else a little further north. It is beginning to look a little like daycare, in my view, Madam President. It is therefore important to be able to take responsibility for the whole and await the national plan and decision that the government will make. At the same time, the Minister has been in contact with his Norwegian counterpart and also with the Danish colleagues to see how we can synchronise the effort. This is what it is all about: each nation invests in its own investment in its own territory, but it needs to synchronise it. After all, we have great challenges with regard to the railways, but what we need to prioritise is to ensure that we get as much as possible for the money that we invest through part of the investments being made on our own. For example, carrying out self-maintenance can lead to better quality for the investments we make. It is also to be hoped that the market will be more mature. Today, only state-owned companies have muscles to compete with. Then the result will be then.
i-VH2brSEVzUrNb6xHp8Bvux	Madam President, I would like From Jasenko Omanovic we could hear some criticism of the market experiment that Swedish railways have undergone for several decades. However, the conclusion from Omanovic was that the market had to be a little more mature. I find that a rather strange conclusion. Sweden probably has Europe's most liberalised railway. Britain was a little ahead of us, but they have taken a lot of things back on their own, because it just didn't work. Lines had to be closed because private companies discovered that they couldn't make money from them. Then they were shut down, and then the state had to go in and take responsibility. Omanovic was in on the railway maintenance. As he said, it is about 14 000 kilometres of railway, 15 000 gears, 4 000 bridges and so on. There is an enormous amount of entertainment to be maintained. All this is now laid out in 34 so-called basic contracts. The Finnish Transport Agency does not handle maintenance at all in its own right. This has been investigated several times. The last study concluded that liberalisation has not led to the innovation and efficiency that was hoped for. I think it is good that the government has set up a new investigation or rather given a commission to Trafikverket. However, as far as I remember, it is stated in the commission that the Swedish Transport Administration will review the conditions for taking over part of maintenance under its own direction. My question is what this really means: do the Social Democrats want railway maintenance to be on their own, or should we continue to have this form of liberalisation, which is also very costly?
i-DXANDPwqTmDBcBVwCeqgBm	Madam President, I would like I can answer that directly. The Social Democrats want to get more done for the money we invest. If this requires that we have some maintenance in our own direction, we will have it that way. We do not see this today, and that is why we have added the assignment to the Swedish Transport Administration. What we are seeing today is flaws. We see that maintenance costs are only increasing. It's getting more expensive and more expensive. Today we were told by Trafikverket that it can be two to three times more expensive in an emergency tender than in an ordinary tender. Of course, we need to see how we manage the money. We have high ambitions with regard to the railways. To achieve them, we need to ensure that the organisation works and that we get more for the money invested – more meters and kilometres of rail for the money we invest. Jens Holm compared Sweden to Switzerland. I agree that there are good things they do there, but at the same time there are great differences between countries. Switzerland is a transit country for a great many transports. Sweden is nowhere near that. The question is: Can we see what we can get better at and what parts we can do better based on our own circumstances? I agree that part of this is about rail maintenance.
i-KF7oFJtxyBNsVSZZZjAytP	Madam President, I would like I think there is a lot to learn from other countries, not least from Switzerland. We in the Transport Committee were there on a study visit in 2019. Then I was told by a person who was a member of the Transport Committee quite a long time ago that in her time there came a delegation from Switzerland and wanted to study Swedish railways and learn from us. Obviously they took something with them and did the right thing, and then, unfortunately, we have done a lot of wrong. I think that the great lesson from Switzerland is two things. The railway is a system, and then all the links in that system must function and to some extent go along. Then we cannot plot this out on a variety of companies. Like Omanovic, these companies are really states that will then compete with each other. Then we need money. In Switzerland, this has been solved by means of a kilometre tax on long-distance transport, which finances the rehabilitation of the railways. But let me return to the question of rail maintenance. It is good that the Social Democrats think much like the Left Party, that railway maintenance needs to be managed in their own right and that today's market experiments in terms of maintenance are very cost-driven. The Swedish National Audit Office points to increased costs by over 70 per cent. What is the mission to Trafikverket about? It is not a mission where all railway maintenance is to be taken back on its own, but it only applies to certain parts, is it not? Why the half-measures?
i-RZx316KfhpZVAcMZkyFcAq	Madam President, I would like I can tell you why. Our goal is for the Swedish Transport Administration to have the best expertise you can have. If this requires that you have a part in your own direction, we will make sure that Trafikverket gets it. But this does not necessarily mean that the best solution is to take over all maintenance and all buildings under their own control. We will have the solution that is by far the most economically advantageous for Sweden as a country. If it is most advantageous to have things in your own direction, they should be self-directed, but when it is not most advantageous to have them in your own direction, we will procure. That is the solution we want. Madam President, I would like In short, we will have to wait on 20 April and see what the proposal from the Swedish Transport Administration looks like. I've explained our ambition now. We'll see if the ambitions match or if the Finnish Transport Administration has different opinions. But based on the Swedish National Audit Office's audits and other things, we can conclude that the Swedish Transport Administration needs better competence. You simply need to get better opportunities to manage to work with procurements in the future. We will get more meters and hopefully more kilometres for the money we invest in railway maintenance and in rail investments overall.
i-96utr2MMUPw8yufpJ4ic9q	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by agreeing with what Mr Jasenko said on the one hand about the anniversary of the attack on Drottninggatan and on the other hand about the war in Ukraine. It is going on while we are having this debate, and it overshadows a lot. I think it's in the back of the head all the time or maybe even later in our thoughts. But that does not mean that we cannot debate trains today. Perhaps we need to make sure that everyday life still goes on as normal as possible. So today we are discussing trains. The journey has a special place in the heart of many Swedes. Around there are museum railways where modern and connected modern people in 2022 volunteerly spend a lot of hours nurturing and preserving narrow-track railways, steam locomotives and old wagons with hard wooden seats. Dressed in uniforms from the last turn of the century, they then ride around by train for all of us who like to tourist, to all of Sweden's great joy. Nor is it a coincidence that we Swedes like Stig-Helmer-Helmer Olsson, Sheldon Cooper and Hercule Poirot. They are all characters that are deeply associated with trains and railways. Madam President, I would like When the Swedish railway network was built, it lifted us as a backward and poor peasant society into industrialism, and in the long term it created the conditions for prosperity and prosperity. Rail built well-being, and rail still builds well-being, provided we do the right things. Let me be clear. Rail is an excellent form of traffic for freight and commuting, but if we talk about long-distance passenger traffic, it is a less profitable investment. The government, together with some other parties, seems to ignore this and instead talk about high-speed railways that will reduce the time it takes to get between Stockholm and Gothenburg and between Stockholm and Malmö. It will probably not be ready until 2050. This is justified by climate considerations. We are simply not going to fly these routes. However, it seems unreasonable given what we know about the changes in traffic emission profiles over time. The probability is that when this is clear, it looks quite different, and then the question is whether it is even possible to recover the great debt that is received in connection with construction through reduced emissions in travel. The whole thing is an ideologically colored house of cards. The Moderates believed in this project at the beginning until the price tag began to rise. I don't know how many times it's increased since the project started. Moreover, the vast majority of experts reject this as a genuinely unprofitable project in terms of the national economy. Madam President, I would like The Social Democrats apparently continue to think that it is worth 400 billion. Maybe it's because they want to keep the Green Party in a good mood. There is a risk that the Social Democrats will become dependent on the Green Party even the next parliamentary term, if they remain in parliament. It is sad that, in view of the huge sums that will have to be ploughed down into the project, people are choosing to continue on this track. Instead, we could use the money to get a competitive railway and build on the rail network we have. We should remove the bottlenecks that exist in the system, such as the Alingsås – Gothenburg section, which is very important given that the Gothenburg harbour is being expanded today, or the Uppsala – Stockholm section, which is today a wasp and a real bottleneck for traffic from the north going down to Stockholm. We also see the large investments that are taking place in the industry in northern Sweden. There you need to invest money to meet these investments. More infrastructure is needed up there to meet the investments. Another example is Sydostlinken and Volvo's factory in Olofström. It will be difficult for them to remain located there unless you invest in the South East Link. Politics is not only about wanting but also about choosing. Even if you add more money than the 900 billion that is in the plan, they will never be enough for all the wishes and needs that exist. That is why priority must be given, and we should give priority to things that really lead to jobs and growth and to things that have positive socio-economic calculations. What else are we going to use? We must ensure that we get the best possible currency for the money spent. We Moderates are particularly pleased with the announcement contained in the report, which concerns taking the outstretched hand from Norway on the Oslo-Stockholm route. The project is a very good example of moderate infrastructure policy. It is about building on the existing rail system, removing bottlenecks, increasing capacity and reducing travel time. This project shortens the time taken to travel to Oslo. Today it takes six hours, but it is shortened to less than three hours. It makes it possible for more people to ride trains instead of flying. But it also provides a lot better conditions for commuting regionally. In this way, labour market regions can be expanded so that more employers can find job applicants and more job seekers can find jobs. Madam President, I would like Swedish railway has problems with congestion in the tracks, not least in commuting areas. We've got a neglected maintenance. We had this very clearly demonstrated in the committee today when the Finnish Transport Administration was there. It is therefore important that we care for what we have. That is the most socially profitable thing we can do. It is therefore unfortunate that the investment in high-speed rail will eat up such a large part of the money we have instead of spending on what we have already built so that we can make optimum use of it. Of course it's more fun to go out and cut ribbons in an election movement. But for those who at the same time freeze on the platform every day and wait for trains that do not come because there are problems with the tracks, maintenance means much more. In our follow-up to the infrastructure bill, we invest 13 billion more than the government in rail maintenance. We think it is important that maintenance continues to be procured in a market. We do not believe that ideologically coloured renationalisation will lead to better cost development, nor will it lead to better quality maintenance. Rather, one needs to look at how the Swedish Transport Administration's procurement works. This is clear from the reports of the Swedish National Audit Office. It's all about how to procure, what the quality of the documentation looks like and how to follow up the contracts you sign. I think that's where it's flawed, not anywhere else. There is nothing to be solved by us renationalising the maintenance we already have. We Moderates do not promise everything to everyone, but we promise to invest in railway where it does the most good. We also promise to ensure that the tax money spent on infrastructure is spent as wisely as possible so that we get value for money. That also applies to how we build. Clear sections must be built so that people benefit from the investments made. If we gain voters' confidence in the elections this autumn, our priorities are in sustainable jobs and growth in freight and commuting flows. With this, I would ask you to accept reservation 6.
i-KWovrKzXi6F41xX6GSUvAd	Madam President, I would like I have some thoughts and questions for Maria Stockhaus. Why is it so important to bet on just one distance? Why is commuting between Stockholm and Örebro more important than commuting between Stockholm and Linköping, Gävle and Söderhamn or Hässleholm and Lund? Why is a stretch so important?
i-B8anT6QW1ubMwEpZjc3e7u	Madam President, I would like I do not know whether Mr Jasenko listened to my speech. I mentioned many different railway routes that also mean increased opportunities for commuting, such as the routes Gothenburg– Alingsås and Uppsala– Stockholm. There are a lot of commuters, and we want four-track railways to be built there. These distances are the ones that are most heavily burdened. We want to take a look at the Lund – Hässleholm section. I was down in Skåne not long ago and looked at this. We think that Trafikverket needs to get a mission that means strengthening this route with a focus on regional commuting. Today, many municipalities there will have a straight railway through often fine agricultural land, but they will not get a station. Surely the people who get 30 to 40 minutes less travel time between Malmö and Stockholm will be happy about that. But those who live on the Lund – Hässleholm route will not benefit from it. The Social Democrats are firmly attached to high-speed railways. This is something that makes the other bets that are needed impossible. Moreover, they are not based on us taking advantage of the infrastructure we already have, starting from it and expanding it. The reason why we have specifically taken an initiative on Oslo – Stockholm is that the Norwegian Government extended one hand. We want Sweden to take it. There are huge advantages to strengthening the distance. It is based precisely on the principle that we Moderates stand for building on what we have. That is why we took an initiative on this. If Jasenko Omanovic reads our exercise, it says there. If he also listened carefully to my speech, there were a great many other rail routes that I raised. My question goes back: why are the Social Democrats holding on to an unprofitable high-speed project instead of spending on commuting?
i-5wRU8CD6rpnMP2yWrWfoZ1	Madam President, I would like I can inform Maria Stockhaus that the East Link that we are now building will be part of the commuting. It seems that Mr Stockhaus has not understood this, but believes that we should wait until the construction is completed and then release the traffic. When it comes to Ostlinken, the Finnish Transport Administration is doing something new. It's a bigger project. You no longer coptify as you are used to when it comes to procurement. Larger tenders are being made in order to deliver more at once and to be able to industrialise the construction of the railways. That's what's interesting. They choose from the Moderates to take down new main courses as if there is no need. It is well known when it comes to the Moderates, Madam President. We might have been able to cut ties up in Norrbotten and drive on Norrbotniabanan now. It was the Moderates who removed it to make some tax cuts. It's a priority that the Moderates did. Then they stand in the speaker's seat and say that it is about 400 billion. We gave the assignment to Trafikverket to look at the solution for just over 200 billion. You're standing here talking about 400 billion. We know what the Moderates are like. They remove the projects and objects in order to make tax reductions. That's what moderate politics is.
i-2AuLhwKkFEf8SsTPrG5xyy	Madam President, I would like It is important that we get currency for our tax money. The policy of the Social Democrats is not to tackle the problems of efficiency in the public sector. Effectiveness if we're going to talk about our area concerns the Swedish Transport Administration. There are nine national audit reports with massive criticism of how the Swedish Transport Administration works. Nevertheless, no action is taken by the government, which is serious. This means that we do not get currency for our tax money. We Moderates are concerned about that. In the case of the Ostlink, it should also be remembered that it no longer has high-speed standards. It will be built with traditional technology. There the municipalities have been very clear and have got to more stations. When it comes to Lund – Hässleholm, the Swedish Transport Administration has said that it is not prepared to make the same concessions to the municipalities. Now we have to save all the time that has been lost as the Ostlink has had more stations. If you are to be able to diet the project, you have to remove what is most expensive: the stations. This reduces opportunities for commuting, and the project becomes even more unprofitable. Now Jasenko Omanovic cannot answer me. It's about taking care of every penny of tax we spend on infrastructure and making sure we get the maximum out of it. It is about prioritising according to socio-economic calculations but also about taking hold of all the criticism that exists against the Swedish Transport Administration. We Moderates are prepared to do so. Unfortunately, for eight years, the Social Democrats have shown that they are not prepared to do so.
i-EHbumeHj7Wk8cB7BGHhXSG	Madam President, I would like We Swedish democrats are behind all our reservations, but in order to gain time, I only call for reservation 10. It concerns the increased administration of the Finnish Transport Administration and that more resources should instead go to direct maintenance. Madam President, I would like Despite the constant commitment of the Social Democrats to more money for the railways, little has happened. More or less daily, thousands of passengers are affected by delayed or cancelled trains. Expensive working hours that go to waste or lost leisure are commuters' everyday lives. For commuters waiting for a cancelled train, the Social Democrats talk about high-speed trains is more or less a mockery. Building and maintaining railways is expensive. The money we spend on our railway infrastructure must go where it is most useful and benefits the most. The freight trains must arrive in time for business to work. The need for punctual trains and frequent departures for our daily commuters outweighs the fact that someone should be able to make an individual holiday trip an hour faster. A good basis for decision-making on how to prioritise is important. In the choice between a few high-cost trains running 320 kilometres an hour or removing bottlenecks in existing infrastructure, it is a good point to see what the state of the rail network is like. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Transport Administration's latest capacity investigation is from 2020 and is a rather bleak reading. The following can be seen: The Western Main Line between Gothenburg and Stockholm has several routes with medium or very high capacity utilisation, while the Southern Main Line has a slightly lower capacity utilisation in the middle of the route but high or medium in towards the major cities. There are a number of single-track sections with very high capacity utilisation such as Kil Karlstad, Hässleholm– Kristianstad, Helsingborg– Ängelholm and Växjö– Alvesta. On two of these new tracks are being built. It is between Maria and Ängelholm, and between Arlöv and Lund. The rest of it looks dark. It's either a long wait for new tracks, or a wait in vain, because it won't be. In particular, the route Gothenburg – Alingsås is precarious. It has 100 percent capacity utilisation in peak time and no chance of coping with the slightest disturbance. Here freight trains fight in lots of commuter trains, intercity trains and high-speed trains. An extension here is estimated to cost about 17 billion for four tracks. The busiest single track in the country is between Hässleholm and Kristianstad, and the disruptions here are spreading to the southern main railway. A double track here would cost barely 2 billion. But despite the fact that municipalities and Region Skåne have offered half a billion co-financing, Trafikverket has refused to build. Then we have the seriously neglected Ostkustbanan along the population-tight coast of Norrland. It is also a bottleneck for the newly built Botnia Line and Norrbotnia Line. New, fresh double tracks on the entire route are high on the priority list. Madam President, I would like We have just received a presentation in the Transport Committee from Trafikverket. It is 280 km or 20 percent of all rails that need to be replaced, preferably the nearest planning period, and lots of switches. The Finnish Transport Administration estimated the maintenance debt to be as much as 46 billion. During the planning period, the standard on the rail network is estimated to fall. Add to this all the bottlenecks that need to be removed. Is it reasonable, then, to plow down 300 - 500 billion in the high - speed prestige project? Today there is a high-speed train an hour between Malmö and Stockholm, and marginally more between Gothenburg and Stockholm. The load off with new high-speed lines will be marginal, while the cost will be huge. At the same time, the freight trains will remain on Malmö freight yard without the possibility of moving forward when the Fehmarn Belt connection is completed in a handful of years. The Swedish Democrats have prioritised, and prioritised away. We say 'yes' to the extension and strengthening of maintenance on the conventional rail network, and 'no' to a new high-speed network. Madam President, I would like We need to get more money for direct maintenance on the track. However, the trend is the opposite: Only since the establishment of the Finnish Transport Agency, 46 per cent more officials have been employed, and, moreover, consultancy dependence has increased. At the same time, Seko presents a report showing that the number of railway technicians has almost halved in 25 years, from 7 257 in 1998 to around 3 800 in 2020. This development must be halted. Norway has faced the same problem, but unlike Sweden, it has chosen to address the problem. The Norwegian Railway Agency, Bane NOR, has been commissioned to reduce the number of desk services significantly, with which they are estimated to save half a billion NOK – money to go to direct maintenance instead. But in Sweden the opposite happens. While those who work with actual maintenance are decreasing in number and the number of officials is increasing, we see how the rails crack and contact lines are torn down. Spare parts for switchboards are barely available, which age to the point of end-of-life. Emergency track work leads to late or cancelled trains, and passengers are freezing on the platform. It is not in this way that we attract people to put the car and start riding trains instead. Responsibility falls heavily on the government. In order to overcome development, drastic things must happen. From the Swedish Democrats' side, we believe that the Swedish Transport Administration has done its part. The Finnish Transport Administration became a much too heavy and difficult to control colossus. The result of the merger was a lack of cost control, an extreme increase in staffing and a lack of internal skills. We have to go back to the time when there was a trackwork and a roadwork, works that are manageable in their size. In order to strengthen Trafikverket's knowledge of the facility and gain better internal competence, we believe that Trafikverket must have its own maintenance operations. We mean by this that the state must take back a large part of the maintenance under its own control. It would be easiest and involves the least risk that the state through Trafikverket or, better still, through Banverket will take over Infranord AB and that the company will then be phased out. This maintains the remaining part of the contracts for the private maintenance contractors and strengthens the ability to compare maintenance between the State and the private. This will also make it visible if one of the parties receives a different increase in costs. Madam President, I would like To our great pleasure, a majority now wants to investigate the Oslo – Stockholm route. This is something we have had in our railway committee exercise for years. At last we are hearing the question, even if this particular committee initiative originates from the Moderates. One might think that you could have supported us in this earlier, but it is positive in any case. Around 3.4 million people live along this route, and yet the journey time is very long. You can compare with the journey time between Gothenburg and Stockholm, which today is about three hours. This distance is 50 km longer than Stockholm – Oslo. Yet Stockholm – Oslo takes twice as long! Before the pandemic there were about 1.4 million air passengers on the route, and if we were to reduce travel time to under three hours I think few would prefer the flight. Another big gain, which was also mentioned earlier, is that the journey time from Karlstad is falling significantly and that it would mean better connections between Karlstad and Örebro. I think it was Jens Holm who talked about it. Equally positive is an announcement we have to deal with today concerning longer and heavier trains. It is primarily aimed at strengthening the profitability of freight transport, but it can also lead to a significant increase in capacity. In the case of proposals, the work to be able to drive heavier trains should also be strengthened. Since it is expensive to rebuild for increased axle load and higher axle load also causes more wear and tear, it is important to give real priority to the distances where the need is greatest. For example, stretches where heavy steel materials are transported should be such as those which are prioritised for the conversion of higher axle loads. Finally, Madam President, I would like to speak warmly in favour of reducing the number of injured and killed in rail traffic as much as possible. This can partly be done through better suicide prevention work, where physical obstacles hinder access to the track area. But suicide prevention is, of course, not only a matter for the Finnish Transport Administration, but also a question for psychiatry, which really needs to step up and take greater responsibility. Every year, between 50 and 100 people choose to get off the day in front of trains or subway vehicles. It's between 50 and 100 too many. We need to strengthen the work on suicide prevention, but also against the bad track running. If you don't work in the tracks, you shouldn't be there either. In recent years, the delay hours for track runs have increased drastically. We need to increase educational efforts at school but also tighten the penalty for irregular stay in the track area. Madam President, I would like No one should have to lose their lives in the tracks. Let us now deal jointly with this problem.
i-XXUYVC8crwDhriqaRsWGNF	Madam President, I would like It is fascinating to listen to this debate, which is actually about thousands of pages of new legislation in which we format things that we have already done. There are very few people who have devoted their long speaking time to it, even though it is both extensive and very important. But one can well conclude that it is a good piece of legislation that is now in place and that has been implemented and put together in one package for a long period of years since our accession to the European Union. It is still fascinating, Madam President. I would like to put three perspectives on my speech as representative of the Center Party. It is, on the one hand, the legislative package, and, on the other hand, a point in the report that is a huge success for wise centre-party policies and, on the other hand, a small argument as to why the Center Party has reserved itself against a very strange announcement. We will take it piece by piece, Madam President. The bill is big, and it's all good. I am particularly pleased, Madam President, that this government is carrying out the work that the Alliance Government laid the foundations for in its time, that is to say that it is not using the parts of the EU common legislation that could make access to commercial passenger traffic more difficult. It is therefore positive that this government has followed what the previous alliance government has done, i.e. not applying the EU acquis to exclude commercial competition and opening up to competition. What is now important, Madam President, is that this government, also in the context of EU work, continues to push the issue, that is to say, the possibility that still exists in the EU acquis to protect, on the basis of this regulation, community-supported services operated on a state-managed rail network against commercial traffic. What is important now is that this government is also working to remove that possibility. It is not applied in Sweden, and that is a good thing. It is merely a poor remnant of an old untapped monopoly system in the history of European railways. Here, Madam President, the Center Party represents a very strong contrast with the Left Party and Jens Holm, which rather champions a monopolistic system. But that is what is good about democracy and is also being announced in a chamber of eight parties who have different views on politics. It is a good thing that we can discuss under democratic conditions – on the subject of previous interventions on Ukraine and so on. There is a contrast in the view of whether diversity is good or bad or its opposite in the rail system. The road to a better functioning rail market, Madam President, goes throughout the European Union, through cooperation within the Union on standards and development, but also through the removal of obstacles to the multiplicity of operators being able to drive trains. It is through cooperation, careful follow-up, healthy market economy and competition that we will strengthen rail services for passenger and freight trains throughout the EU in the long term. Madam President, I would like My second perspective concerns the proposal for a declaration contained in the report on longer and heavier trains and a better use of resources for the Swedish rail system. This is a line that the Center Party has been pursuing for a very long time and which has now led to success in the form of a number of parties supporting and pushing this. Why do we do that? Yes, it leads to better capacity utilisation and to a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions. With longer and heavier trains, the same amount of goods can be transported by fewer trains, and passenger trains can be driven with more wagons. Longer and heavier trains make better use of investments. That's good. It's a success for the Center. And I am pleased that a majority is behind it. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to talk about a proposal for an announcement in the report. It is an announcement about a single traffic object: Stockholm– Oslo. It is called Oslo – Stockholm 2.55 in popular form because it has been marketed under that term. Now the majority of the committees are highlighting, which the Center Party and the Social Democrats have reserved for, an idea, a project on a well-functioning, cross-border transport between Stockholm and Oslo. It would of course be very positive for the climate and for the development between the end stations and all the places in between if this project came about and when it comes about. I do not think it is a question of whether this will happen; it is a question of when it will come about, Madam President. It's all right. But there are many other important objects and projects in the country that also need to be implemented for the whole country to live. Stockholm – Oslo is one of them. Madam President, I would like Good colleagues! It is a well-founded project for which it is well argued. This is also why it is highlighted in the Swedish Transport Administration's proposal for a new national transport infrastructure plan, which is a proposal for the distribution of efforts throughout the country and until recently has been consulted. The country's regions, municipalities and business organisations have had to like a concrete proposal based on the proposal that we adopted in this House in midsummer last year. The next step in this process is for the government currently in office to compile responses to referrals and present a proposal for a decision on the next national transport plan. That is how we have established transport plans in modern times in this country. We have a proposal, then a concrete proposal from the responsible authority, followed by a consultation procedure in which everyone speaks, and then we tie the bag together. Norway and Sweden as nations agree to look at possible ways to move the project forward. Sweden has signalled Norway, which I understand has also been met, that we are prepared to hold a dialogue on the continued work to improve the relationship between Sweden and Norway. Madam President, I would like What do I object to? Well, by acting in the way that a majority of the committee wants to do, we risk seriously disrupting the confidence that exists in a decision-making process that we have been applying in the country for a very long time: to establish and renew the national transport infrastructure plan every four years. It will be felt that Parliament intervenes afterwards in the work that the regions of the country, business and others have put in work and consultation procedure on by, as the yeast after the dough, coming up with a wonderful, well-motivated and very urgent project in itself and putting it in afterwards. The Center Party's position is therefore not against the project Stockholm – Oslo. On the contrary, we note that it is a very important project in the proposal that has been in the process of being consulted. What we are opposed to is the fact that Parliament, through an announcement in the middle of the preparation of referrals received, acts in such a way that it risks damaging confidence in the work that is being done. That is what the strong objection is about. The action is unusual, and it is ominous. I am also afraid that it may risk being a disservice to the identified advanced project Oslo– Stockholm 2.55. Madam President, I would like As if this were not enough, this proposal for a notice is followed by a separate opinion from one of the initiators of the announcement. It's a little unusual. I think that more people than I wonder how the Christian Democrats reason when, by first proposing an announcement, they kick in a new, large, expensive and unfunded object and, at the next moment, in a special opinion, highlight completely different objects. I am sure the next speaker will clarify this, Madam President.
i-MTgjUGNbFXcPNbRqgfSAif	Madam President, I would like When you debate rail policy, I think you have to make up your mind. Should the railways be a market, or is it a system? I interpreted Anders Åkesson as saying that the railway is a market. But if we look at the operation of the railways, it does not function as a market. And it is extremely difficult to force a market into a very complicated system. In Sweden, however, we have tried to do so. I also see a number of deviations after this attempt to create a market of a system. For example, we have had very expensive and inefficient railway maintenance. All maintenance is provided to external companies. The Swedish National Audit Office noted that maintenance costs 74 per cent more than is foreseen in the tenders. In other words, it is cost-driven. As we all know, Trafikverket also has poor control of its own facility, because they do not do their own maintenance. That was the first example. The second example is that the state, as the owner of our freight rail company Green Cargo, must not go in and save them with capital at a difficult time. The EU's state aid ban says that we must not do so. It is also an example of trying to create a market of something that is a system. The Norwegian State wins the tender for Norrlandsnattrainen over the Swedish State. Is it better for that? No, there will be no long-term and no long-term investment. I have a number of other examples. But I would like to ask Anders Åkesson whether the railway is a system or a market. Where does it work best, in Sweden or in Switzerland?
i-Hw17N3tNBn6FizmDdiJefy	Madam President, I would like Jens Holm! Let us make a comparison with another mode of transport: aviation. Like rail, it is an extremely technically complex system based on a high degree of technology, safety and regulation. But in its execution, it's a pure market. The reason why we are flying more today than in the 1990s is not that we have fewer operators, if we now count out during the pandemic, or that it is only state actors that own, operate and manage the infrastructure of aviation. We can make a similar comparison with shipping. It's not government. The States and States jointly regulate it through traffic rules and codes of conduct. But it is not states, in that sense, that own, manage and run shipping itself. It's a market. Madam President, I would like Since the 1980s, in this country, we have liberalised the SJ monopoly, which then owned and managed all the land infrastructure linked to rail, all the rolling infrastructure linked to rail, both freight and passenger trains. I would argue that it is thanks to the liberalisation, market opening, opening up to competition and the development of methods that it has meant that we as a country have had an almost explosive development when it comes to travelling by train. It was when we regionalised and decentralised and put a market in this that something happened. Until then, Madam President, the railways in Sweden were on a sloping plane.
i-5vPcWytizD6NnBUXgS7gd1	Madam President, I would like The big difference between aviation and rail is that aviation does not have the physical limitations of rail. There's no room for any number of trains. In some places, priority may have to be given to which trains will be allowed to run on the rails and which trains will be allowed to arrive. The railway is not subsidised in the same way as aviation is. We subsidise aviation in Sweden with approximately SEK 10 billion per year, for example by not paying a penny in tax on the fuel used. But Anders Åkesson did not answer my question: Should we look at the railways as a system or as a market? I pointed out Switzerland, rather in detail, as an example of a country where the railways are seen as a system. All the links in that system must be linked, for example, such an important thing as rail maintenance. I cannot imagine that a large factory would say: No, but we are putting out all the maintenance of our machines and all that it may be outsourced. Yes, in some parts you may take in expertise, but you probably want to have pretty good control of your own machine park and be able to go in and repair in case something happens. That is not how it works today. The Finnish Transport Agency has been forced to deregulate everything so that this is on 34 basic contracts with different companies. It costs a lot of money. It's very inefficient. The Finnish Transport Administration has no control over its own facility. Does Anders Åkesson think that the example of railway maintenance is a good example of a market? Does Anders Åkesson think it works well? Where does the railway really work best – in Switzerland or in Sweden?
i-Set92Jf7um6WjW6SRskkdN	Madam President, I would like We can start with this with check at the facility, Jens Holm. Professor Alexandersson carried out a very thorough investigation on the assignment of the former Minister for Infrastructure, Elmsäter-Svärds. It was an expert investigation with a lot of experts. It wasn't a parliamentary inquiry, it was an expert investigation. He found that the basic problem is that the infrastructure manager Trafikverket does not have control of its plant. We are in complete agreement on that. The next conclusion of Alexandersson was: You don't have to perform maintenance yourself to keep track, but you have to keep track to be able to outsource. Otherwise, you might be fooled, or at least you're doing bad business. The comparison with industry is striking. In the industries at home in Småland and elsewhere in our country we are talking about an industrial factor, one in two or one in three, that is, purchased services to the core business. And that, Madam President, is very often operation and maintenance beyond the core of the industrial process itself. That's where you own the skills. But unlike Trafikverket, the industry always has its plant under control. They know when and why prepared maintenance should be done. But you buy in and do so-called audits. These are very large and complex industrial processes. You don't stand and hold thousands of employees, you keep your core skills. That's exactly how the Finnish Transport Administration should and can work. Finally, I can compare between road and rail. These are both Swedish phenomena. Make the thought experiment that Jens Holm opened a new railway! Then historically came an actor and operated it. Make the thought experiment that Jens Holm opened a new piece of road! Then thousands of actors, operators, came and used the infrastructure. It is both systems, but in one it was diversity and the other it was not.
i-9HYSgFMs6kRvXURJMSQHQF	Madam President, I would like You almost get the feeling that the election year has begun. From a Christian Democrat point of view, I would like to start by saying that we support all our reservations, but that for the benefit of time, I only ask for the approval of reservation 6. I would also like to say, for the sake of clarity, that we support the proposal on the announcement of Oslo – Stockholm. Here I do a little digression from my speech, because I got a very specific question from Anders Åkesson, the Center Party. It is a bit funny, because in this particular report the Christian Democrats and the Centre Party are behind each of their announcements, but not the same announcement. From a Christian Democrat point of view, we have supported and even initiated the proposal for an announcement concerning Oslo – Stockholm. We have done so because there is good preparation from the Norwegian side. There is also an idea, thought, that this can be financed outside the ordinary budget. There is a difference between this project and other projects. This has been one of the main thoughts for us. With regard to the question of special opinion, a specific opinion is precisely a specific opinion. So that's not a reservation. Nor is that part of the report in that sense, but it is an opinion which gives an idea of value. It has been important for us, together with the Liberals, to give the idea of value that it is the joint cooperation in the Nordic countries that in the long term enables the railways to function better. But it does not look the same when it comes to the different routes. I'm thinking of my hometown. When it comes to Gothenburg – Oslo it is not nearly as well prepared as when it comes to Stockholm – Oslo. But the desire to get the Oslo – Gothenburg – Copenhagen route to work is equally strong with the Christian Democrats. That is what we are actually expressing in the specific opinion. In fact, it is even more amusing when you look at the special opinion on longer and heavier trains. When I was going to write this speech yesterday, Madam President, I noted to my surprise that I have a reservation with S and MP. Because it doesn't usually happen very often. Even more surprised was I because it was just about longer and heavier trains. This is an issue that the Christian Democrats have been pushing. We've had this in motion. I'm out talking about it and so on. Of course, I was curious: What happened here? What had happened, among other things, was that we did not have a squeeze ourselves or what in municipalities and regions call a 'att' movement. Then immediately became a friend of order, namely young Mr Jacobsson, a little nervous and wondered if he had made any serious mistake. I started reading the reservation that I have with S and MP. I noted that the reservation says that we want longer and heavier trains and that the government is working on it. And so I read this announcement, which I could certainly have supported in principle. It says that you want the government to work for longer and heavier trains. With all due respect, I noted that it felt safe that we all want longer and heavier trains. With that, Madam President, I intend to go into the written part of my speech. The railway is an important part of the Swedish infrastructure. It connects the country and makes it possible to move goods over long distances while helping to develop our labour market regions in and around our major cities. Rail is helping to increase our well-being while at the same time enabling us to achieve our environmental objectives. The railway connects Sweden. We must work to ensure that the railways are also better connected to the Nordic countries than they are today. It is about Stockholm – Oslo, where we Christian Democrats have been involved in initiating a proposal for an announcement. It is about Oslo– Gothenburg– Copenhagen, which we have in our motion. It concerns additional connections between Sweden and Denmark and improved infrastructure in the north, between Finland and Sweden and Norway. These are important measures that need to be put in place. We will then make it easier for business and citizens to travel and transport goods between our countries. Madam President, I would like For the railways to be able to cope with all their important functions, it needs to be developed and upgraded. We Christian Democrats therefore say 'no' to expensive and inefficient high-speed trains, while saying 'yes' to developing and renovating the current railway routes. During today's meeting of the Transport Committee we had a visit from the Swedish Transport Administration. Their assessment is that the maintenance debt within the rail system is approximately 45 – 46 billion for the coming planning period. They also informed us that about 20% of the rail system is older than its technical service life. Most people would agree that this is untenable. We need to rearrange the railroad! That is why I am surprised to note that the Swedish Democrats choose to support the Social Democrats, the Left and the Green Party in the procurement of railway maintenance. The Swedish National Audit Office has repeatedly criticised the Swedish Transport Administration's procurements. It is therefore strange that more tasks should be added to them when they already have problems with today's area of responsibility. In our opinion, railway maintenance should continue to be procured in competition. Thus, the Finnish Transport Agency will not take over railway maintenance under its own responsibility, as this will lead to increased costs and the risk of closing the door to new innovative solutions. Instead of the Swedish Transport Administration taking over the procurements, the agency should continue to focus on building a good knowledge of the track together with subcontractors, which makes it easier to develop good procurement documents. The task of the Finnish Transport Agency is to ensure that the track is good, that procurements are carried out in a cost-effective way and to review subcontractors so that they deliver what they promise in the procurements. Through the collaboration between the agency and the various actors in the market, we will benefit from the market's development potential, which means that in the long term we will have a better functioning railway system. In this context, I would also like to take this opportunity to point out that Trafikverket has an overall responsibility for the fact that the customers of the various operators feel that the railway is a good way of travelling. Today, it is difficult to get mobile phones and computers to work on the train, which reduces the ability of railway operators to market trains as a modern transport system where they can work while travelling. At the same time as we have these problems, the Finnish Transport Administration has built up an infrastructure along the tracks that it does not allow telecommunications and rail operators to access. This is not good enough. The Finnish Transport Agency should of course be a service-oriented work that ensures that their customers can give their passengers good access to functional physical and digital infrastructure. Together with Trafikverket and the freight contractors, we must also continue to develop the railways so that we can shorten the time when freight trains have to stand still and wait for other trains and continue to improve the conditions for longer and heavier trains. The last thing we therefore agree on in this House. Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, the number of unauthorized people on the railway tracks is increasing. This causes major delays in rail traffic while increasing the risk of accidents. The Finnish Transport Agency, in cooperation with the train operators, must develop an action plan to make it more difficult for unauthorised persons to enter the railway track. Another challenge facing the rail sector is the lack of staff. Here we need to work together between state, municipality and operators to show that there are many exciting jobs in the railways. Madam President, I would like Technology developments in the rail sector lead to better accessibility and lower costs. It is now possible to operate rail traffic using fuel cells where hydrogen and oxygen are converted into electricity. There are several routes that can switch from diesel to hydrogen. During the summer of 2021, the first public procurement of hydrogen-powered trains on Inlandsbanan was launched. Hydrogen should be taken into account as a possible alternative, which means that there may be a need to re-evaluate the assessment of routes that have previously been condemned as unprofitable. This is particularly important from a military perspective. At home, Lysekilsbanan has been closed, but the military now points out that Lysekilsbanan together with Lysekils port can be an important link to serve the Swedish defence. New technologies and our new troubled environment mean that we must be prepared to reconsider previous decisions. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to turn to Jens Holm. Switzerland and Sweden cannot be compared. Switzerland is a relatively small country with a truck traffic that goes through the country, and it finances a relatively small railway structure. Sweden is a relatively large country. We are on the edge of Europe. We have high costs and a lot of truck traffic in this context. In relation to the Swiss situation, we will never be able to finance rail in the same way.
i-Np81hSt3fjExGiyvzpTxXP	Madam President, I would like I agree with all my reservations and also with the specific opinions, but I call for the approval of reservation 6, railway maintenance procured in competition. Madam President, I would like By summer, the Government will decide on the content of the national infrastructure plan. It is the single most important decision that determines which infrastructure Sweden will invest in until 2033, i.e. the next twelve years. The Riksdag has decided on how to allocate the total framework of 800 billion. We need to get as much public benefit as possible for that money. Liberals believe that it is the collaboration between all modes of transport that enables Sweden to stay together and function. The railways play an important role, perhaps especially in their ability to transport a large number of people and large quantities of goods efficiently, both over long distances and in the regions close to our cities. We'll take care of that function. The single most important measure is that we maintain existing rail. There are many of us who have been delayed on the Western and Southern Main Lines because rails from the 70s have reached their technical service life. To fix maintenance on the railway, 45 billion – well-invested money is needed to secure accessibility. Liberals believe that railway maintenance should continue to be procured in competition. Then we take advantage of the combined expertise of international companies on how to effectively maintain rail. We can also take advantage of the creativity and flexibility of smaller companies. We get better maintenance at a lower cost, as shown in studies that investigated this particular rescheduling when we went from government maintenance to purchasing maintenance. Based on the good results, we believe that maintenance should continue to be procured. That is why we are looking at concerns about the government's attempts to renationalise maintenance. That's taking a big step back. The Finnish Transport Agency must have knowledge of the status of our railways and have the ability to effectively procure maintenance. There is a need for increased collaboration with entrepreneurs but also for increased digitalisation to efficiently collect information about the rails and to use smart digital decision support that makes maintenance easier to prioritise. This is how we effectively get good maintenance on Swedish railways. The railway signalling system and switchboards are also in great need of rearmament. However, I remain sceptical about the premature introduction of the EU-wide Ertms signalling system. I believe that Ertms needs to be quality assured and that funding needs to be reviewed further. Sweden should follow the experience and implementation of Ertms in Germany. With longer and heavier trains, fewer freight trains can transport the same amount of goods and each passenger train can take far more passengers. This means that spare capacity can be used more optimally, and CO2 emissions can be reduced. This is the fastest way to increase the capacity of our Swedish railways. The Liberals therefore want the government in the new infrastructure plan to increase the amount of investment needed in rail and perrongs to enable longer and heavier trains. The EU has decided on a fourth railway package. In order to have a better functioning rail market throughout the EU, we need to work together on standards and development, but we also need to clear barriers in order for many operators to be allowed to drive trains on the railways in Europe. It is through cooperation and a healthy market economy that we are strengthening rail through Europe in the long term. Madam President, I would like Given that the national infrastructure plan is decided this summer, I would like to highlight the lack of cost control within the Finnish Transport Administration. The Swedish National Audit Office has in nine reports since 2017 raised the problems, but the government does not take them seriously. The Swedish Transport Administration's lack of cost control crowds out a number of socially beneficial projects. The situation is urgent. The Swedish National Audit Office criticises the Government for not re-evaluated projects, even though projects such as new main tracks have been increased by 60 per cent, or 30 billion, only on one of the parts in four years. Madam President, I would like 30 billion can solve many capacity shortages on the Swedish railway, not least the biggest capacity shortage on the entire railway network – the Gothenburg – Alingsås section. The Port of Gothenburg, Green Cargo, SJ and also MTRX all point to this route as one of the highest priority routes in Sweden. Nevertheless, Trafikverket has chosen not to include it in its file. The route has a major impact on the whole of Sweden, both on the important route between Sweden's largest cities and on the freight routes, for example from the Norrland coast down through the Port of Gothenburg. For me, it is incomprehensible that this route is not included in the basis of the national plan because it constitutes Sweden's worst capacity shortage. With four tracks between Gothenburg and Alingsås, the calculation for new main tracks would be even worse, even though the track already today only gives back 50 öre in the social benefits of each invested crown. With 17 billion, two additional tracks between Gothenburg and Alingsås would double the capacity on the route. It should be set against the cost increase of 30 billion, or 60 percent, on only a short part of the high-speed rail. We need a new government after the elections this autumn in order for us to start again prioritising projects according to societal benefit. Finally, I would like to highlight our cross-border rail traffic, which needs to be expanded. Coordination between the Nordic countries is crucial. Liberals believe that the government should investigate how we can organizationally facilitate future joint Nordic infrastructure initiatives. We have supported the committee initiative on the Stockholm Oslo project because we believe that a well-functioning railway between Stockholm and Oslo would be very positive for urban development. However, it is important to develop the whole of cross-border transport between Sweden and Norway, not least the Gothenburg– Oslo section. The route is also part of the EU's priority TEN-T rail network, Scandinavian Link, which means that Sweden can receive strong co-financing for the extension of the route. We therefore believe that the Gothenburg route – Oslo should be part of the dialogue between Trafikverket and the Norwegian Jernbane Directorate in order to provide an overview of all common infrastructure projects, even though the Gothenburg route – Oslo is in fact much further ahead of the planning than the Stockholm – Oslo route. A coordinated discussion would, in our view, facilitate a future priority between all projects. With those words, Madam President, I am in favour of our reservation number 6.
i-6gWX7F4X4W9VQ1Uypb866J	Madam President, I would like Let me start by talking a little bit about the role of the railways in total defense. In Ukraine, it has clearly been shown that the rail system plays an important role in the defence against Russia's terrible invasion. Among other things, the railway has been the escape route for millions of people. The fact that the railways have been strong and continued to function has been important for Ukraine. Ukraine and the Ukrainian railway workers deserve our solidarity. It also serves as a reminder that the infrastructure and railways are an important part of total defence in Sweden as well. Railways are also central if we are to achieve our climate targets. The railway is superior to transporting a lot of goods or many people to very small climate emissions. An effective way to reduce emissions is therefore to shift transport from road to rail. By improving the possibility of commuting using good rail services throughout the country, it is possible to replace many car journeys. But the train can also replace the flight. As you know, the flight is one of the fastest ways to burn our planet out. Therefore, replacing air travel with sustainable alternatives is one of the smartest things we can do to reduce climate emissions. Madam President, I would like In order for the train to be able to replace flights, the train needs to go fast, both to expand the night trains and to make it easy to travel far also across national borders. That is why we environmentalists are very much in favour of the vision of a composite European rail system. It will be easy to take the train from Malmö to Paris, from Luleå to Madrid and from Örebro to Lisbon. From this perspective, the fourth railway package is a step in the right direction. The objective of the fourth railway package is to create better conditions for European railways and remove barriers between countries. However, the Green Party also sees shortcomings and clouds of concern, not least it is important to keep an eye on increased costs for the rail sector. In the proposal for the fourth railway package, the Government notes that implementation may entail higher costs for the rail sector, including as a result of increased administration. For us, it is incredibly important that this does not affect rail's competitiveness vis-à-vis other modes of transport. And I would therefore like to ask for the approval of reservation 1. There is also great potential for moving freight transport from road to rail. Today, the road is overused for transport. Freight traffic needs to be changed in order for us to achieve our climate targets. This will require considerable investment in the railways, but we must also achieve a more level playing field between road and rail. Today, the road ahead of the railways is favoured, which is quite wrong, of course. Madam President, I would like The Green Party wants to make a big effort on the railways throughout the country. We want a rapid completion of new high-speed rail lines, we want to build out bottlenecks in the system and we want to invest in a better rail system around Sweden to make the railway accessible to more people. An important link is that between Stockholm and Oslo, as several speakers have mentioned earlier. It has been said very wisely about that route, but I would like to raise another perspective. Before the pandemic, some 1.4 million passengers a year flew between Arlanda and Oslo. Today, a train journey between Stockholm and Oslo takes about five hours. By investing in the railways, the journey time would be reduced to less than three hours. A rapid rail link between Stockholm and Oslo could probably replace in the order of 1 million flights a year and thus bring a huge climate gain. Madam President, I would like Rail has a key role to play in meeting the climate challenge. Rail is a superior means of transport to reduce climate impact. In addition, rail contributes to larger labour market regions, to connecting different parts of our country and to simplifying people's life puzzles. We know that more and more people want to travel by rail, and now it is time for us in here to respond to that. Let the 2020s become the railway decade!
i-6GZx4LijCmdqMya1cCgv1j	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by saying that the entire Committee on Education has, I am happy to say, supported the Moderates' proposal that it should be the duty of every school to ensure good access to quality-assured teaching materials. A couple of years ago, we received a report written by the Teacher Association, the National Association of Teachers, the Swedish Student Council – Svea, the Swedish Student Unions and the Authors of Teaching. The report found that one in five teachers lacks the necessary teaching materials to be able to conduct sustainable teaching. Such figures are simply not acceptable. The Moderates believe that it must be the duty of every school to provide quality-assured teaching material for each student, and when we will vote on this after Easter, this obligation will finally be established. Madam President, I would like However, it is not only teaching materials that need quality assurance in Swedish schools. Every Monday to Friday students go to school with a lump in the stomach or with wounds that have not been able to heal over the weekend. Some are simply preparing to defend themselves. Getting to grips with school security is not just about safe children learning more; it's about every child being worth protecting, always. It must be a fundamental right to be safe as a child in Sweden. This means that the school must be free from threats, violence, violations, harassment and mess in general. That is not the case today. On the contrary, more people feel insecure in Swedish schools every year – both students and teachers. If we are to get to grips with this in real life, a work based on science and proven experience must be put in place. Ask the Swedish National Agency for Education to develop, together with the Swedish School Inspectorate, the Swedish Crime Prevention Council and the Swedish Public Health Agency, an evidence-based programme for how to handle this type of problem! It must come into place now, partly as support for principals, principals, teachers and other school staff, but also because it is time for a comprehensive grasp of the insecurity and type of crime committed within the Swedish school. Given the flatness of the Social Democrats in terms of crime in our society in general, no one will be surprised that they will vote against this. Madam President, I would like The terrible war of aggression waged by Putin Russia against the Ukrainian people is becoming more disgusting every day. We probably thought, at least my generation, that Europe's war was over – that our countries would at least be at peace among each other. We were wrong. Few times Swedish lack of preparedness has been exposed more clearly than now. We notice this when the Armed Forces need to ask for more money, when farmers stop growing and when residents discover that there are no shelters in their residential area. We also notice this when so many Swedes have a lack of knowledge about the total defense and its role. In several European countries, this type of information is included in schools' activities, but in Sweden we lack it – and we miss it especially now. The Moderates therefore propose the introduction of compulsory total defence training in upper secondary school. It is time for every part of society to do its part in preparing the country for both crisis and war, and even Swedish school systems must be part of that work. That is why I am in favour of reservation number 19.
i-XjoScgfqzHa2Gw9HdXZ9qq	Madam President, I would like We in the Swedish Democrats support all our reservations, but for the gain of time I only ask for reservation number 27. Once upon a time, not long ago, the Swedish school was the world leader. Taste it – world leader! Today, our school is an average among the 79 countries participating in the most extensive school survey, Pisa. A mediocre one! How did we end up here in just a few decades? The answer to that question, of course, is not simply to be noted; it is certainly due to a variety of factors. But there have been some major changes during this time. The school was municipalised, which meant that the responsibility was distributed to the municipalities instead of the state having overall responsibility. It was a gamble that perhaps did not really go home; we see that today in the great differences in quality that exist between schools in each municipality. We went from teaching students a lot of facts to focusing on analyses and relationships. It goes without saying that you first have to learn a lot of facts before you can use them to make analyses and see connections. Sweden has also received a very large proportion of immigrants, many from countries with very low levels of education. It goes without saying that this changes Sweden and, above all, the Swedish school – especially since it has not had a good and well-functioning plan to receive all these students who are coming. I would also like to mention the salary level of teachers, who have actually fallen over time. This affects the attractiveness and the ability to get the best students to choose the teaching profession, as well as the ability to get good teachers to stay in their profession. Finally, unfortunately, there has been a social liberal standard in school, which sometimes means that pupils have been given a little too much freedom. Being constantly questioned as a teacher puts its mark on the teachers' authority and creates a poor working environment for everyone in school. The fact that this and a number of other factors have affected our school, taken together in a not very positive way, is quite easy to note. It is time we did something about this – for real. Madam President, I would like Now we need to focus on teaching factual knowledge. The curriculum should be improved and made clear and more concrete. Analyses of the facts learned we wait a little while, until the students approach high school and during upper secondary school education. Today you start in grade 4- well, you hear me, in grade 4! – with analyses and connections. Many students are not ready for this. Some are, but far from everyone, and here the interest of some students can be slowed down. All students must have printed, certified teaching material, which clearly shows what they are expected to learn during a year in each subject. We also believe that a minimum level of costs for printed teaching material per pupil per year should be established as the differences between schools today are very large and, overall, there is far too little investment in printed teaching materials. You put everything in the basket of digital education. It shall be high-quality, neutral and fact-based learning materials. These shall be certified by a teaching material council composed of representatives of the profession, researchers and school authorities, who review and label teaching materials. The teachers then choose from this certified selection. In this way, we solve the problem of low-quality teaching materials, whether they are factual errors, lack of educational structure or politically biased or otherwise substandard teaching materials. Madam President, I would like When the Swedish school was a world leader, it was also equal. So it didn't matter in which school the students attended. All students were given good opportunities to educate themselves. That is not the case today, unfortunately. The Swedish Democrats' definition of equal schools means that all schools must be of good quality so that all students have the opportunity to have a good education and guaranteed studyo. In order for this to be possible, we in the Swedish Democrats have put forward a number of proposals that will contribute to this. I mention a few: written order reviews, increased powers for principals and teachers to maintain order, agreements on conduct and rules between pupils, guardians and schools, and mobile school. We want to introduce emergency classes and special education for students who pose serious danger. Yes, there were some of our suggestions; there are others. Madam President, I would like To define an equivalent school as a forced mixture of ethnicity and the educational background of parents, as does the Social Democratic Government and other parties, is completely foreign to us. In this way, using our school children as integration tools through coercive measures is wrong – point. The Swedish Democrats are a guarantee that our school children will not be forced to act as an integration tool. In Sweden, all schools must be of good quality – it is the equivalent school.
i-KTSndbwZNKKiuBnRPA9Hrz	Madam President, I would like Education policy is not my business, normally. I am responding to a colleague who has been prevented today. I have promised him to say a few more words than that the school is good and that the free school reform should be protected. Then it is exciting that the Swedish Democrats, regardless of the subject matter they are discussing, always come up and say that everything is the fault of immigration. It never goes wrong. I note that what the Swedish Democrats always stand for, regardless of whether they are xenophobic, xenophobic or xenophobic. Now to the point. Today we are debating motions from general exercise time which are dealt with in this report. The school has an important role in balancing life chances. There is a need for increased focus on knowledge so that more pupils leaving comprehensive school become eligible for national programmes in upper secondary school and more leave upper secondary school with full grades. To succeed, all students need the support and help they need. That they have security and studyo, feel good and can develop are keys for more people to pass the school and thus also have the conditions for further studies and self-support. The fact that more people pass school is a key to breaking exclusion and getting more people to work. The opposite, a failed schooling, is a risk factor for crime and exclusion. The Center Party works for all students to meet with a good education, no matter where in the country you live, what background you have or whether you are a girl or a boy. The availability of good teaching materials for all pupils is an important part of strengthening equivalence and raising knowledge outcomes. This is especially important when too many students are taught by unauthorized teachers. It is therefore very gratifying that a united committee is behind the announcement to the government of each school's obligation to ensure good access to quality-assured teaching materials. Madam President, I would like In addition to the knowledge mission, the school has an important democratic mission. Many young girls and boys are subjected to pressure of honor, which in many cases becomes visible in school. This may include banning students from participating in certain classes or compulsory elements. The Center Party wants action plans against honorary oppression to be available in primary and secondary schools. There is also a need for improved cooperation between authorities in the prevention and detection of honour problems. Pupils' right to schooling and thus the principals' obligation to live up to the school law cannot be stressed enough. In addition to raising awareness of the problem of honorary oppression and requiring schools to draw up action plans, national absence statistics can be part of ensuring the right of all pupils to good schooling. Madam President, I would like There is a great need to talk at school about standards and values and how people should treat each other. The Center Party has been involved in strengthening the teaching of sexuality and relations within the framework of the January Agreement. We also strengthened the work and knowledge of the issues by making the subject sexuality and relations compulsory on teacher education. This is important for the work, but more needs to be done. It is important that it is not only newly graduated teachers who will in the future bring with them skills and knowledge in order to be able to raise and discuss issues related to norms and values. We therefore want existing school staff to also acquire this competence and see the need for skills development efforts for this. Madam President, I would like In a school where all pupils must meet according to their needs and conditions, it is important that the position of minority languages and mother tongue teaching is strengthened. Mother tongue education plays a significant role in the child's language and knowledge development. The future of many of the national minority languages as living languages in Sweden is threatened, which requires action by society. The participation of students in their minority language or mother tongue is important in strengthening their language development and acquisition of knowledge, but also in creating identity. School plays an important role here. Among other things, more teachers in national minority languages and mother tongues need to be trained, and children and young people need to be given increased opportunities to study the languages. Of course, the Center Party is behind all its motions in committee, but for the winning time we only ask for reservation number 14.
i-DTF6pWkVqnBtHuQznT6izC	Madam President, I would like I hear Mr Alireza says that in my speech I blame immigration for all the problems in Swedish school. Alireza certainly said that he was quite new to school policy, but I still think the honourable Member can at least hear what I am saying. I have my speech written down here. I mentioned certain things that have changed the Swedish school in recent decades. I said: After all, Sweden has received a huge proportion of immigrants, many from countries with very low levels of education. It goes without saying that these change the Swedish school, especially if you have not had a well prepared plan for how it should be done. I would ask Mr Alireza whether this is to blame immigration for all the problems in Swedish school.
i-KzdDLzdbVTjPaqCEKe2AWB	Madam President, I would like Jörgen Grubb seemed to want to read out his speech again. I don't think he got his point well enough. I heard what the honourable Member said from the speaker's seat. At this point, I also understand the meaning of words spoken and the direction of those words. Jörgen Grubb makes a claim that we have had immigration from countries with very low levels of education. In fact, I would like to turn the question around and hear what Jörgen Grubb has to show for this absurd statement.
i-Em3SyVoLhZEcYyJHLYRadt	Madam President, I would like I can start by mentioning that in all municipalities – yes, I cannot swear that it is all, but probably all – there are models where you invest an extra part of school money called structural grants, and there is what the honourable Member has just mentioned as a criterion for getting higher structural funding. Other factors such as gender, the level of education of parents, the area in which they live and the countries from which they come are also included. If you do not come from Sweden, then there will be higher structural funding. Does the honourable Member mean, then, that the parties that run all these municipalities – there are certainly all eight parties in this House – are somehow blaming everything on immigration? That is how I read the honourable Member's comment to me. Nor can I understand that it is immigration-critical to mention the problem that too much immigration from countries with low levels of education has brought about in Swedish schools. We need to make an extra effort for these students– not in any case but in very many cases. Therefore, they also receive increased structural support in all municipalities, from all parties.
i-Kw4mt8Vpp5hfyjspzqBUn1	Madam President, I would like I honestly don't understand this line shift at all. The Center Party is involved in taking responsibility in 200 of 290 municipalities. We are involved every day and make a lot of decisions that affect the Swedish school, that develops it and that take responsibility for every kid who goes to Swedish school and every person who teaches things to our children. The fact that there are socio-economic parameters in terms of how school money is designed is correct, and that should be the case. Not everyone has the same conditions, and takes a school a great responsibility for children who do not come from academic homes or socio-economically strong areas, socio-economics should of course be a parameter when it comes to how school money is distributed.
i-L4Medoucho5bN4B8pbkhqs	Madam President, I would like Today we are here to debate the Education Committee's basic report on education. I would like to begin by calling for approval of the Left Party's reservation 2. The liberal municipal councillor in Örebro wants to upgrade the school's students by calling them customers. The liberal school council in Stockholm just sold out seven school buildings to a real estate company owned by a former Social Democratic politician. In municipality after municipality, bourgeois and social-democratic politicians have built properties that are intended to be used by large school groups before these companies have even been granted permission to open their schools in each municipality. We can take Solna Municipality as an example. Over the past ten years, five municipal schools in Solna have been closed down in whole or in part. First, the strategy is to starve municipal schools on resources. Then parents are encouraged to go to other schools if they are dissatisfied. In the meantime, it is easier for multi-billion-dollar companies to start schools in the municipality. Madam President, I would like This is part of the story of the market school that we are in, and this will be discussed by the Left Party after debate in this House. Why are we doing this, and what is the marketing school? Sometimes there is a misunderstanding, that marketing school is just about some private schools and that we think that all private schools would be bad and all municipal schools would be good. On the contrary, the market school refers to the system that we have in Sweden today and which governs schools. It is a market system of which both the municipal schools and the independent actors are part. The result of this system is that students are counted as customers, as the liberal municipal councillor in Örebro says. As a result, teachers become service staff. The result is that knowledge and education become a commodity in a market. The Left Party will do everything possible to abolish the market school. We will make proposals on the basis of proposals in Parliament to remove the claws of the market from the Swedish school. But we have also noticed that politics in Parliament does not go together with what a large majority of the Swedish population wants. That is why we want to see a referendum on election day with a fourth ballot asking whether there should be a limited company or not within the Swedish school. Madam President, I would like I was going to focus on another subject in the report that is very important. During Metoo we could hear stories from the Swedish school about sexual harassment, both among students and among staff. In the media we often hear about men's violence against women, which can also be fatal in many cases. Promoting gender equality and changing stereotypical norms of gender and power relations are fundamental to preventing men's violence against women. Gender-changing efforts have been shown to have an impact on the change of attitudes and behaviour, especially in a broad effort aimed at society as a whole. And what kind of effort is that? Yes, the school. Furthermore, efforts aimed at boys as a group have proved to be more effective than educational efforts addressing only girls and women, given that men and boys are the main primary perpetrators of violence in this case. In other words, violence prevention work with boys who focus on changing norms around masculinity that supports violence and that enables a positive place for boys and men in the work against violence has proved successful. My party has always pursued a policy of greater equality and of combating men's violence against women. We want this work to be thorough throughout society, including in education. Against this background, the report has proposed that the government give municipalities a mandate to work with preventive measures in preschools, schools and leisure activities to have an active norm-critical work against violence and for gender equality. That is what reservation 2 is about.
i-YT7MbN8ibhd9Ev48YCWqLE	Madam President, I would like Today I thought I would focus on the Swedish heartland and the differences between the city and the country when it comes to Swedish school. We do not have an equivalent school throughout the country. Swedish Business Administration's report Good schools across the country – Differences in performance between city and lan d in TIMSS 2019 show less knowledge among pupils living in the country compared to students in our larger cities. To overcome this, high expectations are needed for students throughout the country. Early knowledge checks and support measures are needed in the form of increased homework, schooling and special teaching groups. There is also a need to start measuring the development of knowledge at each school. We want the Swedish School Inspectorate to start reviewing all schools based on the students' knowledge and quality of teaching. So we can safeguard freedom of choice and quality, and so we put knowledge in focus so that children across the country have the opportunity to pass school. Madam President, I would like It is not only the results of knowledge that differ between the city and the country, but also the funding and conditions for schooling. School money varies a lot depending on where you live in the country. It can distinguish as much as 30 – 40 percent between those who bet the most and those who bet the least. We Christian Democrats have therefore proposed a national school money standard to increase government governance and steer towards an equal school. One big difference is how much the municipalities invest in teaching materials. According to the Educational Barometer for 2020, there are problems with equivalence. Large cities invest more money in teaching materials. The municipality that bought in for the most spent SEK 1 842 for each student, while the municipality that spent at least paid SEK 131 per student. Above all, we note that far too many people invest far too little in teaching materials. While digitalisation costs have rushed, children's access to traditional textbooks has collapsed. We need to steer this up. Of course, the children should have real textbooks that they can bring home to repeat, read homework and proudly show off to Mom and Dad. The School Act needs to guarantee pupils' rights to both teaching materials and printed textbooks. And it is about time that all schools were examined on the basis of the availability of teaching materials. Where in the country you live or what school you go to should no longer decide whether you have real textbooks that you can bring home or not. Christian Democrats believe that textbooks have a special value because they facilitate reading. They also often give a better overview. Above all, it will be easier for parents to get an overview and be able to take parental responsibility. Against this background, it is regrettable that the government has not given priority to a proposal in this area during the spring. It is all the more gratifying that the Education Committee proposes that the Riksdag should issue an announcement to the Government that each school should be obliged to ensure that there is good access to quality-assured teaching materials, and the Government should take action accordingly. Whether you live in our royal capital Stockholm or somewhere in the country, in the middle of the Swedish heartland, you as a parent should know that in the school you choose is the order, and the children are treated with respect. Over the past ten years, during the time of the Social Democrats in power, the insecurity in school has increased somewhat terribly. Every fifth student in grade 9 does not feel safe in school. At the same time, nearly half of secondary school students reply that school staff do not always act when pupils are violated or mistreated. This is a great betrayal. Unfortunately, the situation is worse in rural areas and in smaller towns. There are more problems with order, more bullying and less security. It is clear that those children who not only carry their school books and backpacks to school but also a lump in the stomach of concern about what the others should do or say end up very easily behind. It's hard for them to keep up with their education. The fact that nearly half of secondary school pupils say that school staff do not always act when students are violated or mistreated is totally unacceptable. Children must be allowed to be safe in school, and the anti-bullying programmes used by schools must be evidence-proof. We Christian Democrats propose that the government give the appropriate authority the task of evaluating methods against bullying. We therefore call for the approval of reservation 12 and, moreover, we want to invest more in strengthening teachers' leadership. It is teachers with a warm heart and firm hand who talk about what is right and wrong and how to treat others. It is they who create a school for the children to long for. That is what lays the foundation for a safer society throughout the country, a safer Sweden.
i-5etaYRvsxxxBrCfF3w2Yto	Madam President, I would like The basics of education are today's report. It's about books, school libraries, recreation centres, basic values, etc. Books – school books – are a hot political topic for debate. Maybe you wouldn't believe that. One might think that it was a matter of course in Swedish school, but that is not the case today. Many classrooms lack books. At Komvux, you have to pay for it yourself. In addition, the writings of the School Library Act have been so open that free schools that would rather spend the money on profit distribution to their shareholders have been able to set up small shelves in the corridor with donated pocketbooks from the pupils' parents and call it a school library. We in the Green Party want to remedy this. More books are needed at school. Madam President, I would like We need staffed school libraries. All students need equal access to this. One might imagine that it is a technicality, but today we are seeing the consequences – the ultimate, most terrible consequences – of what can happen in societies that do not safeguard every person's ability to value information and to distinguish between knowledge, propaganda and pure conspiracy theories. The task of the school libraries is to equip every student with media and information knowledge, which is now needed more than ever before. Pupils' access to this is unequally distributed. That is why the government commissioned investigator Gustav Fridolin, the former Minister of Environmental Affairs Education, to investigate how we can ensure that all students get the important opportunity for learning in media and information knowledge, MIK, but also in reading. Reading is the basis for learning. Young people read less and less, and there is not enough time for lessons. We need to stimulate reading even outside of class time. It is a key competence of the school librarians. We simply need more school librarians in this country. Unlike teachers, it is a professional group we do not have a shortage of in society. We would relieve the teachers if we had more school librarians in Swedish school. Madam President, I would like We also need digital and physical teaching materials at school. It is something that may sound self-evident, but it is not at all. I am very pleased that, together in the Education Committee, we are now supporting what the same investigator, Gustav Fridolin, has also proposed, that all students should have access to teaching materials in school. Today, teachers often spend a lot of time producing teaching materials themselves. It is time that can be taken from the planning and evaluation of teaching. This showed, among other things, an evaluation that the Special Educational School Authority made a number of years ago about the teachers in primary school. There too we have a lack of qualified teachers. It is more so than in many other school forms. These teachers must spend time making their own teaching materials because they do not exist. It's a waste. Of course, teachers should have the power over what they use in their classrooms. They should be able to choose what quality assured teaching materials they want. Madam President, I would like The Green Party wants an equal school. Ensuring access to quality assured teaching materials is one of the fastest, easiest and most cost-effective ways we can take steps in that direction. Often we talk here about the importance of counteracting the marketing school and that limited companies should not be allowed to pick money for profit from funds that were meant to go to the students. Now we want to ensure that at least plug the possibility of having a school without educational material and school without a school library. Madam President, I would like Fritis is another area that is fundamental to what education is all about. Today, leisure homes are part of the school that has the task of being compensatory. It is about giving students with different home conditions equal opportunities and compensating for the differences that students bring with them in their backpacks. But Fritis doesn't work like that today. Fritis has far too large children's groups. The children who would most need to stay in a fritis after the school lunch when the school day ends are not even there. Pupils whose parents are unemployed and who have less opportunity to take their children anywhere on school holidays, those students are not entitled to fritis. In addition, they live in a socially vulnerable area where criminal gangs dominate the street image, there are other adults in the square who are happy to employ those children who do not have room in the recreation centres. They can help run errands for the drug gangs. That's how recruitment begins in the serious crime. Oh, my God, we just have to stop that! It should be a matter of course that all students, even if their parents are unemployed, should have the right to Fritis. Especially if they come from home with great challenges, they should have access to meaningful activities during the summer holidays. I have met principals who testify that children who do not have Swedish as their mother tongue will return after ten weeks of summer vacation and have backed up in their development. They have not been allowed to participate in the leisure activities. Madam President, I would like I was going to say a few more words about the work against recruiting the boys into criminal gangs. I'll settle for this when the time is ticking. The prevention of violence must start early in preschool. Destructive and toxic masculinity standards linked to violence are established when educators do not have time or understand to say when boys beat girls or when boys beat boys. Of course, gender education can also be about less vital issues. But basically it is when our educators meet students – boys and girls – that we can influence how men behave against other men and against women. If we're gonna get rid of this violence, we're gonna have to go to school. Gender education is therefore central. I support our reservation 29 in paragraph 19 on school libraries.
i-HZym4waGH6rCRqrQRStdcN	Madam President, I would like We Social Democrats want to see a school with a focus, that is, students' learning and development. School can be the best tool for creating an equal, cohesive and strong society. It is about education to which everyone has a right and which everyone has a duty to participate. Financed according to ability, it could also be distributed according to needs so that it becomes equal and compensatory, and then it becomes a phenomenal tool for smoothing out people's lives. But then society must take back control from the market. As long as we have a fragmented system that drives segregation and grade inflation, the school as a social institution is not all that it could be. The school is the place where all students should acquire knowledge and values and where our society's lowest common denominator is created. The values that the school is about to convey become a kind of community-wide starting point. That is why, today, we are dealing with a relatively large number of proposals under the heading of values. It is about democracy, development, lifelong desire to learn, respect for human rights, fundamental democratic values, respect for the dignity of each person, respect for our common environment, inviolability of human life, freedom and integrity of the individual, equality of all people, equality between women and men and solidarity between people, sense of right, generosity, tolerance and responsibility. These are some key concepts for describing the basic values of schools and society. That is how they are described in the curriculum. The section concludes: The school's task is to allow each individual student to find his or her unique character and thereby be able to participate in society by giving his or her best in responsible freedom. It is a solid foundation of values. It is an unbeatable least common starting point in a free, democratic and solidarity-based society. Madam President, I would like The Government has made proposals at the Riksdag table for stricter rules for non-profit schools that we will prepare later in the spring. The January agreement included an agreement that we should put in place a stop to the establishment of non-confessional schools. Such a proposal is still being prepared within the Government Office. But we Social Democrats are going to elections for a ban on religious free schools. My party partner Anders Österberg and Amineh Kakabaveh have written an excellent motion about this. In the report, we are dealing with request 2 in it, a request which underlines that, when introducing the ban, we must continue to promote the rights of national minorities in school, with respect for the equal value of all people, the freedom and inviolability of the individual and equality between women and men. Therefore, I would like to ask for the approval of motion 2021/2:814, motion 2. Madam President, I would like Everyone has the right to go to school, and everyone has the duty to go to school. Therefore, there is also a wide range of interests that want to get into school. It creates the common starting points for society, not only in terms of values, but also in terms of knowledge. That is why today we are dealing with a considerable number of ideas for new subjects and areas of knowledge. The timetable has been redesigned not many years ago. 6,890 hours must be taught in comprehensive school for each student. The curricula have recently been revised; the latest revision has not even taken effect yet. The Government and the Swedish National Agency for Education have stated that there is already a large amount of congestion, and the Swedish National Agency for Education has proposed a new revision of the guaranteed teaching time. We are about to introduce more time for learning. It is about guaranteed homework help for all students in grades 4 to 9 who need it and an extended right to holiday school during the academic year. It will be important for those students who need more time for their learning. But more new areas of knowledge or school subjects are generally not the way forward. Rather, we need clearer priorities. Madam President, I would like The report deals with 216 requests from general exercise time in the areas of values, safe school, subjects and areas of knowledge, assessment, national tests, teaching materials, school libraries, mother tongue teaching and recreation centres. It is impossible to talk about everyone within my registered speaking time. But, Madam President, reading is an ability we need to act as human beings. It is also an ability we need to discover new worlds, meet new perceptions, understand complex relationships and continue our educational journey even after the end of primary school. That's why the book plays a central role in school. School libraries are important. High-quality teaching materials are indispensable. That is also why we Social Democrats have supported an announcement to the government that it is the duty of every school to ensure good access to quality-assured teaching materials. It should not be possible, as a school group, to save either school libraries or teaching materials in order to give more profit to the owner. Madam President, I would like I would like to conclude the speech by addressing the Swedish Democrats, whom I note has left the premises. But I'm still going to take the liberty of doing it. In fact, I have noted a wording in their reservation number 1. The Swedish Democrats write: In our country, our values should apply. Do the Swedish Democrats mean that Sweden is theirs? I think it's just as much mine, and yours, and yours, and yours, Madam President, and everyone else's living here. Could it be that the Social Democrats believe that Swedish democratic values should apply in Sweden? I hope not. What if they had answered to write the chapter on basic values in our curricula! Then there would be no tolerance. There would be no human rights, no equality, no democracy and no solidarity. Or yes, perhaps a little solidarity, but only with some – only with those who have the same skin color and religion as Jörgen Grubb, who unfortunately has left the premises. No, Madam President, their values are by no means mine. The school conveys knowledge and values. All growing-up residents have both the right and the duty to attend school. In this way school creates a kind of society's lowest common denominator. In this way it creates cohesion and equality, but not as well as it could. That is why we must take back democratic control of the school. In doing so, I once again call for the approval of motion 2021/2:814, motion 2, and otherwise for the approval of the committee's proposal in the report.
i-63wG66saNfeanCQcyyKYza	I would like to draw Members' attention to the fact that we have examined the feasibility of the request. It is not self-evident that in the speaker's chair we are calling for a motion that has not been called for in committee. It is important that you tell this to the Chamber in advance in such a situation so that we can check that it is not contrary to anything else in the form of the report. Now it seems to be working, but we cannot insist on things that cannot be put forward.
i-6EhCPLK7RAmpb4EAAezYfp	Madam President, I would like Linus Sköld talks about putting an end to the possibility of picking profits at the expense of school libraries. Since we in the Green Party have pushed for a bill on the right to staffed school libraries for all students, I wonder curiously when the Minister of Education will pull the investigation out of his purse and put it on Parliament's table.
i-2GvVqgNCBqt7h57GVFvuK4	Madam President, I would like Annika Hirvonen and I are equally committed to the fact that school libraries should not be a saving potential for independent schools. I think that books deserve their place in the shelf and in the students' education much stronger than that, just like Annika Hirvonen. On the question of when the Minister of Education will pull out the investigation that Gustav Fridolin delivered out of his purse, I will have to return.
i-XvREYUfyPZKBLaq9jj7j1Z	Madam President, I would like I have another question about Linus Sköld's speech mentioning the problem of congestion. It is also the opinion of the Green Party that everything that is good and important cannot be accommodated in school. But one thing that we in the Green Party think is so important that it must enter the hourly plan is teaching in national minority languages. There is also a complete study with proposals to have the right to education in national minority languages equivalent to approximately three hours a week. That is what is required if you are to be able to become fully linguistic in your national minority language. I myself can testify that the fact that I speak fluent Finnish at home is not enough every time there is a parliamentary debate in Finnish in the election movement. I notice I'm talking like someone who's never been to school. School and education in one's language make a huge difference in vocabulary and in the ability to use language in professional and academic contexts.
i-LsdXwQDM5z7c7fBTf2VKkW	Madam President, I would like On this issue, as on the subject of teaching materials and school libraries, we agree with the Green Party. It is about the importance of access to good teaching in one's minority language and in one's mother tongue, if one does not happen to belong to a national minority. There are indeed investigative proposals to strengthen the right to national minority languages. This is something that is being prepared by the government, and Annika Hirvonen knows about this. The last time we put forward a budget, the Green Party was involved in doing so, and then we made proposals to strengthen the coordination of teaching in minority languages. Such a schoolwork mission is thus delivered in the latest budget. This is what I think Annika Hirvonen knows, and she also knows my position. It is important that students have access to good teaching by skilled teachers in native and minority languages.
i-4iLny6ctungxipMMuNu55i	Madam President, I would like I also loved to read, as we've heard a lot of people talk about when I was a kid. I read Kulla-Gulla books, F em books, Kitty books and so on. Maybe it'll tell me which generation I belong to. Reading is central in many different ways. That is evidence of this rather sprawling report. I'm going to do something. The first impact is on boys' reading and, by extension, boys' falling school results. There is a clear gender dimension here, albeit rarely mentioned, in terms of falling learning outcomes in school since the 1990s. Boys lag behind. Especially low-performance boys lag behind. The fact that there have recently been some positive developments is gratifying. However, the problem persists over time and is nevertheless worrying. The deterioration of boys is particularly evident in reading comprehension. Lack of knowledge about reading comprehension is a democracy problem and a gender equality problem. According to the literature study, which is from 2013, one fifth of all boys are unable to access a qualified text. It involves personal tragedies in many ways. It is about not learning to read properly, not being able to absorb advanced information and, as we have said, not having access to new worlds. At Utmarksskolan in Gothenburg you try to take on this by reading 15 minutes a day in a book, not hotskrolla as many of us do and which some are doing right now. Reading is central. And something has happened, from reading Kulla-Kulla-Gulla to reading more and more on our phones and less and less in books. Madam President, I would like It is not just a question of gender equality, but also that we need to invest more in teaching materials, in increased access to teaching materials. There is a need for textbooks that are books and not pdfs on a plate. Sometimes we liberals are perceived as strongly opposed to digitalisation, but I would like to take this opportunity to point out that this is not the case. We see that textbooks that are textbooks and digital learning materials can complement each other. Madam President, I would like I would also like to mention sexual harassment, gender-related oppression and so on. That is another part of the report. When Metoo arrived it was clear how important it is and how big problems there are. But metoo silencing pretty fast. We need to follow this up. Municipalities need to regularly monitor the work against sexual harassment in the school environment and work to provide employees with adequate tools to work preventively. Madam President, I would like I would also like to mention the oppression of honour and the central work that the school has to do in combating it. For time-winning, I only ask for the Liberals' reservation number 4, even if we support all our reservations.
i-BDuwoLBCZCrv87f7S3BNNu	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Maria Nilsson for this fire speech in defence of reading. I am pleased that, together with the other parties, we are behind the proposal for an announcement on the importance of quality-assured teaching materials. I would like to ask Maria Nilsson how she and the Liberals view the proposal for staffed school libraries for all students that investigator Gustav Fridolin has submitted to the government and is actually announced in the budget bill. There is knowledge about the reduced reading and how much reading is required to get up the sufficient reading condition to be able to read also to learn in the subjects at school. That reading does not fit in the classroom today. Although it is commendable that initiatives of 15 minutes of reading, as described by Maria Nilsson, are not enough. There's more to it. And to find the desire for learning, librarians are central resources. How does Maria Nilsson feel about introducing a right to staffed school libraries?
i-UDcRSMvwHDvGrwtJsx88Bb	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking, Annika Hirvonen! That bill has not yet been put on Parliament's table. So we have not taken a firm stand on this. I'm not a school political spokesperson. I am a spokesperson for research policy. It would be a shame if Fredrik Malm if I were to promise things I don't have coverage for. We are a party that places great emphasis on reading and, of course, sees the importance of school libraries and staffed school libraries. But I will not here promise things and give a sharp answer that I may later eat. I am content to point out that we see the importance of school libraries. Having staffed school libraries is, of course, even better. But do we have access to enough librarians? It's a pretty tight sector today. Are there human resources and so on?
i-N2MKoJiQ3VXWnCMtEJ4aYw	Madam President, I would like I have full respect for the fact that Maria Nilsson's main area of competence is higher education and research, and one cannot have knowledge of everything. Nevertheless, I would like to take this opportunity to tell you a little about what has emerged in the investigation that Gustav Fridolin has submitted to the government about staffed school libraries. One thing that has been studied is precisely access to trained staff, to school librarians. I find what comes out as a school politician very gratifying. One of the school's greatest challenges is the lack of qualified teachers. In fact, however, there is no shortage of trained librarians. If we were to carry out the investigation's proposals and ensure that there would be trained librarians in all schools except in the smallest ones and in schools that might be walled up with a public library that could offer those services, we would get more educated people into school. They could relieve teachers of part of their work on reading promotion. That would also be really good from a staff supply perspective. We also know that there are teachers who have left the teaching profession who would consider coming back to the teaching profession if they were allowed to work full-time or part-time with libraries at the school. Here we really have the opportunity to hit two birds with one stone.
i-D3FdnJSKSNVJesMfJUdm1z	Madam President, I would like I feel corrected by Annika Hirvonen. I missed this thing about the availability of school librarians. I'll take that to heart. However, I am still not quite prepared to make any commitments. When we talk about the importance of reading it sounds when you listen to Annika Hirvonen a bit like the only thing that can lead us forward is staffed school libraries. I believe that staffed school libraries play an important role. But I definitely believe that there are other measures that are central, perhaps even more central. Why not go on and try to spread the example from Utmarksskolan in Gothenburg with 15 minutes of reading and work so that there will be more textbooks that are just books around the municipalities? In Gothenburg we have a liberal councillor. It has been one of her priorities to devote resources to teaching material in the municipality's budget. It's a souled task, if I may say so. So there are other parts in this besides staffed school libraries. We will return to this issue. Now it may be a bill stop, but the question lives on anyway. We'll have to get back to it.
i-2TFhxde2XzAmd8f5sAhfBV	Madam President, I would like I was going to continue along the same lines in my first question to Maria Nilsson. This is what the Liberals' website says about school libraries: 中 School libraries play an important role in enabling children and young people to discover literature and the joy of reading. However, a room with books in it is not enough; educated school librarians are also needed. Just as there is today a recommendation that there should be one school nurse per 400 pupils, we want there to be at least one school librarian per 400 pupils. ..................................................... There is the answer to the question of what the Liberals are saying about school libraries. Then it should be very easy to support the proposal on school librarians. I shall go to the next step on this issue. We know that the issue of school libraries became highly topical from 2012 onwards when it was realised that about 30 percent of independent schools had major shortcomings when it came to school libraries. This led to a change in legislation. But it is clear that it also involves more costs – of course. The school will have to cost, and reading services and school libraries are something that should cost. After I have read out what the Liberals say about the school libraries on their website, I wonder: Are the Liberals prepared to agree that we should have staffed school libraries with school librarians? It should be quite easy to answer now that I have read out the answer from the Liberals' website about what you think on this issue.
i-K4xCyu625WekG8M9xikdZD	Madam President, I would like There's a difference, because we haven't seen the bill yet, have we? It's not on Parliament's table. I don't really have anything to take a stand on until we've seen the drafting of the bill. We are, of course, for school libraries, staffed school libraries. I have said that to Mr Hirvonen in a previous change of line. We see the importance of it. I've talked about this as an important piece of the puzzle when it comes to focusing on reading and strengthening reading as part of raising knowledge results. But we don't have the bill in front of us. What does Daniel Riazat want answers to? You want me to give you a hypothetical answer?
i-SDnwEXGxhMHL2jrRH36ZKN	Madam President, I would like I have already read out what the Liberals think on this issue, so I will move on to the next question that I have prepared. I mentioned in my speech earlier that liberal politicians at municipal level, among other things, are talking about students in the form of customers. From the Left Party it is incredibly important to ensure that the concepts do not change. The school is not and should not be a market. Students should thus never be treated as customers in a so-called market. I simply wonder: is this the line of Liberals in general? We have not only heard liberal politicians from a municipality calling students customers. In municipality after municipality this is becoming a more common concept among right-wing politicians, including liberals. Is this something the Liberals support? Do the Liberals see students as customers? If you do, I wonder: Should you start calling teachers and other school staff service personnel? Should we then start calling education, education and knowledge something else? Maybe we should call it in the form of different kinds of goods. Is this the view of the Liberals? Or do Maria Nilsson and the Liberals have a different view when it comes to school, that is, the normal? I would say that the normal thing is to look at this as knowledge and education. It's students, not customers, who go to a school. And we have teachers and principals and the like.
i-S7LEP17YANwmVpMmua2fLA	Madam President, I would like First, you, Daniel Riazat, demand hypothetical answers about a bill that hasn't been tabled yet and try to make it sound like I don't know our own policy. Then you put me to account for how municipal politicians-- that's one, as far as I know-- have expressed themselves about students. Has Daniel Riazat ever heard me from the speaker's chair name students as customers? Did Daniel Riazat do it? I can assure you I don't. I don't think that's a good way to name students. But I also know that there is a context, a context, where that reasoning was conducted in the municipality where it was conducted. It is very easy, Madam President, to snatch words and quotes out of context and to make this a symbolic policy. Isn't that what Daniel Riazat is doing right now?
i-RAkrHjXLoQcZTd8M2LM8F9	Madam President, I would like The Swedish labour market is changing. We work higher up in our ages. At the same time, we see that more and more people are coming to Sweden who have a very short education. Some may never have received a first education. Today, many 50-year-olds have 25 years left in the labour market if they gain new knowledge and opportunities for transition. At the same time, we know that 1.3 million people of working age in Sweden cannot support themselves. Many of them have a short education. However, adult education has been left largely without reforms. The Komvux investigation was presented with some important reforms – absolutely. But that is far from enough. Adult education in Sweden needs a substantial quality lift. We need clearer labour market links, greater flexibility and increased cost-effectiveness. We're gonna get more for every tax chandelier. A wide range of reforms is now needed. Firstly, we want to see a free-school system in adult education with the Swedish School Inspectorate as the supervisory authority. When it comes to preschool, comprehensive school and high school, things look different. In the case of adult education, it is the municipality that is the principal, and it is the municipality that supervises all education providers in adult education. The municipality procures or authorises suppliers. The municipality itself imposes quality requirements – these are different quality requirements in different municipalities – and then manages supervision, often by the same educational provider or the same municipality. Different municipalities thus have different quality requirements and supervise themselves. This is not an effective system. Secondly, we need more quality monitoring, and we need to introduce external examiners in adult education. We know today that many training courses lead to jobs to a large extent. At the same time, we know that some other training courses, and we can say this in advance, lead to a very small amount of post-graduate work. A much clearer national quality focus with national quality requirements is needed here. We want to introduce national exams and external examiners to ensure that an approved grade is always worth as much, regardless of which municipality you happen to live in. That is not the case today. Thirdly, we want to introduce a performance-based remuneration. Today, some educational providers may have an incentive to keep a student in studies, because the reimbursement system is designed: You are paid to keep the student in education on an ongoing basis. Instead, we want to see a system that steers towards the result we want to see. We want to see that you get a passing grade afterwards, and we want to see that you might get a job, depending on the type of education involved. Then that's what we're going to rig the system for and steer towards. Despite this, very few municipalities today use a performance-based payment in adult education, something we would really like to see in more places. Finally, we need a clearer link to the labour market in adult education. We want to encourage more companies to contribute to vocational training, for example through tax incentives to organise training themselves, and for individuals, individuals, who want to further train themselves. If you already have a job, have worked a long time in your professional life and feel that your body can't take it anymore and therefore want to change tracks and educate you to something else, it is today very difficult to get the opportunity for that kind of transition. After all, it is rarely the case that your current employer would finance an education that means that you will change your profession and employer. Unfortunately, the door to komvux is closed in many municipalities at that time, and that is why we want to introduce, among other things, a tax credit for training for those who want to invest in their own further training. Madam President, I would like These are some of the many reforms that we want to see in the area of adult education. What has built Sweden strong is all the hardworking people who get up in the morning, go to work and contribute to our common. While the Social Democrats want to extend the grant policy and continue with their hidden-forgotten policy, we Moderates will always stand up for the people who set the alarm clock, go up and help to support themselves. That is why we need to introduce a work line in adult education as well. Madam President, I would like With this, I would like to thank you for the floor and ask you to vote in favour of reservation 7 in paragraph 3.
i-5xTGo9LTEQkLYB4EoncRy4	Madam President, I would like There was a lot of wisdom in Mr Malmqvist's speech, let me start by saying. Adult education needs to be reformed. I agree. Then we can consider whether further deductions in the taxation system are the right way forward. We can divide that. Adult education is important, not only from an individual perspective but also from a system perspective. It affects the functioning of the labour market in its basic foundations, and I am not so proud to stand here today and be able to boast a little that we will soon have a fantastic, world-unique system of transition that focuses on issues that we have discussed in politics for a long time, namely lifelong learning and how we ensure that people can be educated and skills developed throughout their lives. We know that our training is no longer enough for a full professional life. Much is happening in digitalisation and automation, and then it is clear that we all need to replenish in order to remain attractive in the Swedish labour market. Every fourth student leaving high school does so with incomplete grades. Therefore, high quality adult education is crucial to create additional conditions for these people to have new and better life chances later in life. In the best of worlds we manage to get more people to study professional programs in high school. However, when this does not happen, it is incredibly important that there are paths to these professions through adult education. We see how industry by industry screams for competence. In many sectors specific vocational training is required. Unfortunately, we are not able to fill them fully, which I find regrettable. Right now we have a situation with 218 000 vacancies at Platsbanken. Hear and marvel – 218 000 vacancies! It is a huge loss both for individuals and for Sweden as a nation that we do not manage to support companies that create jobs and give tax revenue to the welfare with the necessary skills. The Center Party therefore sees the need for reforms to develop professional skills. Long-term planning conditions are needed. The current system needs to be improved both to meet labour market needs and to dare to invest in training courses that require more resources. Industries also need more influence to develop and design education and training to meet the needs of the labour market. The Centre Party also sees a need to strengthen support for municipalities and better monitor activities. We therefore share the Kliva inquiry's assessment that the Swedish School Inspectorate's review will also take place at the operational level and that the Swedish School Authority will produce support material for procurement. Having said that, I would like to address the Social Democrats and say that it is really distressing and sad that you are choosing to bury the Kliva investigation. There were very many good things in it that unfortunately do not become reality. I find it very strange that we did not want to add the billion needed to strengthen quality in line with the changes proposed by the investigation. Madam President, I would like The Swedish education system is characterised by freedom of choice and the possibility to choose education providers – except when it comes to municipal adult education. It is one of the few systems where it is de facto up to the municipality to decide whether or not there should be freedom of choice. The Center Party wants to see an adult education grant so that freedom of choice is also made possible for people who want to study adult education. It would be a good step to create more freedom of choice and strengthen the students' conditions. Since I have the floor, I thought I'd get some feeling about SFI. When the ordinary spokesperson is not in the speaker's chair, I can take the opportunity to carry out my own crusade against Sfi. Sfi is a school form that is under any criticism. In the vast majority of municipalities, 15-18 hours are offered, regardless of the level. There are no good instruments for progression measurement, it is not result controlled and it is not preceded by a test. Nor are there any tests after the training. Despite the fact that only 30 credits are required to qualify, only one teacher in three is qualified. We invest a third so much per place compared to what a high school place costs, so it's no wonder that people don't learn Swedish. Learning Swedish is a prerequisite for being attractive in the Swedish labour market. Against this background, I turn to the Social Democrats. A lot of these issues were dealt with in the now famous Kliva investigation that you chose to bury, which is very, very boring. Within the framework of the January agreement, we made sure to set up a sfi-money investigation aimed at the second part of the quality boost that needs to be put in place for sfi. It is about the form and results achieved in language development. It is gratifying that the investigation has now been presented. Actually, it wasn't that many days since it came. We now hope that it will be sent out quickly for consultation and that the performance-based remuneration for SFI will be implemented. Madam President, I would like The report also highlights polytechnic education as a fantastic success story in Sweden for some time. It is education that is developed according to the needs of the labour market. Most students who study a YH education get a job. Continuing to develop YH is the key issue. This year, despite high demand for skills, the number of admissions within YH does not increase. Several reports have recently shown that it is a socially profitable investment. We want to see more training places within YH forward. They obviously need to go through the state budget, but we also want to open up the possibility of allowing private public employers to co-finance places at universities of applied sciences. Madam President, I would like Of course, I support all the claims made by the Centre Party in the report. But I actually had to choose which reservation I wanted to agree to, 3, 11 or 12, and for time winning I take my favorite number, namely reservation 3.
i-BX64ST2a6es2BrGqfgCpyx	Madam President, I would like I am not going to have a lottery on which reservation I am going to agree, but I am calling for reservation 16. I would like to begin my speech by correctly speaking in the previous speaker's chair, Alireza Akhondi from the Center Party. Although there are problems with the percentage of qualified teachers on SFI and a number of other problems, the main problem is that you do not have the right to read SFI in Sweden from day one, but you must have received a residence permit in Sweden to have the right to read SFI. Other courses that you study when you come to Sweden are organized by other actors, such as ABF and other organisations. But the right to sfi is not something you have from the beginning. That's why it's not surprising either if people don't learn Swedish if they have to wait for years. Without the right to read SFI, it is obvious that there will be problems. Madam President, I would like For many people, adult education has provided a second chance when previous school forms have failed. For others, this has meant a chance for professional change. At present, specific actions in both adult education and labour market policies are necessary to improve access to education and to facilitate future skills provision. However, the conditions and commitment of municipalities to Komvux vary across the country. This can lead to problems for both individuals and society. To have the right to education and to receive education of the highest quality equivalent throughout the country is a matter for everyone. Equal education and training offer requires an equal economy, and state financial responsibility is therefore central to achieving this. Equal conditions do not mean as much money for all municipalities, but that resources should be allocated according to needs – unlike money according to what a municipality wants and can pay, as it is today. Madam President, I would like The area is broad, and I have chosen to focus on two areas that I think are particularly important today. During the pandemic, we were all able to say that access to good and equal care for the elderly throughout the country was incredibly important. The Left Party wants an equal and equal care of the elderly with high quality. Staff with the right skills are a prerequisite for such elderly care to be carried out. There will be a shortage of trained nurses in the future. In order for the supply of skills to be secure in the long term, the profession must become more attractive. The nursing profession has been the subject of a number of different investigations, and about a year and a half ago the government left the bill Strengthened competence in healthcare and care – regulation of the nursing profession. It proposed, among other things, that the profession of assistant nurse should be regulated with a protected professional title. In a follow-up motion, the Left Party argued that the profession of assistant nurse should be regulated by a protected title and reserve of duties on the grounds that regulation of the assistant nurse's duties would probably create incentives for employers to hire more nurses and for the individual to train. Given the expected increase in the incidence in the coming years of extensive and composite elderly care needs – which we also saw during the pandemic – that receive municipal care and care combined with increased quality requirements, it is important that nurses' skills are more clearly regulated and ensured. The Swedish National Agency for Education has decided on a revised health and social care programme within upper secondary school, which started in July last year. That's good. National professional packages have been drawn up with proposals for content in coherent vocational training that can be provided in Komvux. However, the content of adult care education will vary greatly as the authorities can choose how to use the national professional packages. The so-called commissioned education is often shorter than the training provided in the form of the national professional package. According to another study, SOU 2019:20, over 70 per cent of the employees of nurses have a municipal adult education or other adult education in health and social care. For a large proportion of health care employees, the educational content will differ because municipalities can choose to have different types of content in education. As a result, equivalence is not ensured throughout the country. We therefore believe that the government should appoint an appropriate authority to produce clearer national guidelines based on the previous Government proposal. However, it must be made clear that it applies to all training courses for nurses. Madam President, I would like The second subject I would like to raise concerns the right of adoptees to mother tongue education. In Sweden there are thousands of people who have been adopted from other countries. It is people who have the right to learn about their origins and should have the right to learn their language. When you're a child and you go to school, you have the right to speak native language. But this is based on basic knowledge of the language and commitment of the parents who have brought them here. In recent years there have been irregularities in international adoptions. On the initiative of the Left Party, Parliament has decided that these adoptions will be investigated. So far, the lack of commitment from Swedish authorities has meant that the information received and the dissemination of knowledge about these irregularities has fallen on non-profit organisations in Sweden. One of the problems has been that one has not been taught one's mother tongue. Swedish citizens who have come to Sweden through adoption have formed their own associations to, for example, immerse themselves in the circumstances of why they have come here. The language barrier has been one of the main problems that have made it difficult for adopted people to access information about their background. In Chile, for example, the investigation work takes place in Spanish, which must then be translated by non-profit forces into Swedish so that the information can be disseminated to the people concerned. We believe that a stronger regulatory framework is needed to ensure that adopted people have the right to learn their mother tongue in adult education, in order to facilitate this work. We therefore believe that an increased right to study one's own mother tongue should be investigated immediately.
i-LBRYfQYiPFzHvGK1tawo5N	Madam President, I would like I am really hungry, and after this I will also get in the car and drive to Sibbhult. But when a left partyist so clearly invites to dance, you can't be the one who says no, even if the time is high. Before the Ukraine crisis struck, it was about 26 percent of all asylum applications that were granted, Daniel Riazat. It is no wonder that you have to wait until you know if you can stay in Sweden or not before you can take part in SFI education. It's not weird, I think. Then it's great that we still don't want to lose time and therefore offer Swedish from day one, then with the help of folkbildning and its resources. It is also a way of strengthening peoples' education. I am well aware that Daniel Riazat is the spokesperson of the Left Party's educational policy – he nods – and I may find it a little regrettable that he does not really master the SFI issue, Madam President. I myself have been the head of such an activity in municipal administration, and the shortcomings are not really about when you get started. Instead, they are about the number of hours offered and how the result is measured – the compensation is paid according to the result – as well as the form, content and so on. Above all, it is about the competence of teachers and that they are actually able to teach. I didn't really have a question to Daniel Riazat, which is perhaps the point of such a change of line. Yet, how does Daniel Riazat comment on my claims?
i-2YF4DW8evGnaDa1tZkk634	Madam President, I would like Everyone who sits on the Education Committee knows that I like replicating – and most of all I love replicating without clear questions, because it gives me a good opportunity to continue explaining Left Party policy in this area. Since Alireza Akhondi is not a full member of the Education Committee, he does not know what motions I usually raise – it is not so strange – but first of all I want to say that I have raised motions on the issue of the level of training of staff, among other things. I have also made proposals to the House regarding the whole structure of the SFI. Among other things, you should be able to read SFI earlier. We believe on the Left side that it is crucial for people to read SFI earlier. I can take my own, or rather my mother's, case as an example: We lived in Sweden for four years before we found out whether we could stay or not, and during that time my mother did not have the right to read SFI. Now she could learn Swedish through her internship in a workplace instead, but not everyone has had the privilege to do so. That's why it's important to have SFI from day one. With regard to the question of a sfi-peng, which was mentioned earlier, I think it would be terrible given that we are seeing how things have gone in the rest of the education system. We have a school money used by market players as a way of attracting people and enriching our tax revenue. We know that, in this case too, it will lead to irregularities which various actors have already been out and condemned. They have said that this should not be allowed to happen. If you have now worked in adult education, Alireza Akhondi, you can ask them if they would like a sfi-peng. The answer will be no.
i-NxoVhWeNoZi1m5RjLNNEta	Madam President, I would like Daniel Riazat makes a lot of groundless claims about a marketing school. What is it? I have never understood what Mr Riazat is talking about when he talks about marketing schools. It's great that we have a school money system. Freedom of choice is fantastically good and something we should protect and develop. This does not mean that the current school system does not have shortcomings; of course it has shortcomings, and it is clear that the problems that exist should be addressed. The alternative is to go back to the system Daniel Riazat so strongly advocates, that is, it is the parents' wallet that determines people's chances of life. It determines which areas they can write their children in to allow them to attend those schools and so on. I think that children like me, who have grown up in Tensta, should actually be allowed to choose where they want to go to school. I want to give these children and students that opportunity, and the same applies to adult education. Why should you not be able to choose which player suits you best and offers the education and pedagogy that suits you? Why do Daniel Riazat and the Left always want to prevent people from making their own choices and being able to influence their future – and also take responsibility for the choices they make? Instead, we want to identify an entire sector as a fiddler and a cheater who just wants to enrich himself. It's really distressing.
i-SHH8bPrEexbZjrzFa1XCGf	Madam President, I would like Now I don't really know what this had to do with adult education – I just made one example – but let me explain. The Center Party is co-governing in a large majority of the country's municipalities. The Center Party has been involved in developing the bulk of the government policy over a number of recent years and has previously also been in the government. All the things Alireza Akhondi stands here today accusing the system and the Left Party for are things that the Center Party itself has either been involved in creating or made worse. It is interesting that the example of Tensta comes up, because I do not think it has been even two days since the Center Party was involved in selling Tensta high school to a private real estate company in order to allow our resources to go to profits. What choice do you talk about when Tensta children are not allowed to go to a municipal school if they want to do so, Madam President? Instead, freedom of choice is given to the various players in Luxembourg and banks in different countries in Europe and in tax havens. Is it their choice to attract the most profitable students who are the freedom of choice of the Center Party? That is not what the Left Party means by freedom of choice. Freedom of choice is about the fact that we must have the right to equal and equal education throughout the country. Today this is not the case, and one major reason for this is the Center-driven market experiment that has been going on in Sweden for 30 years – and which today has begun to affect adult education as well. We see this in the municipality by municipality. In addition, the Center Party is involved in major cuts in the majority of municipalities. It's not freedom of choice for anyone.
i-NBYG8eiypS6UVMXxmA9swM	Madam President, I would like In Sweden, lifelong learning is a priority. Here it is and should be possible to return to studies to build on their competence at komvux, folk high schools or learning centres when necessary. We Christian Democrats want to open up the possibilities for further studies further. First of all, we want to explore the possibility of introducing free school choices in Komvux, and by this we mean that one should be able to apply for a place of education in another part of the country without being denied this if a certain education is not provided in one's own municipality. That is not the case. Nor has it been possible for anyone with upper secondary school degrees to study another upper secondary school programme via Komvux. Re-election has been possible during high school but not after, which of course is a problem. In the green industries, for example, there is a great shortage of labour. In order to attend an education focused on the green industries at the University of Applied Sciences, you must have attended a high school of natural sciences. But the fact that you want to work with this could be something that you come up with later in life. Perhaps it is only when you inherit or take over that farm that you find that you also want to cultivate the land and forest that belongs to. In such a situation, it is amazing if there are opportunities to retrain. If you have another upper secondary school education in your back, you should not be denied access to the university of applied sciences programme at a later stage. It is important that doors are opened to people in the Swedish labour market. However, it is also important that we ensure that the equivalence, quality and efficiency of municipal adult education are strengthened, and there are many improvements to be made here. Firstly, in order to improve quality, systematic supervision of adult education needs to be carried out at both the main level and the school level. In the past, the School Inspectorate carried out this only at the main level, which we know has led to major problems. As municipalities have different systems to offer adult education – some offer it to municipalities and others through procurement – adult education has not been adequately reviewed. The lack of a complete picture has jeopardised the quality and equivalence of adult education and training. Cheating and joy certificates have meritoriously been highlighted by both TV4's Cold Facts and the School World. The Christian Democrats welcome the fact that the Swedish School Inspectorate's mission to supervise adult education has now been strengthened. From this year onwards, the Authority will also review adult education at school level. There are more things we can do to improve quality. The Christian Democrats believe that part of the targeted state contribution for the professional adult should be applied for directly by the company or industry, together with the education provider – this to facilitate and streamline professional exchange and regional skills provision. We also want to investigate a new procurement system, which rewards quality before quantity in adult education. In order for komvux to be an equivalent form of school with quality in the first place, we believe that an alternative procurement system is needed. We need a model that allocates resources based on quality, teacher-led teaching and knowledge development. In conclusion, of course, those who take part in teaching are also in a position to take advantage of it. This is important in order to safeguard the cost-effectiveness of adult education, but above all, of course, it is important for those students who invest their time in education. We believe that after a semester of studies you should have a conversation with the individual student to evaluate the conditions for assimilation. Such a control post, we believe, could support students in their knowledge learning and provide more effective adult education. If it turns out that a student has a low presence or lack of motivation, the place of education can be offered to another student, who then gets the chance to take a step closer to the labour market. Madam President, I would like With this, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 8.
i-GiMdfekddpmsDPdRRqerJM	Madam President, I would like We need to change Sweden. Recently, the latest report from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) was presented. The situation is urgent. We are in a climate emergency, and small changes are not enough. We need to transform our society, from fossil fuels and toil to 100% renewable energy and a circular economy. But, Madam President, it is not just the energy system and production and consumption that need to be changed – this is not being changed by itself. In every sector that is changing, we also need people with new skills. In the green transition, we also need a green transition of people – skills upgrade and perhaps even career change. For, Madam President, going from building in concrete to building wooden houses requires other knowledge and skills. There adult education comes in as an important piece of the puzzle in the transition. I would therefore like to support the Green Party's reservation 5 on a green boost in skills. Madam President, I would like It is also not just the green transition that will mean that we will need more adult education in the future. We also go into a time with accelerated digitalisation and a longer working life. We live longer, and many of us will have several different professions during our working life; that will become normal. That is why I am also pleased that we are soon to have a system in place where it will be possible to get study funding and further education later in life. We need to match this with a range of adult education that is relevant and topical. Madam President, I would like I would also like to say a few words about the financing of adult education. We have spoken a great deal in this House about the ongoing marketisation of schools. Adult education is a little different. There the municipality is the principal and then procures private actors who conduct training. Some ask for results-based funding, perhaps based on what grades the students receive. A recent review of some of these so - called educational actors revealed that grades were given for things that were not even taught. Whistling teachers and students talked about how teachers were forced and pressured to give false grades and how the students stood there without the skills they needed to get to work. It is appalling, this cheating and falsification that has been allowed to happen. I am pleased that several proposals to tighten this up are beginning to come into place. But, Madam President, if we are to get away from this, we must remove the interest in profit from the school equation, including in adult education. We need to ensure that only those who actually have education as their goal carry out education. I am convinced that this is how we strengthen quality – not through minimum price procurement. Madam President, I would like The hour's late. Of course, I support all my reservations, and I could give a brand talk about each one. But I'll stay there for time winning.
i-3aD3Qmu6uJdMPEVwPEkc3f	Madam President, I would like Thank you, President-in-Office, for staying in this late hour! I promised to say this, because I thought I'd be all alone when it was my turn, but there are some brave souls left here. Today we are debating adult education. I would like to begin by calling for the draft decision of the Committee on Education and Training to be approved. I will also comment a little on what Mr Malmqvist mentioned in his speech. She said that adult education is important. I really do share that assessment, and so does the government. Josefin said that there had been no reforms in this area. I would just like to say that the government has invested funds equivalent to 160 000 new adult education places in various forms. More and more people recognise the importance of adult education for lifelong learning and for enabling active labour market policies. It is about basic education, but also about filling in with knowledge and also about changing to a completely new working life. For us Social Democrats, it has long been clear that adult education plays a key role both in getting people into work and in securing the need for skills provision. Therefore, the government has also made several important efforts to enable adult education to meet the educational needs that exist both today and tomorrow. Adult education has become a very powerful tool for more people to get into work and reach their own livelihood. The government recently presented a bill that clarified the division of responsibilities between municipalities and state authorities, such as the Public Employment Service. Each individual will be helped with an education plan. An education obligation is introduced. Vocational training shall be combined with language learning. Language and professional skills are woven together and thus prepare the way for future jobs. Madam President, I would like Another example, which was also mentioned by Alireza Akhondi, is the Kliva investigation. This is not least about improvements and changes in Swedish for immigrants. The study concluded that clarification was needed as regards the responsibilities and responsibilities of municipalities as heads of adult education and the SFI. It was about tightening up the requirements for municipalities to more clearly motivate and support, but also about ensuring that all students both start and complete their Swedish education. It is crucial for them to be able to move on to more education or a job. The need for good and quality-assured adult education throughout the country is important and crucial if we are to succeed in the comprehensive challenge of meeting the labour market's needs for properly trained workers. It is about meeting the professional skills of the manufacturing industry, craft companies, technology companies with several and large parts of the public sector, where we see great needs both now and in the future in the care of the elderly and in health care. Madam President, I would like It is extremely sad to see that the declines in marketing schools also exist in this important field of education. Unfortunately, today we find not only profit hunting in schools but also in adult education. We see procured private education providers who do not seem to have the task of being trusted by society as their primary goal. The focus does not seem to be on providing pupils with the teaching materials, practical experience and skills needed to get them into work and self-support. All too often, the driving force is something else, namely profit. We see procured schools that lack both teachers and practical training opportunities but still have to keep calling themselves schools. All too often, despite poor results, they can continue to receive students and make even more profit. Of course, that's not good enough. The prize hunt must stop. Society must take back responsibility for democratic control and welfare. Money intended for adult education and learning should also go there. The role of municipalities as responsible leaders for all adult education obviously needs to be further clarified. It should not be possible to believe that, as a municipality, you can procure your responsibility as a principal in any form of adult education. It is therefore well-lucky that the government recently presented a bill that strengthens and clarifies the municipalities' responsibilities as principals. Control of activities really needs to be strengthened. Here, the Swedish School Inspectorate from having previously only reviewed the municipality at the main level has now also been commissioned by the government to review procured activities carried out by private education providers. This is an important step. My hope is that these strengthened powers will lead both municipalities as principals and private education providers to see the seriousness of this, so that we do not have to see any further maladministration in this important area of education. Fortunately, however, there are many municipalities where both procurement of private education providers and collaboration between municipalities and employment services and other things work well. I hope that we can allow these to be examples and good examples. Both the local professional and the regional professional qualifications are well placed to train people to the right skills in many of the shortage professions. The crucial thing is that education is conducted in close cooperation with the local and regional economy and the public labour market. There must be a more natural and clearer interaction between the labour market and adult education. Madam President, I would like I am really looking forward to the government's forthcoming proposal regarding the interaction between several municipalities – at least three municipalities – for the implementation of upper secondary education and hopefully also adult education. This synergy will make it possible to make the upper secondary offer more complete for all young people regardless of their place of residence. It is also an opportunity to create stronger interaction between industry, the public sector and the education system, which in the long run creates a better functioning labour market. We need to be much more concerned about demonstrating to young people what future opportunities and jobs exist at local and regional level, and we need to adapt education and training to these needs. Education should of course be offered according to the individual's needs and wishes, but also according to the needs of the labour market. Increased collaboration and greater transparency in local and regional conditions go hand in hand with offering interesting training courses that actually lead to jobs. This strengthens the individual, local society and skills supply throughout the country.
i-YNjADvdDjKBPLfKg51QtTG	Madam President, I would like The hour is late, but I couldn't help asking for a line. In my speech, I mentioned the need for reform of adult education in Sweden. I note that Mr Kronståhl then chooses to focus on how much money adult education receives. But money is not the same as reforms, Madam President. I therefore wonder: why are the Social Democrats opposed to the necessary reforms to improve the quality of adult education, such as national knowledge requirements, national tests and external examiners? Why are the Social Democrats opposed to reforms to increase the cost-effectiveness of adult education so that it is not the cheapest money per hour but the most knowledge per invested tax chandelier? Why are the Social Democrats opposed to such reforms? Finally, why are the Social Democrats opposed to reforms for greater flexibility in adult education? They do so even though we know that it makes it possible for more people to combine conversion and language studies with an education so that they can get to work more quickly.
i-RbyowcLfGxbtSKMNFogpyY	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Josefin Malmqvist, for these very exciting questions! It is very interesting that you, Josefin, believe that we are opposed to improvements when we are constantly making improvements. You were looking at some reforms and mentioned, among other things, a performance base-rate replacement system. It is interesting that we have a system where we procure someone to educate. Then, in order to get them to carry out training – the ones we have procured – and really succeed, we need to give them additional funds to deliver. I am really opposed to such a system. We must, of course, ensure that the municipalities that procure rogue operators really understand that their responsibility is to provide adults with the education they have the right to demand. That is what we are trying to do by, for example, strengthening the role of the School Inspectorate to also be able to review these. We are also strengthening and reforming adult education in such a way that we have removed the rule which said that the least educated person could get in first. We've changed that. Now it's the one with the greatest need. We believe that those who are in the best position to get into work quickly or in further education can be given priority. If the bill goes through, we will also enable a labour market region to apply for adult education in the cooperating municipalities.
i-TrGJGRvcS9HrGANSK6DSCy	Madam President, I would like I am pleased that Tomas Kronståhl highlights several of the reforms that we agree on, including the change in the school law that it should not be the one who has the shortest education, but the one who has the greatest need for education that is given priority. It was the Social Democrats who introduced this wording. I am pleased that they have now changed their minds on this point. I am pleased that Tomas Kronståhl thinks that the Swedish School Inspectorate is doing a good job. I share that picture. The alliance government was the driving force in this. And through our budget that went through last autumn, the School Inspectorate received additional funding. I am therefore pleased that the honourable Member shares the view that these are important areas. However, it makes me deeply concerned that the level of knowledge clearly lacks in terms of cost-effectiveness and performance-based remuneration systems. That is not the reality today. Whether adult education is conducted in municipal self-government or through procurement – municipalities choose to use several different procurement models, such as authorisation or construction procurement – there are different ways to replace for the time spent in school. Our focus and focus in a performance-based remuneration is on what result you want the student to achieve after completing the education. Do you want more students to finish and go to work, perhaps not directly but in long-term self-sufficiency, for example six or twelve months after completing education? If you want more people to achieve a certain grade, maybe a pass grade, external examiners are needed that can ensure and assure the quality of the grades that principals and teachers land in. These reforms shine with their absence from the Social Democratic Government. Such reforms would certainly have to come into place.
i-2i7WN9wknC8FUYjzpEuDAr	Madam President, I would like I note that Mr Malmqvist believes that the School Inspectorate is doing a good job. I would have preferred to have seen that we had a school system where we do not need a school inspection to review those who give our children and, for that matter, adults an education. It should be obvious that those who do education do such a good job that we do not need a school inspection. But now that we have a market school system that allows some municipalities to believe that they can buy or sell their responsibilities, it is in order to quickly overcome the problems we have incredibly important to use the inspection authority that you set up to check that quality is maintained. This money could have gone to improving the quality of all other schools instead, but now we have this system. I think they have an important role to play in filling in the system that exists. The focus on results and a compensation system after results is, I mean, a misthinking right from the start. We procure something and should in this procurement be clear with what results are to be delivered. That's what we're basically paying for. We shouldn't have a system where we first procure, and if they deliver, they'll be paid extra. It's not a good system. I'm an entrepreneur myself. Having two replacement models cannot be a sensible system.
i-Txjbj6hgkyXNgHseuTXQT5	Madam President, I would like The last visit I made before the pandemic struck in March two years ago went to adult education in Gothenburg, with a special focus on SFI. I do not have many minutes, but there is one group to which I would very much like to draw the attention of the House. This concerns a group of SFIs and how the pandemic has affected this group. Of course, the pandemic – as we know – has put pressure on the whole education system. Several international studies have shown a significant rate of knowledge. Not least, students with difficulties have been most affected as they benefit most from teacher-led education. It is therefore of particular importance that we carry out a survey of the students in SFI education who have studied routes 1 and 2. These are students who have a particularly short educational background and have been particularly affected by not having teacher-led teaching. They have been allowed to stay at home, perhaps with unsatisfactory tools for their teaching. This may have been two lost years, and we need to find out what happened to these students. Are they students who find their way back to SFI training? Are they students who have moved on to work? That would be amazing. But if it is also students who have just disappeared, who may be sitting at home, it needs to be mapped, and action needs to be identified. These students are important. Madam President, I would like I would also like to say a few words about the teachers in Komvux. We don't often talk about Komvux teachers. It is as important a group as the group we often talk about when we say that teachers are a very important profession in youth school. There are several ways to increase the percentage of qualified teachers in Komvux. It is not least about improving the working environment and conditions. We in the Liberals propose, among other things, in our motion to put an end to what we call uncontrollable continuous intake of new students in komvux. It needs to be regulated by fixed dates, for example once a quarter, in order to be able to carry out structural training. As a teacher, one must be able to organise one's teaching and education. Therefore, the reception of new students must take place in more orderly forms. I would also like to emphasise the need for qualified teachers in SFI. We have heard from this speaker that SFI is a form of education where there is a minimum number of qualified teachers. Madam President, I would like I support all the Liberals' reservations, but for the sake of time, I am in favour of reservation number four.
