i-LevGZepva681cGjCHFV7y8	Madam President, I would like Today we are going to deal with this year's third amending budget, and most of it points to the conclusion of the most serious phase of the coronapndemine. But this morning's announcement of Russia's invasion of Ukraine shows how quickly everything can change. Of course, we fully support the Prime Minister's strongest condemnation of Russia's actions. And we are now again being thrown into a period of great insecurity and human suffering, for which Russia bears full responsibility. Russia's invasion also means great economic uncertainty; the stock markets around the world are falling, and the price of oil has risen to levels that we have not seen since 2014. During the winter we have seen how the security policy situation has led to high electricity prices for Swedish households, and we have every reason to believe that Sweden will continue to be affected financially. Of course, both the Government and the Riksdag will closely monitor the situation in order to be able to take the necessary measures. Today, however, it is the government's supplementary amending budget No 3 that we are deciding on. It includes important measures to support and provide security for the sectors concerned when the pandemic restrictions are dismantled and compensation for households affected by high electricity prices. This is a total of SEK 10 1⁄2 billion. We have learned important lessons from the financial crisis as regards the importance of not pulling back crisis aid too quickly. So, despite the fact that pandemic restrictions are being phased out, we are today deciding on important measures to continue supporting the sectors concerned and to give sport and civil society a better chance of catching up with activities and engagement lost during the crisis. In order to make it easier for companies affected by the pandemic, the withdrawal period for the regular short-term support is suspended. The period for deferment of taxes granted during the pandemic is extended after the committee's adjustment to 36 months. Today, we also decide on extended and enhanced event support at an estimated cost of SEK 1.75 billion. Sport and civil society will receive a total of SEK 430 million to reactivate children and young people and mitigate the consequences of the pandemic for vulnerable groups. The proposal also provides for a temporary increase in aid to regional airports of SEK 100 million. Madam President, I would like However, the largest item in the supplementary amending budget is an electricity price compensation of SEK 7.5 billion used to ease the financial burden on households affected by extremely high electricity prices this winter. The main reason for the electricity crisis that has hit the whole of Europe is that Russia has cut off access to natural gas, which has driven up prices of electricity significantly. Today, therefore, we are deciding on compensation for households that have been hard hit by record electricity prices. In short, the support means compensation of up to SEK 2 000 per month – a total of SEK 6 000. The maximum amount goes to those who consume more than 2 000 kilowatt hours per month, which corresponds to the consumption of a normal large house with electric heating. The aim is to ease the financial burden for everyone who lives in houses, small houses, terraced houses and larger apartments and who has seen their costs increase dramatically in recent months. The compensation will reach a total of 2 million households in Sweden. The support is not perfect, but it is feasible and means that the money can come out to households already in March or April. The aid is also designed to be as accurate as possible, with higher compensation for those with higher consumption. At the same time, there is a ceiling of 2,000 kilowatt hours per month to ensure that the money really hits those who need the money most in this situation. The alternative proposal presented by the Moderates and others in this process would not have been feasible. But if it had been feasible, the normal sized electric villa would have received a total of SEK 1 750 in support. With our proposal they get 6 000 kroner. This is, of course, because their proposal lacked a ceiling, so that both businesses and consumers with very high electricity consumption would have received an unreasonable amount of money. If you have very large properties, you almost always have an economic buffer to cover that kind of costs yourself. Madam President, I would like Nevertheless, I would like to emphasise that the compensation of electricity prices is a temporary aid measure in an emergency situation. In order to ensure really reasonable electricity prices for Swedish households and companies, we need to increase electricity generation both in the short and long term but also use electricity in a smart way. At the beginning of February, the Government presented a national electrification strategy to take a holistic approach to the issue. Electrification is crucial for us to reach climate targets and take further steps towards becoming the world's first fossil-free welfare country. Madam President, I would like The Coronandem has been a great strain on our country. From day one, the government has been careful that money should not stand in the way of saving lives and health and get measures in place to mitigate the consequences for Swedish jobs and companies. The support was developed at a rapid pace and has not always worked from the start but has had to be continuously adjusted in close cooperation between the Government and the Riksdag. The handling would not have been possible without constructive cooperation between the parties in committee, and I thank you for this cooperation. I also hope that this cooperation can consist of the serious situation we are currently in. Of course, we are not entirely satisfied with the support either. We need to continue to evaluate and adjust aid, not least in order to be equipped for future crises. There is no difference of opinion regarding the proposal for a notice by the majority of committees on more accurate support for, among other things, the tourism industry. We want the same thing. Aid needs to continue to be improved. In the background to the announcement that was proposed, a number of issues have been raised which, together in the committee and the government, we have looked closely at, and they have been relevant throughout the pandemic. But no one has been able to present a viable solution to these problems. Nor does the announcement contain any concrete and feasible proposals, which is why we do not really see what it would do for the committee to propose such an announcement to the government. However, if there are concrete and feasible proposals, we are still willing and interested to look at them further. Madam President, I would like Russia's invasion of Ukraine makes the economic situation now highly uncertain. Until now, we have seen that the Swedish economy is recovering strongly from the pandemic. By learning from previous crises, we have ensured that aid is not withdrawn too quickly, and we have also seen clear indications that that strategy has been successful. Pandemic aid has helped viable Swedish companies to overcome the crisis. Bnp is now back at the level the government predicted before the pandemic. We have historically low rates of notice and bankruptcy. Unemployment has also fallen. Madam President, I would like Even before Russia's invasion, we faced a number of challenges in the wake of the pandemic, not least in terms of welfare. Children and young people have lost a lot of teaching time and quality, and many patients have not received the care they need during the pandemic. Whatever the challenges – these but also those we may have to face in view of the current situation – I and my party are convinced that we meet them best together. This applies whether it is a question of the challenges of welfare or of security policy. I hope for continued good cooperation with other parties. I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-RUUFXDJWWM3y9LoAsPffg1	Madam President, I would like We are going to discuss an important amending budget today. Yet, something much more important and more serious has happened. We woke up this morning to the news and the sad news that the air alarms are sounding in Kiev and that the bombing of European countries has begun. Russia has started war in Europe. Soldiers have died, and people have been injured. Children and parents now flee to seek refuge. This is a tragedy for Ukraine, Madam President, but it is also a tragedy for the whole of Europe. Today we are thinking of the Ukrainian people and are on their side. We in Sweden should do everything we can to support Ukraine and the Ukrainian people at this difficult moment. As the President-in-Office mentioned earlier, this will of course have repercussions for the Swedish economy, but I am leaving it aside right now. Madam President, I would like This winter, many people have struggled with their household finances. Sky-high electricity bills and high fuel prices have been mined from household wallets. I talked to Christer Lindeblad in Skåne a few months ago. You may have read interviews with him in the Expressen, for example. He told me that he used half his pension in December to pay the electricity bill. I'm afraid Christer isn't alone. Many households have had a tough time and are currently having a tough time in coping with the high prices. It is no coincidence, Madam President, that electricity prices have ended up where they have ended up. It has not just happened on its own. There are many reasons, but one important reason is political decisions in Sweden but also in other parts of Europe. If you shut down four fully functioning nuclear reactors, prices will be higher. I am not going to make an energy policy debate on this, but I can only say that it is no coincidence. In December, the Moderates presented a proposal to make it easier for households and make it a little easier in this difficult time, as many other EU countries had done. We proposed that the electricity tax should be removed and abolished for two months. It is quite possible to do so forward, but the government did not listen to that. The truth is that when I presented the proposal in December, the government was very critical. Then a few days and weeks passed, and the government began to realize that there would probably be a majority to compensate households. I'm glad the government saw it! So the government presented its proposal for electricity compensation, and I must say that I am not hugely impressed by the construction. Basically, it is good that households are compensated, but what Parliament is now making decisions about raises quite a lot of questions. Unfortunately, the Moderates did not get support for their proposal, but quite soon, a few weeks ago, the Swedish Democrats also supported the Government's proposal. Basically, however, I have a few questions for the Social Democrats. Why should 3 million households not be compensated at all when virtually all households have been affected? Why should a pensioner in an apartment with very small margins not receive a single crown in compensation when the government ministers who live in villas get fairly well paid? I find that unreasonable. That's why I basically don't think this road was the best way to go. But now we are where we are, and the Parliament is making this decision today. Nevertheless, I am pleased that the Moderates were pushing to see that ordinary people from north to south are struggling and are in a tough situation right now both with electricity prices and, as I said earlier, with fuel prices. I will also say something brief about the rest of the budget. I would like to mention two things. Today we are tying up the bag in terms of cultural and event support. We all hope in here that this will be the last pandemic budget. There will certainly be more crisis budgets, but we hope it will be the last pandemic budget. We support this because we see that there are many small businesses who are struggling and have been fighting for a long time in these sectors. Now they get the support they so badly need. I am pleased that all the parties in Parliament support this. I am also pleased that we have been able to agree in the Committee on Finance to ensure that companies can now have further deferred payment of the tax. Many are now heavily leveraged, especially in the most affected sectors. On the one hand, Madam President, many companies have done fantastically well during the pandemic – in fact, better than ever. On the other hand, many, for example, in the hotel and hospitality industry, have fought hard. They have been on their knees and rims for a long time, and they are heavily borrowed. The least we can do together is make it easier for them to postpone the grace period. I'm very glad we do. With this, I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-PJnghfWPR4raFDxzfxSsKt	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by saying that we from the Swedish Democrats too strongly condemn the Russian aggression that we are now seeing against Ukraine. It is not least a violation of Ukraine's sovereignty and international international law. We hope that Europe will be able to agree on strong sanctions against Russia for these violations so that it will feel. As far as the matter is concerned today, I would like to begin by saying that the Swedish Democrats are calling for the committee's proposal to be approved, although we believe that there is room for improvement. The proposal we are debating is probably one of the last supporting measures resulting from the massive pandemic that has put our country and our continent in a crisis for two years. This is support that is very much needed to help all companies and associations that have had a very difficult time during the pandemic. It is gratifying that we in committee have been able to agree to extend the grace period further. Hopefully this will lead to more companies avoiding insolvency and bankruptcy. The proposal put forward extends the grace period by 36 months instead of 24 months, on which the Government's proposal is based. This extension is not only right but also necessary, as many entrepreneurs and industries have been forced to close down their activities in order to reduce the spread of infection in society in a very short time. We hope that this expansion will make a difference for all small businesses with very small and tough margins. Regarding the additional contribution proposed to the Swedish Tax Agency, it is gratifying that the Government acts and transfers responsibility for the follow-up and payment of short-term support from the Swedish Growth Agency to the Swedish Tax Agency. It has soon been a year since SVT's mission brought to our attention the lack of supervision by the Agency, and unfortunately it is only now that the Government has chosen to act on this matter. What can be said is that it was naive for the government to place the responsibility for short-term aid, or lay-off aid as it is sometimes called, on an authority that lacked both experience and resources to take on the task and that, moreover, was forced to mass recruit to do the job. Furthermore, the Swedish Democrats welcome support measures for both culture and sport, but also the event support included in the proposal. These industries have long been without support measures, and they are an important part of leisure life that many desperately need to experience again. Not least, they have a significant role to play in promoting public health across the country. There are also other sectors that have not been supported, and the committee therefore strongly calls on the government to urgently return with support measures for, among others, the hotels, tourism and events sectors – important sectors that will eventually be able to contribute to more people getting into work. Madam President, I would like It has been a tough winter for many households. The high price of electricity has had major consequences for many families and vulnerable people. On the headlines we have been able to read about single parents and pensioners who have been forced to freeze because they have not been able to afford the electricity bill. Some have even had to take out loans to pay their electricity bills. It is gratifying that the government is now moving forward with the proposal to compensate households with high electricity consumption. Households need this compensation, but from our side we would have preferred the proposal to have been drafted in a way that would have benefited all households and not just those who had a high consumption. The proposal also makes no distinction as to which price area you belong, while we have been able to see that the price of electricity in the north has been much lower than that in the south. For those who also had a consumption which was just below the criterion for the maximum amount to be allocated, the effect has instead been that they increased their consumption only in order to benefit from the maximum amount. The proposal made it worthwhile to consume more, and the government does not give a single crown to all households who have consumed less than 700 kilowatt hours a month. You might ask yourself if it's fair. From our side, we would have liked the government to have been proactive about this autumn's price increase. The Swedish Democrats were at an early stage proposing a reduction in the tax on energy for southern Sweden, which had the greatest price increase. We had hoped that the proposal from the Moderates would gain some kind of response but realise that the easiest way is to proceed with the government's proposal. Sweden continues to need stable electricity production, even when it does not blow. It is time to expand nuclear power to meet the needs of the future if we are to be able to realign the fleet of vehicles and avoid aid as a plaster on the wounds for an irresponsible energy policy. Finally, Madam President, we welcome the support directed at the country's regional airports, which have played a very important role, not least during the pandemic. Our regional airports are an important part of Swedish infrastructure that today performs several important tasks – ambulance transport, sea rescue, mountain rescue and fire detection are just a few examples. It is only reasonable that these too should be supported in order to continue to carry out and ensure all these important tasks.
i-D3ahCRvNLqQ9mFy8SSXmfG	Madam President, I would like Like so many others in this House, I would have liked us to be here at the end of a crisis, that today, with the debate on this supplementary amending budget, we put the end of a more than two-year pandemic crisis. Unfortunately, however, this is not the case. The pandemic crisis has barely let go of the grip on our economy until today's thoughts go to the families now crouching in their homes around Ukraine, to those Ukrainian citizens who are currently amassing their utmost courage to defend their democracy. The European Union and the Western world must respond, and will respond, with the most powerful economic sanctions we have, which strike at everything that Putin's corrupt regime depends on – his and his henchmen's banks, his and his henchmen's corrupt money flows, his and his henchmen's exploitation of the country's natural resources. We must completely disconnect Russia from the international banking system Putin no longer has the right to use. These sanctions will also hit us hard, precisely because our business community believed, hoped and invested that the Russian people could develop and grow out of their misery despite the mismanagement of the regime. However, this does not make them any less necessary and inevitable. If we fail to deter Putin, the consequences will be many times greater. Madam President, I would like I wish this had nothing to do with today's dossier, but unfortunately it has. Now begins a difficult economic time. We can hope and work for in this House that this will not happen, but we must steel ourselves for even higher energy prices, even higher commodity prices, even more unstable stock exchanges and even more inflationary risks. Of course, our military defence must now, as it is intended, be provided with more resources. But our dependence on Russian fossil energy in Europe must cease. Our imports of Russian nuclear fuel must stop. Our immediate need now is to create independence from Russian energy throughout Western Europe, which will require a unique, comprehensive and rapid build-up of renewable, independent energy. This is something we in Sweden must do together with our democratic neighbours in order to release us from the Kremlin together. Germany's praiseworthy, self-sacrificing closure of Nord Stream 2 is a marker. The time for huge pipelines filled with fossil energy from Russia is coming to an end. The time for cut electric cables and for elnationalism towards our democratic neighbours is up, my friends! The time has come for close economic and energy policy cooperation to secure our common independence and at the same time secure the climate. This is in our deepest and most urgent interest. The time has also come for saving energy and saving the electricity we produce. It will be needed not only for the green transition but also for the energy independence we have to build. This budget compensates our hard-tested electricity consumers, as many have mentioned, for shocking electricity bills, which are also indirectly a result of the Kremlin's energy policy. At this point in time, I would have liked the Moderates and the Social Democrats to have done what they had done so exemplaryly with the amending budget otherwise and many other issues this winter: put aside the political squabble and agreed on sensible, pragmatic solutions in a situation where one proposal on the table was not feasible and the other highly unsatisfactory, so that the compensation of electricity had become wider and simpler. But it didn't work. Now we accept the government model. The most important thing is that this is implemented urgently and despite its shortcomings, the affected electricity consumers are reaching. However, we would certainly have liked not only to have given the affected households short-term relief but a cure for electricity dependence – a fraction of these resources being invested in helping those affected to reduce their future electricity bills in this difficult situation. The electricity price crisis has exposed the extent of our vulnerability. Those in our country who have had the opportunity to switch and save electricity are today spared from the worst electricity bills. But many have not had this opportunity. Madam President, I would like In Sweden, hundreds of thousands of households still depend on direct electricity for their heating. Here, in the Center Party, we have given politics a tool ready for use: the green deduction. It is as simple as a root or grid deduction, and the cost is reduced on the actual invoice for your green investments so that you can contribute to the conversion yourself. Six months ago, we already called for this green deduction to be broadened to energy savings. Now is the time to do so and to agree on this. In the same way, although it is not in this particular budget, we would have liked to have strengthened our agricultural competitiveness early on and managed to improve our self-sufficiency. Instead, at the request of us in this House, the government is now forced to set up an emergency billion to save agriculture and food security. We would also have liked this budget to have heeded our appeal and that of others to protect our emergency airports and protect them from closure – those who have borne such a great responsibility during the pandemic but have not been fully compensated for this. Particularly important in these times of unrest is that we must ensure that our companies still have the opportunity to grow of their own accord when the restrictions are now lifted. We regret the fact that pandemic aid to businesses has remained so difficult to access, the applications so complicated and the payments so unduly delayed that culturalists are on their knees, not because there is no money for public compensation, but because this money does not reach out. We therefore support the proposal for a declaration. But now is not the time for splits and political delays. That is why we welcome the agreement reached in the middle of Swedish policy between Moderates and Social Democrats on these, hopefully the last, pandemic efforts. We warmly support the fact that so much can now be done. It is a good thing that all companies with deferred tax debts since the pandemic do not have to repay them in the near future, not even in this year, but have much longer time. That is absolutely necessary. It is a great relief that thanks to Parliament's efforts, the support for events is now being strengthened and improved for all those who have worked under tough conditions in the fields of culture, sport and civil society. But ultimately this is a time when small business, small companies' job creation, and the new green industrialisation is what we have to rely on when we are going to steer the Swedish economy out of the crisis. It is they who are going to employ some of the 400 000 unemployed and 200 000 long-term unemployed. The protection against the pandemic consisted primarily of the sacrifice of our heroic nurses, nurses and doctors. However, it also consisted of many previous years of sound government finances, robust fiscal policies with declining public debt, structural reforms made before the pandemic struck, and the subsequent recovery could be strengthened. This is still the case in the future. The protection of the security of our country consists, first and foremost, of those who are prepared to wear our country's uniform, of those volunteers who are now streaming to our home guard and of our cohesion and our tenacity in democratic Europe when faced with new threats. But behind this, for our country too, there is a continued line of defence based on respect for our fiscal frameworks and which is made up of strong public finances. It sometimes sounds like the state billions are growing on trees, ready to be picked by party leaders who want to distribute them to a grateful population. But every penny of this money is a crown that our hardworking taxpayers earned and gave up or borrowed by the Treasury in their name. Every penny must ultimately be created by diligence and entrepreneurship, by the work of many and by the job creation of many companies. So let us now give these companies the chance! Lighten up in these tough times their burden and lift the obstacles in their path to job creation. Then, after all, Sweden will go stronger and more persistent even out of these new troubled and sad times.
i-SjSbAmwN6t1NGCgGMgJcoa	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by stating, as many others have also done, that we are holding this debate on a very dark day in European history. The war of aggression started by Russia against Ukraine is a flagrant violation of peace and international law. It is brutal and unacceptable, and it will put enormous strain on the lives of ordinary people. It is also likely that the economic consequences for the wider world will also be significant and that we will come back to the aftermath in this regard too. Madam President, I would like This is as far as I can understand the 23rd extraordinary amending budget that Parliament is dealing with, mainly because of the covid-19 pandemic. Let me say that I think it is a good thing that the opportunities to act quickly and repeatedly to deal with the economic effects of the pandemic, to meet the special resource needs that have arisen and, albeit on a smaller scale, to address problems and shortcomings that have been there since before but now made themselves more acutely reminded are being exploited. It is the parliament that has the budgetary power, and it has also been used by the parliament. At the same time, on the matter at hand, we can see that the right to vote on supplementary amending budgets is very severely curtailed. As far as the budgetary framework is concerned, supplementary amending budgets are essentially the government's instruments for making corrections in the current financial year. The opposition parties may only amend appropriations opened by the Government, so to speak, by proposing amendments to them, and may only propose lower appropriations. It is similar on the revenue side where changes can only be proposed that increase the revenue of the state. In the golden era of the extraordinary amending budgets, we from the Left Party have therefore put the main emphasis on improving the government's proposals in committee management and pushing through their own proposals through so-called committee initiatives. In the past, we have, among other things, ensured that a regulatory framework is in place to ensure that companies that use short-term work are not allowed to make dividends at the same time. We lifted in and got through the temporary abolition of the so-called family exemption in connection with short-term work in order to make it easier for small family businesses. The Left Party has also pressured the government to allocate more money to the municipalities and regions of the country to invest in elderly care. It has been possible to do so with support in discussions and considerations between parties in the Riksdag. It has often been a good process. In this report, too, there is a proposal which the Left Party has been involved in pushing for and which the committee has supported. It is about the committee instructing the government to return promptly with support that can better help the tourism industry and organisers of meetings and events. Due to the particular situation of these industries and the way in which planning, risk allocation and billing work for them, these industries are very severely affected, and at the same time have had difficulty in making the available aid work to the extent that corresponds to the actual impact on the activities and thus on revenue. The Left Party and the Liberals had seen some of the same kind of problems in parliamentary treatment and were therefore able to present a joint initiative which has thus received the support of the committee. It is now a matter for the government to show proper commitment and to implement the Riksdag's decisions in this regard as a matter of urgency. However, another committee initiative presented by the Left Party, in this case together with the Green Party, has not been supported by the other parties in the committee. I find that very regrettable. This concerns the issue of compensation to households for high electricity prices. The government presented a rather hasty proposal on this, which is what is contained in this supplementary amending budget. We were early out saying that such a proposal is needed and is good. However, it is rather striking that the proposal takes too little account of many household finances. It is also a fact that the price of electricity has been very different in different parts of the country, the so-called electricity price areas. It was against this background that we drew up a concrete proposal that would have been possible to approve without delay if only the political will had been present in committee. The proposal would have provided more accurate support and would have provided better financial support for the households most affected economically. In comparison with the Government's proposal, this would mean, on the one hand, that it would be possible to obtain support starting with lower consumption than today, which would thus benefit more households with lower incomes, and, on the other hand, that there would be higher compensation in electricity price zones 3 and 4 and a slightly lower one in electricity price zones 1 and 2, which would better reflect the actual problems faced by households' finances. An important addition to our proposal is complementary support for low-income households and households with very small margins, where even a small increase in the cost of electricity is hard hit. That aid would provide a temporary supplement in the form of a lump sum to the housing allowance and the housing allowance for both old-age pensioners and persons with sickness and activity benefits. Finally, our proposal meant a conversion aid to households that want to replace their direct-acting electricity with district heating, geothermal heat or efficient heat pump. I also noted that the previous speaker from the Centre Party spoke warmly for this very point but did not want to support the proposal itself. All in all, it is therefore a matter of support that would have been both more accurate, had a better distribution profile and had been more forward-looking. I think it is a great pity that neither the government nor the right-wing opposition have seen these aspects as important in the design of good electricity price support. Otherwise, we can read more about the Left Party's position on the proposal in the report in our special opinion. I would also like to say something more general about the economic pandemic management. On the Left side, we have presented more comprehensive responses in connection with the budget proposals and the spring economic proposals. In this respect, we have found that there is a marked imbalance in the outcome of the measures. It is not bad in itself that large-scale business aid has been constructed and paid out; we have also in most cases requested, supported or proposed such aid. However, while companies have received considerable support, health care personnel, elderly care, the Public Employment Service, etc., have been subject to chronic under-funding. This is both about major omissions and a difference in whose problems are more visible to political decision-makers, so to speak. It is obvious not only as in the example of electricity price compensation most recently, but also in the committee's management over time that it has been much more difficult to hear support for people who already have a more difficult starting point in society. I am thinking of this when I now hear it said more often that things relating to the budget and public finances should return to normal as soon as possible. To some extent, I think there are good reasons why certain things should not simply return to normal. We have now seen on a regular basis that the state can and should act when the needs are obvious, and there are some of the regulations and practices that have emerged regarding the budgetary process since the 1990s that there is reason to think more openly about in the light of the experience of the more extraordinary management that has taken place in recent years. It is not a question of, for example, making processing requirements easier in general, but rather of reflecting more on the advantages that may exist with a greater dynamism and flexibility in the parliamentary handling of budgetary issues, which it basically and constitutionally owns. We can certainly come back to that in other contexts in the future. Finally, it is important to point out that we have an economic policy system that is simply more prone and easier to see people with a stronger socio-economic position and is closer to acting. That's normal. It is a highly problematic normality or continuity that would need to be highlighted, analysed and changed. People in ordinary LO professions, people in precarious employment and thus small margins and people suffering from illness, who have worn themselves out at work or who are forced into long-term unemployment should be able to expect to be better seen and better represented in the Swedish Parliament in the best sense of the word. It is a task that I and we in the Left Party see as fundamental in our work in the future.
i-3Yt7DeqTUnNpijUdmcMNDG	Madam President, I would like There is war in Europe. We stand with Ukraine's freedom-loving people. I am thinking of those whom I have met over the years who have fought for their freedom and for their democracy, and I am thinking of the great mural in Independence Square: Freedom is our religion. That's how you feel today. It is freedom that is at stake, and we shall in every way do what we can in humanitarian, financial, defence and security terms to support Ukraine in this situation. We will also use our power and what we can to mark against a tyrant wanting to rule over another people and decide that another country should not exist. Having said that, Madam President, we have the freedom to discuss in our Parliament the measures we find most appropriate in the situations in which we find ourselves. That is what we are going to do here today with the supplementary amending budget. These are important issues in order to get us the last piece through the pandemic, but also in order to see the shortcomings highlighted in this proposal and to equip us for the future. As one previous speaker said, we had hoped that this was an end to crisis management in a while. This is probably not the case, but we will also have to deal with other crises. In this report there are things that are good, and there are things that are less good. I start with what I think is very good and urgent, and it is about us now spending money on civil society's work among the vulnerable and among those who have had it perhaps the toughest in this pandemic. There, associations, non-profit organisations, churches and communities have tirelessly tried to reach out but have not received the support that I think should have been given through the pandemic. This is partly corrected by this amending budget. I am pleased that there was so much support for the Christian Democratic Committee initiative and that the government has met with the bill put on the table so that this work, as well as the work for children and young people to be able to have more active and better leisure time, can now be strengthened. We have seen that many children and young people have fallen out of driving, scouting and, not least, the sports movement during the pandemic. This has led to sedentary sitting, but it has also led to fewer children being present in the context of present adults. It is a very important protection factor, and it is perhaps the children who need these contexts best who have fallen out to the greatest extent. I am therefore pleased that there are resources in this budget that we Christian Democrats have been involved in pushing forward to ensure that the sports movement and society can make efforts to bring children and young people back into these contexts. Madam President, I would like The report also contains a proposal for compensation for electricity prices. We Christian Democrats, together with Moderates, Liberals and others, have pushed for the government to act. If the government had acted in time, it would also have been possible to design this better by abolishing the tax during the winter months so that those who co-sover and now cut down their heating systems could have been able to get the most earlier information and also a better and more accurate compensation. With the government's proposal, millions of households are left unsupported, not least households with slightly lower consumption than the m who consume the most but often with small economic margins. From our perspective, there was no reason to put the floor in the way the government did. The government and the Social Democrats say that tax relief would not have been possible. No, but it would have been possible to use the payment system proposed by the government and base it on paid electricity tax, perhaps times two – a kind of refund on the tax paid. It would reach all households, it would be more accurate and it would also reach companies and not least organisations that have also had high electricity bills and that in some cases are now forced to limit their activities due to the high electricity bills. This is, of course, a consequence both of European changes and of changes in our own electricity generation system, where functioning nuclear power has been shut down and we have had black and white that it has had consequences for Swedish electricity prices. Here we need to think a lot together and come up with sharp proposals to get better functioning electricity generation, a better functioning electricity grid and a better functioning electricity market so that we can get away from this kind of phenomenon. We do not want to experience more such winters, at least not because of decisions in Sweden. We cannot guarantee that we will be spared from things in the future in view of what we see in our environment, but we shall not contribute to aggravating the situation on our own watch. Madam President, I would like Let me also say something about business subsidies – support for all the struggling entrepreneurs and all the employees who have looked with concern at their jobs during the pandemic – and what we have been able to do through them. I am pleased with the cooperation in Parliament. I am pleased that we have been able to push forward a great deal of support that has been necessary. But for some they have not been enough. I am disappointed with the government in dealing with short-term aid, particularly because throughout the pandemic it has been chosen to exclude fixed-term employment. Several expert bodies have already pointed out that it has had significant consequences, such as higher unemployment and lower contact with the labour market in certain sectors where such contracts and forms of employment are more common. That is very regrettable. I hope that the evaluation that is to be carried out will allow us to have better short-term support in the future. With the government now abolishing the withdrawal period and enabling more companies to apply for short-term support, the system changes. You go to the regular short-term support with far worse conditions for entrepreneurs than what has existed throughout the pandemic. From the fact that the state has compensated for three quarters of the costs, it goes down to one third. Family entrepreneurs and care providers are again excluded from receiving the aid. I know there is some support in other forms of support, but for some this support has worked. And that has been the only support that has worked. I regret that these support efforts are not being sustained all the way during the pandemic. Madam President, I would like Finally, I am pleased that we in committee were able to have broad support for the Christian Democratic Committee initiative to extend the time allowed for companies to pay back the taxes and charges they have been deferred during the pandemic. We know that many entrepreneurs, not least in the tourism industry, have been worried about having to pay both regular taxes and contributions and to pay for the deferral they have received. Now they get extra time to do this. That's very good. It creates a long-term perspective, and it makes it possible to save more jobs and businesses and to take Sweden and the hard-working companies and employees through the last part of the pandemic. After all, it is a matter of getting companies that now have difficult liquidity problems to manage later on. Madam President, I would like This was perhaps the last supplementary amending budget due to the pandemic. But we will certainly have reason to discuss how Sweden will deal with the current security policy situation in Europe and the economic concerns that will ensue from this later on.
i-5udLQfTPYSYED65xZTLPu4	Madam President, I would like We need to stand strong and united in our solidarity with the people of Ukraine. We must understand that Putin's ambitions do not end with the horrendous invasions that we have seen today. Today it is Ukraine. Tomorrow it could be the Baltics. The bombs falling in Kiev are closer to Sweden than Paris. There's war in our neighborhood. Now we must join forces to act forcefully with the toughest possible sanctions against Russia and show our support for Ukraine. It is a question of marking on a broad front and also imposing clear sanctions that bite and have an impact on the Russian regime. The first thing that needs to happen is that Russia is immediately excluded from the banks' international payment system Swift. Madam President, I would like The invasion in Ukraine shows that there has been a naivety around Russia. It has shown itself not only in defence policy and security policy but also in energy policy and dependence on Russian gas. There are two problems with Russian gas. One is that it is Russian. The second is that it's gas. Strategic mistakes in parts of Europe and Sweden make our continent today weaker than necessary and dependent on Russian gas. We can see that in the electricity prices that ordinary people are currently facing. We have made strategic mistakes in our own energy policy here in Sweden. This has enabled us to read in the winter about people taking bank loans to pay the electricity bill and people who turn down the heat on the elements and freeze. There are people who see that an increasing proportion of the pension must be used to pay the electricity. There is a direct link to the energy policy failure that has occurred in Sweden. The Social Democrats and the Green Party – eagerly encouraged by the Left Party and the Center Party – are responsible for the situation we have right now. Remember that these four parties in this House voted against taking action to keep the Ringhals 1 and Ringhals 2 reactors! It corresponds to 13 terawatt hours of energy production. That's the annual consumption of 2.4 million apartments. This was actively rejected in this House. The connection is very clear. This can be seen directly in the wallet of ordinary Swedes. And for ordinary people, the electricity bill is a shock. It's something you cry over and get angry over. For many, it will also be significantly difficult to manage to pay the bill. However, it does not stop there. On cold winter days when it does not blow, we now have to import electricity from the continent or start the oil power plant in Karlshamn. It's a complete breakdown for the climate, and it stings in the wallet for ordinary people. It's an accident. Madam President, I would like In December, therefore, the Liberals proposed measures such as a reduced electricity tax. Our bourgeois comrades in the Moderates and Christian Democrats have proposed similar alternatives. All in all, the proposals are about reducing electricity tax to compensate for the price of electricity and because it benefits everyone who has an electricity bill to pay. However, the Socialist Government refuses to listen. Instead, a proposal for an electricity grant was presented in panic. It is quite classic for Sweden. We have high taxes and make up for it by handing out subsidies to the people. The only problem is that this grant is a lottery, because 3 million Swedes do not receive any support at all. I can't believe it! All Swedes have noticed how electricity prices increase, but 3 million receive no support at all. In fact, this support is designed in such a way that in reality no one living in an apartment in Sweden receives support. Madam President, I would like This is an unfair proposal. Moreover, it does not take into account the fact that you pay different amounts of electricity depending on which part of Sweden you live in. Where I live, in Lund, you pay about 400 percent more for the electricity than a corresponding homeowner in Luleå does. However, the proposal put on the table by the Government does not compensate for this at all. Entrepreneurs are not remunerated. In other words, this is a proposal that is not fair, because not everyone gets a share of it and does not take into account the fact that you pay different amounts for your electricity bill. Electricity prices are 400 per cent higher in southern Sweden than in northern Sweden. Madam President, I would like The report also deals with a number of business support measures. There, Swedish politics and the Riksdag show themselves from their very best side. There is a relatively broad consensus; the Social Democrats are against the proposals, but the rest of us agree to implement more strong support to save jobs and small businesses in Sweden. This is done, among other things, through an initiative by the Liberals who acted in committee together with the Left Party. In this way, the Riksdag will now support the improvement of support for companies in the event industry and for hotels that have found it difficult to benefit from the support. We are extending tax deferrals, which is important for many of the companies that have been brutally hit by the Corona crisis and have a great need to postpone their tax. These are important efforts to secure jobs in Sweden and to stand on the side of small businesses in a situation where entrepreneurship has never been more important. Madam President, I would like Finally, developments in Ukraine and Russia's invasion of Ukraine raise new questions to Swedish politics. The naivety that has existed with regard to Russia and, to some extent, China is becoming quite obvious at this point. The fact that Sweden, together with some other countries, has become dependent, directly or indirectly, on Russian gas places Sweden in a very serious situation and in a uniquely difficult situation. Action is needed here and now. We will have to come back later with more efforts and measures to meet the new political, security and economic situation.
i-MF7G1zgtau2m5VMYkQE7wF	Madam President, I would like Today the world woke up to a dark day, a day that will mark Ukraine, Europe and the whole world for a long time. Suddenly our everyday concerns are almost non-existent, and democracy and freedom feel even more important to defend. Our thoughts go to the people of Ukraine. Madam President, I would like We in the Committee on Social Affairs are today debating pharmaceutical and pharmaceutical issues. These are two important and large areas, not least during the pandemic, which have received great importance and attention. Never before has politics, health care and society at large debated the importance of the availability of vaccines. I choose to highlight some areas of the pharmaceutical debate that are important to us Moderates, including equal access to medicines, the elderly and medicines and medicinal products. Madam President, I would like Drugs save a lot of lives every year. As a result, the availability and use of medicines is an essential part of health care and just as important to debate and discuss as the availability of care places and preventive measures. My top priority is to promote equal access to the most modern care and the best medicines in the whole country, whether you live in a region with university care or in a region where resources are less. A place of residence shall not determine the availability of medicinal products for the individual. In the future, the biggest expenditure in medical development will be personalised medicines and treatments for rare diseases. Particularly hopeful are targeted therapies for childhood cancer as well as diabetes and Alzheimer's disease. This development will cost a lot. I am afraid that not all regions will be able to give priority to these costs if they are set against fixed costs, such as for health professionals. Therefore, government governance and relevant pharmaceutical subsidies are becoming increasingly important to get in place. Sweden has a large and successful pharmaceutical sector and university health care at the forefront of the world. For many years now, we have come a long way with the basic treatments, the usual drugs that are part of the primary care mission. Standards have been established here, and the work of replacing expensive medicines for cheaper ones has come a long way. Now it is necessary to shift focus to advanced and new therapies. Madam President, I would like It is far too slow to introduce better conditions for new medicines and medical devices in Sweden. In addition, the availability of new therapies is far too unequal across the country. The Moderates want to change that. We Moderates propose a special government effort to support the equal and rapid introduction of new, more effective drug treatments such as immune, cell and gene therapies. This should be heard by several parties. At the same time, with regard to targeted government efforts, we see that evaluation and follow-up of them need to be strengthened. Madam President, I would like Another area that we Moderates want to put extra pressure on is drugs and the elderly. Older people with multiple diseases often use several medicines. In particular, this applies to persons on special accommodation. Of course, medicines are necessary to reduce suffering and morbidity. However, the National Board of Health and Welfare has reported in a report from 2017 that just over 8 per cent of acute hospitalisations of elderly people are caused by drug side effects. Half of these are considered to be preventable. There are also regional differences in the implementation of drug reviews. When medication is administered incorrectly, it is misdosed or counterproductive, it can have major consequences. Most medicines are not tested in the elderly and often not in combination with other medicines. This makes people with multiple medicines particularly vulnerable to side effects or reduces or increases the drug effect when combined with other medicines. Drug reviews are a good method for identifying all prescribed and used medicines in order to ensure a correct and up-to-date list of medicines. The Moderates believe that an evaluation of drug reviews should take place; it has soon been three years since the introduction of the National Board of Health and Welfare's regulations. The possibilities and prerequisites for expanding the drug review circuit should be tested. I would like to take this opportunity to express my agreement to the Moderates' reservation 10. Madam President, I would like The medicinal product is a resource that should be better exploited. Previously, nurses with prescription rights and some further training have the possibility to prescribe certain medicines. The Moderates believe that it is time to carry out a review of which medicines should be prescribed by nurses and which requirements must be met in terms of knowledge and competence. For easier ailments and for chronicians who regularly meet nurses, you should be able to use the skills of the close care better and more effectively. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to emphasise once again that if Sweden is to continue to be one of the world's leading welfare countries, it is crucial that we are able to prioritise both equal access and faster introduction of new, effective pharmaceutical treatments and therapies.
i-5gBH3gmsxBaKLc2a8rzjQB	Madam President, I would like We are debating the Social Affairs Committee's report on pharmacy and medicinal products. I would like to begin by calling for the approval of our reservation number 7. I will start by talking about Sweden's reserves for medicines and medical equipment. We can sum up Sweden's pandemic management, which leaves a lot to be desired. And tomorrow, the Corona Commission will present its very final report. Yesterday we were also able to take note of the final report on the preparedness of healthcare – the structure for increased capacity. In particular, it highlights the fact that, in order for healthcare to function under severe pressure, a system of collaboration and management is required where accountability is clear. The overall national resources need to be able to be used effectively. It is also stated that strong democratic control over welfare is a prerequisite for good preparedness and high resilience. Who could really think otherwise? We can all note that there are serious shortcomings in Sweden's health care preparedness, which has been made clear not least during the pandemic. Madam President, I would like Today, it is mainly the regions that are responsible for preparedness, and the country's regions should be able to deal with crisis situations in peace, according to law. The responsibility thus means that there should be emergency stocks of both equipment and medicines. However, the legislation is unclear as to what type of preparedness is expected and how long the regions are expected to survive on their existing emergency stocks. Today, we also know that both regions and municipalities are struggling with economic challenges, which means that it is sometimes difficult to cope with day-to-day operations. For this reason, in many cases there is not much room for manoeuvre to actually finance reliable preparedness. We believe that current legislation needs to be reviewed. There is a need to clarify the wording of the legislative text, and we believe that the legislation on the preparedness of the regions should be binding. At the same time, we would like to emphasise that there should be a clear state responsibility in terms of national coordination and support from national authorities. It is also our view that the government bears the ultimate responsibility, and it is therefore up to us, at national level too, to be clear about what is expected and that we dare to point with all our hands. Madam President, I would like I will dwell on the reservation where we particularly highlight the importance of Nordic cooperation when it comes to crisis and health cooperation, which in some sense goes in the arm hook with what I just talked about. Madam President, I would like The vision of the Nordic region becoming the world's most integrated region by 2030 has been supported by all Nordic Heads of Government. There is still a lot to work on to get there, but certainly we can see that we would gain hugely from stronger Nordic cooperation where we take advantage of the potential that exists in the world's twelfth largest overall economy. However, when it comes to crisis and health cooperation, we can see that national legislation regulating the handling of medicines and medical materials may unfortunately become an obstacle to Sweden making use of the exchange of materials and medicines with our neighbouring countries in a crisis situation. For this reason, we see a need for a common Nordic strategy to be developed and to change the regulatory framework so that we can more easily access and purchase medicines and medical materials in the event of crises. A common preparedness would further strengthen the availability of, for example, protective materials, medicines and supplies in addition to our existing emergency stocks. But we also see a need for already existing Nordic healthy work to be evaluated and for the possibility of strong and joint Nordic crisis cooperation to be investigated. Madam President, I would like We need to clarify the roles of Swedish healthcare in general, not least where the responsibility rests in order to achieve efficiency, continuity and stability. We see major challenges with the care capacity, for example with illegal long-term care queues, which also vary to some extent across the country. To meet the healthcare needs and effectively use Sweden's existing capacity, and develop it, we need to raise our eyes and stretch the rubber band rather than act as a protectionist and create restrictions. I would therefore like to highlight on the same theme the role of pharmacies in efficiency and resource use. Apoteken today possesses an extremely high level of competence with highly trained staff. We believe that this resource is under-utilised in some sense in health care. Apoteken should be given the opportunity to perform simpler laboratory operations. We are talking about, for example, blood pressure measurements, blood glucose controls and allergy tests. During the pandemic, pharmacies should be able to relieve treatment with testing, for example. Apoteken could also offer health-promoting conversations in dealing with stress, quitting smoking or weight control. We believe that the role of pharmacies in the care chain should be increased, not least in order to relieve the strained primary care and emergency care.
i-8NF3ca1ASoNQ6NySiAHVgX	Madam President, I would like It is an extremely dark day today when we are having this debate. An authoritarian Russia has invaded Ukraine with the aim of overthrowing a democratically elected government. We are all currently receiving a TT flash on how to approach Kiev. I can understand that for many people who listen to the debate, it may seem a part of this context to discuss domestic policy issues in Sweden, but as I see it, it is even more important on a day like this that we continue the democratic processes. That is precisely what the war is about, that is, to dare to stand up for an independent state's right to decide for itself and to make its decisions in democratic order. Madam President, I would like There are two important areas of health care that we are going to discuss. This applies partly to pharmacies and partly to medicines. Pharmacy has been a central part of the health policy debate in Sweden for more than a decade, prompted by the large reregulation of the pharmacy market just over ten years ago. I remember the initial debates, and it was said that reregulation would completely destroy the Swedish pharmacy system – moving from a monopoly to actually opening up to a more free market. I also remember discussions we had with our Norwegian friends because they were the second-last country to take the step. Our Norwegian friends from the city said that we will encounter a number of problems that can be solved. But they said that if they go to Karl Johan they don't meet anyone who wants it to be like before. That is a little bit where we are today with regard to the pharmacy issue. Today we can see a number of things that can be changed and improved so that pharmacies work even better, but no one, Madam President, wants to go back to how it used to be with a pharmacy monopoly, limited availability and service deficiencies. The development today is incredibly dynamic, but there are challenges. One such challenge is to ensure that availability not only increases in the form of opening hours and that it is easier to access medicines, but also to maintain opportunities in sparsely populated areas. There is a change that can be made, namely to remedy the lack of pharmacists in opening up the possibility of digital contact with a pharmacist. Today I can get a medicine printed out by having digital contact with a doctor, but when I go to my pharmacy there must be a pharmacist who is physically in place and sign the medicine. This could be changed and opened up to digital contact, which would make it even easier to operate pharmacies in the sparsely populated parts of the country where the shortage of pharmacists is a major problem. This was one of the threats that could be seen in the re-regulation of the pharmacy market. That is why it was important for us in the Center Party to ensure that there was financial support from the state so that the smaller pharmacies could survive, just as there is currently financial support for small supermarkets and gas stations. This has worked well, but it is something that needs to be reformed. Above all, we see a problem, and it is based on the number of kilometres to the next pharmacy. That is a reasonable criterion. In addition, there is a provision that turnover may not exceed a certain amount. It was a wise thought from the beginning, but today we see that all new therapies provide considerably more expensive drugs. This means that even the small pharmacy gets a turnover that quickly hits the ceiling. That is why we in the Center Party have called for this to be dealt with as a matter of urgency. We need to look at the actual nature of aid to pharmacies in sparsely populated areas. The second important part of this report concerns medicines. They are a cornerstone of all medical care. Here too we can see that there are significant challenges here in Sweden. Above all, it is about inequality in the country. When you get a new therapy it does not take months but often many years before the new treatment is used everywhere in Sweden. Here, too, modern technology can be used, such as IT. It is possible to monitor the prescription of a new medicine almost per hour. If we link the possibility for Ivo to perform supervision based on the prescription of new medicines, we can quickly see that the new medicine for a particular disease is not being used in Värmland. Why is that? Then you can intervene with supervision. Modern technology could speed up the introduction of new medicines. Another challenge on the pharmaceutical side is what we have had a lot of discussions about in recent months, namely that there are new medicines that often have revolutionary significance for very small patient groups but that the Swedish system means that what is called orphan drugs does not come into use quickly enough. It requires the government to move from words to action and ensure that we can reform this system as quickly as possible so that people with cystic fibrosis, spinal muscle atrophy and so on have access to the very best drugs available in the world here in Sweden. Another area where one sees how development has sprung from reality is about the division of inpatient care and outpatient care. There, the drugs used in inpatient care are so-called requisition drugs, which hospital pharmacies can provide. Very much of what has previously been used and could be given only in hospital inpatient care can today be given in outpatient care. But in those situations we have the constitution that says that hospital pharmacies must not provide it for outpatient care. This, too, is clearly an area where a fairly small change can make sure that the Swedish healthcare system works much better and is open to a much more effective and equal treatment. Madam President, I would like Of course, I support the reservations expressed by the Center Party, but I only support reservation number four.
i-9uMN2H16r5seRhvaatpY6N	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by condemning the very authoritarian Russia's invasion of Ukraine. It's a black day, this. We must now get Russia back, because this is totally against international law and an attack on the whole of Europe. I am going to go a little between different issues in my speech. I want to start with what's coming tomorrow. Then the Corona Commission will come with its final report. I hope that what happened to protective equipment and medicines that were not available in Sweden for a period of time will be highlighted. It was a very critical situation. Here I hope that we will see legislation regarding the absolute responsibility of the regions to have regional stocks, large pandemic stocks, what they would have but did not have. We hope to do so, and we hope that we can build up a stock of sales that is national. We must be prepared in a completely different way for the next pandemic. Then we can't sit in the gallery wondering what's going on. I would also like, before going into my main speech, to talk a little about the unequal distribution of expensive medicines and medicines and expensive treatments that are effective against cancer, for example, but also other diseases. Here we must build a different structure, we believe in the Left Party. We must have a national pot for the most expensive medicines so that there is no regional inequality. We think that's super important. This is also about the discussion on orphan medicinal products that has taken place in recent weeks. There too we must have a much better structure in Sweden in order to get medicines and medicines out quickly and with equal distribution. Madam President, I would like Now I'm going into a whole different subject. Now I'm gonna talk about psychopharmaceuticals for five minutes. I had a bipolar uncle named Harry. He was self-medicating with alcohol. It is quite common if you have a mental diagnosis that is not being treated. He had two diagnoses and surfed around between the hospitals that were then in Stockholm, Beckomberga and Långbro– you know these large, locked wards. You must thank the research for today's effective medication for mental conditions. We should be extremely grateful for that. It's very valuable in different ways. But there are also complications with this that we must start discussing, Madam President. It is therefore over 1 million Swedes who use antidepressants, and the prescription of antidepressants and anti-anxiety medicines is increasing sharply. This can also be seen in other European countries. In the UK, this prescription has increased significantly during the pandemic. We don't have that kind of measurement in Sweden today, so we can't see it. But at least that's something we need to look at, I think. The statistics we receive can be interpreted as an indication, we believe, that the prescription of psychopharmaceuticals today has to some extent replaced other therapies. We need to study this in depth. We want the government to investigate how the follow-up of medication in psychiatry can be improved in order to increase patient safety. After all, it is not our role as politicians to assess whether medication to this extent is necessary or not. However, we should enable the best possible treatment therapy to relieve and cure both somatic and mental disorders. Madam President, I would like We are rather concerned about this. Pharmacological treatments can eventually become a substitute for other therapies that are more resource- and knowledge-intensive. We believe that there is a need to review the effects of the lack of psychological support from primary care and how it can intensify the prescription of psychopharmaceuticals. Something is ticking, we believe. We want the government to investigate how medication of depression has developed over a ten-year period and whether medication has contributed to better mental health in the population. It's a long dissertation, I think. That's our reservation 8. Madam President, I would like It is also the case that the prescription of psychopharmaceuticals, in particular anti-anxiety and antidepressants, to children has increased significantly in Sweden. In 2010, antidepressants were prescribed to approximately 10,000 children and young people from 0 to 17 years of age. By 2020 the figure was close to 30,000. The development is similar for the group of drugs sedatives and anti-anxiety agents in the same age range. We are extremely concerned about this, especially because research in this area is so unclear as to the impact of psychopharmaceuticals on children and young people, the long-term consequences it can have on them and so on. We want the government to look at this immediately. There is a need to review the prescription of children and adolescents and to ensure that pharmacological treatment does not occur due to a lack of resources within bup or other such considerations. Madam President, I would like We want the government to provide a national evaluation of how medication for children and young people with mental diagnoses has developed over time. Madam President, I would like Last autumn or if it was last spring, there were long articles about what happens when you finish your treatment. What happens then? Can I get some help? There are currently no proper national guidelines or action plans for an orderly tapering and closure of psychopharmaceuticals. You have to make sure it exists. There are very many testimonies that it takes time and requires energy to finish their treatment. That's what a lot of people want. Many people don't want to take medication for life. That is why we want to see whether there are conditions for stopping medication without feeling too bad. That is why we also want a national review, combined with a clearer plan for the closure of psychopharmaceuticals. There are many who testify that it is extremely difficult to get help with it, and that should not be the case. If you have a medicine prescribed for yourself and want to finish, then you should get help with it.
i-UqFz6bxbngoAwSbNgqBevz	Madam President, I would like I would also like to begin my speech by condemning the terrible actions of Putin and Russia and expressing my strongest support for Ukraine and its people. But today, Madam President, we are going to debate alcohol – no, we are not going to do that at all! We're going to debate pharmacies and pharmaceuticals. Alcohol is close to my heart because I am an alcoholic scientist, nothing else. So, can we reboot now? Pharmacy is something that is close to our Christian Democrats, and also to me; I am actually a pharmacist too. It is difficult to imagine today, but just over ten years ago you could not buy headache pills or other medicines in the evenings or weekends. The apothecary was closed. The Christian Democrats' medicine to remedy this problem was the re-regulation of the pharmacy market. That was a successful recipe, Madam President. Today we take for granted that over-the-counter medicines can be bought both at the grocery store and at the petrol station. The number of pharmacies has also increased, and opening hours are generous. In sparsely populated areas, however, the number of pharmacies remains unchanged, and opening hours are often limited. We Christian Democrats want to change this. The fact that there is good access to medicines and the possibility of advice from pharmacists' competent staff across the country is important for the whole of Sweden to function and for our population to feel safe about these parts. Today, it is true that all pharmacy chains offer e-commerce via online pharmacies. This is a good addition to the physical pharmacies in both densely populated and sparsely populated areas. However, e-commerce cannot fully replace physical pharmacies, and it is not suitable for everyone. For many, not least the elderly, it may feel safer to visit a pharmacy for a while with social contact to get advice on medicines and self-care. This is a security that we Christian Democrats want to protect. The then alliance government introduced a rural grant aimed precisely at ensuring good access to pharmacies also in areas with declining population bases. A report from the Dental and Pharmaceutical Benefits Agency concluded that almost all pharmacies that existed prior to the reregulation remained in 2018 thanks to this support. However, a recent report from TLV shows that the number of pharmacies qualifying for the grant has decreased recently. According to TLV, this is mainly due to the difficulty of recruiting pharmacists in rural areas, but also to the demands for transparency in order to obtain the grant and the strict ceiling for the amount of turnover you may have. This is a worrying development and we welcome the efforts the government has recently made to strengthen rural development aid. However, there may be reason to review whether the aid needs to be further adjusted in order to better fulfil its purpose. But, Madam President, in order to further support pharmacies in sparsely populated areas, we also want to review this with a remote presence of pharmacists, which is used successfully in several other countries. In Sweden we have pharmacy technicians, who have a university of applied sciences with a focus on self-care advice and medical health, but also on effective and safe prescription management. By having a pharmacist who can participate in prescription processing via digital solutions while having a pharmacy technician in place in the premises, the skills can be used efficiently and good conditions created for safe and patient-safe prescription management. This would not least prevent hard-to-managed pharmacies from being forced to close down in areas where it is difficult to recruit pharmacists. Madam President, I would like Another issue that concerns all pharmacies but which is particularly important for the smaller pharmacies is the possibility to return medicines. I therefore welcome the amendment that took place in 2018 so that you can return medicines that a customer does not collect. One problem, however, is that the government has not included medicinal products that need to be stored in cold, so-called cold goods, in the right of return. Today, about 5% of all packaging of medicines has to be transported in an unbroken cold chain. It may seem a little bit, but in terms of cost, this represents 27 percent of the purchase value of pharmacies. Unfortunately, it is not uncommon for a customer to order home a medicine and then maybe it takes too long and still goes to another pharmacy to collect the product. As the pharmacy has taken home the medicine but must not return it, the individual pharmacy may take a great risk when it takes home particularly expensive medicines. According to the Swedish Pharmacy Association, a single pharmaceutical pack can in some cases cost up to 300 000 SEK. The risk is therefore obvious that a single order can cause bankruptcy for a small pharmacy. The inclusion of refrigerated goods in the return right is therefore an important issue in order for pharmacies to be established and operate in rural areas. I would therefore call on the government to take the necessary measures immediately to include refrigerated goods in the pharmacy's right of return. This is also something the MPA recommended almost a year ago. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to touch on the issue of dose-dispensation, that is to say that patients in special housing or LSS housing can have their medicines distributed per day and time without having to visit a pharmacy themselves. We Christian Democrats believe that today's dosing system is largely functioning and are therefore looking with some concern at the fact that the government has commissioned TLV to investigate the introduction of a so-called period product model into the dosing system as well. We would like to emphasise that the objective for the possible implementation of changes in the dose-dispensation system must be to improve patient safety. It is therefore important for the government to ensure that there is a dialogue with relevant stakeholders and that in-depth impact assessments are made from a patient safety perspective before decisions are made regarding future dose dispensation. Therefore, Madam President, I would like to support the Christian Democrats' reservation 2 in paragraph 2. Finally, I would also like to touch on the issue of orphan medicinal products. We will deal with this issue in a report that will come in a few weeks' time. It is extremely important that we take greater national responsibility in these matters. From the Christian Democrats' side, we have proposed a national strategy but also a financing model that covers the whole. It is not reasonable that it is where in the country you live that determines whether you will receive subsidised drugs that can be life-changing. We will therefore come back to this later.
i-D6riBB6AyBVGvViP72ZzAj	Madam President, I would like Here I am in a free country and can tell you how pissed off I am today without the risk of reprisals. One day with such a darkness over Europe, Madam President, it is particularly important and nice to safeguard our freedom of expression and democracy in the big and small places and to be able to talk about big and small and make our decisions together. This debate is supposed to be about pharmaceutical policy and policy on pharmacy, Madam President. This is an important debate, but to be honest, I find it boring. It is no, no and no: no to improvements, no to new wiser ways to strengthen health and no to the future. I do not understand why more lots do not want to take greater account of a patient's need for packaging. A blister pack for a person with rheumatism or osteoarthritis or screw cap for someone with very weak muscles in his hands is completely wrong. After all, a drug that cannot be accessed has no effect. That goes without saying. I see the same incomprehensibleness with regard to the proposal on national priority lists. The body has the same function and needs in Tranås as in Kalix. I am very pleased that the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Center Party are seeing what we are seeing, but that was not enough even if we were united on these issues. I therefore support our reservation 5 on this very point and hope for a better success in another year. Many other important reforms are also proposed to be rejected later this afternoon. For example, as we Liberals see it, it should be obvious that a pharmaceutical company cannot start a health clinic and print out its own medicines and that a pharmacy should not have a health centre walled up. Only the risk of a patient receiving medicines for reasons other than his or her own health and needs is totally unacceptable. The same actor should not be able to have interests in several places in the care chain. Having said that, there is a great deal where I think we are on our way, even if we do not get there today. There are increasing numbers of us who see the importance of a greater role for pharmacies in protecting human health. There are an increasing number of us who see the importance of more patients who want it themselves being able to get their medicines dose-packed. The fact that increased pharmaceutical readiness must be a matter of course has in recent years become crystal clear to our country and to many others. Environmental considerations need to be toughened throughout the pharmaceutical life cycle. Patients both today and tomorrow need to have more clinical trials. It's not really the rocker science. And there is a need for a national approach to rare diagnosis, but perhaps we will reach it all the way in a few weeks' time. Yes, the committee should have said all these things. Yes, the House should have said all these things. But it was no, no, no. I would also like to thank the Centre for the proposal on medicinal products for home healthcare. That's a very wise suggestion, I think. More people would get safe care at home if we didn't say no without a yes. Finally, I would like to raise an extremely serious issue: war in our time here in Europe. Sweden should, as we see it, provide an immediate flash loan of 10 billion in order for Ukraine to be able to obtain what is most needed here and now. The moment we are now talking about healthcare and drugs, Russian forces are said to be entering Kiev. The risk is very great that Ukraine is already being forced to provide health care and medicines to its population, which they should never have to provide. Whether it is Ukraine, medicines, equality over the country or equality regardless of the disease we suffer in life, I would say that Swedish politics should be characterised by solidarity, hope and the future.
i-P4xK2xCxJbSrnHmsNqqn5g	Madam President, I would like Like my colleagues, I would also like to express my sorrow at this black day in the history of Europe. In 2022, I didn't think this was possible. I am also personally involved in what is happening in Ukraine, so it is a bit difficult to gather thoughts. But of course we stand up for freedom, democracy and sovereignty. I would therefore like to turn to the subject of today's debate, which is the exercise of general exercise on pharmacy and medicinal products. The Pandemine has put us all under tough trials. When one's life and health are threatened, the existential issues become even more important. It can be seen from the Swedish Medical Products Agency's annual report that the public interest in vaccines and safety issues has been very high. Here, among other things, the Swedish Medical Products Agency has a key role in the fight against pandemics. An important government mission was given at the beginning of the pandemic. It has been about facilitating the reporting of suspected adverse reactions to covid-19 vaccines. A transparent system vis-à-vis the public also contributes to an increase in the desire for vaccination. In the last year alone, 652 new medicinal products were approved. Of these, 55 were completely new substances. As several speakers have already pointed out, a great deal is happening in the field of medicines at the moment. It's a very innovative industry. In Sweden last year approximately 208 million pharmaceutical packages were sold. Half of these were on prescription, and half were for self - care. The central government's costs for the pharmaceutical benefits are over SEK 30 billion, according to figures from the Swedish Dental and Pharmaceutical Benefits Agency. This is an increase of around 1 billion since last year. Globally, on the basis of manufacturers' prices, the pharmaceutical industry had a turnover – listen and be amazed! – almost SEK 10 000 billion. Madam President, I would like A recurring problem has been leftover and shortage situations for medicines. Even before the pandemic, we saw clear signs of it. Fortunately, however, the Swedish Medical Products Agency's annual report in 2021 noted that it has decreased by a quarter. This shows the government's commitment to this issue and the EU's job with safer distribution chains. The government already decided before the pandemic to review health care preparedness. Åsa Kullgren's investigation, which was presented in its entirety yesterday, addresses, among other things, the supply of medicines during both normal and crisis times. Linked to the investigation, the government has allocated SEK 600 million to strengthen preparedness in health care. The Government's focus is then a step-by-step reinforcement to approximately SEK 1 billion per year for the years 2023 – 2025. In addition, from 2024 a half billion SEK will be added annually to strengthen security of supply in healthcare. That money will finance planned actions on the basis of proposals already made by Kullgren's investigation. Madam President, I would like Several assignments linked to the investigation have already been given by the government. I believe that nine government missions are now under way on the subject of security and security of supply. In this area, it is particularly worth mentioning that the government's responsibility for coordinating supply readiness planning for medicines and medical products needs to be increased. Since then, the Swedish Medical Products Agency has been commissioned to map Swedish production capacity in the field of pharmaceuticals and to develop proposals to improve preparedness for the supply of dose-dispensed drugs. Madam President, I would like Another important issue, which has been raised earlier in the debate, concerns access to outpatient pharmacies in sparsely populated areas. The aim of this rural development aid is to maintain a good supply of medicines throughout the country. Here the government has followed TLV's recommendations and increased financial support and facilitated the requirements for seeking and receiving support. On 1 May 2021, the National List of Medicinal Products Act entered into force. The register was launched then. It is gratifying that we now finally see that that job is getting started. This will mean, among other things, that several caregivers can see patients' consumption of medicines. Madam President, I would like Finally, I note that there are an enormous number of positive things happening in the field of medicines, but it is also lined with challenges. Some of the issues raised in the debate today and raised by the public concern orphan drugs, even and fair care throughout the country and so on. I would ask you to come back to that when we are going to deal with the report on state subsidies for medicines.
i-47XuiN3PDbCn4ANZpKTnDk	Before we begin, I would like to inform the members that I have invited a special guest to the visitors : His Excellence the Ambassador of Ukraine, Andrij Plachotnjuk. Please rise with me to welcome him!
i-25xCs7PkkQM4fuAN9ELa4v	Mr President, I would like to Although Russia is now doing what we have all feared but not hoped, it is impossible not to be deeply taken by the seriousness here today. The images we have seen of innocent people taking refuge in Kiev's subway and the courageous women and men fighting with arms in hand for the future of their country describe a new and dark chapter in European history. There will be a day before and a day after today. Ukraine's cause is also ours. Sweden, together with other EU countries, must be prepared to provide support to Ukraine in all areas, for Ukraine's existential struggle as a country is ultimately also a struggle for the peace and security order of Europe as a whole. Mr President, I would like to The full-scale invasion of Ukraine that began early this morning is the largest single attack on international law since World War II. President Putin is now testing sharply to what extent we value our way of living in peace and freedom. Our answer must be clear. The price of threatening Western democracy must be very high. A full-scale invasion requires full-scale sanctions. This is a dangerous time, and our guiding principle must be unity, cooperation, national unity and action, within our country and between our parties, but also for our continent as a whole. I would therefore like the Prime Minister to answer two questions or reflections. One is: will the government reconsider its position to contribute from both the Swedish and European sides to Ukraine's defence, even with such defensive weapons as Ukraine itself asks for, and what form could be appropriate for this? The second is: Will the government now reconsider its position on the Swedish defence and be part of an agreement that quickly and clearly strengthens the Swedish defence with new resources?
i-LMq59DFx5vhr5uynTXy5YC	Mr President, I would like to I appreciate the deliberations we have just had between the government and the leaders of the other parties. In such a situation, it is important that Sweden can stand together and that we can cooperate. It is, as Ulf Kristersson says, a new and dark chapter in the history of Europe that has begun today. We have a Russia that is in our neighbourhood and has invaded an independent and democratic neighbour with the aim of overthrowing the democratically elected leadership of that country. The Russian invasion of Ukraine is both unprovoked, illegal and indefensible, and we need to stand together on the side of the Ukrainian people and support together. It is good that we in Sweden can have a close dialogue on how Sweden can support Ukraine. The government will continue to provide support to Ukraine in order to build up their resilience. It is about financial support, but I have also commissioned Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist to ask the Swedish Armed Forces to review what further things we can assist with. In addition, our cooperation within the European Union is important. I will be going to Brussels tonight for a summit with other Heads of State or Government to discuss how we can further support Ukraine. An important part will be additional sanctions – very harsh sanctions. There, Sweden will push ahead. We will also review and discuss what further ways we, together in the EU, can support Ukraine.
i-FqfARQxn3DoJcTRLk1PuKt	Mr President, I would like to I won't prolong this. In war and in crisis, they work together. That is my very firm opinion, and I appreciate the fact that the Prime Minister too has it. You help each other, and you help others. When you do this, you also speak in plain language, otherwise the cooperation does not make much sense. Therefore, I hope that we can continue to have a dialogue both on things where we think alike and on things where we think differently, in order to land in a common Swedish position that both helps Ukraine and in the long term protects our part of the world and our way of life.
i-CPPwbE86WVdebpkbrgfPjg	Mr President, I would like to My view, just like Ulf Kristersson, is that it is important that Sweden can stand together and that we can cooperate in this serious situation. That is why I have endeavoured to meet with the party leaders today. Of course, I want continued dialogue. I didn't have time to answer the question about the Armed Forces. The Government has commissioned the Swedish Armed Forces to provide evidence on whether there is an opportunity and need to speed up any part of the major expansion that Sweden is now carrying out of the defence. It is the strongest expansion of defence since the 1950s, precisely because of an increasingly uncertain security policy situation. As soon as the evidence comes in, we will carefully analyse and discuss it with the other parties in the work that is taking place with the defence political spokespersons.
i-PJRqvYYHFrP3kehxQ92o4U	Mr President, the Prime Minister. I would like to begin by saying that we agree with the clear condemnations that have been made against Russia and the Russian aggression. It is important that Western democracies now stand united in sanctions against Russia and current aid to Ukraine and that we show in other ways that what has now happened in the last 24 hours is that a border has been crossed that must not be crossed. I appreciate the deliberations we have had so far with the government. I look forward to continuing to do so. I would also like to give a clear message to the Prime Minister that we are in favour of the line I have just mentioned. What has now happened focuses on our own country's defence capabilities. It was once good but has been gradually dismantled by both bourgeois and Social Democratic governments. Not least, in previous budgets and in previous years, the Prime Minister, who was formerly Minister of Finance, has chosen to give the defence priority and said no to many of the efforts that my party, among other things, has wanted to make. Having a strong defense is a bit like having a home insurance policy. You pay for something you hopefully won't have to use. But when there's a fire or there's a water leak, you're pretty happy to have it. My question to the Prime Minister is: now that we have the war just on the corner, is it the case that the Prime Minister regrets that she has not given the defence a higher priority?
i-WZqr8R3nXCqYb7mF5vLqcf	Mr President, I would like to It is important in this very serious state of security policy that we speak clearly about the Swedish defence and stick to the facts on the subject. We are currently carrying out the largest expansion of the defence since the 50th century. Up to 2025, we will increase Swedish defence spending by 80 percent. This means that the Swedish military is in a completely different situation than it did just a few years ago. We have a completely different level of preparedness and quite different muscles in the Swedish defence. It is important that we are all clear that that is the situation. This also means that Sweden has the opportunity to continuously make preparedness adjustments based on the security policy situation that we see. We saw it clearly on Gotland a few weeks ago. But, of course, there have also been contingency adjustments that are not as clear as they were. It is also possible to do so in the light of the broad expansion of the defence. It is an extension that has taken place in very broad collaboration here in the Riksdag. It is one of the forces that we have in Sweden that we can collaborate widely on important issues such as defence policy and the expansion of defence. This is a clear strength for Sweden. It is also the case that we have reintroduced military service. I also look forward to being able to extend military service in the coming years. It is important that we have a broad and popular defence.
i-DXUnQjNGWHjooqC7jMmDAa	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Prime Minister. We imagine that we will now probably have a new defence committee where we will review the needs of the Swedish defence. It is also likely that the defence will submit its requests and comments. The indications we have are that the government does not want to spend additional resources, but rather rather just want to shovel money between the years rather than make new investments. I would like to ask the Prime Minister another question as to whether this is true. Is the Prime Minister prepared to provide significant resources to the Swedish Armed Forces to strengthen it in this vulnerable situation?
i-PYBRAxVwRiyxzpvmaBmGRc	Mr President, I would like to It is not by chance that the government has asked the Swedish Armed Forces to provide evidence on the possibilities to speed up the expansion of the defence. It is important for everyone to know that we have a continuous stairway for the expansion of defence where we are increasing defence spending by 5 billion a year now in the coming years. There is a tremendous speed in the expansion of the defense. It is also a question of how quickly it is possible at all to expand a defence. It's fast to detonate. But building a defense requires that you work continuously and forcefully. That is what has happened in recent years and will continue in the coming years.
i-HUcpQaFobcafnUvs3aM3RQ	Mr President, I would like to It is an extremely dark day for Europe. Now we need national gatherings, but we also need to act in accordance with the solidarity policy that Sweden has. The strongest signal of defence and security policy that we can send to the outside world is precisely unity. Now we hear the alarm of war that resonates over Europe. Putin's unjust, full-scale military invasion of Ukraine marks a dark day in the history of our continent. It not only threatens human life, peace and stability in our neighbourhood. It will also confront us with other realities. The issue of migration is one such area. The escalation of Russian violence can force many millions of people to flee. In such a situation, Sweden, together with the rest of the EU, must be crystal clear about the fact that anyone fleeing Putin's war has a sheltered place with us. My clear contribution to the Prime Minister in a very dark and complicated time is to be clear about Sweden's and the European Union's solidarity with the Ukrainian people. It is important to stand up for openness, humanism and humanity for all those who now fear for their lives and for their future and to do what she can to ensure that Europe as a whole is united in this forward.
i-XypuhpHCmqsJ8hL2QpmbZy	Mr President, I would like to Annie Lööf addresses an extremely important aspect of the war that is currently taking place in Ukraine. It's about people. It is men, women and children who will now be affected. Civilians will be killed. Military personnel, including men and women, will also be killed. Important buildings, residential buildings and other things, will be destroyed. People will be forced to flee. They will be afraid of their lives and run for their lives. Already today, Ukraine has a large number of internally displaced persons. There will be more such internally displaced persons. It is important that we can support those who are in Ukraine as refugees. But, of course, it will also be the case that people will seek asylum outside Ukraine. Then it is important that we in the European Union show our solidarity also in that way, that we stand united in this in Europe and also share the responsibility that we should of course take. It is important to say there that it is a responsibility that all the countries of the European Union should, of course, take and that together we help to support the individuals who come to Europe to seek asylum.
i-TBaHuV1gcsPLyMpb3HBsWW	Mr President, I would like to I agree with the Prime Minister that many countries need to take responsibility. However, in the acute situation that the Ukrainian population is now in, and at a time when the situation is changing hour by hour and minute by minute, the signal from the outside world and the European leaders tonight must be that we should safeguard transparency and solidarity. It must be consistent in the message that is coming tonight. This is about a war just two hours away from Sweden. Then, together with the other EU countries, we need to stand up for humanism and humanity and remove any doubts on the part of those who flee that there is protection and security in Sweden and other European countries. When the Prime Minister meets his fellow Prime Minister this evening, it is my hope that it will be possible to send that very signal there in unity to the people of Ukraine.
i-7ZBuYWijNeJbsY7jGDf4Jb	Mr President, I would like to The fact that Sweden is a country that is in solidarity and stands up for people in need who flee from war and oppression is well known out in the world. My ambition is that all countries in the European Union should be able to be known for this and that this crisis shows that Europe is united in this case too and that other countries in the European Union are also prepared to take on the responsibility that is obvious. Of course, Sweden cannot be the only country to stand up for the right to seek asylum time and again, but that right needs all the countries of the European Union to stand up for. This may be the opportunity for other leaders to do so.
i-Q1RQ2NiHdrsRW7cFPW5tkW	Mr President, I would like to This is a sad day for Europe. A sovereign state has been invaded by an aggressive neighbour with great-power ambitions, and this is happening at the heart of Europe. Russia has repeatedly shown that it does not shy away from fulfilling its great-power desires through military aggression. We must now realise that we are dealing with a brutal, unpredictable, right-wing nationalist Russian leader with dreams of a new Great Russia. Let me be very clear: each country's right to decide over itself and its future is unconditional. This is a flagrant violation of international law. Every country and every people will be left to decide over themselves at all times. No country has the right to sit on other countries, to rule over other countries and to judge over others. Mr President, I would like to Let me take this opportunity to address my solidarity to the people of Ukraine. It is our duty now to do everything we can to prevent this human tragedy. Dead soldiers, dead civilians, mothers, fathers and children. War is terrible. We now know that Russia is filling its war fund with the gas supplies made to Germany and Europe. It is the great Russian means of power against Europe. That is also what sends the signal to Putin that Europe is weakened. The fact that Germany is now putting Nord Stream 2 on ice is welcome, but what can the Prime Minister say about what the Swedish government is pushing to reduce the EU's dependence on Putin's gas and oil?
i-LMhSPTuNSuiL9JwHQM6VbV	Mr President, I would like to It was a very welcome message from Chancellor Olaf Scholz that the continuation of Nord Stream 2 is now being stopped. It was also a clear and important signal to Moscow. From the Swedish side, we have been pointing out for a long time the worrying thing about Europe's dependence on Russian gas. There are two aspects here. First of all, there is the security policy aspect, that is, from a security policy point of view, it is not good to be dependent on Russian gas in the way it is. We can see that not least right now. There is, of course, a climate aspect to this: it is a fossil fuel, and we need to switch to environmentally friendly ways of obtaining energy. So this is something we from the Swedish side have been pointing out for a long time.
i-NeaubZ6VXdyschPeDr4z1i	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank you for that answer. After all, Europe's dependence on gas means that Putin can influence the energy supply of the entire European continent at any time by manipulating gas supplies. In my opinion, it is a monumental failure of security policy that we have left it that way. I would therefore like to thank the Prime Minister very much for that answer. I also hope that the forthcoming meetings tonight and on other occasions will highlight the important aspect that Europe must not be involved in financing the Russian war machine by allowing itself to depend on Putin's gas. That is an important message here today. I would like to thank you for that and thank you for the meeting we had today. It is now very important that Sweden stands united and with one voice before the demand for Russian troops to be withdrawn from Ukraine.
i-2hABKSyUBTNKuCqdfYwNHu	Mr President, I would like to Europe's unity is extremely important at this stage, and so far the EU has been successful in agreeing on sanctions and clear support for Ukraine as well as condemning Russia's actions. We have also worked very closely with the United Kingdom, the United States and Canada in this. It is, of course, a message of strength on the part of the Western world, and it is cooperation that we intend to continue.
i-VMij33bs9LzMqzmHrLuYye	Mr President, I would like to Today we're all Ukrainians. We have war in Europe, in our neighbourhood. We are appalled, angry and sad. The Russian invasion is moving Europe and Russia many decades back, and what we see is a gross assault on a peaceful country and its people. In this very serious situation, we Christian Democrats appreciate and welcome the contact and dialogue established between government and opposition. The Christian Democrats stand ready to assist as we can, and we are united in our support for Ukraine and against the Russian invasion. The Christian Democrats maintain that Sweden, in consultation with Finland, should seek membership of NATO. Now is not the time to be alone. I regret that the Prime Minister does not share our view and also that, like the Prime Minister of Finland, she does not welcome a multifaceted debate on NATO. It is positive that Sweden and Finland are now invited to the NATO Summit tomorrow, but cooperation needs to be further deepened – to full membership. Having said that, what we are seeing today is not a divided parliament but a united country. Sweden stands in solidarity with Ukraine and its people and with the European security regime.
i-AQBzp3q7tGTQAiVttDznSZ	Mr President, I would like to I appreciate the dialogue we can have with the opposition parties. In this situation, it is important that Sweden can stand united. It is a serious situation for the whole of Europe, and we can have differences of opinion in many things, but everyone works for the good of Sweden and for the safety of Sweden. We can think differently about how to do it in the best way, but we still have Sweden's best interests in mind. Sweden is partly based on the strong expansion of the defence as we do, but in addition Sweden has a wide range of collaboration agreements with different countries and organisations. We have a long-standing partnership with NATO, and it is a partnership that we in Parliament agree that we should continue to deepen. In addition, we are conducting joint exercises with other countries, and we have a particularly close cooperation and cooperation with Finland. Our military forces work closely together and can also practice closely. Sweden is therefore not alone, but we have a wide range of cooperation agreements and collaborations in addition to building our military. The government's assessment is that, in such a very serious situation, it is best for Sweden's interests that we have a long-term and predictable security policy line. It is a line that has also benefited Sweden for a long time. It's kept us out of armed conflict. There may be different views on this, but the government's assessment is that the best thing for Sweden in this situation is that we continue to have a consistent and predictable security policy line.
i-PkyhGRjfLrpRgG1zYt9KZ8	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Prime Minister. I would like to emphasise that I agree that in this kind of very serious situation, when we have war in Europe, we need to put aside other things and focus on uniting in solidarity with Ukraine and combating the Russian invasion in the ways we can. We are making a different assessment on the part of the Christian Democrats. We believe that this is a day in which we should seriously discuss enhanced NATO cooperation further. I take note of the government's position and, of course, welcome the deepening of cooperation, but, as we see it, it would have to be further deepened to make Sweden a full member of NATO. I would like to ask Magdalena Andersson if she sees any other circumstances or conditions, some other day later, which would allow the discussion of full membership of NATO to take place. Do the Social Democrats and the government see such an opportunity in the future?
i-CMcsj4vL5z7w9pRDr7LbEn	Mr President, I would like to I do not know whether today is the time to speculate on such issues. What I can say is that the non-aligned line that we in Sweden have been pursuing for decades has kept us out of war. It has thus been a successful line and strategy that Sweden has had. It is against this background, among other things, that the government does not see NATO membership as the best way forward for our country. In addition, we believe that predictability and long-termness are particularly important in our security policy line at this point. However, I respect the fact that other assessments can be made.
i-NA8PSL9VF7rZKRRASZJfjG	Mr President, I would like to This morning at 5.30 Olga, who lives outside Kiev, wrote an answer to my question whether she is safe and what I can do. Her answer to me was as follows: You are a parliamentarian. Do what you can! Use your mandate! Mr President, I would like to Now I say the same to Magdalena Andersson: Do what you can! Use your mandate at this time! The struggle for freedom is not abstract; it is very real. It's here, and it's now. It's hit. My question, Mr President, is: everyone should take responsibility, but what is the Swedish responsibility for those who are now fleeing Ukraine?
i-RFRzTuFcMiByzsnbono2Jm	Mr President, I would like to I thank Maria Nilsson for the question. Today it is important that we stand not only with the people of Ukraine and behind Ukraine's leadership with words but also with practical action. Therefore, the government will speed up the ongoing work to review what further measures we can take from the Swedish side to support Ukraine. Sweden is already the second largest financial contributor to Ukraine today, and there are opportunities to speed up this support. In addition, the Minister for Defence has been asked to review whether there are further measures that the Swedish Armed Forces can take. I will go to Brussels today at a summit, and on behalf of Sweden I will push hard for us to have very tough sanctions against Russia and further support for Ukraine. In addition, all Swedes can help by donating money to the organisations that support the civilian population in Ukraine.
i-5UqWt8WDhcHRiToqtDz854	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Prime Minister for his reply. I hope that we can be a haven for those Ukrainians who will feel they need to leave their country because of what is happening now. I would like to conclude, given the situation, by saying what many people are saying around the world right now: Slava Ukraine!
i-9pcXJek3inJa2H8NzRTXW6	Mr President, I would like to Of course, at this stage, Europe must stand up for the right of asylum. The terrible war that Russia has waged risks forcing people to flee, and, of course, Europe must stand together for people in need of protection. Here it is important for the whole of Europe to take responsibility so that we can jointly show our solidarity with people in need of protection.
i-CzksDTsESuwdZVFQvMeTPt	Mr President, I would like to This is truly a day of sorrow and a day that I am sure we will never forget. The world – and Sweden – is shaken by Russia's heinous actions. There is now, for the first time since the Second World War, an invasion war on the European continent. The Ukrainian population woke up this morning to a nightmare. Children in a neighboring country are now forced to experience war. People's lives are at risk of being wrecked. The suffering that may now follow is terrible in the form of loss of life, health, and security. It goes without saying to us in the Green Party that it is Russia that bears full responsibility for the tragedy that can now take place. This is an invasion that is undoubtedly contrary to international law. All our thoughts today go to the people of Ukraine, who are affected by this terrible violence. But these ideas must also be accompanied by acts of solidarity. Full-scale sanctions must be imposed. For us in the Green Party, it is obvious that Sweden will contribute to Ukraine's struggle for self-determination. Sweden will continue its support to Ukraine, both from Sweden and together within the EU. Rarely have I been so proud of Swedish aid as when I see what efforts Sweden has made in Ukraine. I appreciate the Prime Minister's strong condemnation of Russia's actions and the talks you have held. It is important that we can stand together at this time and set a humanitarian example. The Green Party's view is that Sweden, together with other EU countries, must offer refuge and protection in accordance with the right of asylum. Sweden must be a reliable partner and provide humanitarian aid. Sweden needs to show solidarity with all the people that this morning has awakened to war.
i-2L2yvoWE8aM28sqYjxdPbw	Mr President, I would like to What we can do from Sweden, of course, is continue to use our aid for humanitarian aid, both directly to Ukraine and through organisations. The government decided last Tuesday on further support for the Red Cross, which operates in Ukraine. We can also continue to support Ukraine through EU aid. Of course, there should also be the possibility for people on the run to seek asylum in Europe. This will be an opportunity for all the countries of Europe to stand up and show solidarity, as well as an opportunity for all the countries of Europe to show in action and not only in words that they are supporting Ukraine also in the case of people who need protection. As I said before, there are many people in Sweden who now want to help in different ways. After all, there are also opportunities to donate money to one of the many aid organisations and civil society organisations that are now working to support people in Ukraine and to support people if they choose – or are forced, I shall say – to seek asylum in other countries.
i-6ZkPTKR21YuCcqDEqfFAjd	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Prime Minister for the important answer. It is, of course, important that we act in every way to reduce Russia's capacity to carry out such acts of aggression and to reduce the consequences and suffering of those who are now affected. The fact that the Red-Green Government has made great efforts to reduce Sweden's use of fossil fuels, including from Russia, is of course important in order to reduce the economic opportunities for Russia to carry out this type of action. We must stand united as a country, together with the European Union, for human rights and international law, and therefore also against the illegal and unprovoked aggression of Vladimir Putin. We Greens want Sweden to be a humanitarian example that shows others that Sweden is prepared to help save lives and alleviate human suffering. Sweden needs to be like a arms that provide shelter to people fleeing from the horrors of war. Therefore, I would like to ask the Prime Minister: although individual EU countries would not accept their responsibilities, is the Prime Minister prepared to say that Sweden should offer protection to a brother people who could now be forced to flee for their lives?
i-R9EqvRtK4UYRy1FDkooFu4	Mr President, I would like to Sweden will of course continue to assist Ukraine in a wide range of ways, and we have a right of asylum in Sweden. Having said that, however, it cannot be the case that Sweden repeatedly takes the absolute greatest responsibility for people who are on the run. We did so in 2015, and we have also taken a very large responsibility in the past and shown great solidarity. If the international asylum system is to be maintained, it is necessary for more countries to take responsibility for it. This will be an important point. Other European countries must also show that they are prepared to stand up for the system that we have for the right of asylum and for a more evenly distributed responsibility in Europe. Otherwise, this system will not work in the long run. In this way, this is important for people's ability to escape war and oppression in the long run.
i-Uhz4UQu4d4VyTihV3XbwwX	Mr President, I would like to Mister Ambassador! I woke up this morning to the news of a war in Europe. But just two hours away other families with children woke up from the sound of air alarms and explosions in their immediate vicinity. Mr Putin's unjust military invasion of Ukraine has caused a great deal of concern and crisis in Europe, but also a great deal of concern to our own people. For the first time in my life, I get this kind of questions from young people – how does this affect me, and what should I do? We are experiencing a time so unpredictable and insecure that many feel very insecure. I would like to ask the Prime Minister: how do you view the security policy situation? What is your overall assessment? What is the next step of the government?
i-35b9M4wYEXW2bvSPQQEw95	Mr President, I would like to It has been a deteriorating security policy situation in our neighbourhood for a long time, so also for Sweden. Of course it has deteriorated further this week. Having said that, we do not see any imminent military threat to Sweden. This is an important message, not least to all children and young people in Sweden who are currently worried. It is of course important that all of us who are adults, and who may be parents, teachers, leisure leaders or other things, take the time right now and talk to Sweden's children and young people who are worried. It is also important to tell children and young people that you do not have to look at everything that now comes in social media, because there is a risk that there will be nasty pictures and movies. You don't have to look and click on everything. Above all, be careful what you pass on to your friends. Even if you do not think that something is very nasty, there is a risk that your friends will think so.
i-T8fG4iLkZAp8LhzX3rBca5	Mr President, I would like to Today is 24 February. It will be our time of April 9th, the date 82 years ago when the Nazi Third Reich attacked Norway and Denmark. Today it is Putin Russia that invades free independent Ukraine. Mr President, I would like to We know that there is a list from Ukraine of various forms of defensive armaments that one would like to have. Can the Prime Minister and I agree that there is nothing in Swedish legislation that constitutes an absolute obstacle for Sweden to help provide Ukraine with defensive defence equipment? This is not contrary to any international commitment, is not contrary to any embargo and would not conflict with the Swedish foreign policy line. Can the Prime Minister agree with that? My second question is: is the Prime Minister prepared to push within the EU to activate the so-called peace facility to provide Ukraine with defensive defence equipment?
i-WyADHPQ7itpwxa89qjhvHQ	Mr President, I would like to Today, I have commissioned Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist to ask the Swedish Armed Forces what else we can support Ukraine with in terms of various forms of support to strengthen Ukrainian resilience. At the same time, Sweden has strict arms export legislation. Sending weapons to Ukraine would be a departure from the practice we have in Sweden. As regards the European Peace Facility, Ann Linde has been in the EU Board earlier this week to agree on the line that Sweden will take in the EU. We are clear that we are not excluding anything with regard to the European Peace Facility. I will also consult the European Council before going to Brussels this afternoon.
i-rncDKKY7cBunA6crJoPg1	Mr President, I would like to We are likely to see increased flows of refugees from Ukraine. This time, the Union must deliver a better organised response than in 2015. The burden-sharing rules must be maintained, and the rest of the Union must ensure that there is adequate material support for Ukraine, but also Poland, which will probably be the first stop for those who seek Europe. This points to the issue of preparedness. MSB announced today that a certain shipment was made to Ukraine. It is of course good, although in volume it is quite small. Our emergency stocks are not exactly what they used to be. The question is: how much opportunity do we have to help quickly in a large-scale humanitarian crisis in our neighbourhood today?
i-BzjCj8iYPWoCXp2EWkuvEP	Mr President, I would like to Sweden already provides support today, including tents and water tanks, to improve the humanitarian situation in Ukraine. In addition, there are opportunities to support via Europe, but of course this can also be done through other international organisations. It can be about that there is material in Sweden, but it can also be about purchasing material in other places. Clearly, as in the past, we from Sweden will continue to be a very active supporter of Ukraine in this serious situation.
i-aVm55pXekgDKx6ZiFrmma	Mr President, I would like to These are serious times in which we find ourselves. The freedom that Ukrainians are now fighting for is about our freedom in Europe and Sweden. Solidarity policy is not about keeping us out of it, but about standing up for our values and taking our share of responsibility. I heard the Prime Minister instructed the Secretary of Defense to see what the defense could contribute. That makes sense. However, I also heard the Prime Minister say that our strict export legislation does not seem to enable arms exports or the lending of arms and armaments. But that's not the case, is it, Prime Minister? Has the question been tried? Has the ISP been asked for a trial? Has the Export Control Council been asked for review? I have not been there, Mr President.
i-DLHRPgMWGN3gRnAU3NU2PC	Mr President, I would like to Then I think Kerstin Lundgren has misunderstood. I note that we have strict arms export legislation and that we have recently tightened it further in very broad consensus. Sending armaments to a country that is in armed war would be a practice violation of how Sweden acted earlier.
i-TdennnuvN2UDMgsRzUYYph	Mr President, I would like to On February 24 we will remember as a dark day in our history. An imperialist Russia has invaded an independent Ukraine in the middle of an ongoing UN meeting. Sweden and the outside world must now stand up for Ukraine and its people. The sanctions against the Putin regime must be even tougher. At the same time, our efforts for a sustainable peace must continue. We must support the Ukrainian people humanitarianly and support those who are forced to flee. We must support its resilience. I wonder what initiatives the Prime Minister intends to take to extend sanctions against the Putin regime and what diplomatic initiatives the Prime Minister sees as Sweden taking within the framework of the OSSE, where we are still part of the so-called Troika, and within the framework of the UN.
i-78Mo5zxJviWPfXXi1RjH32	Mr President, I would like to Sweden will continue to pursue a policy of supporting Ukraine in this terrible situation with full force. It is also important to emphasise that the blame for the situation that has arisen lies with the political leadership of Russia and no one else. Acting in this way is the choice they have made. It is against this background that I expect and look to get mandates from the EU Board to push with full force too hard sanctions against Russia to clearly mark on the part of the European Union. My hope is that we will also be able to cooperate with our other partners, the United States and the United Kingdom, so that we can respond together with tremendous strength and strength at this point.
i-GEKeApLbbxJ2CVWZSgCDxX	Mr President, I would like to We Christian Democrats appreciate what the Prime Minister says about Sweden's support for Ukraine through financial and humanitarian aid. We hope that these channels are kept open and that Sweden assists with what Sweden can and does its utmost to help Ukraine. I also note that the Prime Minister repeatedly mentions the work of civil society through, for example, non-profit organisations, and I welcome that. However, several of them signal uncertainty as to whether their deliveries will arrive. What can the government do to ensure that the relief services of both large and small organizations come forward and can assist people? Sometimes this help is more effective than the public. What is the government doing diplomatically or otherwise to ensure that our non-profit organisations can get through with their aid consignments?
i-SKQ8zcE6d55bz3Ka4zQhAU	Mr President, I would like to Mr Ankarberg Johansson raises an important issue. We have a strong civil society in Sweden, and it is an incredible strength. There are also many Swedes who want to help and contribute in solidarity with the Ukrainian people, and that is something we should take advantage of. It is correct that in a war situation it can be difficult to arrive with support and material. Of course, the government will look into which paths we can take to support, and we will also discuss with our partners the best way to ensure that the support we want to provide, including from civil society, really comes to those in need. Many people in Ukraine will, of course, suffer.
i-X4yg81ZZN8f2VkNnvEM6ZZ	Mr President, I would like to It is a dark day in both Sweden and Europe. How does the Prime Minister view the situation of LGBTI people in Ukraine? They are historically extra vulnerable in an armed conflict. Although the general attitude towards LGBTI people in Ukraine is negative, it is still better than in Russia. According to US data, Ukrainian LGBTI people are identified as military targets for Russia. According to the same information, they risk being murdered or sent to camp during a Russian invasion. I understand, of course, that this is a new and complex situation, but it would be good if the government were already preparing to prioritise the protection of LGBTI people in this invasion.
i-QeV7AD1FYn1S6R6MRSdAHC	Mr President, I would like to Mr Teimouri raises an important issue. There are regimes in the world that do not believe that all people have equal value and equal rights to live their lives no matter who they love. Standing up for these rights is fundamental for the Swedish government. It also characterises Swedish foreign policy and development policy and will of course do so in this situation as well.
i-4D8r6ysNXurtnYUtz6yQzV	Mr President, Your Excellency and the Prime Minister! This morning Europe woke up to the news of a full-scale invasion war on our continent. This is the first time since Hitler's invasion in 1939. It is difficult to take the seriousness of the situation into account, not least given Putin's covert nuclear threat. I hope that with all possible means, Sweden will help Ukraine in this situation and all Ukrainians who have now taken arms to defend their country. The war risks creating a humanitarian disaster in our neighbourhood, but despite this, the Prime Minister stated the other day in Dagens Nyheter that Ukrainian refugees should be the responsibility of other countries and that Sweden will not be a large recipient country. I have experienced a softer tone before and therefore ask the Prime Minister: Does Sweden have no responsibility? Although we have taken responsibility time and again, for example in 2015, it is probably now if at some point Sweden should take responsibility.
i-UqmS6S468dBzzxPZHmpTEe	Mr President, I would like to If you read the quotes in DN and not just headline and preamble you can see that I keep the same line. It is important that the whole of Europe takes responsibility and that we share this responsibility between Europe's countries. My picture is that this approach has broad support in the Swedish Parliament. Of course, people seeking protection should also be able to obtain protection in Europe if they are entitled to it, but for it to be a long-term sustainable policy, we need to share responsibility and show solidarity in all the countries of Europe. It is not possible for Sweden time and again to take the exceptional responsibility, but for other countries to stand up and show solidarity.
i-QBuuEmpNS9LLaCgYs2afgS	Mr President, Your Excellency. It is a dark day today with the situation in Ukraine. But if Sweden is to stand strong in this situation, our country must function fully. The Diesel Prize breaks many of our companies and affects our transport. It breaks farmers who are then unable to produce the food we need.
i-L4Ynuigf1YYKChefzcvDtP	Mr President, I would like to There are many who are struggling with both high electricity bills and high diesel prices, although I believe that the vast majority of people today have their thoughts elsewhere. The government will continue with the tax reduction decided by the Riksdag on petrol and diesel. This will of course make it easier for many who depend on cars to get to and from work. We are also looking at further measures. One thing that can make it easier for pensioners with really small incomes is the guarantee supplement that we will propose to Parliament. However, there is a risk that we will have a period of both high petrol and diesel prices and high electricity prices depending on the countermeasures that Russia chooses to take following the sanctions that I assume the EU will decide on this evening.
i-A98Hd4duCM5TKRkvo26vmK	Mr President, Your Excellency. This question may seem a little apart on this dark day, but I choose to ask it anyway. Tomorrow comes the final report of the Corona Commission, and I have a few questions for the Prime Minister. Will we have another type of national governance where the state can point with the whole hand during a crisis and avoid constant discussions with SKR? There were extremely little protective equipment at the beginning, partly because the regions did not have the pandemic stocks they would have. Will we also have an upgraded healthcare and care for the elderly with more trained staff? Will we manage the next pandemic better?
i-NtZTWyLHxTVNatXJ2TmnL4	Mr President, I would like to There's a lot to learn from the pandemic. It is obvious that both health care and care for the elderly need a larger suit and that many quality deficiencies need to be addressed. It is also clear that we need larger stocks, and changes have already taken place here. The EU has jointly built up stocks, and some of them exist in Sweden. We also have other stocks, and it is important here that the regions assume their responsibilities to ensure that they have equipment in stock. Ultimately, we are talking about political decisions and the priorities we choose to make regarding how much of our common resources should be spent on health care and care for the elderly and others. This is, among other things, an opportunity for the Swedish people to vote on this autumn's elections.
i-5h9W15sMHMnuwbt9wKccRW	Mr President, I would like to Today we're all Ukrainians. We stand up for democracy, rights and freedom. The work for these values must continue, as must our work here in Parliament. My question to the Prime Minister concerns something else that cuts in the heart, namely sexual abuse of children. Over the past 15 years, the number of child sexual abuse has increased rapidly, from three children in each class to six children in each class. Today, therefore, six children in each Swedish school class are victims of sexual abuse. It is frightening, and even more horrifying when we consider that there is a face behind each number — a little girl or a little boy. This requires concrete action at all levels.
i-9ugsbVEnawFBrcwUYQSUE9	Mr President, I would like to Ulrika Karlsson raises a very important and urgent issue. This is also an area where you need to work on several different levels. Some, of course, are that the police should have the resources to prosecute these crimes and get hold of those who are perpetrators and ensure that they can be prosecuted and convicted. In addition, it is important that there are adults around children – parents, but also school staff, leisure leaders and others that children can build trust in so that they dare to talk about abuse. It's the only way to get to know it and try to arrest the perpetrators. This is a worrying development. Much is amazing with social media, but they also make it easier for perpetrators to get in touch with children. We all have to talk to our children about that. We also need to talk in such a way that children should not feel that it is their own fault and their own guilt. We really need to get this out of society, that is, it is always the perpetrator who chooses to do this. It is never a mistake from a child that exposes you to such a thing.
i-DTxV6VVWtWzhA8NouQLdaG	Madam President, I would like I would like to explain clearly my support for the people of Ukraine in the terrible situation it finds itself in because of the aggressive attack by Putin and Russia. Even the rest of the world is strongly influenced by this. Democracy is very important, so of course we must continue to debate and safeguard our democracy. I now turn to talking about student grants. I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation number 9 which deals with student aid and the discharge of student debt for police officers. I am very proud and happy that we have such a generous and good study support system in Sweden. We've talked about this before, but it's something you should always be proud of. This support provides the opportunity to study at upper secondary level when you turn 20 years old, komvux, university or college. It's a very big opportunity. Madam President, I would like I meet many committed students in my job as education policy manager for higher education issues. Among other things, I have a future medical colleague in the gallery here today. I know that there is a great deal of interest in student aid issues. I met the organisation Sweden's United Student Unions this week. They're responsible for 400,000 students. It's almost half a million people, that is, a very large group. It is important to listen to the students when it comes to what concerns them and what can facilitate their studies. We talked about that student support offers many opportunities, but it also involves some concerns. There are now greater differences between students than in the past. There are different family situations. You may be older than students used to be. Accommodation varies depending on where you read. It is usually more expensive in large cities and also difficult to find housing. So there are quite different needs of the students today. Madam President, I would like This means that we have to adapt the student aid system to reality. I'm glad we do. We see that there are concerns and try to correct them. The Moderates have pushed the question that you should be able to have student funds higher up in the age group, which is now also decided. We also want it to be more study weeks, and this too is decided. This is positive and makes it easier for many students who may also start a second career in order to keep a job or need more skills in order to get a job. A concern for the students is also, as I said earlier, the accommodation. It can be very expensive. The Moderates also want to see an opportunity for a special loan for residents that is different from the usual means of study. The student support offers a lot of opportunities, but it should also be paid back. It's a matter of course, but it's something that worries the students. It may sometimes be that you do not dare to take out a loan and may not start studies because you are worried about the high student loan. The government has made a proposal for a conversion package, called conversion study support, after discussions with various social partners. The aim is to make it easier to study higher up the age group and gain a stronger position in the labour market. We will take a decision on this in the summer of 2022. The Moderates are in favour of this, but we know that there are still some questions about what it should look like and how it should be financed. However, we know that part of the funding is to increase the interest rate on student loans, which of course concerns many students. It is also worrying that we want to make a retroactive increase in the interest rate on loans already taken out. We are clearly opposed to this from the Moderates. We believe that a loan entered into, a contract entered into, cannot be changed retroactively. Madam President, I would like There is another group that we are thinking of in particular, and that is the police. We have a huge shortage of police officers, and we're going to need an increasing number of police officers. There are also many other shortage professions, but here we see that it is a major concern. Then it is not enough just to increase the number of study places, but we must also motivate more people to read to the police. We therefore have a proposal that you can have your student loans written off after you have completed the police. This is done for five years, which means that one fifth is written off during the first year, and after five years the debt is completely written off. If you drop out and don't continue working as a police officer, you don't have to pay back what you've got written off. We think this is an important change, and it takes a change of law for it to go through, which, of course, we want it to do. I would like to endorse reservation number 9 which deals precisely with the discharge of the student debt for police officers.
i-4XynEtsGd466nApMtax6Zf	Madam President, I would like I would, of course, like to begin by expressing my support for Ukraine and the Ukrainian people. Now it's election year, and of course it can be seen. Old proposals are dusted off and lifted from so-called simplified preparation to re-processing in order to be able to highlight them more easily in the debate. We note that the old proposals of the Swedish Democrats are now being taken up by other parties, repackaged a little and then launched as something new and fresh signed a new party. We welcome, of course, the fact that other parties join our policy, because it is good for Sweden. However, if our proposals had been supported from the outset, they might have already been in place now, instead of being rejected, hidden away, forgotten, dug up and then re-launched as something new. Madam President, I would like Let me give you a very concrete example. The Swedish Democrats' proposal, which was voted down by all parties in the Riksdag in this House, was that the age limit for how late in life student support can be obtained should be linked to the age of guarantee pension and then automatically follow in relation to the guidelines age for guarantee pension. In this way, the Riksdag does not need to make new decisions on an ongoing basis as the age of pension changes. This year, 2022, we can read in the Green Party Committee motion that the age limits in the study support system are linked to the guidance age for guarantee pension and thus gradually increased with it. The difference with the proposals of the Swedish Democrats? None at all. It's almost literally the same. The Swedish Democrats welcome the opportunity to study higher up in the ages. With an ageing population and also a healthier population, it is also reasonable that opportunities for good education and training should follow the same trend. We welcome, of course, the Green Party's adherence to the policy of the Swedish Democrats. Usually it takes a little longer to adopt our policy and then pretend that it rains and brings it forward as its own. In this case, therefore, there was only one year between the proposals. But of course we are happy to share our ideas and suggestions. The important thing is that the Riksdag makes decisions that are good for Sweden and our citizens, not who presents them. Madam President, I would like Sweden has a well-developed study support system, which is one of the world's most generous systems to enable studies for all people from all walks of life. The Swedish Democrats want to preserve this generous system, because society benefits from a well-educated population. It is fair to have a system where all people have the opportunity to study and develop their knowledge and abilities. In some respects an even more generous system is needed, in other respects the system has become too generous. The Swedish Democrats propose that graduates who take up employment in the areas classified by the Swedish Agency for Growth as rural municipalities and sparsely populated municipalities should receive 15 per cent of their student debt written off each year during the time they work as teachers in those municipalities. We believe that this will help to partially address the shortage of teachers in sparsely populated areas and also to preserve and restore a vibrant countryside and to make schooling more possible. In Sweden there is so-called study start-up support, a study grant intended for primarily new arrivals. The aid creates an injustice between groups where other than new arrivals are directed to funding their studies with student loans. Start-up support as a grant means that the newcomer does not have to take out student loans, which means an unequal distortion in student funding. According to the latest statistics available, 6,300 persons received start-up support during the year. Of these, 70 per cent were students with foreign citizenship. In addition, 5 per cent of the students discontinued their studies, and according to an overall assessment, half of the students, about 3 000 persons, had studied even if they had not received study start-up support. The Swedish Democrats propose that study start-up support be phased out as soon as possible and that no new applications for support be granted. When it comes to student loans, the rules say that these loans should start to be repaid six months after the last payment is made. On the other hand, those who have received student loans in the past will pay back immediately after the end of the student grant. For the individual who wants less debt and who studies without student support, a difficult situation may arise if, at the same time as studying further, he is forced to start his repayment for the previous loans. There should of course be limits to how long a person should have the right to wait with their refund, but the Swedish Democrats suggest that the repayment of student loans should not have to start during the time a student without new student funds devotes themselves to full-time studies. Today, eight out of ten students report that they are studying to get a job. The motivation and the will are thus nothing wrong, but research shows a significant so-called miseducation of the Swedish labour force. Four out of ten higher education institutions are losses, at least according to the statistics. You simply study the wrong direction – if the goal is to get a job, that is. A quantitative expansion of the Swedish education system does not therefore see the Swedish democrats as a guarantee that the matching problems in the labour market will be solved. The individual who receives a lower level of education risks being completely out of work while the person who receives a higher level of education but in an industry where there are no jobs, receives a job that does not require skills corresponding to the level of education. A person who receives a job is therefore at risk of being over-qualified. Error training also means, with great probability, that the wage premium is adversely affected. If many in the labour market have formally higher qualifications than those required for current jobs, the wages will also be relatively low for these people. In other words, the training premium is low, which further contributes to labour market matching problems. The Swedish Democrats therefore propose to encourage students to take courses where there is a great need from the labour market and which are important for Sweden's economy and future development. We therefore propose that students who study one of the ten programmes with the greatest labour shortage receive a higher study grant. Madam President, I would like I would therefore like to conclude my speech by calling for the approval of the Swedish Democrats' reservation 5 on precisely increased study grants.
i-YDSThyQtsMGR4DyGh7DvJQ	Madam President, I would like It is an extremely dark day in Europe when an authoritarian regime invades a democratic country in our vicinity. Putin Russia and its actions with a large-scale military operation which is a great suffering for the Ukrainian population need to be clearly condemned. We Members of Parliament here and the rest of the world show solidarity with the Ukrainian population. I can understand that it feels a little strange that this day also debate other internal policy issues, but it is important that the democratic work in Sweden continues. We are today discussing student grants for sports that have been received during the general exercise period. I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 2 from the Center Party. During the term of office, there have been some reforms involving the Centre Party in the framework of the January Agreement in order to improve and develop study funding. We have been involved in raising the age limit for when you have the opportunity to have study funds so that people can change and retrain later in life. In the spring there will also be a proposal for conversion study support. It is based on the agreement between the social partners which has led to changes in labour law with more flexibility but which also provides a strong package of conversion study support so that people later in life with good economic conditions can change their tracks or deepen their knowledge. This will continue to boost the labour market and will be able to take up new jobs due to the change that is taking place not least in the wake of digitalisation and automation. This creates the conditions for more people to be able to work longer and develop throughout their lives. It is precisely the opportunity to study higher up in the ages and to retrain later in life that we see from the Center Party as a central part of Sweden. We continue to develop this, and I look forward to deepening the discussions on the transition study support when the bill comes to Parliament. Madam President, I would like In this report, the Center Party is also looking forward to reforms to develop the study aid system and student aid in Sweden. We see a need for a more flexible study funding system that enables and rewards students who read faster but also creates conditions and opportunities for students who need to read at a slower pace. For example, we need to improve the possibility of being on part-time sick leave. There we see a need for reforms in the future. It also needs to be made easier to reconcile family life with study, thus enabling a more equal system of study funding. We in the Center Party have seen that those who are the toughest are single parents who are going to study. Since full-time studies are to take place on a full-time basis, we need to look at how we can create better conditions for single parents. The Center Party also points out a focus on equal payments. Other systems have ensured that payments are made in an equal manner. However, there are parts within the study funding system that are linked to the supplementary allowance when you have children, and they need to be adjusted to create the conditions for an equal withdrawal if both parents are studying. It is important for the Center Party to develop the possibility of living and living throughout the country. We must meet the skills needs of large parts of the country. This applies not least to the lack of teachers. It is larger in the countryside than in other parts. The lack of higher education skills is high in many rural municipalities. That is why we have previously worked for, and will continue to work for, the possibility of writing off student funds for those people who, after studying, move to or move back to rural municipalities. In this way, we can create opportunities for people to live and live throughout the country, and businesses and the public sector will have the opportunity to obtain the necessary skills.
i-2YrkBvYioc5aRCnduyTb6B	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation number 10. Like many others in this House today, I would also like to address the situation in Ukraine and the crimes that Russia is committing right now. I think I speak for all democratic forces when I say that our thoughts are with the Ukrainian people. Madam President, I would like In order for the student aid system to be more equitable than it is today and thus be able to counter unfair recruitment in a better way, it needs to be fundamentally changed. The left-wing party's vision is to introduce study wages and to put studies on an equal footing with work in the long term. An investment in the salary of students must in the long term be considered to be the most economically and socially beneficial for both the student and society as a whole. It would mean greater opportunities for students to get a good education, and it would increase their ability to participate actively in society. It is in the interests of society and democracy that people are well educated. Students would also have access to social security systems with a salary, and many of the social and economic problems currently faced by students would be solved. It should be possible to receive student funding throughout your studies. The Left Party wants the share of grants in study funds to increase so that the debt burden does not become more burdensome. It should also be possible to receive an increased grant under certain conditions. With higher grants and lower loans, the repayment of the student loan is facilitated. We want the student condition in unemployment insurance to be reinstated. Study resources that are viable are a prerequisite for being able to study full-time and thus create high-quality education. The recruitment effect of the means of study for higher education should not be underestimated, although studies show that students from old-age homes more often take out the entire loan portion, while students from old-age homes more often work alongside to reduce their loan debt. Madam President, I would like The design of the study tool is therefore both a question of funding studies and recruitment to higher education. An important part of students' financial security is the right to be ill. However, there are now several problems with regard to students' access to health insurance. Since 2018, those with a documented chronic disease may also have the opportunity to be on sick leave on a part-time basis even in full-time studies if the disease may involve longer periods of illness. For those who, for various reasons, are unable to complete full-time studies and who are on sick leave on a part-time basis, there is still no possibility of combining sick leave with studies. Changes need to be made to provide students with basic security in parental and unemployment insurance. In addition, says the Left Party, the age limit for housing allowance needs to be reviewed. In the State Public Investigation Increased security for students who fall ill, the investigator states that the assignment did not include persons with disabilities. In order for more people with disabilities to feel financially secure during studies, the security of them must also be investigated. Madam President, I would like During the pandemic, it became clearer than ever how important it is for everyone to have the opportunity and access to education and that the thresholds must be as low as possible. Record numbers have applied to higher education institutions, universities, polytechnics and folk high schools. At the same time, we can see that parents' educational background, class membership and social conditions are factors that play an increasingly important role in young people's ability to be accepted and to cope with higher education. Recently, the government presented a proposal for a new conversion study support. We think it's good. The conversion study support will make it easier for people with work experience to further train or study a whole new education in order to strengthen their position in the labour market. This is a good idea, but at the same time it is proposed that the reform be financed by an extreme increase in the interest rate on the loan part of the study aid, from zero to 0.5 to 0.6% today. This has met with great protests, which we in the Left Party also support. Madam President, I would like Today 85 000 - 90 000 people have debts with Kronofogden due to student debt that they have had problems paying back. The number of debtors has increased over the years, and reminder fees have also increased. Therefore, it is difficult to understand why the government in this situation chooses to raise interest rates and thus debt additional people, which also raises the thresholds to higher education. With this proposal, the government also chooses to set young people's opportunities for education against older people's opportunities to change in the middle of life, which we do not think is correct. Madam President, I would like Let me address a speech that was made earlier here in the debate. It is always fun when parties take after other parties, in this case the Left Party. It's fun because Left Party policy is good for Sweden. I mean, of course, the Swedish Democrats, because the issue of depreciation of study funds is something that the Left Party has made as a proposal even before the Swedish Democrats even existed in the Swedish parliament. Madam President, I would like Demographic developments in rural areas will put pressure on the human resources of public welfare services in rural areas. It is not primarily a question of the lack of specific skills, but of the lack of labour supply. Rural areas have skills shortages in services, welfare professions and construction. Small and medium-sized enterprises in rural municipalities are more hampered by a shortage of suitable labour than in other municipalities. There will also be a shortage in many of the professions of welfare, particularly those of nursing staff. It is mainly increased demand in the care of the elderly that drives development. Work on climate change will also require new efforts to ensure the supply of skills in rural areas. One way to increase interest in living and working in the countryside is to do what has been done in Norway. They simply have a write-off of student funds for those with a higher education degree who choose to work in shortage professions and move to areas where there are recruitment problems, that is, in rural areas. We therefore want the government to instruct the relevant authorities to develop a model for part of the student loan to be depreciated for people who receive a university degree and start working in rural municipalities.
i-PAHwye8PkDvRre8ca6CQ3N	Madam President, I would like I, too, would like to express my greatest sympathies with regard to the terrible situation in Ukraine and condemn Russia's invasion. I and the Christian Democrats want to express our strongest support for Ukraine and its people. Whatever we are debating in this House today may seem a little small. But maintaining our democratic processes, standing up for that right and keeping it strong is perhaps the most important thing we can do. Madam President, I would like In Sweden we have one of the world's most generous student support systems. That is something we should be truly proud of, not least in these days when democracy and people's rights and freedoms are strongly threatened in Europe and in our vicinity. Sweden's student support gives everyone who wants to start studying, regardless of background, the necessary financial conditions. All parts of the study grant, i.e. study grants during upper secondary school hours, grants for pupils with disabilities, apprenticeships and student funding with grants and loan elements, together, will help to equalise differences in economic conditions between individuals and between groups in society. Madam President, I would like For pupils who attend upper secondary school, study grants are paid at the same amount as for the child benefit from the age of 16. In addition, families with very low income have the opportunity to apply for an additional supplement. The prerequisite for applying for an additional supplement is that the total taxable income of the family does not exceed SEK 125 000 in a full year. This income limit has been the same for a long time. We Christian Democrats therefore want to review how the additional supplement relates to other support schemes aimed at improving support for children and families living in financial vulnerability. I would therefore like to ask for reservation 3 in paragraph 1. We believe that this review should also review the fact that the study allowance in upper secondary school is only paid during the academic year, from September to May. Although it is possible to apply for extra supplements for June, it can create problems for families who live in financial vulnerability that study funds for upper secondary school studies are not paid out during the summer. Madam President, I would like I would like to take this opportunity to mention the free amount, that is to say the amount that a student can earn without lowering the level of the means of study. We Christian Democrats were at an early stage pushing for the abolition of the ransom when the outbreak of covid-19 put great strain on health care and care. In addition to limiting the student's own decision as to how much time and capacity he or she has to work alongside the studies, the amount of the benefit also limited the possibility of strengthening the staffing of health care during the pandemic. I am grateful that the government finally acted and abolished the release during the pandemic. This took place in several stages, first for 2020 and then for 2021 in two steps. It was also recently announced that it would be abolished in the first half of 2022. That is a good thing, but we Christian Democrats want to go further and investigate the conditions for the total abolition of the release. Madam President, I would like We believe that there is a value in giving people the opportunity to increase their income during their studies, not least when the rent too often eats up a large proportion of the student allowance. Similarly, there is a value in students being able to establish themselves early in the labour market. We see it as positive that students work during their studies – as long as the studies do not suffer, of course. However, university and university students are adults, and the requirements for study results to be maintained are good. On the basis of those rules, we Christian Democrats have full confidence that the individual has the ability to balance studies and work and assess his own capacity and life situation.
i-SnJw96ZtBAddFVWMf46jRV	Madam President, I would like Sweden has one of the world's most generous study funding systems. Many who listen to the debate and are in the room have surely used it to gain access to higher studies that would otherwise have been difficult to get access to. That's something we're supposed to protect. As a result, we have a well-trained population, a high level of education, a large proportion of researchers and a prominent position as a formation nation. Students at all stages of life who choose to study invest time and money in their own and Sweden's future. A strong study support system is also an important way for us to invest in students. Starting from the student perspective is important in order to improve the quality of the education. It is about having a holistic perspective on the students' prerequisites and life and study situation to counteract conditions that steal focus from the studies. There is great potential. If we enable students to focus more on their studies and less on others, we use our common resources more efficiently and increase opportunities for high quality education. The student grant plays a major role here. We also have a changing labour market. It also requires that the study aid system can be adjusted to suit the needs we have. It will give people good opportunities to change in the middle of life, to further educate themselves or perhaps to train themselves to a whole new profession. A significant distraction for many students is the economic stress, which takes a lot of space in everyday life. Strengthening students' finances is therefore a key element in providing them with better opportunities to succeed in their studies by perhaps increasing the pace of study and improving the quality of their education. There are many costs in a student's budget: course literature, travel, accommodation and food. Of course, all parts can be reduced in different ways, sometimes through political initiatives. This could involve more digital delivery of literature via university libraries. Reading list can really be a big cost, especially for some courses. This can be about the student being able to transport easily to his/her HEI with good and cheap public transport. It can be about bicycle infrastructure in student cities, about lower rents and about greater access to student housing. It can also be about how the activities to facilitate everyday life at higher education institutions work when it comes to restaurants, the possibility of heating food and other things. The Green Party believes that we should continue to increase the contribution part of student aid. It has already been done relatively recently, but we believe that it should continue to be reviewed. Economic conditions often force students to work alongside their studies. And as some have mentioned before, it is not necessarily a bad thing. At the appropriate level, it can be good. But I also have experience working as a teacher at universities, and students may not always see how much they miss assimilation because they focus too much on making ends meet. It may be that it is not a question of one's own desire to work extra hard on the basis of one's capacity to strengthen the economy, but it may be a necessity to work to make ends meet. It's happening to the students. Possibly, they reach an approved and adequate level of knowledge, but when you teach, you see the difference for the person who has sufficient knowledge and for the person who really spends a lot of time and effort on his studies. It is still the knowledge that the student is looking for in higher education. There is a risk that the study results will be worse if the student works too much and is unable to keep up with the study pace. Therefore, the Green Party believes that students should have good opportunities to work during the summer months without hitting the ceiling for the release. We should implement the proposal in the study grant study on age-differentiated free amounts for how much you can earn before eligibility for student aid falls. The proposal involves a three-tier age classification where younger students have a lower free amount than older students. Conditions simply differ at different stages of life. In addition, special conditions for summer jobs should also be examined within the framework of the release. Financial security includes more than student support. This is where insurance systems come in. Health and unemployment insurance needs to be better adapted to the students' situation. Studies with student funds should be the foundation of unemployment funds so that graduates receive the unemployment benefit after graduation. There is, for example, a proposal to introduce conditions for obtaining unemployment benefit up to a hundred days after graduation. This is something that should be taken into account in this context. Madam President, I would like For time winning, I only agree to reservation number 6 under item 2. I agree with previous Members' expressions of solidarity with the Ukrainian people in the terrible situation they are now in.
i-GeZe2umJkg8etNvu7gR8iB	Madam President, I would like I too would strongly condemn Russia's ongoing invasion of Ukraine, and I would like to express my strongest support for the Ukrainian people. Madam President, I would like Sweden is a fantastic country. We have a lot to be proud of; a unique welfare, outstanding research, skilled workforce – and more and more people are becoming more and more well educated. For us Social Democrats, it has always been obvious to broaden the educational opportunities for everyone, no matter where in the country you live or where in the life you are. It gives us the opportunity to realize our dreams and contribute to Sweden as a knowledge nation. The benefits are the individual's, but also the whole of society. And the results, Madam President, have not been waiting for. It is not for nothing that 450 000 are studying at our colleges and universities today. It is an increase for the fourth year in a row, and we are up to unprecedented levels. It is not for nothing that nearly 80 000 people are studying at the university of applied sciences, where virtually everyone gets a job. And it is not for nothing that most of the 400 000 students in Komvux are entering a secondary school qualification to be able to get a job. For the vast majority of these hundreds of thousands of students, studies would not have been possible without our generous student support. A study support system that is reformed according to people's different conditions to study and goes hand in hand with changing knowledge requirements in the labour market is a cornerstone of our community building. Madam President, I would like Let me make some impact in the history of the study system. The year is 1897, and in Stenbrohult Hjalmar Oskar Ahlberg is born. He grows up with parents and eight siblings. Despite the family's weak economy and the father's lack of understanding, Hjalmar has a heartfelt desire to study. At the age of 17, Hjalmar receives an offer to attend a winter course at a folk high school. He goes to the postal savings bank, withdraws his total capital of 36 SEK and goes to school. The money concerns require discontinuation of the studies. Instead, he starts his gun duty. When military service is completed, Hjalmar Ahlberg resumes her studies under very difficult economic conditions. At the beginning of 1919, a government announcement of interest-free student loans to facilitate study opportunities for gifted but poor disciples at public institutions finally came. Hjalmar goes to the school principal and asks for a certificate for an application. The headmaster describes him as a very good talent. Hjalmar is granted a student loan and can thus complete her studies until the folk student degree in spring 1921. Madam President, I would like Since then, reforms in the study support system have replaced each other at a relatively rapid pace.
i-2JoERxvsYEP5sk5Yb5o2TL	The current system of grants and loans is introduced in 1965, and the foundations remain.
i-V868KM69crY5Uu5ohbxgr9	In 1997, the knowledge lift reform saw the light of day, as part of the renewal of labour market and education policies. There were 170 000 more borrowers and substantial growth in society. In the 2000s, student aid was increased in instalments and the limits of the grant were also increased. Madam President, I would like We Social Democrats continue to pursue this path firmly, i.e. when society calls for labour market reforms, we are adapting student aid. An illustrative example is the reform on study start-up aid of a maximum of 50 weeks, which allows the low-skilled adult unemployed to enter upper secondary school qualifications in order to increase their chances of employment. Last year, that aid laid the foundations for a brighter future for more than 7,800 individuals, which is the highest number since its introduction in 2017. Most of them are women who have chosen a lack of vocational training. CSN's studies show that up to 60 percent choose to continue reading when the 50 weeks are over. It is a great victory for the individual, of course, but it is an equal gain for society in general. Another important and appreciated reform was the increased grant part of SEK 300 per month that we pushed through together with the Left Party in 2018 to facilitate the economy for hundreds of thousands of students. Other examples of adapted student support are the driving licence loan for the unemployed and 19–20-year-olds with upper secondary school degrees to increase job prospects. From 1 January this year, the reform on raising the age limit to 60 years for the right to study aid came into force. As you know, we live longer, and the labour market has changed – so we adapt the student benefit rules. Madam President, I would like As if not all the reforms already listed were enough, Sweden will receive a whole new transition study support, aimed at those in the middle of working life, have work experience and are used to having an earned income. The vast majority will be able to study at up to 80 percent of their previous salary for a total of 44 full-time weeks starting on 1 January 2023. This major security reform is being introduced in order to be able to switch up and change during one's working life in order to strengthen one's position in the labour market. What opportunities and opportunities it will offer! Madam President, I would like I would like to comment briefly on the issue of the cancellation of study debts, for which some of the opposition parties have reserved themselves. Our principle is that the study aid system should not be used as a regional policy instrument. Rather, it is the responsibility of other policies. Using it is also not in line with the current objectives of student aid. Depreciation of student loans for certain occupational groups could also lead to the borrowers' perception of the system as unfair, i.e. that some are rewarded but others are not. Studies show that individuals act on the basis of short-term economic rationality when it comes to study choices. Therefore, higher grants are likely to be more accurate and have a greater impact on recruitment than future loan cancellations. In addition, grants mean that all students benefit from the subsidy, including those who do not use the loan system. Madam President, I would like It cannot be said enough times that Sweden's success as a knowledge nation would not have been as obvious without our generous study support. How else would it have gone for the poor Hjalmar Oskar Ahlberg in Stenbrohult in Småland, who thanks to a student loan managed to get his folk school degree 1921? And what had become of the adult education reform in 1975, the knowledge boost 20 years later and for that matter the majority of today's 450 000 university students without adapted student support? That is why, Madam President, in this speech I have chosen to sing the praises of the study system. It gives the individual the freedom to shape their own lives and strengthens Sweden's ability to continue to be a leading world-class knowledge nation. As I said, there is much to be proud of in our amazing country. I support the committee's proposal.
i-Y9yNYe4gs5fcYhg73N5nkc	Madam President, I would like We are two Liberals in the Committee on Education. Maria Nilsson, who is responsible for higher education and student support issues, was invited to an extraordinary meeting of the Parliament's EU Board following the Russian invasion of Ukraine. That is why I have only four minutes at my disposal as the last speaker in this debate. Initially, I would like to say that I find it difficult to raise the power for a brand talk about the Central Student Support Board in view of what is currently happening on our continent. We have an aggressive imperialist dictator who is trying to rearrange our continent again. We've seen this before. We know exactly what this can lead to. We are now seeing Kiev fall – perhaps while we are discussing study aid – and how Russia completely sprinkles cruise missiles over Ukraine, which has hardly any anti-aircraft to defend itself against this. We in the Liberals have a comprehensive policy on these issues. In our educational political movements in the Riksdag and also in our budget exercise presented in the autumn, you will see our resource allocation for student support and so on. For those who want to advance deeper in this, it is Category 15 of the state budget. These issues have been very much debated during the autumn. What we are now discussing is a number of motions and other things. In this short time, I would like to touch on a specific issue. It is a question of the announced very sharp increase in the interest rate on student loans. On the Liberal side, we are very critical of this. In practice, a large increase in the interest rate on student loans means that education becomes more expensive, and when education becomes more expensive, the thresholds are raised to go further education. That is something we are opposed to. Instead, we want it to pay a great deal to study courses that are long and demanding, not least theoretical. It is important for society, and it should also pay off for the individual in the future. We see in comparison with other countries around the world that it unfortunately pays too little in Sweden to further educate and study longer courses at university level. You should also know that this is particularly hard on women-dominated academic professions. After all, there are wage differentials in the Swedish labour market that are unreasonable and unacceptable. In general, women earn 85% of what men earn in the Swedish labour market. But the higher the level of education the individual has, the more unequal the pay is. This means that highly educated women working full-time earn only 78 percent of the salary earned by highly educated men. Thus, we have a greater pay gap between highly educated people than in the labour market at large, which means that if you make it more expensive to train with drastically increased interest rates on student loans, it will hit particularly hard on women-dominated academic professions. That is the main reason, at least for me, to say no to this.
i-RGAwyNS6iuciPGcmHgm9NU	Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, the difficulties in Swedish preschools are many, and for too many years the government has not done enough. During this debate, I would like to touch on some of the measures that need to be taken to remedy this situation. I want you to remember that every time you talk about problems with order, results and achievement in Swedish primary school you should have seen it come already in preschool. In Swedish school systems, every stage must be counted, and to act at the last minute must be replaced to act at the first moment. Imagine knowing the language of the country in which you live, understanding what others are saying, and being able to make your own voice heard. It is our duty as Members of Parliament but also as adults in this country to ensure every child's right to the Swedish language. Without it, there is a great risk that the child will become a stranger in his own country, and we cannot have it in Sweden. Therefore, the Moderates want each child to undergo a language screening at the BVC's three-year check. Language development is then mapped out, and the need for language pre-schools is identified for those who need it. Language preschool should be compulsory and thus apply to every child who needs it. So we lay the foundation for a free life in a free country. If this is to be possible, we must overcome the enormous shortage of preschool teachers. The Moderates want us to make it more attractive to work in preschool and to create more paths to possible employment. The career stage reform must therefore also apply to preschools, and we need a supplementary education for academics and professionals who want to take up employment in our preschool. What we also need to do is to ensure that children who are early in need of more support actually receive it. With Moderates' proposals, special educators and special teachers become a natural part of preschool teams. It would benefit all children. Every child and all parents should be able to expect a pre-school or educational care in the top class. Unfortunately, however, that is not something that can be taken for granted today. With a system that is unequal in licensing and supervision, it does not really work out well. Both municipalities and schools believe that the current system does not work and that it is also difficult to maintain. Therefore, the School Inspectorate must take over all licensing and supervision. Only then can we guarantee a good educational quality for every child. Madam President, I would like Tomorrow is exactly one year since this Parliament voted through our proposal to conduct an overall investigation of Swedish preschools. This is something that has been asked for by the unions, the profession and the researchers. However, we are still waiting for the Government to implement Parliament's decisions. Frankly, the Social Democrats cannot duck the responsibility they have towards every teacher and every child to begin this work without delay. I would like to ask for the approval of reservation number 8. To conclude, Madam President, I would like to express my support for the Ukrainian people – we mourn their losses. Sweden needs to respond to Putin's full-scale invasion with more than condemnation, and my hope is that the Prime Minister will strongly stand for such a position tonight.
i-KSgeAAhs3KJFKnx8qfEQUp	Madam President, I would like This year it is 50 years since kindergarten became preschool. It is 87 years since Alva Myrdal pushed through the children's garden for everyone, and it is 168 years since the first baby crib opened on Kungsholmen in Stockholm. In fact, the premises on Kungsholmen still exist, and it is reported that preschools are still in place there today. But we can hopefully assume that there have been some changes in both pedagogy and physical premises since then. While there have been huge changes since the first baby crib, there are other parts where it sometimes feels like nothing has happened at all. To this day, 2022, there are children who suffer ill, for the simple reason that the law does not follow. However, those of us who are in these premises have the mandate to change the law and remove the obstacles that risk causing children to fall between the seats. Suppose that a parent is heavily alcoholic and that this leads to serious abuse for that person's children. No clothes are washed, there is no food, sleep is lacking due to parties and high volume. And when the child does not do as the parent says, it leads to violence, pure child abuse. The staff at preschool are starting to see the signs. The child in question does not seem to feel very good but is lean and bleached and withdraws. Perhaps the child becomes outwardly active toward other children. Of course, one gets worried and engages in a dialogue with the parent in question, who answers that everything is fine at home and doesn't understand why. Perhaps the parent transfers responsibility to preschool and feels that they have not done their job with the child. When questions come back time and again, the parent eventually realizes that it is probably only a matter of time before the truth comes out. You switch preschools, maybe you even switch to another principal. The circus begins again, and it will be a while before the questions begin. Once the questions begin to become difficult, a change of preschool takes place again. This time you move to the neighbouring municipality. In the third lap of questions from preschool it still does not get enough attention before it is time for summer holidays, and after summer holidays it's time for primary school instead – new place, new staff – and everything starts again. What I have now told you has happened in reality. The only positive thing in this story is that it ends reasonably happily, for eventually a teacher managed to connect so closely with the student that he eventually dared to tell about his heavily alcoholic mother. At that time, the student was ten years old. Today, the student is reportedly doing well. In order for information to be communicated between preschools, principals or municipalities or between preschools and primary schools, consent is required. A child cannot give his or her consent, so the responsibility thus falls to the guardian. How many guardians will consent if the information contains something that they want to hide or hide? We are a legislature. We can change the law. We can remedy the shortcomings that led to nearly ten years before this student was helped. I would therefore like to support the Swedish Democrats' reservation No 4 on the transfer of information in order to revise the regulatory framework for reports of concern in order to enable the exchange of information between preschool and primary school or in the case of a change of preschool or principal. In addition to our reservations in this report, there is also a special opinion from the Swedish Democrats. Since we have more than 30 proposals in this area, we cannot support everyone. In addition, some are being prepared in a simplified way – that is, we have already voted on the debate and dealt with these proposals in the past. With this particular opinion, however, we are making it clear that we are in favour of all our proposals, both new and old, although I am not taking them up here in the speaker's seat today. With these 30 proposals, the Swedish Democrats are pushing questions such as the size of the children's groups, the number of children per teacher, the importance of the Swedish language in the curriculum and the staff, to prevent clothes checks when guardians call preschools and ask the staff to see if their daughter is wearing a veil, abolishing the withdrawal of benefits for the staff, improving the living environment and working environment, that the School Inspectorate will take over supervision also for the independent preschools, the open preschool's assignments, more men in preschools and so on. Of course, I would have liked to tell you more about all the suggestions about how we can make the Swedish preschool better, but I am afraid that both the President and my colleagues here had gone home a long time ago before I was finished. But let me dwell on a proposal from the Swedish Democrats, and let me tell you another little story. In 2019, before we had a pandemic that crippled our country, I made a trip through Sweden where I visited quite a few preschools. At one of these preschools down in the country, an educator told about a very unpleasant experience. At breakfast one morning a boy had taken a butter knife, put it to his neck, looked the educator pretty deep in the eyes and then made a movement like to cut the neck with the butter knife. Of course, the pedagogue had asked the boy why he did that. The boy had replied: My father says you are dirty, because you do not have a veil. And if you don't have a veil, then you're gonna die. This, of course, led to consequences because the educator took it on to the guardian, to his boss and to me. What were the consequences? Well, the educator got a scolding and is now working at a new preschool in another municipality. When, at the end of 2019, I asked Anna Ekström, the then Minister of Education, a written question about banning the valuing veil in preschool, the Minister replied: According to the Social Services Act, the staff of the preschool and the school are obliged to report immediately to the Social Welfare Board if they become aware of or suspect that children are being harmed in their activities. The political agreement reached between the Social Democrats, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Green Party states that the work against honour-related violence and repression will increase. ..................................................... Note that there is now a proposal on the table from the Swedish Democrats and Liberals to work in preschool to counteract honorary oppression. It seems, on the basis of what has been said during our discussions in committee and how it has been argued, that the Social Democrats, the Center Party and the Green Party will vote against this next week when we vote. I wonder: What signals does it send to the little boy in five years and his friends when it is the educator who gets a scolding? What signals does it send to the boy's family when it is the educator who is allowed to pray and apologize for lifting the problem of the boy's actions? What signals does it send to families where honour-related violence and oppression occur when an educator who pays attention to the problem no longer works but is allowed to move to another municipality? If we are serious about increasing the work against honour-related violence and repression, I expect that this and other important proposals will be approved, next week and in the future. Or what signal do you want to send to the educators who actually dare to say and comply with the Social Services Act?
i-6ZHoAGD3WhpmL8yybECVAS	Madam President, I would like The Swedish preschool is fantastic, and it is in many ways unique if we compare with large parts of the world. It is something we should protect, develop and expand. But in recent years something has changed, and that is not positive. In 2017, the Preschool Rebellion began to take in stories from staff in preschool during the hashtag # pressurised mode. The aim of # pressurised mode was to demonstrate how preschool managers, preschool teachers and child care workers today could no longer maintain quality according to the laws and guidelines they are required to follow. In just a few weeks the number of stories had landed on nearly 1,000. Shortly thereafter, thousands more had come into existence. Throughout, they witnessed about a preschool that was about to fall apart. There was a large collection of testimony by preschool teachers, preschool managers and child care workers, who told them that they do not get a chance to work on the basis of the policy documents that they are required to follow. Many likened preschool to a sinking ship. Madam President, I would like Despite this, despite protests and despite constructive talks that have taken place on the initiative of the Preschool Rebellion, little has changed for the better. The proportion of qualified preschool teachers and nurseries in preschool is falling, and the largest group recruited to preschool in recent years has completely lacked education to work with children. Apart from the fact that privately owned marketing schools put in systems to employ unauthorized staff to provide lower wages and thus be able to collect profits, municipal preschools, often in municipalities governed by the bourgeoisie, have also undergone major cuts. The calculation model for children's group sizes was changed a number of years ago. It measures the size of children's groups when they are at least, but the reality in which preschool staff operate is something other than the figures that we get to see. Too few qualified and too few staff and large groups of children have led to a work environment that is not sustainable. This reality rhymes badly with what we all agree on here, namely that we must make the big efforts early. Madam President, I would like Never has it been as clear as 2020 how dependent we are on the community-supporting professions – those who care for the sick in health care, provide care for the elderly, teach children, drive buses or work in the food industry and trade so that we can buy the food we need. Common to almost all of these groups, besides being unable to work from home, is that they also often work on inconvenient working hours. According to the Education Act, municipalities should strive to provide childcare on uncomfortable working hours. But what this means is that it is up to the municipalities to interpret for themselves. This is also what the Swedish School Inspectorate says in its review. The Left Party has for a long time been pushing for childcare on uncomfortable working hours to be a right. It should not matter which municipality you live in. All parents should be able to take a job and know that if there is a need, there is someone who takes care of their children. So in pandemic times, which we are now hopefully at the end of, access to childcare becomes even more important for our society to function. It is important that childcare, no matter when it is needed, is just care and not just babysitting. Activities must be conducted on an educational basis. It is therefore crucial that the staff working in childcare are properly trained and that those working outside regular working hours also have the opportunity for further training. Local authorities must therefore be better at reviewing the quality of their activities. But the main responsibility, we mean, lies with the state. When municipalities offer childcare on uncomfortable working hours, it is usually on the municipality's terms without regard to the parents. In many of the municipalities that actually provide childcare on inconvenient working hours, parents are expected to actively contact and request it without even being informed whether it exists or not. If information is available on the municipality's website, it is extremely rare in languages other than Swedish. In order to be entitled to care, parents are expected to know their schedules for a long time in advance, something that is not always possible, especially in pandemic times. With current unclear legislation, it is difficult to impose national requirements on the functioning of childcare services on inconvenient working hours. We therefore believe that it is high time to amend the law and legislate on the right to childcare during inconvenient working hours. I would like to call for the approval of Amendment No 11 by the Left Party.
i-3wXPhfBHb9Pw827VFMuYTa	Madam President, I would like Today the heart is heavy. It is heavy with grief and anger over Russia's war of aggression against Ukraine. It is also full of solidarity with Ukraine and the Ukrainian people. There is nothing more important to us now than to fully support Ukraine. Freedom and democracy will prevail, so that our children and the children of Europe will have the opportunity to grow up with hope and faith in the future. Our task here today, within the framework of our independent democracy, is to discuss preschool and childcare. I shall begin by calling for the approval of reservation 3. Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats' main ambition when it comes to preschool and childcare is to give children a safe start in life. Parents should therefore be able to choose their own form of childcare, whether they choose municipal or independent preschools or a day-care mother. The municipalities currently have an obligation under the School Act to inform guardians about education in, among other things, preschools and educational activities. The information shall be objective, relevant, comparable and easily accessible. Unfortunately, however, it does not always work that way in practice. We have many assignments in the country's municipalities to increase the proportion of children in preschool. In some places this means that other forms of childcare, such as family day care, are basically hidden away from this information. We Christian Democrats therefore want to introduce an active childcare choice in the municipalities, similar to the current proposals on active school elections. The municipality would then be obliged to inform all parents equally and clearly about the actual forms of childcare. This gives families the power to make an informed choice of child care, and they can decide for themselves which child care they want to provide to their children. In order to strengthen freedom of choice, we also want to introduce what we could call a daytime guarantee. Family day care was called earlier; now it is called educational care. So we want to legislate that municipalities should be obliged to offer family day care for those parents who so desire. For many children, especially the youngest, day care centres provide a close connection, security and tranquillity that are difficult to obtain in many preschools. Furthermore, we propose that the Swedish School Inspectorate should take over authorisation and supervision of family day-care centres and preschools, so that supervision actually takes place on objective grounds. Madam President, I would like Freedom of choice is important. One should not be left powerless in the welfare state. But as a parent, one should also be able to feel confident that preschool is stimulating and developing for the children. Swedish preschools must therefore maintain a high educational level. They shall carry out systematic quality work. And, of course, preschools will have a lot of play and movement. The main focus should be on the child's social development. At the same time, I would like to emphasise that I and the Christian Democrats think it is absolutely right that the preschool curriculum has now been changed so that it is clear that the development of children in the Swedish language should be strengthened. All children in preschool need to listen to reading aloud and talk about the stories they have listened to. But it is clear that it is particularly important for children who do not come into contact with the Swedish language at home. From the Christian Democrats we have initiated a study on language preschool or other part-time childcare from the age of four, precisely to strengthen children's language development and knowledge of Swedish. Madam President, I would like The most important thing for us Christian Democrats, regardless of the form of childcare, is that there is time for children. We therefore need to reduce the size of children's groups in preschool. Today, the National Agency for Education has benchmarks. The benchmark is that there should be six to twelve children per group of young children for children aged one to three years. However, according to the Teachers' Association, 75 percent of pre-colleagues work in a group of young children that is larger than the recommended benchmark. 32% work in a children's group of 16 or more children. Actually, we can't have that. The large groups of children must be reduced. We would like a maximum of 12 children per group of young children in preschool. To conclude, Madam President, I would like to say that I am pleased that, in the Christian Democrats, thanks to our cooperation with the Moderates and with the Swedish Democrats, we have received support for a budget that means more money to reduce the size of children's groups. The new start for Sweden that we stand for means smaller groups of children in preschool and more time for the children. It is a policy that makes more children see, confirm and feel safe in preschool. And safe children are what seriously lay the foundation for a safe society, a safer Sweden.
i-CgVJkihCoqcHYJTB759g79	Madam President, I would like It is a very sad day today in view of what is happening in Ukraine. Our thoughts, of course, go to the Ukrainian people, all who are suffering and all who are fighting for the existential survival of their country. We had a Question Time earlier today. It was a very special moment. In a very dignified way, the Ukrainian ambassador was also here. We all feel the deep concern, not only for Ukraine, but also about what Russian aggression can ultimately lead to for the countries around us. I would like to say a few words about preschool, although it feels a little special on a day like this. It is of course important that the Swedish democratic machinery in some way still rolls on. That's what we're proud of. That's what we have. In the future, like Ukraine, we may be forced to defend and fight for the democracy that we have – even harder than previous generations in Sweden have done. In fact, previous generations have not only fought for Swedish democracy, parliamentarism, constitutionally protected freedoms and rights, and so on. In parallel, they have also struggled to build a welfare state. The principle is that everyone is involved in paying and that everyone gets something out of welfare. The idea in welfare is also that when we are very young we should be able to attend kindergarten, or what is today called preschool. It lays the foundations for lifelong learning. We grow as individuals, grow socially, gain knowledge and so on. We know how important this is, and we know how important it is for the cohesion of Sweden that we have something in common. In our country, it is very important that there are common values that every growing generation can share and learn and that can also shape our society in the future. Preschool is a fantastic invention in the Swedish welfare state. It does not just mean that our children are being prepared for school and that they can grow socially. In a modern society and in a society that is pluralistic and multifaceted, as Swedish society is, preschools play a very important role in enabling children to see something other than what is inside the four walls at home in the apartment or in the house where they live. This means that they can get other perspectives and other friends. This means a change of scenery, which should not be underestimated, for example, for those children who are newly arrived in Sweden and who live in socially very tough areas. There may also be a lot of overcrowding. In sociology we are talking about group disclosure, about how people can get trapped and locked up and about being able to pry out of the context in which they are in. This does not mean that you should change your identity in any way or become someone else, but that you can broaden your horizons and get other perspectives. Preschools are very important in such processes, especially for children. They get more friends and so on. The vast majority of children in Sweden attend preschool today. But within the group that does not, we see that there is a massive over-representation of children who are born abroad or who have parents born abroad, combined with their living in a very high vulnerability or in a vulnerable area. It can be a high rate of unemployment or dependency. It is a social situation where you see a very large over-representation of children who grow up under tougher circumstances, tougher conditions. And they often have considerably less knowledge of the Swedish language, due to the fact that Swedish is not the native language at home. There's nothing strange about that. It is very important that we reach those children, so that more children who do not attend preschool today can do so, especially in the vulnerable areas. This is affected by a legislative referral made by the government – this will come to Parliament later this spring. It follows from an investigation written by a party colleague of mine, Lotta Edholm, who previously was a school councillor in Stockholm. I believe that the content of this legislative referral is the most important one that will be addressed in the field of preschools in the future. I think that several of the government's proposals are good when it comes to reaching more children in vulnerable areas that they should be able to attend preschool. At the same time, however, I do not think that the proposals are sufficient if we really want to break the segregation. Madam President, I would like When you are between three and five years old in Sweden you are entitled to a free public preschool for 15 hours a week. We Liberals believe that it should be made compulsory from the age of five, partly for the reasons I have mentioned, in order to break the segregation. What the government is proposing is in part another model. I am in fact not against it, but I think it is inadequate. The model means that all children from the age of three must be automatically enrolled in the general preschool. Then the parents are actively allowed to turn down the site. This probably means that more will be in general preschools in the future, and that is good. On the Liberal side, however, we believe that pre-school education should be made compulsory. I mention this because it is partly linked to the reservations that the Liberals are behind. The Liberals have three reservations. For the gain of time, I only ask for reservation number 8 on language preschool. Two of our reservations are about the language. The third concerns the problem of honour and the importance of the work in preschool being permeated by combating this. We believe that this is linked to the question of more children, especially in the vulnerable areas, being able to go to preschool. Finally, Madam President, it is also very important that the staff have a good knowledge of the Swedish language. I am struck by the fact that the government has not put forward any proposals to do as is done in, for example, the care of the elderly, where there is general advice that has been drawn up on the language skills of staff. This should also be available for preschool. We see how important preschool is to break the exclusion and how important it is for children and young people who may not have been in Sweden for very long and who are having a tough time at home. Their parents may not have been integrated themselves and may be a little worried about Swedish childcare because they do not have something similar in the ham land and you do not really know what it means and so on. Then it is important for these children to meet the Swedish language clearly in the preschool environment. We also know that children are very receptive, i.e. susceptible, to language learning at the youngest ages and that they are learning very quickly. You can get a giant pole at a young age if you get a lot of contact with the Swedish language early, which will help new generations of children in Sweden for the rest of their lives. Childhood, as you know, does not replay, so we have important efforts to make.
i-91htmrNK4pcE3W4M2QqafP	Madam President, I would like I have taken note of Fredrik Malm's speech and agree with most of what the honourable Member says. I agree with the description of what it looks like in preschool. The honourable Member mentioned that there are problems especially in the affected areas, and we agree so far. But then there will be the suggestion that we should have a compulsory preschool for all children from the age of five. I wonder: in what way will a compulsory preschool for five-year-olds in Boden help to ensure that the Social Democratic Government has failed its integration policy in the suburbs of Stockholm? I can't really get it together. If so, would it not be more reasonable to have a compulsory preschool where it is needed instead of the whole country?
i-2kFUuwXvF5wV5Cqr9wk3M6	Madam President, I would like We have not proposed compulsory preschools from the age of five but compulsory general preschools from the age of five. It is the 15 hours that are free of charge. Otherwise everyone would have to pay fees too. The truth is that we do not only have a problem of segregation in the suburbs of Stockholm. I would like to say that in the first place. There are segregation problems in almost every city in Sweden today. Our view is that preschools play an important role. We know that there are children who do not attend preschool for various reasons, as I mentioned in my speech. It may be that parents do not know or feel concerned about Swedish childcare because you do not really know what it is about and you have never seen anything like it in your home country. There may be other reasons, such as the fact that the parents themselves are not integrated. There may also be people who, for example, choose to keep their children out of the Swedish community for reactionary, patriarchal or religious reasons. We therefore think it is important to have compulsory public preschools. So it is 15 hours a week, three hours a day, that we are talking about, which is a right today. This means that municipalities must nevertheless be prepared in case everyone chooses to do so. I would also like to say that there is another argument that this is important. It is that the following year the preschool class begins, and then you start school. Then it's pretty good that you get at least a few hours a week, if you haven't been in preschool. This means that the children take a step and are prepared a little more for what comes later, with the entire Swedish schooling obligation when you are to be fully manglazed for 15-18 years in the Swedish school system.
i-9LqSjXpcWVVcVgvWKaZjNz	Madam President, I would like I share the view expressed by the honourable Member that preschool has an important role to play. But one of the most amazing pieces of Swedish preschool must still be that it is precisely voluntary, as I see it. As I said, I agree with the description of the problem itself, but I do not understand how to land in that solution. The Swedish Democrats have the suggestion that we should have a compulsory preschool – the general part – in the areas classified by the Police Authority as vulnerable areas, because that is where it is needed. That is where the majority of children have this need. I find it very difficult to see why we should have a compulsory general preschool where it is not necessary. The Swedish democrats also believe that the age of five is far too late. We are pushing that in these vulnerable areas there should be compulsory preschools from the age of three years. But we focus where it is needed, not in the whole country. Again, I find it difficult to see why children who may want to go in less, educational care or who may not fit in larger groups at all but want to be at home with their parents for a long time should not be allowed to do so just because the government has failed in the vulnerable areas. I can't really get that equation together.
i-CFocQgyVAAEKLRUq6sMpQu	Madam President, I would like Now I don't quite understand. The Swedish democrats' view is that they should have compulsory preschools from the age of three for people in vulnerable areas but no obligatory for any others at all. There are very big differences, as I see it. You should rather look at the reservation about the language preschool that the Liberals are behind in common with the Moderates and, if I do not remember wrong, the Swedish Democrats. It is about that those children who have a great need to learn more Swedish should have the right, so to speak, to meet this in the language preschool, within the framework of the general preschool. Otherwise, we may have slightly different views on these issues. I still mean that a few hours a week can be locked into meeting other children. This may not have been done before because you have not interacted with other children in a preschool environment at all. You can do it from the age of five, 15 hours a week, and then start in the six - year activity the following year. I think it would basically do a lot of good for our children and young people in Sweden.
i-L8STL1m66ADfyTZ4M3FP6w	Madam President, I would like It is inevitable that, while focusing on our subject area, we also have thoughts on what is happening in Ukraine, about which there is constant news. I think like this: What you want and want is a democracy to live and work in. We have this, and then it is a task to show solidarity with the Ukrainian population and to work democratically here where we can, to really be a practical part of democracy. Of course, having talks about preschools and young children is something that is important when you understand what conditions children in Ukraine and in other parts of the world have, which, after all, are radically different from what we are talking about today. Pre-school and childcare are the first step in lifelong learning. Here curiosity and knowledge awaken, and social skills develop together with others. We lay the foundations for active life and active learning. I'm sure a lot of people remember, if you went to preschool, some important adult who was there. I see a lot of people here are nodding. I also have a few faces that I'm thinking about. I am also thinking of educators whom my children have met and whom I believe they will remember their whole lives. These fine moments have often been about when someone really had the opportunity to take the time. For me it's been working full time, having the city's worst uphill bike when I'm going to pick up my kids after preschool and to come there with the sweat running and someone says, is it okay if you catch your breath for two minutes, because we only have the last page left in the book? That's how you want it to be. In order for you to be able to carry out your mission, conditions are needed. We need colleagues, different professions based on different needs, and we need small enough groups so that those who work in preschool can see the children. There, during the time that has passed since the Green Party entered the government, we have worked to reduce children's groups. The problem is there little to see that an average is reduced, as we can read in the report, from 15 children per group to 14, 8. It's been higher than that. But it is not necessarily something that one feels in one's everyday life as a preschool teacher in a preschool. There are the Swedish National Agency for Education's recommendations for group sizes for children. Today we have had the Swedish Parliament's research morning and talked about how research and politics belong together. The recommendations based on research should indeed be indicative. It is about how those in charge of preschool, the principals, ensure that they have an activity where the intentions of the curriculum can be met. It's gonna be incredibly important. What is also important is what is said at preschool about the size of a group. It's not about 12 maybe being a suitable size. In a certain context, it may be nine that should be maximum for a particular age group. It is important to listen to proven experience, research and what the profession experiences in the situation. The pre-school rebellion was mentioned. It started in Örebro in 2013 as a reaction to what one sees as work environment problems within the school. The wish is not really strange. The desire is to be able to carry out their mission as we have decided in school teams and as it looks in the curriculum. It's a very reasonable wish. Preschools also play an important role in compensating children for differences in their growing-up conditions. A lot of people have been into it. We know that going to preschool is important for future school outcomes. Almost all children attend preschool in Sweden. But among those who do not, there is a higher proportion from families living in areas with greater socio-economic challenges. Often there are also several children with a mother tongue other than Swedish in those areas. At the same time, fewer qualified preschool teachers and trained child care workers work here. That is why we want to set up an equivalence premium for pre-schools similar to what we have pushed through for school. It would be allocated to all preschools on the basis of a socio-economic index. It could be used to hire more educators, increase salaries, offer skills development – which is necessary if you are to operate on a scientific basis – and review local needs. We also want all children who do not already attend preschool to be actively offered a preschool place every year from the age of three and that municipalities should take responsibility for following up the children who do not attend preschool. I began by saying that preschool lays the foundation for lifelong learning. We will give preschool better conditions and invite more to be a part of it. Madam President, I would like With this, I would like to ask for reservation 12 in paragraph 8 on participation in pre-school education.
i-QRo4jMqjvQVuWN9xa5Q21B	Madam President, I would like I, too, strongly condemn Russia's invasion of Ukraine, for the human suffering that Russia is now responsible for, violations of international law and violations of the European security regime. We stand in solidarity with Ukraine. Let us continue to debate preschool here. Madam President, I would like It is almost exactly two years since we in Sweden discovered the first cases of Corona infected. I know we're all more than ready to leave the pandemic behind. But in order to be able to focus on the future in the building of a stronger society, there are a number of lessons we need to learn. One of them is that countless lives have been saved thanks to our welfare state and our welfare heroes, who have proved to be the basis of our national security. Over the last two years, it has become painfully clear which professions are crucial to the functioning of society. Pre-school staff are definitely such professions. They have made our children feel safe even in the darkest of times. When the rest of us were to keep our distance, it was in the arms of the preschool staff that the children found their security during preschool. They made sure that society could stand up, not least by enabling healthcare professionals and other socially important professions to continue to go to work. I know I speak for many of us when I say that we feel a great deal of gratitude. Of course, that is not enough. We must continue to strengthen both our preschools and those who daily provide care, security and learning for our children. That is how we lay the foundations for a strong and sustainable society. Madam President, I would like Research shows that preschool contributes to children's education in the long term and reduces dependence on transfer systems. Children who have attended high-quality preschools are better prepared for school, have better language skills and show greater social skills compared to children who have not attended preschool. This applies especially to children who have tough growing-up conditions. Preschool is a foundation in our welfare society, an enabler for equality and equality. I am proud of the international record reputation of preschool among parents in Sweden. But we must continue to develop preschool so that all children can take part in activities that stimulate learning and development, and where competent and knowledgeable staff have time to see each child. For although nearly 94 per cent of the three- to five-year-olds today attend preschool, children of the unemployed and newly arrived are heavily over-represented among those of the same age group who are not enrolled in preschool. It risks cementing the class society and making the school's compensatory mission more difficult. Therefore, I am pleased and proud that the government is now making legislative proposals under the heading Preschool for more children, with the aim of increasing participation in preschool. Among other things, the Government proposes that municipalities should be obliged to contact guardians of children who do not attend preschool and inform about the purpose of preschool and children's right to preschool. It is also proposed to make it mandatory for municipalities to reserve a place in preschool for children who have lived in Sweden for a short time. The municipality should also strive to offer the same thing to other children. Madam President, I would like In government positions, the Social Democrats in the field of pre-school education have been able to reduce the size of children's groups and have reintroduced national benchmarks. We have provided special resources to those preschools that need it most. We have expanded pre-school education with more places and extended further education for teachers to include preschool. We have introduced a new curriculum for, among other things, strengthening equivalence, equality and language development. We have introduced a language lift in preschool to create better opportunities for children to develop their Swedish. Now we are moving on to legislation on preschool for more children. Later this spring, we will also debate and proceed with proposals on equivalence in leisure and educational care. For 2022, we are increasing support for preschools, where the most money goes to where the resources are most needed. The new state grant for quality improvement measures in preschool will be increased by around 400 million in 2022. The grant may be used to enable smaller groups of children, to maintain or recruit staff in preschool and to develop the skills of preschool teachers and other staff working in preschool. In addition – and this is perhaps most important – we increase the general state subsidies to municipalities and regions by 22 1⁄2 billion annually. We know that 40% of the municipal budget goes to education. Madam President, I would like We should not have staff who wear themselves out loaded with tight budgets. Children's groups must continue to become smaller, and the attractiveness of working in preschool must increase. It is crucial that we remedy the staff shortages and ensure that there is an equivalent quality between preschools in the country. The latter is not least about continuing to invest in preschools in socio-economically vulnerable areas and ensuring that all children have access to preschools, regardless of class background. Finally, in what is perhaps one of the darkest days in modern European history, when Russia has invaded Ukraine and we see a war spreading, I would like to thank the preschool staff who are doing their best to respond in an adapted and protective way and be there for those children who have many questions and concerns. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved and for all reservations to be rejected.
i-Pi6SsCeKJ9GPNwzZDYTFjS	Madam President, I would like It is difficult to focus on what is happening in this House this day, which is an extremely dark day in the history of Europe. As I pointed out in the previous debate, I would like to show our solidarity with the Ukrainian people. We need to make a clear mark against Russia's actions against and invasion of Ukraine. It is a bit difficult to change the focus to talk about preschool instead, but I will try to do so now on the basis of the report we are debating. The report deals with motions on pre-school issues from general exercise time. The Centre Party has no reservation; our proposals have either been dealt with through a simplified procedure because we have tabled the proposals in the past, or the other proposals in the field of preschool that we have tabled in our budget motion last autumn and in other reports that we will be discussing later this spring. The most important part of preschool is the staff and their ability to do their job well to stimulate the development of children and thus strengthen them for the future. In this area, the Center Party sees a number of important elements to strengthen pre-school staff and enable them to further train and develop their skills. The professional programme that we have been discussing for many years in the Committee on Education and Training, we look forward to getting in place. We also want to ensure that preschool teachers have good opportunities to develop and strengthen their skills in different areas. In future, we also want to create the conditions for career paths for preschool teachers. The Center Party also sees the need for a child care lift to strengthen all the skills available in preschool. Today, about a third, 30%, of those working in preschool have no education to work with children. There we see a great need for more skills development efforts so that those who have either applied for or want to apply to preschool can get a good education to become a child nurse. In this way, the activities can be carried out with higher quality when it comes to meeting the children who attend preschool. We also see a need that has been raised by several in the debate, namely to do more for those who do not reach preschool. The vast majority of children attend preschool, which is good for the children's stimulation. But we see that children in vulnerable areas and children who do not have Swedish as their mother tongue are the ones who do not attend preschool to the greatest extent, and where we need to make more efforts. There will be a bill this spring, and then we will have to discuss these issues again on the basis of what the government will present and on the basis of the investigation that was set up a while ago. We see from the Center Party a need for strengthened information efforts so that more people actually go to preschool. You can work with outreach activities to reach out with knowledge about how the Swedish preschool works, especially to families with more difficult conditions and families where the children do not attend preschool today. We also have proposals linked to integration preschools, which exist in some parts of the country. It combines SFI education for parents with open preschools in order to thus capture children who do not attend preschool and at the same time be able to strengthen the language development of newly arrived people who have applied to Sweden. We think it would be welcome to take further steps around that. Finally, I would like to highlight a proposal from the simplified reading. It is a proposal that the Center Party has put forward and pursued since we had the 2019 party meeting, namely that we want to see a national benchmark aiming at the number of children per trained staff. The focus should be on what I highlighted earlier, i.e. a nurse lift and that we have solid skills development efforts for the staff. This would be a good measure in addition to what exists today in relation to the size of children's groups, because it is not only the size of the groups that is important but also that the children are met by competent staff. We would have a better opportunity to monitor developments at national level and see how it looks. Even parents who are going to choose preschool for their children could be better informed about that choice.
i-TM3fKJ9EAg7fYufSmbqKkx	Madam President, I would like I can only say what many others have said earlier today, namely that it feels a bit trivial to stand in the chair and talk about a motion report when so much has happened. Many of us — perhaps not all of us in this hall, but many — were present when the wall fell in 1989. We remember what faith in the future it meant for Europe when the aggressive Eastern world collapsed. It was a rather long process, after all, but the fall of the wall was the end of it. When one sees how the same aggressive power is once again stomping with the boots and running over a democratic country, one is clearly affected. I think it's hard for the TV viewers to perceive the state of mind that exists in this room and that has been in the house all day, but all the thoughts here, from all of us, go to Ukraine and the Ukrainian people. Yet one should gather and try to make some kind of speech. I'll say it's actually not that easy, but I'll do it anyway. The Swedish Democrats are behind all their motion requests, but for the benefit of time I only ask for reservation 2. We are also in favour of all the proposals for simplifying the procedure, but we are not in favour of them either. They're just simplified. The other day I looked in the news, and then there appeared a report from the Swedish National Agency for Education, which talked about the importance of pupils' grades from comprehensive school for upper secondary school studies. The study was based on a little over 88,000 students who had completed grade 9 in spring 2017 and started a national programme that autumn. Students with equivalent grades from grade 9 had been studied to see what had the greatest impact on whether or not the student should take the upper secondary school degree, and the focus had mainly been on students in the lower grades. As regards the student group with the lowest comprehensive school grades, on average between E and F, the report found that 42 per cent of the pupils in vocational programmes receive a degree within three years. In higher education programmes, only 22 per cent of the students take upper secondary school degrees. In the grade group between E and D, 74 per cent of the students in the vocational programmes graduate within a sufficient number of years, and 49 per cent of the students in a higher education programme graduate within three years. This means that the selection of programs is very important for the groups with the lowest rating averages. It will therefore also be important that guidance on study and vocational guidance is very clear already in comprehensive school in order for students to have the very best conditions in upper secondary school. Then why am I saying this? At the moment, a proposal is being prepared aimed at ensuring that all students in vocational programmes are eligible for the university. This means an increased focus on theoretical subjects. From the Swedish Democrats' side, we have constantly strongly criticised the idea that everyone should enter the university. We fear that it will hit those students who do not have top grades but have the greatest need for help. These students may be tired at school and may not be able to pass – or are interested in – the theoretical studies. They are better placed to get a job with a vocational degree. The National Agency of Education's report strengthens our arguments. It shows very clearly that the lower the grade you have from comprehensive school, the harder it is to pass a high school degree at the right time. If the professional programmes are now theorised, the flow will definitely take considerably longer than today. Especially for pupils with weaker grades from comprehensive school, it will be much more difficult to take a upper secondary school degree. We are very concerned about this; it is not the development that is needed. Unfortunately, as I have said several times here in the speaker's chair, the Social Democratic policy has for a very long time been about getting everyone in the same shape. The signal has been clear for many years: Get higher education qualifications! Go to college! That is what is important. The fact that the status of professional programmes has fallen due to these political signals is hardly a social democrat who reflects on it. It's no wonder that people don't study the professional programmes if they are constantly told that it's not important – what's important is that they study at college. Then you also get what you want. That's too bad. The Swedish National Agency for Education's report shows that it is precisely pupils with weak grades from comprehensive school who will be most affected by this theorization. It's not the service of society. We need to strengthen professional programmes. We need to dimension upper secondary schools in theoretical programmes in relation to professional programmes. We also need short professional programmes. We Swedish democrats think that we should be active in entering higher education qualifications; no one who does not want to enter higher education qualifications should be forced to do so. No one should be prevented from doing so either, for that matter. There should be clear freedom of choice. D is why we have proposed a two-plus-one model where it is optional to study a third year if you want to enter higher education qualifications but where the foundation is two years. In addition to a reform of the professional programmes, we believe that apprenticeship training must be redeployed. This is a question that has been on the government table for almost six years after the Parliament last endorsed an announcement on the subject. In our neighbourhood there are good examples of good apprenticeships, for example in Denmark and Germany, with good experience and good results. Why not take after the models that work in our neighborhood instead of patching and fixing something that already exists? Look at the Danish model, learn from it and make sure to come up with an investigation that wants to introduce a new type of apprenticeship in Sweden. Another important conclusion drawn in the Swedish National Agency for Education's report is that the earlier a student receives support in a subject in comprehensive school, the better the conditions for success in upper secondary school. Only 30 to 48 per cent of the students who took a grade in math, English, Swedish or Swedish as a second language in school after grade 9 passed a secondary school degree three years later. This shows that efforts must be made earlier. Early intervention in comprehensive school, from the first semester in first class and then continuously, is crucial for students to complete upper secondary school or not. Therefore, emergency solutions such as holiday school and the like are not optimal. We hope that the government will look at this more and come back with other proposals, which will strengthen the follow-up gradually. Madam President, I would like If Sweden is to achieve balance in the education sector, we need to do a few things in the secondary field. The state must take over the head office of the upper secondary school. The aim of this is to achieve equivalence in the priorities that are now being made different in different municipalities. We will also have uniform national school money and a clearer regulatory framework. In addition, upper secondary schools could be placed strategically instead of, as they are today, appearing in every small municipality, despite a small student base and strained municipal finances. We also think that there is a need for a clearer distribution of study places between higher education programmes and professional programmes. Competition for places creates more motivated students. Today, some programs are being developed to meet demand – an example is the swelling social science programme, which the students cannot handle. This is not good. Instead, we believe that the needs of the labour market must be more governing. Madam President, I would like In conclusion, I would like to say that the position of upper secondary school in the Swedish school system is central. This is where the knowledge should be deepened and the education broadened. Students will be prepared for a future working life or for further studies at universities and higher education institutions. The task of upper secondary school is to ensure that students are well prepared for both parts, regardless of their choice. Then the other side of the coin must do its part. The success of upper secondary school is strongly linked to the level of knowledge that pupils bring with them from primary school. It is important that high school continues to be a high school and not just an extension of primary school. I apologize for having gone over the time, but it feels like a less important thing one day like this.
i-MthRdnnfDMcf1PKVE9vefE	Madam President, I would like It is a dark day in Europe. The people of Ukraine are currently trying to defend their country, their freedom and their democracy against a Russia that violates international law and illegally invades another country. There is an extremely serious situation in Europe. It is very clear that the mood is evident in the Riksdag, as someone previously said from the speaker's chair. We need to show our solidarity with Ukraine and the Ukrainian people on this day. Now we are here to debate the upper secondary school and the exercises concerning upper secondary school that have been received by the Education Committee during the general period of exercise. On the basis of the debate that is now under way, I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 1, which the Center Party has given. A completed upper secondary school education creates good conditions for further studies as well as work throughout life as well as opportunities for lifelong learning. It is therefore important that we develop and strengthen upper secondary school. There are a number of challenges that we need to face when it comes to upper secondary school and its conditions and opportunities, not least for students. It is a problem that many students choose wrong from the beginning and that this costs from a socio-economic perspective. We from the Center Party want to see further investment in study and career guidance so that more people can choose right from the beginning. I also follow with interest what the government has now put forward as a trial: the possibility of changing tracks to a professional programme for those who read on a theoretical programme. I think it is a wise way forward to look at further opportunities for this. From the labour market perspective, we need to have a greater focus on education leading to jobs. It is about how education is dimensioned, but also about all educations, whether they are pre-graduate or pre-vocational, meeting the needs of the labour market to a greater extent in order to create better conditions for students and students studying in high school. There are also other parts that we see as important and that we would have liked to have taken hold of from the government to develop upper secondary school. There are industry schools across the country that develop specialist activities to create the conditions for gaining excellence in different industries and in this way enable education throughout the country but gather skills to strengthen certain educations. A couple of years ago, the National Agency for Education presented a report on how to develop this state grant in order to better develop the business. It has been pointed out from several industries that the focus of industry schools is quite right but that we need to turn the system on in order for it to work better. This is an issue that the Center Party has pursued in different ways. We have it in the report today, and that is an issue on which we will continue to work. We hope that we will see the future development of industry schools, because I believe that this is an important way, not least to enable education throughout the country. What we see is a major skill shortage in many of the professions that exist in upper secondary school vocational programmes, both in the private sector and in the public sector. There is a great demand for nurses as well as sheet metal workers, but there are far too few who read. There we need to make more efforts, not least in upper secondary school, so that more people choose the right educations from the beginning, educations that lead to jobs, even at the later stage when it comes to, for example, komvux. The report also highlights the need to develop and strengthen municipal monitoring responsibilities. In the case of pupils who do not attend upper secondary school, municipalities need to work better with outreach activities and work with civil society to better catch up with those who do not attend upper secondary school. Finally, I would like to highlight the fact that the issue of entrepreneurship and the ability to run UF companies has been and in the future is important for the Center Party. We want all students in high school to have the opportunity to study the course entrepreneurship in order to create opportunities later and develop as individuals. This is given to a very large extent by this training. It creates, according to the studies presented, the conditions for higher wages later in life, less unemployment and more entrepreneurship, which are very positive results. We think it's important for this to come to more people. It is important for individuals and also for society at large.
i-XV6JVsoi1w76XnBfhwfKf9	Madam President, I would like I have mentioned our support for the Ukrainian people earlier in the speaker's chair and will not repeat me. Madam President, I would like Today we are here to discuss the report on high school. If we are to start from the reality that exists today, we could instead say the high school market. This is the issue I would like to focus on during my speech. The question we should ask ourselves is who school and high school are for. For us in the Left Party, it goes without saying that the school, including upper secondary school, is designed to educate democratic citizens of society and to ensure that all children bring with them sufficient knowledge to be able to work in life and in society. The school is designed to enable all children and students to develop on the basis of their full potential. In order for this to become a reality, we need to take a step away from the market that has taken ever stronger hold on the Swedish school and not least the Swedish upper secondary school. As politicians from different parties, we have a responsibility to ensure that high school is given sufficient resources to do what we require it to do. But we also have a responsibility to ensure that the focus does not disappear from the children to the shareholders. What is happening at upper secondary school today throughout the country is that we are losing democratic control of upper secondary school. We see how students are called customers. We see how knowledge and education are considered to be a commodity to be sold in a market. This, Madam President, does not belong in the Swedish school. That is why I am pleased that we are at least a few parties in the Swedish Parliament who want to take back democratic control from the market to school staff, from the market to school pupils and from the market to democracy. I mean this is by far the most important issue that we have to deal with throughout this election year. Are we to have a democratically governed school, or are we to have a school where the purpose of making money from our children is considered more important than for all children to develop on the basis of their full potential? The question then may be asked: Can it not be possible to have a market and still ensure that all children develop on the basis of their full potential? The answer is very simple: No, it is not possible to have a market in school and at the same time ensure high quality. In order to make profits and surpluses, which is the purpose of private companies, we must cut back on quality. This is exactly what we see happening everywhere in Sweden. A lower salary is paid to their staff at independent upper secondary schools. There are fewer qualified teachers, considerably less resources for pupil health, significantly less access to special facilities, less access to school libraries and less access to teaching materials. What does this do with the Swedish school, and what does it show? Well, it shows that the market cannot be combined with quality and that the market cannot be combined with the best interests of children. Some parties would like to point out that this is extreme. It's even communism, I've heard from the pulpit. I see that a representative in this House is nodding. The question these parties can ask themselves is whether all the other countries in the world are communist. Sweden is the only country in the world to have this system. As responsible politicians, we must ask ourselves who we are for and who we represent. It is very clear in the Swedish school debate and the high school debate, I think, that we have a couple of parties here to represent those who have given us the mandate to represent them in the Swedish parliament, that is, the people and the interests that are best for the people. On the other hand, a majority of the parties in the Swedish Parliament have been more busy running errands for the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and other bodies that have only one purpose: to defend these actors, who have nothing to do within the Swedish school system. It is companies that are only there to make profits and nothing else. In the end, I mean this is a democracy problem. If you're elected, you're supposed to represent the people. If you are elected to the Education Committee, you represent those who work at school and students and children. They are not here to represent the interests of capital, as many representatives of the bourgeois parties do. Madam President, I would like For the Left Party, the biggest question when it comes to school will be precisely what we should have for society and how we should run the Swedish school. Should it be governed democratically or by the interests of the market? I will address another subject briefly, and it is about the content of the Swedish upper secondary school. It has been mentioned earlier in the speaker's chair that the interest in applying for professional programmes has become less and less in recent years. I think that all parties can agree with this, but it is strange to hear the Swedish Democrats and others point out that the interest has become less when they have voted down all the proposals that have been aimed at getting more people to apply to these particular programmes. I may belong to an opposition party and not to the government, but it is unfair to accuse the government of something for which the bourgeois parties are responsible: that not all secondary education programmes give university qualifications. Investigation after investigation says that this is the single biggest reason why students have not applied to vocational programmes in recent years. This is also something that trade unions and industry agree must change. I am glad that there are bourgeois parties who claim to have changed their mind on this issue, but I still had to raise the issue because the Swedish Democrats mentioned it earlier in the pulpit. Madam President, I would like One question is about what we teach the children in Swedish upper secondary school. If we want to be a strong welfare society where people know their rights and we educate democratic citizens of society, students need more knowledge of labour law, trade unions, how they can get involved when they enter the labour market and what rights and obligations they have. This is no longer mandatory in the Swedish upper secondary school, but the Left Party believes that there is a need for reform so that everyone who attends the Swedish upper secondary school gets knowledge of their rights in the labour market in order to be active citizens of society. I therefore call for the Left Party's reservation, number 7.
i-6tqoJ19M4Yf1hF4erNkQso	Madam President, I would like I wasn't going to ask for a line, because it usually makes no sense to argue with Daniel Riazat. But I can't let it pass when he insults all those who are engaged in independent schools, where he directs his aggressions. It is sad to hear all the time that the purpose is to make money, as if there is no interest in teaching in these schools. If you are going to make money in this country, the school sector is not the very best. There are many better markets where the profit margin is significantly higher. I've once asked him what it looks like with profit margins, operating margins and more, but he didn't have a clue. He's making it up in the speaker's chair. He probably still doesn't know what the operating margin is on average and what the profit draw of this operating margin is. But perhaps Daniel Riazat can answer now. How much of the total school cost in the country is taken out in profit? I don't mean how big a profit the school makes, but how much is distributed to the owners. Daniel Riazat says nothing about municipalities that run schools in the bottom, although Daniel Riazat should be the one of us here who knows the best of all.
i-RwA7P377ozhdhYox4BcNhi	Madam President, I would like We therefore have a Member of Parliament who has previously belonged to the Moderates and who now belongs to a party that, like the Moderates, defends everything about marketing school. The Swedish Democrats went to elections to abolish the prize hunt in the Swedish school, but after a number of dinners with the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise they suddenly changed their position and became the biggest defenders of it. After similar debates with the Swedish Democrats in recent years, I am not surprised. The Swedish Democrats have no interest in defending the small free schools or students and staff in the Swedish school. Here are the Swedish Democrats on behalf of the largest school groups to lead the discussion away from what this is all about. Profit is not just about what you charge per year or even the surplus you make per year. We know that many school groups do not make profits in one or two years, but they build up their business with government money – money that the state and the municipality acquire through us taxpayers – to be able to expand, sell the company on and make billions of profits. Tell me, Patrick Reslow, in which other industry in Sweden you are financed by tax funds year after year and then be able to sell the business on for many billions!
i-4eViyFQsGY6uUV8PKyTLvK	Madam President, I would like This is exactly the same nonsense and glytteries, as we say in Skåne, which always comes from Daniel Riazat. He doesn't answer the question, because he doesn't have a clue. He has taken some communist course and learned that all the market is shit, all the independent actors are going away and everything is going to be nationalized. It is his ideology, and we have seen it in the Left Party party programme. All independent forces should be removed, the state should rule and the public should own everything – and this is not just about the school. The Swedish Democrats do not think that excessive profits should be accepted at all. But we don't see anything like that today. Had we seen profit withdrawals that made schools not deliver results and did not meet a high standard, we would have attacked it. But we don't see it. We do not think it is good that rogue actors should continue to run schools. If you get okay once and then note should not be able to continue running school elsewhere. Let's act. However, hitting all independent schools in the rogue way that Daniel Riazat is constantly doing in the speaker's chair and, moreover, imposing on us other things that we do not stand for and try to make it a truth, we strongly reject. Instead, let us focus on what is wrong and on those who are not doing well. We don't see anyone draining the system. On the other hand, we have seen municipal boards that cannot keep the budget, and Daniel Riazat knows that very well.
i-7F6Jg1Xb3j3xdp9AAtwQgP	Madam President, I would like I hardly need to say anything, because it is clear what the Swedish Democrats stand for on this issue. Let me point out that the Swedish Democrats are trying to steer the focus away from what the discussion is about. It's not about free schools that are doing well and that aren't looking to make a profit. No party in the Swedish Parliament has ever put forward a proposal for their situation to change. This is about the limited companies that currently own about 70 per cent of the Swedish school. They have to make profits by law, because that's what owning a limited liability company is all about. But it's okay. I myself dream of starting a limited company after the parliamentary mission to have a restaurant, for example. But having a restaurant and selling food to people is not the same as running a school. When it comes to a school, you have a much greater responsibility. To give students knowledge and to educate democratic citizens of society are not commodities, unlike food. I believe that the Swedish Democrats are trying to take the focus away from the fact that the rating inflation has increased enormously because of the group schools and from the fact that there is less access to student health staff at the group schools. It can be seen that there are fewer qualified teachers at group schools and that there are generally fewer staff at group schools. But that is something that the Swedish Democrats do not want to talk about. In municipalities where the Swedish Democrats are in charge, they have also cut back on and made sure to reduce the municipal school, precisely so that the independent actors can come and take over. This is something that we in the Left Party strongly oppose. We will take back democratic control, from the market school to a democratically managed school. The Swedish Democrats can continue to represent the business community as much as they want in the pulpit.
i-CLqbDVGKKiUaB8VVb39bV3	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for the approval of reservation 8. As important as a strong economy is for us to have a strong and independent Sweden is a strong private economy important for us to have strong and independent families. But since the mid-1990s, the trend is that Swedish household debt increases more than income. Our debts are well above the EU average, according to SCB figures. We are the second most indebted in Europe. Only yesterday, the Christian Democrats presented a plan to stop the loan sharks, to stop the debt traps and to break the negative trend of indebtedness. But we also need to strengthen the resilience of our children and young people to debt. Today, personal economics is included in social studies in upper secondary school, but Christian Democrats believe that issues of personal economics must take more place. For example, the stock market, investment, the structure of the pension system and so on should be addressed. Madam President, I would like Something else that is important for both Sweden and the country as well as all the people who live here is that we have a world-class business environment. However, Sweden is facing a major skill shortage in many industries, not least industry and crafts. In these areas, many more jobs could be created. There is great potential for more jobs, but unfortunately too few young people choose to take a vocational programme in upper secondary school. We believe, among other things, that there is a need to change the role of study and career guidance officers. Today, it seems to be largely understood that it is a matter of giving the student guidance to reach their dream occupation, regardless of what the real conditions are or what the needs of the labour market look like. The needs of the labour market need to play a greater role; both perspectives should be taken into account. We believe that this could guide young people more correctly. Many young people do not have a clear idea or perhaps even have a wrong idea of what it means to work in a workshop or in an industry. Therefore, it is important to make prao and study visits through the school. However, guidance counselors must also be clear about the situation in the labour market and the training that actually leads to young people getting a job. Another important thing to combat skills shortages and to strengthen the business environment is to make higher education qualifications the norm in the country's professional programme. The Christian Democrats have previously considered that this competence would not be the norm. The reason was that we saw that many young people were tired of school. They couldn't finish high school. We hoped that more people might be able to complete their upper secondary school education and pass the school if they could focus on their professional skills. But now we have seen that the search pressure for this type of education has decreased because the university's eligibility has not been the norm in the professional programmes. Against this background, the Christian Democrats have changed their position. We want upper secondary vocational programmes to be extended to their content in order to also be able to grant higher education qualifications, but the possibility to opt out of higher education qualifications should be available. In this way, we also make the high expectations the norm. We want high expectations to be the norm in Swedish schools, and at the same time we make it easier for those who want higher education qualifications to choose a professional programme. In this way, we can help to combat skills shortages and strengthen the business environment.
i-5srK3KnBiSL8Z8r6X3K8HQ	Madam President, I would like I, too, would like to point out that we, of course, stand up for international law and for solidarity with the people of Ukraine. It feels strange to be here today debating. However, as someone said earlier, having an open debate today in our democratic system, which we all support, may be the right thing to do. This debate is about upper secondary school, and the report deals with a number of motions. I shall be as boring as usual and call for the committee's proposal in the report to be approved and for reservations to be rejected. I will justify why we reject the motions and go into the government's priorities and ongoing work. Yesterday, the Riksdag decided to introduce a subject grade instead of a course grade in upper secondary school. It is a major and long-awaited reform that means that you will now get grades based on the knowledge that you have gained during high school instead of just based on how it has gone in an individual course in grade 1. It's a big change. A lot of work will be needed to review the degree goals, programme goals, programme structures and subject plans – you name it. I just want to remind you of that. When we come up with a lot of new, innovative proposals on what to push into upper secondary school, you really need to look over it together with the National Agency for Education, teachers and so on. This will strengthen students' learning and reduce the risk of grade stress and mental illness. You can't talk about upper secondary school without talking about all those who don't get into a national program. Upper secondary education is indeed the ticket for life, into the labour market and sometimes into higher education. Failure to pass high school increases the risk of falling into unemployment and social vulnerability, with all that that entails. Today we see that too many people become unauthorized to attend a national high school programme. Between 15 and 20 percent usually end up in the introduction programs. More needs to be done to prevent exclusion before high school has even begun. Here the government has invested a lot of resources in increasing knowledge and equivalence in primary school. It's absolutely crucial. It has also been announced that we will review the hard limit for approval, for grade E, as we know. It's welcome. The fact that all parties are now behind the introduction of subject ratings is a great improvement which means that you will actually have three years to acquire knowledge to become your very best self before it is time to get your final grade. These are concrete policies that give more young people a fair chance to be judged on what they actually learned in high school. They can't be knocked out until they've even come in. There are many things that need to be done, and these are some of them. Madam President, I would like More people also have to pass their upper secondary school degree. Last parliamentary term, the Parliament decided on a bill on, among other things, better transitions between primary and secondary schools. It was about developing support for students in upper secondary school and clearer responsibility for the vice-chancellor to follow up absenteeism as well as improvements in the structure and quality of the introduction programmes with requirements for guaranteed teaching time. Another important piece of the puzzle is the professional packages that can be read on the introduction programs. They have been developed together with the social partners. But we have to do more. We need to keep moving forward. A good example is the investigation that has been set up by the government – More young people should reach the goals of their upper secondary education. An investigator has been tasked with proposing measures for more people to reach the targets and to explore opportunities for better transitions between upper secondary school and komvux. A more flexible solution is something to consider. Not all of them are made in the same shape. The investigator will also analyse how the professional packages are used and how they can be developed in order to create quality education and training with high relevance to the labour market. The report will be presented as early as next week, and I am really looking forward to seeing the proposals. Madam President, I would like Some athletes point out that we need to plan and dimension upper secondary education better and that we need to link upper secondary education closer to the labour market. I couldn't agree more. In June, we will have the opportunity to decide on a government proposal where the basic idea is to better adapt supply to the needs of the labour market. The proposal will also improve the interaction between municipalities. Furthermore, the important thing is that the principals must be better informed about the direction of education and what education can lead to. Planning documents will be prepared. This is bigger than we think. The proposal to strengthen the development responsibilities of the regions is also welcome. There are many fine examples of cooperation around the country, but with this proposal we finally have a structure in place and can develop collaboration everywhere. It is a huge step if we adopt the proposal in June. Madam President, I would like In both the public and private sectors, access to the right skills is a prerequisite for ensuring growth, jobs and well-being throughout the country. The demand for skilled staff is enormous. According to SCB, demand will increase until 2035. We can't have that. The negative trend in the number of applicants for upper secondary school vocational programmes needs to be reversed immediately. The status of vocational programmes must be improved. Several measures are needed. A key issue for increasing the attractiveness of vocational education and training is increased access to higher education qualifications. If more young people are to see vocational training as a wise choice for the future, we cannot have a system that closes doors, or is perceived as closing doors. This reform is very much in demand from the world of work, and I look forward to being able to debate and decide on it as early as April. It'll be a holiday. Madam President, I would like In order for more people to choose vocational education and training and more people to want to take pride in a professional career, professional work needs to be enhanced and professional skills made visible. We want to continue to invest in World Skills Sweden together with LO and the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise. This status must also be improved by developing vocational colleges, apprenticeships and professional schools. Questions about study and career guidance have been raised. I believe that the new proposals will change as well, making it clear that the needs of the labour market also play a part. There is much to do, and now I have also spoken longer than my stated speaking time. Thank you for the floor.
i-Jeh1YhJqbt18RPrXF9qPUp	Madam President, I would like There is much in what Caroline Helmersson Olsson said that we can sign on. I think that the proposal on subject ratings will be a good one. Both the Social Democrats and the opposition have been fighting on this issue for a long time. It is important to land correctly in the rating systems so that there are no sudden changes. But sometimes it can take a little longer than you want. We would have liked the proposal to have been implemented earlier. Now, however, there will be a number of school starts that will be forced to join the system that we now find stressful and difficult before the subject grades are introduced in autumn 2025. There are three more hills to go with the stressful system. Would not Caroline Helmersson Olsson rather that the proposal could be implemented a little faster because we have had so much time to prepare? I think that much of what was said about the status of professional programmes was good, although we do not really share the idea of the exact design. Nevertheless, I think it is important to say that we Swedish democrats do not think that students should be excluded. We do not think that anyone who wants to enter higher education qualifications should not be allowed to do so. On the other hand, we see a danger in creating a system that assumes that higher education qualifications should be read instead of being an opportunity. You can read two years and then get a year's supplement. The parliamentary group also had that discussion. Wouldn't Caroline Helmersson Olsson see an advantage in doing so and thus not shut students out of the ability to read permissions?
i-7qTFKtTjfQCGe7syaxm9XV	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question. It's good that we have a common understanding of different things. I can answer directly to the question of whether I would have preferred the subject ratings to have been introduced earlier. The answer is yes. Already in connection with Gy 2007, a parallel study was carried out on how to introduce subject grades in a course-designed upper secondary school. It was on the job. Then Jan Björklund became Minister of Education, and he threw the investigation into the trash basket and introduced Gy in 2011 instead. There was very good in Gy 2011. However, the subject grades were not included. On the other hand, there was the division between vocational programmes and preparatory programmes in higher education. There's nothing clearer than what happened there. It was not attractive for young people to apply. Above all, it was because their study and career counselors and their parents at the kitchen tables said that they would not go to a professional programme but instead go to the social programme. Reslow himself realized that the program has grown tremendously. I'm thinking this thing Reslow tells me about and thinks, it's today. Everyone has the right to obtain university qualifications in a vocational programme in upper secondary school. But we have seen that it does not work for everyone everywhere, so this proposal is better. Then it's part of it, and you choose not to do it if you need it for some reason.
i-XsM81HC4W8jAoBhuxUFESf	Madam President, I would like The problem is that today's system does not really separate the theoretical elements as we would have liked. We can go back and see how the professional programmes were in the 1980s. It wasn't that they were unpopular. On the contrary, the study and career counselors were very good at sending students right. And there were big programs. A lot of people walked them. Then the upper secondary schools were also a little bigger to the range and a little more strategically located. But something happened. Caroline Helmersson Olsson mentioned Gy 07. Yes, there were many problems with Gy 07 that caused it to be scrapped. But one thing that was not good once the professional programmes were formulated was that the possibility of entering higher education qualifications was removed. That's not good. I think we are in agreement there, but I see a danger that the solution proposed by the government will lead to a worse throughput because it is still deterred by reading more theory if you do not have good grades from primary school. I am afraid it will be wrong there, and I wish we could have done it in a slightly more efficient and innovative way. So to the dimensionation. Dimensionation is good, just like I said. The problem with the investigation that comes with its proposal in June is that it has been criticised for the need to build up a massive bureaucracy to deal with this dimensioning. My question to Caroline Helmersson Olsson is how the Social Democrats and the government look at building a huge bureaucratic apparatus where a lot of money will go – money that could have gone to the students in teaching – to ensure that all municipalities will have their small school and not cooperate with each other.
i-FaJSWwx63vrt5ZsrbMbqXd	Madam President, I would like Thank you for further questions. It was interesting to hear that in the '80s they were good at sending people right. It was them. I went out of high school after two years, 82, and I've come all this way, so it went well. Otherwise, I have to say that it seems that Mr Reslow will soon be the only one in this House who is afraid of this reform of university qualifications. Listen to the business community on this issue too, I would say. I really do not understand what the honourable Member means by this massive bureaucracy to be built up. The collaboration that has to happen is already taking place in many places, but not everywhere. The regions will be given a responsibility for this. The National Agency for Education has a responsibility. It's going to have some extra responsibilities. I suppose it's possible. I really do not understand that Patrick Reslow sees such a great danger in it, but we will come back on this issue in June.
i-NdC1CoLpAUB7geby4KmKo7	Madam President, I would like Today the heart is heavy. Russia's invasion of Ukraine destroys peace on our continent. We in this House and in Sweden must act with full force. We need to support Ukraine with the help and support it is asking for in the form of weapons, financial resources and humanitarian aid. We must ensure that we get full-scale sanctions on Russia on the ground as soon as possible in order to clearly mark, and we must strengthen Swedish defence. The thoughts today go to the Ukrainian people. We're with you. Today we're all Ukrainians. As many here today have stated, we have a responsibility to contribute at this dark moment to maintaining our own democracy by debating in this House. Today we are debating education and school. Madam President, I would like The school will give all young people the opportunity to shape their own future. There is probably no other factor that can change a destiny such as successful schooling. The school opens doors to a safer working life and provides opportunities to shape its own future. It shall be the obvious place of class travel. Upper secondary school is important for Sweden's skills supply and for the individual's ability to shape his or her life as he or she wishes. At the same time, statistics from the National Agency for Education show that over 16 000 students who graduated from grade 9 in spring 2020 did not qualify for upper secondary school. Every third student in high school is unable to graduate after three years. This shows that Swedish schools need new knowledge reforms. In the latest PISA survey, students with foreign background achieved lower reading comprehension results compared to pupils with domestic backgrounds. The measured difference is the largest in the OECD. We know that people born abroad and without upper secondary education find it particularly difficult to get a first job, which in many cases leads to a long-term dependency on benefits. The need for reform in Swedish upper secondary school is therefore great. One major shortcoming is that it is not possible to measure how well our schools succeed in their main mission: to equip all students with good knowledge. The two main national tools for measuring this are the national tests and final grades. But it is difficult to make decisions based on these. The grades are not anchored in the results of the national tests. The national tests are also not designed to compare the development of knowledge over time. We see major problems with the national tests. Another is that they are corrected by the pupils' own teachers, which gives a lack of reliability in the assessments. They are also exposed to widespread cheating. Yes, we see a need for a wide range of reforms with regard to national tests. The Moderates want to introduce central correction of the national exams so that they are comparable over time, follow the curriculum goals and are conducted in different grades. At the same time, care should be taken to ensure that pupils with special needs receive the support they are entitled to. We also want to investigate the possibility of re-establishing a matriculation examination in Sweden. Sweden is in an international context relatively alone that at the end of upper secondary school do not have exams that are either considered with the grades or reported separately. Unlike Sweden, Norway, Denmark and Finland have exams at the end of upper secondary school, and in all these countries the exams are assessed in whole or in part externally. In their report, the grading survey states that they see several advantages with the introduction of exams in upper secondary school – partly because grade inflation is counteracted and partly because students are under less pressure. A system where grades and test results are reported separately in upper secondary school can lead to increased equivalence as it becomes a system with two measurement points. With two measuring points, grades and exams, students increase their ability to demonstrate their knowledge and it lowers the pressure on teachers to score unwarrantedly high grades. ..................................................... A third point I would like to highlight here today concerns the knowledge requirements in upper secondary school. We know that the course and curriculum are perceived as unclear by teachers and students. The focus is on analytical skills without the students having the basic factual knowledge needed to reason, compare, evaluate and draw conclusions. This has been studied by Linnéuniversitetet – the study that contributed to the Swedish National Agency for Education's response and initiated a review of the teaching and curriculum. The fourth point I was going to mention is about teaching time. The high school inquiry notes that the number of teaching hours is low. Many students testify to many hole hours and teacherless lessons. The National Association of Teachers notes that the teaching time for their teachers can vary by up to 30 percent between schools for the same course content. Sweden cannot expect to achieve higher results without increasing the number of teaching hours. We therefore want to initiate an investigation on the part of the Moderates to ensure that all high school students receive the teaching time to which they are entitled. Finally, I would also like to mention something about the match. As many have mentioned here today, vocational training is very important for Swedish skills provision. Demand for teachers and health professionals with tertiary education is growing faster than supply. At the same time, there is a surplus of people with higher education in humanities, social sciences, communication, culture and the media. The vocational programmes that have too few students in relation to the needs of the labour market are, in particular, health care, vehicles and transport, building and restaurant. In addition, there is a large and growing surplus of people with the highest level of primary education, not least as a result of a large migration of asylum from countries where short education is the most common. The number of training places therefore needs to be increased, and this needs to be driven to a greater extent by the needs of the labour market. In addition, it is natural to note that there is a great need for reform of Swedish upper secondary school. Now we do not need more of the same policies that have created this situation, with fluke and unclear knowledge requirements, but instead a restoration of the knowledge line. Madam President, I would like With reference to the simplified procedure in committee, I do not support our motions but the committee's proposals.
i-YQi7VAfEUDCAzPJcRBFTji	Madam President, I would like The thoughts go on a day like this, of course, to something completely different. We are thinking of our brothers and sisters in Ukraine. But I also think that democracy needs to be allowed to move forward. After all, as a wise man said, this is what they are fighting for in Ukraine right now. We are now talking about the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture's report 13, the labelling and registration of cats. First of all, Madam President, I would like to endorse reservation number 1. It's a reservation that's a rejection of the bill. On the part of the Moderates, we do not think that this is a bill that solves the problems that exist today with loose cats, cats that multiply uncontrollably and so on. We also know that our authorities have made quite a sharp criticism of this bill and believe that there are simply no proposals for solutions in the bill. So, Madam President, I am going to round off and say that we are calling for a rejection of the Moderate bill.
i-GztysFtfSKqPUvokjXXA2W	Madam President, I would like It is a dark day in many different ways, especially for the people of Ukraine, where the Russian regime headed by Putin has today carried out an aggressive military invasion. This is a powerful threat to the whole of Europe. We stand here today in solidarity with the Ukrainian people, for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine. What is happening now is a threat to our liberal democracy. At the same time, we can stand here, just a short flight from Kiev, debating legislative proposals of various kinds, as my predecessor here in the speaker's chair raised. This is worth protecting in many different ways. Madam President, I would like On to today's dossier: labelling and registration of cats. I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation number 1. The Center Party is calling for a rejection of the bill. The cat is a dear pet for many of us, both children and adults. There are currently about 1.4 million cats in Sweden, divided into about half as many households. I think that I'm probably a fairly normal cat owner with my two loved ones, Likrits and Allis, whom I, like 60 percent of all cat owners, have noticed on a voluntary basis, so that they can be returned home in case they run away and be found far away. About half of these labelled cats are also in some register. This, with voluntary labelling, has the potential to increase in the future, rather than introducing an obligation and a state register. With regard to the proposal that is now on the table, with a mandatory requirement, we think that it does not bring enough benefit for it to be justified. Apart from administration and costs of various kinds, the main reason for this is what the Swedish Board of Agriculture writes in its referral was: that the requirements would hardly meet the most important target group, i.e. the less responsible owners of cats. The benefits of the proposal therefore disappear. The bill draws many parallels to the requirement that has been required for 18 years to label and register dogs. We consider that comparison to be doubtful. The most weighty reasons at that time were the increasing problem of aggressive and dangerous dogs. It also gave reasons for disease protection in the preparatory work. None of this can be passed on to cats. The Moderates have pointed out before me in their reservation number 2, which is also to be read in the report, that there are serious shortcomings in the dog register, in terms of both the fact that children can be registered as dog owners and who can register. So there were a number of problems, and I think it would be pretty good if they were solved first. Implementing a compulsory state register of cats is really pushing far beyond the objective of this issue if you want to reach the cats in need of our protection as a result of mismanagement. The authority that would be in charge of the register is critical and the Privacy Shield Board is critical. In addition, there is a relatively new law on animal welfare, with animal welfare regulations and animal welfare regulations, including cats. Here, then, the government should do the right things in the right order, just as the Moderates describe well in one of their reservations. Madam President, I would like There are several advantages with labelled cats, but from the Center Party we see that the absolute best thing is that it happens voluntarily. That is why I stress once again that we are protecting the welfare of all cats and that we have animal welfare legislation to protect this. So do it again, do it right! I demand that the bill be rejected.
i-8bqTKE1J669Fw71d5uJ2EM	Madam President, I would like Before I make my little speech, like my friends earlier in the debate, I would like to dwell on what has happened tonight and today and is probably going on for a few more days. I would really like to underline what was said and to express my support and our support for free Ukraine. We are indeed with you in the fight for democracy and freedom! This is a very sad moment, I must say. But there is still something else we are going to debate. Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the report on the labelling and registration of cats. I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 1. The cat has been a part of Sweden's fauna for a very long time. Already in the 1000's there were plenty of cats in South Scandinavian. A few centuries later, the cat was a man's animal. The cat was, above all, extremely important to farmers. They held up against the pests, rats and mice. I myself grew up in the country and run a farm in Ödeshög, so I know how incredibly important a cat can be. The cat really makes a difference with the catch it takes. The cat, as the honourable Member before me said, is a very popular pet. I can stress that myself. The honourable Member said she had two cats, and so have I. My cats are called Tusse and Nisse. The proposal we are debating tonight is that all 1.4 million cats in Sweden should be compulsorily marked and registered. We Christian Democrats are firmly opposed to this. We think it is very strange that the government should present a legislative proposal on the labelling and registration of cats before there has been an evaluation of the law introduced on the registration and labelling of dogs. A great deal has come out about this which does not seem so good. It is also remarkable that the government opposes the Swedish Board of Agriculture, which, in its referrals, rejects the proposal. The Swedish Board of Agriculture points out that the costs and administration of Sweden's cat keepers far exceed the benefits that the proposal would bring. The authorities also consider that compliance with the requirement can be expected to be low. Why on earth is the government running over this work, which is to do the work? Madam President, I would like Already today there is what we Christian Democrats think is the right way to go, namely voluntary labelling and registration. Today there are some 350 000 cats that have been registered, including my two cats Nisse and Tusse. Moreover, it does not cost the state anything, and that is also a good thing.
i-3Ee8qXqnzkjBWMAWPZCeCd	Madam President, I would like Today we woke up to the news of Russia's invasion of Ukraine. On this dark day, it is more important than ever that we show solidarity and stand up for freedom and democracy. I strongly condemn Russia's actions and express my strongest support for the Ukrainian people. Madam President, I would like I now turn to the subject of today's debate, and I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal as a whole to be approved. Coping with the problems of abandoned and feral cats is something that has been committed to many. This is an issue on which we Social Democrats have pushed, and we want to ensure a good animal welfare for our animals in Sweden. There are also unbelievably many NGOs in the country who are committed to our homeless cats around the clock and year round, and are constantly pushing to strengthen the status of cats. I visited two animal welfare organisations myself at the beginning of the week and took part in their fantastic work to help these cats. Since spring 2019 we have a new Animal Welfare Act. The proposal we are debating today on compulsory labelling and registration of cats is important for strengthening animal welfare for cats. The legislative amendments are proposed to enter into force on 1 January 2023. The new provisions shall not apply to cats born before 1 January 2008. The cat is the most common pet in Sweden. There are about 1.4 million cats here. Our pet cat is a pet. More than 700,000 households own one or more cats. A common estimate is that about 100,000 − 150 000 cats are homeless, lost or abandoned by their owners. The cat has been pets with us humans for thousands of years and has a mythical and exciting history. Clearly, the cat has been very important to man for a long time. The myth that the cat has nine lives has probably all of us heard. Today we say that a cat has nine lives because they can survive so much. Whether it's true that the cat has nine lives or not, the cat is a domestic animal that doesn't make it on its own. The cat needs us humans; it needs care. If we take good care of the cats, they can use their nine lives in the best possible way, I think. We know that today there are problems with cats that get away or that are deliberately abandoned and left by their owners. These wildebeests and reproduce uncontrollably, causing problems for the environment and other cat owners. But above all, all these cats themselves suffer. Behind every homeless cat is a former owner who has broken his responsibilities. And I would really like to emphasise that it is important that you take responsibility as an animal owner. Cats are domestic animals that need supervision and care, and the proposals of the investigation and the proposal are a good way to tackle this problem. This proposal clarifies the commitment and responsibility of the cat owner, but it also strengthens the position of the cat. Labelling and registration is a way of separating abandoned and feral cats from owned cats. Madam President, I would like Today, the County Administrative Boards and the Police Authority are investing considerable resources in dealing with cases of lost, abandoned and ferocious cats. Animal welfare organisations, in turn, are doing extensive work in catching up, caring for and trying to find new owners of these cats. The purpose of the proposals is to facilitate the work of administrative authorities and non-profit organisations. In the long run, the proposals aim to reduce the number of cats without a home and thus reduce the animal suffering associated with the absence of care for these animals. It is also a question of reducing the costs to the authorities. Stricter demands on cat owners will make it clear that it includes certain obligations to own a cat. The labelling and registration requirement also helps to make the Animal Welfare Act's ban on abandoning animals effective. Found cats that are marked and registered can easily be returned to their owners. The handling of cases concerning unlabelled cats will also be facilitated by a requirement for labelling and registration. The county administrative boards are then able to make decisions on what to do with an unmarked cat more quickly and efficiently. When the number of out-of-care and out-of-control cats is reduced, the opportunities for these animals to reproduce will also be reduced. The system of labelling and registration requirements for cats is proposed to correspond to the current system of labelling and registration requirements for dogs. This means that the Swedish Board of Agriculture is given the responsibility to keep records of cat owners. The Government may also make provision here for the Swedish Board of Agriculture to transfer responsibility for keeping records to another authority or to an organisation. Among other things, the Police Authority, the County Administrative Boards and the Customs Administration will be given direct access to the register of cat owners. It is also proposed that the government or the authority that the government decides may prescribe that owners of cats should be required to pay a fee for registration. Finally, it is proposed that the County Administrative Board may give notice to order compliance with the provisions on labelling and registration, which may also be accompanied by periodic penalty payments. Treating animals well is an ethical responsibility that we have. Sweden should be the world leader in animal welfare. We Social Democrats want Swedish animal welfare to continue to improve. Coping with the problems of abandoned and feral cats is an important step for the sake of cats, in order to increase their animal welfare. Cats are a domestic animal that needs care, and this bill clarifies the responsibility of the cat owner. But the most important thing is to reduce the suffering of homeless cats.
i-FEqmEDHt1Ed6rMv6hmy48x	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Malin Larsson, for your speech! I was just going to ask you a few questions about this particular bill, which seems to be going through. There are two questions in particular that I intend to ask the honourable Member. One is about the decision that dogs should be labelled and registered. Has there been an evaluation of this before the new proposal was tabled? It would be very interesting to hear whether the government has waited for such an evaluation and then made some changes to the proposal. That is one question. The second question concerns the Board of Agriculture, which governments normally listen to. The Board of Agriculture lives as it were close to reality and can handle various issues. They actually rejected this. They believe that the costs and administration of Sweden's cat keepers far exceed the benefits that the proposal could bring. The Authority also considers that compliance with the requirements can be expected to be low. It is interesting that the government is taking a completely different line and making a different decision, even though they are so clear. It would be very interesting to hear the honourable Member say something about this.
i-Ci1FHpAzVaKygeRGZXgccC	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Magnus Oscarsson, for the questions! The issue of the labelling and registration of cats is an issue that has been under discussion for a long time. It is an issue that has been driven for a long time by those who actually meet and care for the homeless cats. We have a solid investigation as a basis. We have a good bill on our table, which we will have to debate here tonight. I think it's great. We have a problem with homeless and feral cats. Now we have a good proposal to solve that problem and overcome it. I think that's incredibly good. Perhaps the Board of Agriculture was the only one who felt this way. I do not remember if anyone else thought that the proposal was not good. On the other hand, other authorities, such as the police and county boards, and all the organisations that take care of the cats thought it was a great suggestion. They are the ones who actually meet these cats today. They're the ones who get to do the work. They see that there is a need for mandatory labelling and registration to raise the status of our cats and for the cats to have a better life. Actually, it's the cats we're talking about here today. I am on the side of the cats on this issue. Unfortunately, Madam President, Magnus Oscarsson does not seem to be, but perhaps we will hear in the next speech how it is.
i-4hGq6eqUGfkgu2xJ3HXtsU	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Malin Larsson, for your answer! Well, I'm definitely on the cat's side. Of course you think cats are very important. Nevertheless, I have to react a little to the honourable Member's reply. I did not receive an answer on the evaluation of the law on the registration and labelling of dogs. It has been shown that there are a lot of remarks on it. And yet you throw this in. As it seems, the government has not taken this on board. I think there should have been an evaluation before a new proposal is made. There is also something else that I react to a little. When I discuss this with the government, especially the Minister for Rural Development, I very often hear that there will be simplified regulations. It will be easier to be a farmer. We're going to reduce what's very heavy for a lot of people. A farmer called me this morning. He said, this is not gonna be good for me. They do a great job at home, but it's going to be very strange. Then I am thinking of the regulatory framework. Are those just fair words? This proposal, which actually seems to be a law, will not make it easier for our farmers, for example, nor for those living in rural areas. I believe that this is something that should not have been put forward. It should have been something else.
i-9997smdMPwQYqcep6UtUPe	Madam President, I would like Once again, I thank Magnus Oscarsson for the questions. Simpler is exactly what it will be. It will be much easier for the police, for the county boards and for all organisations that work to help the homeless cats. It makes it easier to separate a owned cat from a homeless cat. It will therefore be much simpler, at least from my perspective. Then we know that today there are major problems with cats that get away or that are deliberately abandoned and left by their owners. Now we stand here and have a good suggestion on the table. We have a good proposal on the table that gives the authorities and organisations the tools to overcome the problem of homeless cats. But then you say no – no to improving the lives of our cats and no to making it easier for the authorities and organisations. Above all, you say no to raising the status of the cat.
i-LcGHpj1H9YVqtCmELUd8Z5	Madam President, I would like The labelling and registration of cats, which we are debating today, affects a great many people and cats. Although the cat is the most popular pet in Sweden, it has today many times a much lower status than, for example, the dog. One reason for this is that some cats, perhaps mainly in the countryside, are not considered to have a real owner who takes full responsibility for the cat even though the daily stay there and catch mice, for example. Another reason for a low status is that some cats are sold very cheaply, so cheap that they risk only being seen as temporary and kept as what we call sommarkatter. It is, of course, a terrible view of a pet. In fact, the typical pet tax does not survive in the open without man's supervision. Although most cats like to be outdoors, they depend on humans to get sufficient care. Madam President, I would like In Sweden we have very many cats that are abandoned, strayed, feral or offspring of the same. There are about 100,000 cats fighting hunger, parasites, fleas, injuries, cold and other sufferings. In addition to everything terrible that an unwanted cat has to endure, there are more problems with the fact that we have a large amount of cats without owners. On the one hand, it can have an impact on the ecosystem, when cats kill millions of birds every year by hunting, and, unfortunately, it is also a cost to society. Each found cat costs the authorities about $2,500, and the annual cost of this has been 5 1⁄2 million. It is 5 1⁄2 million that we put on a problem that in the best of worlds would not even have had to exist. One who is quick on head count has calculated that there are about 2,200 cats found each year, that is, only a fraction of the 100,000 homeless cats that are estimated to exist. Cat promotion efforts are needed. Some of these have already been implemented. For example, since 2020 it has been regulated that free-air cats must be prevented from multiplying uncontrollably, either by castration, birth control or other appropriate measures. The new Animal Welfare Act also states that it is illegal to abandon animals. These measures and laws are good, but they are not enough. It is my belief that compulsory labelling and registration of cats will make it much easier when a lost cat is found, to ensure and see if the cat has an owner or if it is one of the 100 000 homeless cats. If it is marked and registered, this will be absolutely crucial for the cat to be able to find home again to a worried mate, master or family. In order to raise the status of the cat, it is also important that they are not wear-and-slip animals, but if you take on the responsibility of being the master or math of a cat, you have obligations. My hope is that a fee in the right proportion will mean that the cat will no longer be seen as a cheap alternative but as a company for which one has the greatest responsibility. Madam President, I would like From the Swedish Democrats we would have liked to have seen compulsory labelling and registration of cats become a reality already four years ago, when we implemented the new Animal Welfare Act. However, most other parties did not think that ten years of animal welfare investigations were enough, but further investigations were needed to arrive at the conclusion that we proposed in 2018. We now have a majority in Parliament in favour of introducing mandatory labelling and registration of cats, and I therefore welcome the proposal in the report.
i-VouNjNTr4U6KKgosLJDK29	Madam President, I would like I want to start, as many have done before me today, by sending a thought to the people of Ukraine. The Left Party, and I therefore strongly condemn the war that has now begun on the part of Russia. All solidarity with the Ukrainian people today! Back to what we are here to debate. When I walked past Mint Square outside the Parliament House last week, I met at the Animal Protection Secretary General's tax. Have you heard of him? His name is cinnamon, and it's a certain little gentleman with his heart in the right place. He had brought along a bunch of dog friends and their people and gathered together for a manifestation that wanted to make us politicians aware that we need to help the cats. Already a few weeks earlier, the same secretary-general, Kanel, had sent us in the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture a letter urging us to stop cat astrophy. I was going to take the liberty of reading a little excerpt from that text, which is signed by Kanel. He writes like this: I don't like cats. They sneak up on you, use violence, and many of them are criminals. But even I can't be quiet anymore. We dogs are overfed, left in kindergarten and envy generally. Cats are abandoned, left on the street and killed in general. I'm really sorry to say that, but we can't have that. It's not right. This, I mean, is a fine example of solidarity – wanting to do something for someone else without directly benefiting from it yourself. Because even though some of the dogs at Mint Square last Thursday, in all honesty, thought it would be pretty nice to get a little better control of the sneaky cats, everyone understood that the life and conditions under which cats live today are not worthy of any animal. So they joined forces, and just like the Liberals before Christmas several times, very aptly, the fish exclaimed first. They saw their own privileged situation and thought it was only right that part of that cake was shared with the cats. It was a nice though some cold manifestation. The Left Party therefore supports the government's proposed mandatory identification marking of cats, and we are pleased with the decision that the committee is now putting to the Parliament for a vote. Like many others, we see that mandatory identification of cats will have positive consequences. This is an issue that the Left Party has been involved in pushing for a long time together with the animal rights movement and perhaps above all with Djurskydd Sverige. I would like to take this opportunity to thank them for their tireless work. I hope that the decision can lead the work forward and give more time to continue improving the lives of our four-legged friends. I support the proposal in the report.
i-B9Phxi5RF8ZYYKYrr1M1DH	Madam President, I would like Today, freedom needs to be defended in Ukraine. The freedom that we have in this House must certainly never be taken for granted. Therefore, our prayers this day go to those who hide in shelters and flee for their lives. Kyrie! Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the labelling and registration of cats. The cat is a symbol of freedom. It is a free individual with a great need to be free. This is what is significant for a cat, so there is still a nice transition between this day and today we are highlighting cats which are a symbol of the freedom we have. Most of us, not all of us, are quite clear that if you own an animal – a cat– also follows a responsibility, and with responsibility follows an obligation. This is what we are talking about today. In order for a cat owner to be able to receive support and help to fulfil his responsibilities and duties, we as politicians will create and facilitate. 100 000 cats – some say 150 000 cats – are currently homeless or wild. Unfortunately, this means that many people in our country do not believe that a cat bears a responsibility. As obvious as it may be to many of us, it is not obvious. That's why we're here today. Something has to be done. Non-governmental organisations in civil society must bear a great responsibility to take care of what someone else does not want to take responsibility for. With freedom comes responsibility. If you choose to have an animal, a cat, you have to understand that it is also a responsibility. These organisations need to spend their time and commitment on those who really need them. Madam President, I would like The Animal Welfare Act is clear. If you own an animal, you should ensure good animal welfare and promote good animal welfare. You should simply show respect for the animal. Isn't that obvious? No, not for everyone. In our modern society, we would not have had over 100,000 homeless cats. Today about 60% of cats are labelled in some way, we have heard. That's good. However, 40% of people are still at risk of becoming homeless because they are not marked. What will it cost? Registration costs an estimated 80 kroner. At the cheapest it costs 200 SEK to label a cat. That's 280 kroner. Is a cat worth it? Absolutely, says the Liberals. Is it, then, a proportionate requirement to impose on a cat owner? Yeah, let's put it on a dog owner. Madam President, I would like Who sets the value for a cat not to risk being homeless, lost or feral? We can see that some people put far too low a value on a cat. Why else would they not care that a cat is left alone to its fate? Madam President, I would like As I usually do, I want to draw a parallel to my upbringing farm, where the cat was absolutely highly valued in the countryside. It worked for its livelihood in the form of being a rat trap. The reward was the plate of milk. They were highly valued. We all named them. It was a task for us children to give them names. It was a kind of label that they got a name, an identity, and we learned who was who. I won't forget lightning. That's his name because he had a white flash on his nose. Lightning was my favorite, favorite cat. But one day, Lightning was gone without a trace. We used to check in the neighboring courtyards if they'd seen an unknown cat strolling around. Lightning was gone. Over six months later, when the cold of autumn began to creep, one evening in the boiler room stood a large wild - grown cat and turned to the heat. I wasn't old, but I recognized Lightning on the nose. It was really Lightning that was back again. But it was too late. The wild life of this time had engulfed him. Then Lightning disappeared again for some strange reason. Long afterwards, I learned that my father had called Torgny. He was our hunter, who had had to put the lightning down because he couldn't have. He was a savage. Madam President, I would like An ID tag and registration is a simple thing to do. It can save a lot of cats. Even those we value very highly may risk disappearing. For us liberals, it goes without saying that the cat should be highly valued, registered and labelled. Why? Because there are a lot of Lightning out there who need our help.
i-QxgAskddchPvh2o9qPSgS6	Madam President, I would like My thoughts also go to the people of Ukraine. Russia has invaded Ukraine, and it is war in Europe. Of course, here in the Swedish Parliament we must stand up for the Ukrainian people, while at the same time allowing democracy to move forward here. Someone said the cat might be an animal of freedom. Of course the cat will get a mark. The law has come into being to protect the cats. It is linked to animal welfare legislation, which aims to ensure good animal welfare, promote good animal welfare and respect for animals. This law is very useful. The Animal Welfare Act provides that domestic animals must not be abandoned. Even so, we know what happens to the cats. That is why the Green Party will of course vote in favour of and support the committee's proposal. The cat is our most common pet. There are nearly 11⁄2 million cats. Now the cats should be marked just like the dogs, horses, cows, sheep and the vast majority of animals that humans hold. The cat can wander off by itself for a long drive and ride free rides so that it ends up far too far from home, and many never find their way home and are not found. Not everyone is as lucky as the street cat Bob had in London, who found his new owner all by himself. There are still a lot of people who simply abandon their cats when they don't want them anymore. We don't know how many abandoned cats there are. However, it is estimated that about 10 percent of cats are abandoned and left somewhere to fend for themselves. Our cats don't make it on their own. Maybe they'll last a summer. But then winter comes, and then they die. They're facing a pretty terrible death of starvation. Volunteering is out of the question. It is the county administrative boards that check that keepers comply with the requirements of animal welfare legislation and have the main responsibility for the disposal of abandoned and feral cats. Both the police and the county boards welcome the bill. There will now be an increase in the number of labelled and registered cats. It makes it easier for both the county administrative boards and the police authorities to determine who is the owner of animals. It becomes much easier to distinguish owned cats from abandoned and feral cats. That is why the legislation is very good. Madam President, I would like I would like to conclude by saying that we in the Green Party are, of course, pleased that during our time in the government we worked hard to get the legislation in place. I'd like to say hello to my good neighbor's cats Tessan and Tasso. I support the committee's proposal.
i-Qk6KLp8eVcFQEYoczJaF99	Madam President, I would like We are going to debate the Environment and Agriculture Committee's report MJU16 Hunting and game conservation. I request the approval of reservation 2. This was usually one of the most tense and fun debates of the year, and most often I look forward to it very much. However, as so many others have said today, it is strange to stand here and debate at the same time as the Russian President, or if we are to say the dictator, hunts the Ukrainian population with all available weapons. Our thoughts, of course, go to the Ukrainian population. I think our thoughts go to the Russian population too. Isn't it time to remove that fool? However, we shall defend democracy and debate this year's flood of hunting movements. As usual, we Members of Parliament are very involved in hunting and game conservation issues, but the proposals, initiatives and actions of the various parties are running out of steam. The committee proposes that the Riksdag rejects most of the motions but addresses three announcements to the government. We Social Democrats stand and have always stood up for and want to continue to develop our commitment to the non-profit hunt and game conservation – what has promoted Swedish game conservation. There is an untrue perception that we have abolished the general mission. That is not true, Madam President. However, we need to develop the general mission, and we want to ensure that the Hunters' Association has long-term rules of play. This is possible with long-term, secure funding, which we are now enabling. The majority of the committee supported an announcement on this last year, and that is exactly what we are now enabling: long-term rules of the game that are compatible with EU law are made possible by the safe financing of the Hunters' Association. Money entering the Wildlife Fund must be used to ensure Swedish hunting and game conservation, but it must also be ensured that procurement and judicial review are completed. We are now in a transitional phase where the Swedish Hunter Association has recently won many parts of the procurement that are still ongoing. In a decision of 30 September last year, the Government granted a contribution from the Wildlife Fund to the Swedish Hunters' Association, partly in the form of a three-year organisational grant to promote the country's game management, and partly in the first half of 2022 for the activities of game surveillance, organisation, training of search procedures and biungulate game management. On 1 January 2022, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the Swedish Hunter Association signed an agreement on consultancy services for game management in the field of game and traffic. The assignment is scheduled to start on July 1, 2022 and run until December 31, 2023, with the possibility of extension. The Government also decided on 3 February this year to award additional grants to the Swedish Hunter Association to ensure that the Association over a transitional period will be able to continue to take care of the important game conservation measures it has previously undertaken. Madam President, I would like For us, this is self-evident. It has been questioned and criticised that money from the Wildlife Fund has gone to diffuse projects. Money from the Wildlife Fund shall be used to promote hunting and game conservation in accordance with the Hunting Act, and the applications to be examined on the basis of these criteria and a new regulation shall therefore be distributed. The decision on the organisation grant taken by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency also meant that only two organisations met the stricter requirements for promoting hunting and game conservation and ensuring that it is compatible with the Hunting Act. This means that last year's announcement of a three-year contribution has already been met, Madam President. In this situation, the majority of SD, M, KD and C support a new announcement that everything was better in the past and should return to what it was then. For us it is particularly important that the Swedish Hunter Association continues to have a special position in the Swedish hunting and game management. What everyone should pay attention to is the second announcement supported by the Swedish Democrats, the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Centers, which is about reviewing the hunting law. The purpose of that announcement is the same as Eskil Erlandsson's hunting team investigation: that the wording now proposed by the majority is needed to reduce grazing injuries, reduce wildlife accidents and ensure the modernisation of the hunting team. This may seem laudable, but the consequences are that it becomes more bureaucratic, that hunters have less influence and that landowners have more opportunities to depart from decided hunting times. We have reserved ourselves because the purpose and goals of the hunting team are good and do not need to be changed. If we need to change something, we can change smaller parts, like when we changed the regulations for feeding. Some claim that the hunting law is out-of-date when it was developed for a time when it was more about preserving and building weak tribes. That is not true at all, Madam President – those parts were revised back in 1987, i.e. after the elk peak and entering the deer stop. The fourth paragraph of the Hunting Act is fully modern. It must have been extremely forward-looking when it was rewritten, because it expresses a common responsibility between landowners and hunters to promote and regulate, that is to say, the very essence of a functioning game management, as well as to ensure that ecosystems and their ecosystem services actually function. On the other hand, we are behind the announcement of giving disabled people greater opportunities to use motor vehicles in hunting, because it is our Social Democratic policy and something we have been pursuing for a very long time. Madam President, I would like To get a little serious here too, I will say that the level of conflict in Sápmi is escalating. The SSR, that is, the Swedish Sami Federation, and the Sami Parliament chose Girja Sami Village as a pilot project to sue the state for the right to permit hunting and fishing on state land within the Sami village area. The tearing-up legal process led to a judgment in HD where the granting of hunting and fishing rights was granted to the Sami from time to time, but it was given only to the Sami, who get that exclusive right. This has created an unpleasant atmosphere, Madam President. The judgment also sets a precedent for other decisions. If the interpretation of the Court of Justice is to apply, the law must be amended. In no other area is it legislated on the basis of medieval views, royal decrees and pledges. What other legislation works in this way? Then why should this be so in this area? The reindeer husbandry legislation is old; as early as 1971, when it was passed, it was out of date. It derives from the 1886 reindeer husbandry law, which in turn derives from royal decrees on taxes and powers on state land. The reindeer industry law is old and out-of-date, unequal and patriarchal. It should be revised. As we read about this, we see that a number of governments have been trying since 1980. We have the Sami Justice Investigation, the Report on ILO Convention 169, the Borders Commission on reindeer husbandry, the Clean Industry Policy Committee, the investigation on hunting and fisheries legislation, the proposal for a Nordic Sami Convention and the Alliance Government's DS2009:40– but none of them went on to new legislation. It is absolutely crucial and has been our sincere Social Democratic view to find the greatest possible parliamentary support and basis for finding a solution in which our representatives have failed in the past. Now we get the opportunity to take that ball. We Social Democrats will take it, and I hope that the parties that are on the Renmark Committee will also take it. It is finally time for a change in this area. Finally, Madam President, it is an election year this year. The hunters should be critical of what is written about hunting for certain leadership pages. A new, modern hunting team with increased ground hunting influence does not mean increased influence for hunters. We Social Democrats will continue to protect the hunting team and the regionalised administration with sustainable withdrawals from our game tribes. It's not the hunting team. It's the hunting team that bends fingers. It is not the hunting law that has to fix traffic-killed cloven-hoofed or injured road users. There is a need for action from the Finnish Transport Administration. Wild fences and game transitions are needed. Madam President, I would like We should be proud of our game tribes and see them as the resource they actually are.
i-KP1uE8oh8byWy7ehAKy4Dp	Madam President, I would like We in the Swedish Democrats are, of course, behind all our demands. However, for the gain of time, as it is said, I only support our reservation 3, Times of Hunting. A major stumbling block for functioning predator management is the EU Species and Habitats Directive, which was introduced in 1992. Since then, a great deal has happened, but the protection of predators is the same despite the fact that, for example, the wolf is now not considered to be threatened. The wolf tribe is to be considered viable today, but the EU directive on species and habitats still requires strict protection of the wolf. Sweden's wolf situation has not improved since 2013, when the new predator policy was established. The size and concentration of the tribe have gone in the opposite direction despite the fact that a majority in the parliament wants to reduce the population. The Annexes to the Species and Habitats Directive must therefore be given greater flexibility so that the current facts, local considerations and research become more important in the basis for decision-making. The annexes to the directive need to be more adapted to the realities of nature, game and today. This could mean moving the wolf from strict protection in the annexes to an administrative nature. With this move, the wolf tribe could be managed without problems by hunting when the wolf's status in the EU changes from strictly protected to managed. Hunting and game management is an important issue for many people in large parts of the country and should not be handled by a large government authority with many other responsibilities. There are therefore strong reasons for transferring this responsibility from the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency to a pure hunting and game authority. This would provide a rural base with the potential to create a basis for a better dialogue with regional authorities, hunters' organisations, landowners, livestock owners and rural residents in general. The fact that the crack is widening between the city and the countryside means that the Swedish democrats want to work for a government exercise that holds Sweden together. We see a new hunting authority as part of this strategy. After all, there is already an announcement from the Riksdag – from 2015, I believe – that there will be an independent wildlife agency, so this issue is very much alive. Parliament decisions must of course be followed. A Swedish hunting team with 35 years on its neck needs renewal and modernisation. It needs to be reviewed. The result of this review must be a response to. A review of hunting legislation is needed in order to present a hunting team with rules that are relevant to today's reality. The game conditions have changed since the beginning of the Hunting Act. The game is causing considerable economic damage, which shows that the legislation may need to be reviewed and amended in some respects. Madam President, I would like In some areas of western Svealand and especially southern Norrland, the concentration of wolf is very high. The wolf population in some areas needs to be managed more actively. More and more territories are also established further south. The Swedish Democrats have long believed that the wolf's reference value for a favourable conservation status should be in accordance with the lower limit for the least viable population – or for favourable conservation status, as it is called – in the bill A sustainable predator policy, which is 170 wolves, before license hunting can come up. We said this in the debates already in 2014, shortly after this bill had won a hand here in Parliament – I think it was in November or December 2013. The Swedish Democrats are also no stranger to lowering the level further, but this should be done by means of a parliamentary decision. We currently have a parliamentary decision to which we should relate. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, as you know, abandoned the decision made by the Riksdag in 2013 regarding a range for wolves of 170 to 270 individuals as a favourable conservation status. New research, as commissioned by the Authority itself, was invoked and, on this basis, the reference value for favourable conservation status was raised to 300 wolves. As I said, we are critical of the fact that this parliamentary decision is not being complied with, but then we should not go below the interval set by the Riksdag before a new decision is made. The 2013 parliamentary decision on a sustainable predator policy, including the mentioned range of favourable conservation status for wolf, was also based on extensive research at one time – 2012 I think it was – of the Scandinavian wolf project Skandulv, which concluded that the smallest viable population for wolf throughout Scandinavia was 100 individuals. The hunters' association wants as small a wolf's tribe as possible – a maximum of 150 individuals. The maximum level will then be reached, which we think could be beneficial in terms of both downwards and upward control and in terms of more predictable management from year to year. In our opinion, the upper limit decided by the Parliament could function perfectly well as a ceiling. A lower limit would probably be 170 and an upper limit 270 individuals. If the inventory finds that the stock is close to the roof, there is room for hunting. If, on the other hand, the inventory finds that the number of wolves is closer to the floor than the ceiling, there may not be a hunt unless too large concentrations create local concerns and problems. Should the tribe have reached a number above the roof, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency will decide on hunting down to the middle of the interval; that is what we have proposed. Today – last winter's inventory estimated at 395 wolves – the space for this winter's wolf hunt could have landed at 175 wolves, according to our proposal. I am not saying there should be so many, but at least there has been such a margin. As I said, we are no stranger to lowering the level further, in line with the Hunters' Association's reasoning. They have built their conclusion on previous research findings on the smallest viable population. Today we are talking only about the minimum number and favourable conservation status but not about the maximum number for the wolf tribe. A wolf trunk without a roof we think is an unlimited wolf tribe that creates an endless debate with unnecessary conflict areas. It also damages confidence in Swedish hunting and game conservation. In order to achieve a more even distribution of the wolf tribe across the country, we also believe that the government should investigate the possibility of determining county maximum levels. If the winter inventory shows that the ceiling is exceeded within the county, the county administrative board could decide on wolf hunting regardless of the number of individuals in the rest of the country. This would help to deal with large concentrations of wolf locally and regionally. The bear tribe must not grow too big either. Several conflicts with a fatal outcome for humans have resulted from the fact that we are beginning to have too large a bear tribe. It was over a hundred years since a bear attack resulted in the death of two tragic attacks in Jämtland and Lapland; I think it was 2004 in Lapland and 2007 in Jämtland. In addition, several serious incidents have occurred resulting in serious damage. This takes place every two years. Therefore, we see that the displacement should perhaps be increased in the counties that receive the greatest concentration of bear and that the size of the stem should at the same time perhaps be reduced gradually. Since 1938, the Swedish Hunters' Association has had the general task of managing parts of hunting and game conservation in Sweden – until January 2021, when the Government decided that certain parts of the assignment will be procured in the future. The association has invaluable competence, high credibility and strong ties with the hunting and game management team, which means that the importance of the hunting and game conservation mission in Sweden cannot be overestimated. We therefore find it unfortunate that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency can withdraw some of the funds from the fund in order to be able to distribute to other organisations. The Swedish Democrats believe that the hunters' hunting card fee should continue to go into the Wildlife Care Fund in an uninterrupted manner and then be able to be distributed to different types of activities. We want to reintroduce the general mission as it was organized previously, before 2021, to ensure continued effective hunting and game conservation in Sweden.
i-LRZuXTRZT8HqShP3gErekx	Madam President, I would like I thank Runar Filer for his speech. I believe that the Swedish Democrats have listened to some landowner's organisations that currently describe the cloven-hoofed game tribes as pests that are to be eradicated, captured in traps or by means of poison disappear from the land. I think that's a shame. I think we should pay attention to the great work that hunters have done to significantly reduce the wild boar strain. With the help of politics, we have now added the wild boar package, which was certainly justified. Perhaps we need to do more to get this climate-smart meat on the market. Nevertheless, there has been a huge effort. In that situation, I believe that the Swedish Democrats and others have listened and been told that it is the hunting law that we need to review to make this possible. I would like to know which parts of the hunting law the Swedish Democrats actually see as the great concern in managing our viable game tribes, regardless of the species of game. I believe that there is nothing in the hunting law that contradicts the fact that we manage wolves, bears, deer, dovhjort, wild boars and moose. Yet the Swedish Democrats will review the hunting law.
i-SZp18akodg8oXruLPsvrnK	Madam President, I would like I thank Isak From for the questions. It is still the case that the hunting law was introduced in 1987. At that time there were about a hundred free-riding wild boars in Sweden. Now we have a few hundred thousand. Of course, there has been a big problem compared to what it had done then, when this hunting team came into being. There are certainly a number of texts that can be updated, modernised and adapted to today's reality. There were five wolves in Sweden at that time, 35 years ago. All five were up in Skråckarberget in Nordvärmland, in Torsby municipality. Now they have started with an inventory and have a month left. There have been 400 wolves when there is now a month left to count. It was 395 last year, so it's more wolf now. It's increasing every year. It is therefore a question of very big changes. It is also the case that the deer tribes have spread north. Maybe they were only in southern Sweden before. Now there are deer far up in Jämtland and perhaps even higher up. You were talking about poisoning animals. What are you talking about? I don't know what kind of weird statements you're making. Would we like animals to be poisoned? Where'd you read that?
i-dfXWuTdEuCbNLX3yHKg3x	I would like to remind the honourable Member that we are not dubbing each other in the speaker's seat, but using first and last names and speaking through the President. ( RUNS Filper( SD): Thank you! I'm a Heater and I don't know all that stuff. )
i-PPwRKopr5Wm5Wh8DyL2Wji	Madam President, I would like No, I'm not saying that the Swedish Democrats are saying that we should poison some animals. On the other hand, there are some organizations that drive the cloven-hoofed game to be a pest. In this context, I find it very difficult to see that it is precisely the hunting law that needs to be reviewed. We believe that some hunting decisions should be further regionalised and that the role of county and wildlife management delegations should be strengthened. But then the Swedish Democrats and others will introduce one more level and bureaucratize the hunt by introducing a new hunting authority. Will the hunting authority not then have to take into account the Species and Habitats Directive? Well, no matter what we think of the Species and Habitats Directive, there will be for all authorities. I also don't think Runar Filer is going to remove the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. I didn't get any indication of that. It'll still be there. In that case, we will have three levels – or four. And so you should review the hunting law to increase the influence of landowners, which reduces the influence of hunters and reduces regional influence. It gets bureaucratically messy and not very forward-looking. No, I think that the Swedish democrats will actually have to reconsider and think about what motions are to be called for in future and what the consequences will be.
i-3kF1d6XCGgLWVvUy4eFL1L	Madam President, I would like I thank Isak From for the questions. This review is very necessary. As I said, 35 years have passed since the current hunting team came into being. Of course it is good to have a review. If it then leads to major changes or nothing at all, we will see. But a review can never hurt. It must be good to review documents that are 35 years old. It's almost half a century, and it's quite a long time. There is an announcement from 2015 about a hunting and game agency. You still haven't come to the shots and grabbed it. It is rather distressing that the parliamentary decisions that have been taken are not taken into account. This year it is seven years since the announcement was made. Yet nothing has happened on that front. It's probably in some dusty investigation pile. I find that distressing. Aren't we here to make decisions that will then be followed? Then it is very strange that an announcement from 2015 is still in place. Furthermore, there are more announcements from this committee that you have not yet dealt with.
i-FwcGojzeSRDTBK6KZ3hGTP	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by agreeing with my colleague, Isak From. This is a debate that could be very fun and tense. Today, however, it feels rather small in some way to discuss cloven-hoofed game, quadricycles or whatever it is, given what happened during the day. But democracy is to be defended, and the work here must, of course, move forward, no matter what happens. The work that needs to be carried forward, Madam President, includes the work of renewing the hunting law, or at least parts of it. As we have heard, it has come to years, and a great deal has happened since that time. The elk explosion was over, but we have got a lot of other cloven-hoofed game that spreads a lot. We see damage to both forest and agriculture – severe damage to agriculture. We have predators that have increased in visibility and are also attacking farmers. We see that hunting dogs smoke. The predators hit wild tribes hard. Not least at home in Värmland we see how the elk tribe is only a waste of what it has been. In addition, the quality of life of people living and working in hunting territory is affected, which does not seem to be taken into account. We have a decision that the wolf tribe floor should be between 170 and 270 individuals. The Environmental Protection Agency has raised it to 300, and now we have 400. If we count together the Scandinavian tribe, as the Berne Convention says we will, we will soon have over 500. There are absolutely things to do here. At the same time, it is important how to act when revising the hunting law, but it is absolutely right that we need to review it in order to take a lot of other considerations into account. Hunters find it fun to have a lot of game, but there is a limit here too. This summer when the spread of infection was a little lower, I visited a farmer in Sörmland who had huge problems with mainly dovvilt. To show this, he had sown two fields at the same time. One field was open while the other was locked off by electric fences. In the open field, the topsoil was there while the grass grew high on the fence. In just a small round we saw several hundred dovhjorts that were out eating, so there is absolutely no need for edge sounds on the roads. By 2019, Sörmland had 45 applications for protective hunting of dovhjort, by 2020 the number was doubled and last year 102 applications were made. In Östergötland there were the same number. It is therefore clear that something must be done. The good news is that something is being done. In Sörmland they have a collaboration project where the County Administrative Board works with the relevant organisations to gain more knowledge and better management and thereby be able to handle the tribe better. As we heard, some things have happened with wild boars, but the work went on for quite some time before anything happened. We note that the upturn is broken, but there is still quite a lot to do on that front. We believe that the national management plan must be updated. We must ensure that those who produce our food have the conditions to do just that. In view of today's events, it becomes even more important that we can produce as much of our own food as possible. I therefore support reservation number 1. The hunting and game conservation mission, or the general mission, we have discussed a great deal before. Among other things, I had an interpellation debate with the then rural minister Jennie Nilsson in April 2021. Clearly, we had a completely different picture of what happened. In his reply, the Minister referred to all the legal criticism that had come, but when I asked who brought it and what it was like, the Minister was guilty of the answer. She could not answer that even though she referred to the criticism. In 2014, an inquiry was carried out into the general mission, which clearly indicated that this is a grant, and grants cannot be procured. This is the hunters' own money that they pay into the hunting card, and thus there is no need for procurement. Then came this pilot, who members of the Swedish Rovjursföreningen submitted. After the new order, the Swedish Rovjursföreningen has frequently applied for money from this fund. However, the Commission was rather cold-hearted to this pilot and said that there was no cross-border interest. Specific local knowledge is needed here, so it is not a European issue but a single situation with little interest. This pilot was therefore abandoned before the government made these changes. So this was a pilot and not even the start of an infringement case, so I do not understand why there was such a rush, especially as the criticisms that existed could not even be pointed out. We want the mission largely to return. However, it should not be complete as before, because it is very important that it is a multiannual mission. We have been exercising for quite a few years that it should not be year by year. Madam President, I would like This is what former rural minister Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht said: It is not the EU that is concerned. It is the Green Party that has kept pushing on this issue, at least during the time I was a minister. The general mission has largely worked well. It is the hunter's money that other organizations now want. We have clearly noticed this in the application procedures that have been after the assignment was changed. Madam President, I would like The announcement gives more disabled people the opportunity to join the hunt is gratifying. However, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency makes an over-interpretation of the cross-country driving law. First of all, you have to apply for a permit in every county where you're going to hunt. Aren't you disabled no matter what county you're hunting in? This makes me think of a friend who has a daughter with Down's syndrome. At regular intervals, she has to get in so they can check that she still has Down's syndrome, because that requires the authorities. You can only shake your head at this, and so does this. Not enough of this. You can only hunt on the land where you have the right to hunt. So you can't be a guest hunter. There is now an investigation into sustainable off-road driving, and I hope that there are proposals in it that make it easier for disabled people to be involved in hunting.
i-KGydLi6TEjUKSyykNMKW6M	Madam President, I would like There was very interesting, right and right in what Kjell-Kjell-Arne put forward. The cooperation project in Sörmland that he mentioned stems from the handshake that exists between the major forest companies and the Hunters' Association, and that is the way to achieve understanding between hunters and landowners. Then he says that hunting teams are old and out-of-date and that some other considerations need to be taken into account. What kind of consideration should the hunting team not take today? I can't see that the hunting team is putting obstacles in the way so that there are too few deer in Sörmland and Östergötland. Instead, it is due to inadequate collaboration in Sörmland and Östergötland between hunters and landowners and a lack of understanding of each other's perspectives. It has nothing to do with the Hunting Act. Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson is welcome to explain to me what in the hunting team prevents more deer being shot in Östergötland.
i-WgttjGtQpd4Bf3txjpkxyp	Madam President, I would like I thank Isak From for thinking that what I am saying is, as a rule, right and proper. It is gratifying that Isak From has discovered it. Yes, parts of the hunting team are too old because we can't handle the tribes as intended. Cooperation is, of course, important, but basically it is a landowner's issue. Landowners have different interests, which became clear during my visit to Sörmland. Some landowners produce the food Isak From and I need, while others sell hunts and of course want a lot of wild on their land. When these are unable to meet, we must find other ways to overcome these problems. Madam President, I would like I'll quote the majority text: the Hunting Act is based on a shared responsibility for wildlife conservation between the landowner and the hunter. Local and regional game management is a starting point today. Freedom under responsibility and cooperation between different interests are important elements of today's hunting legislation. The loose dog hunt is a Swedish cultural heritage to be protected. These principles will also be safeguarded in the upcoming hunting team investigation. ..................................................... Of course, cooperation is extremely important. However, when we see that it does not work and how our farmers work with wildlife damage problems, we must try to help them find other ways. The best thing to do is to find forms of cooperation at local level. There I am in complete agreement with Isak From. But when we note that it does not work, we must give them that help. Every other bite we eat is imported food. We must get Swedish food production up. This is part of it.
i-F9rzoPc3ikMUJkB4rFVwXj	Madam President, I would like I come from Västerbotten, and in Västerbotten's hinterland you are very worried from hunting grounds. Storskogsbruket has significantly reduced the elk population. It is referred to that there is no longer an elk to hunt, that it is not worthwhile to go hunting, because all moose are gone. And that has been done with existing hunting teams. At my house, therefore, we want the hunting law to be reviewed in order to reduce the influence of landowners and manage the game. I can see that it is a little different depending on where you come from in the country you come from. But it is not the hunting law that is wrong, I mean, it is the relationship and interaction between landowners, hunters and those who actually bend fingers. If hunters do not have confidence in landowners' inventory or inventory results, neither wild boar, deer nor moose will be shot. Then there will be protests, and then we will have another concern. So it could be other parts. But I'm still saying that it's not the hunting team that's wrong in this case.
i-9n4z5ytyJSnpdyMqTQctEs	Madam President, I would like That's what the investigation has to show, what needs to be done. In the past, hunting law has been more effective in gasping, thus helping to protect wild game strains with low game density, when it is a fragile strain. But we must give the opportunity to both gas and brake. It's not the same today. I think that is an important part of this, not least as a very clear signal to our farmers. Madam President, I would like Finally, it was gratifying to hear Isak From's conclusion in his speech. I did not have the opportunity to reply to that, because Isak From was ahead of me on the list of speakers. But Isak made it clear that there is a need for a change in the reindeer - nutrition law, that it is old and old and that it is not fair. Yeah, we're a few of us trying to get it out. And we are trying to get the Renmark Committee and its directives on track. I'm afraid we're working on it. The undersigned last Friday had an interpellation debate with Minister for Rural Affairs Anna-Caren Sätherberg on the directives to the Renmark Committee, but we do not get an answer when the directives are to be amended. That is, among other things, what is required. There is an announcement from the Riksdag that the directives should be amended. It was adopted on 22 June 2021, and nothing has yet happened. The interim report to be drawn up will be delivered on 21 November. Before that, it's summer and a choice. Something has to happen soon. But nothing has happened. In view of what Isak From said in his speech, I very much hope that he will get his ministers moving on this issue so that we can see delivery and soon.
i-WggEPVgJozZLgfZgGdAsSs	Madam President, I would like Here in Parliament, we are thinking of the people of Ukraine. Nevertheless, it is important that our democracy is passed on and that we have these debates. But it feels unusually heavy. The Wildlife Fund has long been important for funding successful wildlife conservation in Sweden. The money has been distributed from the fund, and it has received criticism from the European Commission. As part of the change, the Government decided in 2021 on a three-year organisational grant to the Swedish Association of Hunters to promote the country's game conservation. The organisation grant aims to enable the Swedish Hunter Association to continue leading parts of the hunting and game conservation in Sweden. The great non-profit commitment of hunters is of great importance for game conservation and for game to be a high-quality part of our food. The government has not abolished the general mission but has developed and modernised the forms and secured financial conditions for the work. Since 1938, the Swedish Hunters' Association has been awarded funding from the Wildlife Conservation Fund for its nationwide hunting and game conservation work. However, the previous model has thus been considered to be contrary to the Public Procurement Act. I can well say that the Green Party, as Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson said, has been very much in favour of bringing about new, modern conditions that are also in accordance with current legislation, including the hunting law's definitions. An organisation which, on the other hand, would advocate illegal hunting or the eradication of predators must therefore be excluded from support. In accordance with the Government's decision of January 2021, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency is tasked with promoting the country's wildlife management. The coordination of an authority when the work is actually carried out by NGOs or small enterprises at regional level is not an unusual construction and should not be taken as a sign of centralisation. Within the areas that game conservation is procured, the Swedish Hunter Association will of course be able to bid and also continue to receive assignments. The lack of self-confidence may be due to the fact that some hunting organisations have unfortunately been affected by strong pressure from right-wing extremism and populism, which in the long run can certainly damage these organisations' ability to take on certain types of social tasks. Democratic hunting organisations, such as the Swedish Hunter Association, are important outdoor organisations that have strong environmental and quality work. They will of course continue to receive support from the state within the framework of the law. But an organization that advocates illegal hunting should not receive money. Yesterday, a press release from the LRF said that they welcomed the fact that the majority here in Parliament wanted to review the hunting law. Now the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has reorganized its operations, collected hunting issues and become more professional. Wildlife management organisations are bringing together a wide range of actors. The aggressive attitude that M, KD, SD and C have shown towards environmental organisations in recent years is extremist when, in fact, it is the hunters who are dominant in the game management rooms. Hunting interests show that coexistence between hunters and wild animals is difficult. Now it has spread to the fact that the coexistence of hunters and environmental organisations is also threatened. We in the Green Party have reserved ourselves against the one-sided image that the majority supports. But the fact is that hunting policy can be much better. If a review is to be carried out, we will highlight these principles. Species which have not achieved favourable conservation status, interpreted by the precautionary principle as a margin, or which are listed as threatened or threatened on the national red list, should generally not be hunted. On the other hand, protection hunting should be allowed in the event of extensive damage and as long as it is compatible with legislation on, inter alia, favourable conservation status – only when preventive measures and compensation are insufficient. All hunting must be done gently and respectfully with good hunting ethics. It shall take place within the framework of sustainable use. Here the Green Party sees a great need for reform of certain hunting methods. In an open letter, environmental and animal welfare organisations state that the new proposal for a revised strategy for a Swedish wildlife management lacks the animal's perspective, namely how the effects of hunting and hunting methods affect wild animals individually, such as couples, group living or in the social structures in which certain species live. The strategy should be complemented by a new choice, namely respect for the welfare of wild animals. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's proposal for a strategy for Swedish wildlife management does not mention animal welfare once. Animals should have a dignified life with good living conditions, but there is no defined ethics in the game administration. Animals are sentient beings. They are not whole populations that are exposed to different hunting forms or periods, but they are individuals. I know several hunters who have told me about fantastic nature experiences and who have shown, at the slightest uncertainty, the respect not to fire the bulkhead – precisely because they have thought of the animal's best interests. But all hunting must be done respectfully. Care must be taken to ensure that unnecessary suffering is avoided and that hunting is characterised by good hunting ethics. All game management must be characterised by strong consideration of animal welfare aspects. The risk of abrasion must be minimised. General hunting should never take place during oestrous, gambling, mating and spawning time, nor during time when the cubs are dependent on the parents to survive. The same goes for nature in general. We often discuss forestry. It is important to look at nature when birds breed. Not doing so is like tearing down the birdhouse on the grounds before the tallows are ready for flight. Wild game management including hunting shall be characterised by gentle and respectful use. The hunt is part of our cultural heritage. Hunting is outdoor life, but at the same time it must take into account the general outdoor life. The hunt provides food. Rich game strains offer important and valuable ecosystem services both environmentally and economically. There are several reasons to use resources that wild animals can contribute. Wild game management must develop forms that allow for coexistence between industries and the species that naturally belong to ecosystems. I would also like to add co-existence between hunters' organisations and environmental organisations. The hunting and game management should be subordinated to and contribute to the implementation of Sweden's international and EU legal obligations, such as the Birds Directive and the Species and Habitats Directive. Finally, I would like to say that there is a major problem with wildlife damage in forestry, for example. But at the same time I must pay tribute to the Swedish Hunters' Association and hunting teams who are so actively working to reduce the problems. The whole problem is not solved just by hunting moose. One has to ask why the moose eat pine when it is not even the pine that is the main favourite food. Where are the rice? Where are the deciduous trees in the young forests? Where is the space for wild game between forest and field? Where are the brows? Why don't we go for the brows? Does forestry have even a responsibility to ensure that the forest is managed so that the game trunks also have room for space? The answer is yes. It is the Forestry Act and the Forestry Methods that should be changed. Every hunter should agree with that. The rights of the Sami to hunt for their rights as indigenous peoples must also be respected.
i-RfJ82xKS4DwFzJqrkSpTPe	Madam President, I would like I thank Maria Gardfjell for her speech. It was a speech in which I agree in some respects, for example, that all hunting should be done with respect. Of course it should be. We should not cause unnecessary suffering to animals. It's even in the text of the law. The hunt is a very important cultural heritage. Sure! In some parts, I am absolutely involved – but not in everything. I want to get to grips with several things, but until there's not enough time. I shall begin by asking Maria Gardfjell the following question. I mentioned in my speech my interpellation addressed to Minister Jennie Nilsson. She referred to all the legal criticism that had come, which she could not then point out. Can Maria Gardfjell show the legal criticism? It would be interesting to see because even the minister couldn't get it out. Which hunter's organization advocates illegal hunting? When that question was raised in the speaker's chair, I became curious. I don't know about that hunter's organization. Then Maria Gardfjell said that we are extremist. In what way are we extremists? Madam President, I would like I would just like to remind Maria Gardfjell that it is hunters who are mostly involved in game conservation, not environmental organisations. It is the hunters who are out putting up salt stones, cutting down deciduous trees so that the game will be fed in winter and so on. I look forward to getting answers to my questions.
i-4D9g27jMeGCzvorxGAj8Zj	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the questions, Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson. There were quite a few questions, and I start at one end. I will start with the question of how I think the Christian Democrats are extremists. I believe that the criticism that has been made by the Christian Democrats against the wildlife management delegations, which want to reduce the opportunities for environmental organisations to participate, is harsh and extreme. This is particularly true in view of the number of persons in each game management delegation who are members or replacements who are hunters. I myself replace a game management delegation, representing an environmental organisation. I can see that there is an incredibly small minority overall of those who sit with who are representatives of environmental protection. Environmental organisations also have an important role linked to the Hunting Act. There is a wide range of projects carried out by environmental organisations that have been extremely valuable in maintaining the status of wildlife in Sweden, but of course most of the funds in the game conservation fund are money that goes to the hunting organisations. I really do not want to mean that the hunters' organisations are doing a bad job in any way, but the efforts have been important.
i-6UH7bbiqNP9RcsVy4WYGxZ	Madam President, I would like As far as wildlife management missions are concerned, I find that a little strange. If you are going to participate in an association where you are going to work on certain issues, it should be quite important that you have good knowledge of those issues. However, in a game management delegation it is seen as a burden in view of the changes that have been made. Those who have the knowledge should not be included, which I find very strange. I noticed that my first two questions were not answered. That is why I shall take them one more time, Madam President. The strong legal criticism that the government points to regarding the general mission or the hunting and game management mission was not demonstrated by the former Minister for Rural Affairs. Can Maria Gardfjell pick it up and show it? And what organization promotes illegal hunting? Apparently, it's some hunter's organization. Maria Gardfjell spoke at the end of her speech on the current Renmark Committee. I just want to ask whether the Green Party believes that only Sami members of a Sami village should have the right to hunting and fishing. What is the view of the Green Party? Finally, Madam President, Maria Gardfjell points out that we lack deciduous trees in the forest. Yeah, well, we do in some parts. But why do we lack deciduous trees? Because forest owners have followed the government's foresticks. It wasn't that far back in time that all the leaves would go. It was even sprayed to remove the leaf, and then it was the state that pointed with the whole fist. The absolute best thing about the forest, which we are not really going to discuss now, is that our small farmers are allowed to manage it according to their own head. Then we see that the forest was shot by far the best.
i-JVg8ETTMGY5QAdbDNgxdgU	Madam President, I would like I would like to start with the question of reindeer farming and the right of the Sami to hunt. I think it goes without saying that if the Sami villages are given the opportunity to administer the hunt, one can have the same kind of rules as when the county administrative board administers the hunt, namely that one opens up to the public in different ways. I think that this kind of interaction should be between public interests and the Sami villages. I very much hope that the investigation will also come to that conclusion. It is very important that young people, for example, can come out in these fine areas and have the opportunity to hunt and learn about hunting. It would not be possible if it were only possible for those who are in a Sami village, so I think that is an important issue. I believe that there are actually many of us in this House who agree with each other. On the other hand, I think that the rights of the Sami people should be respected as indigenous peoples. As for the interpellation that Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson made to Jennie Nilsson, I was unfortunately not here to listen to that debate, so I don't know very much about it. However, the legal criticism that has come is that the previous rules were considered to be contrary to the Public Procurement Act. It was very clear from the criticisms from the Commission that this was the case. Order is also good. That the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency now shares this so that you handle it separately I think will increase the quality.
i-3ds8xLKehP37bU9SwaaErg	Madam President, I would like I can only agree with what many have said here before. We have mentioned Ukraine and the whole part many times today, so I am not going to prolong that discussion. But it is clear that it does not feel as tense and pleasant to debate hunting and game conservation on such an evening. Yet we do, because we protect democracy and freedom – and property – as always. Madam President, I would like I would first of all like to support the proposal in the report. The report contains a lot of good things, in particular three very good proposals for announcements. One of them is about the hunting and game conservation mission, the so-called general mission, which the government withdrew from the Swedish Hunters' Association for its modernisation or adaptation to something from the EU that the EU has not demanded. We find it very unfortunate. We believe that the Hunters' Union has historically performed the general mission very well. Rather, we see a risk when the general mission disappears that it becomes a form of centralisation when more things are concentrated in the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and you should go to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and ask for different assignments and financial resources. We believe that the Hunters' Union should have a longer general mission, just as the Christian Democrats said here earlier. Absolutely, we can sign that. But we want it to go back and approach the old mission. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency may not be the best friend of the Hunting Corps. I don't think you can see a huge confidence in the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency there. That is why we have been pushing the issue of a game agency for many years. We have had two announcements in this House to introduce a game agency that deals with all the issues related to hunting and game. We believe that it would be an appropriate step to remove hunting issues from the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and allow the Wildlife Agency to deal with them against county boards and hunters. That is why, as I said, I am very pleased that we have received this proposal for an announcement on the hunting and game conservation mission. Another proposal for a declaration included in the report is to make it easier for people with disabilities to hunt. I am pleased that we have a broad consensus there. Almost all parties support this proposal. We know that, today, there is a lot of administrative and regulatory problems linked to disability and hunting. It is therefore gratifying that we have received this proposal for a declaration. I hope that it will be able to land in a good way and that this will soon be in place. The Christian Democrats highlighted a number of examples of the absurdity of this discussion. A third proposal for an announcement in the report concerns a new hunting team investigation. I have heard here this evening that the Social Democrats in particular have great misgivings about it. I do not see at all the concerns that the Social Democrats see with a hunting team investigation. There are things in the hunting team that need to be reviewed – and it's just about reviewing. There is no one here who wants to destroy the fine cooperation that exists between landowners and hunters. Nor is there anyone here who wants to reduce hunting opportunities in Norrland, as the representative of the Social Democrats, for example, highlighted here. That is not what we want to change with a hunting team investigation; it is about dealing with those game tribes that are not balanced today. And we hear from the outside that without a review of the hunting law we will not be able to handle it. I heard in a change of line here that the Social Democrats even believe that hunting rights linked to property rights are not self-evident. I find that extremely unfortunate, Madam President. Hunting rights are an important part of the right to dispose of and manage the land it owns. Historically, it has also been handled in a very good way in Sweden. Landowners, hunters and hunters have handled this cooperation incredibly well. However, when we come to a situation where game tribes grow uncontrollably, wildlife accidents are increasing and damage to agriculture and forestry is increasing – especially damage to agriculture in times like these – we need to review the hunting law. We should not impair things in the hunting law, such as loose dog hunting, because these are incredibly important parts for the Swedish hunting. But we need a review. That is why I find it very difficult to understand the opposition that exists to the review of the hunting law. Madam President, I would like It is difficult to debate a hunting and game conservation report without talking a little wolf. The wolf tribe in Sweden does not grow uncontrollably, but it grows fast. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the County Administrative Board have this season of course granted license hunting on far too few individuals. We have now secured 400 individuals. We've got a month left. Where will we end up for the year? Then there's a rejuvenation. We may be facing the next winter with a wolf tribe of 500 individuals. In fact, we have a majority in the Swedish parliament for a significantly smaller wolf tribe. The research that exists, which has also been lifted here today, shows that 100 wolves on the Scandinavian Peninsula, which would also cope with a disaster every ten years, with 50 to 60 percent of the wolf population being knocked out in a short time. It would still be able to recover. We don't say 100 wolves-- it was Skandulv who said that. The Moderates have said 170 wolves in Sweden for several years. I am pleased that several parties have joined that line. I am quite convinced that today there is even a majority in favour of reducing the wolf population to those levels. What surprises me is that the Social Democrats, who claim to protect the hunt very much – as we have heard here today – do not want to reduce the wolf population. How do I know? Yes, I know that because I have had debates with both the Minister for Climate and the Environment and the Minister for Rural Development recently and asked the question very simply and clearly: do the Social Democrats want to reduce the wolf population? The answer has been no-- you don't want that. Reference is made to favourable conservation status and to the fact that we are adapting to scientific figures today. It's not like that. The number of favourable conservation status is not scientific; it is a political objective. We have commissioned the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency to produce this figure here in Sweden. IUCN, the world's largest environmental protection organisation, says that the wolf is no longer threatened; it is administrative. Is it not time, then, for the Swedish Government to start pushing ahead with the EU for an amendment of the annexes to the Species and Habitats Directive so that the wolf can be managed more easily? The wolf, like too large strains of cloven-hoofed game in certain areas of Sweden, is a threat to food production. It is also a threat to biodiversity when it comes to small, important natural pastures. What are the natural pastures you only let go of when you get a wolf establishment in your area? Well, you let go of the little pastures of nature, those that are trapped in the forest somewhere and are difficult to control and protect from the wolf. They are the ones that are absolutely most important to biodiversity. This is a concern. Many sheep farmers now choose to stop their production because of the wolf. The wolf is starting to establish itself more and more in southern Sweden, and we hear about more and more problems. We need to get to the wolf, and we have a majority for it in this House.
i-QB9n7xgq3WLw7wAA3ZJqTN	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to support reservation number four. Then I would like to take this opportunity to ask a question or two to John Widegren. My first question is this: what is missing in the hunting law today in order to better address game damage?
i-BRRdiq2vddj5eg4zDA1uNJ	Madam President, I would like It was short and concise! What's missing, I can't answer. But that's also why we want this investigation. We can experience, and we hear from the industries above all, that there are major problems with large game tribes. We know that the hunting legislation that exists today has been very much about building up game tribes rather than perhaps managing them. At this stage, it is a matter of managing in order to limit injuries and minimise the number of traffic accidents involving wild game. Had this been possible with today's hunting legislation, we would have handled it better. I also know that the hunting corps has now in an exemplary way reduced the wild boar strain – or we believe that the wild boar strain has decreased. It remains to be looked at the rejuvenation that is taking place about now. There are also signs that there may be some disease involved in the reversion of the wild boar tribe. It also remains to be seen. I talked to a scientist on Wednesday about this. It is quite clear that there may be a large mixture of diseases in the decline that is taking place at the moment in the case of wild boars. Nevertheless, I have also visited Södermanland, which Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson mentioned as an example before, where thousands of hectares of farmland are located for the foat, because it is no longer worth growing because of the large game tribes. Then someone says: But the hunter and the landowner can manage the game tribes? But it's gone so far that they can't make it. Well, then, it's about time we got a look at a hunting law that's a bit out of date and needs to be reviewed.
i-2EMSktaBDqybsVbNnYtsuz	Madam President, I would like On the basis of the answer given to me by John Widegren, I can say that it is rather unclear why there is a majority in the Swedish Parliament to demand a review of the hunting law to remedy the game damage, when one really knows nothing about the problem, why a review should be made or what one would like to achieve. In fact, there are enormous problems in other ways. Perhaps it is a lack of cooperation, as was the case with Isak From in relation to Södermanland and the deer and wild boars. Perhaps this is the question of forestry methods, which do not provide the moose with enough food. It is simply the pine tree that the moose graze on, even though it is not the favorite food. It's about the wildlife damage in traffic. What can the Finnish Transport Administration do to improve opportunities? Is it really the hunting team that is to be reviewed, or does it require a holistic view of how we get to grips with the work and get more young people to train themselves to be hunters and get more hunting teams with younger leaders, who may not be as tired as the older uncles are getting? I would like to ask a few final questions about the wolf, Madam President. How do the Moderates want to ensure favourable conservation status for the wolf tribe in Sweden? And how do the Moderates want to ensure that the wolf is not as inbred as it is today?
i-KtCWwSv75snuzp4Pt9jK7q	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the questions. I think I explained quite well why there are gaps which we may need to review and which make us need a review of hunting legislation. As for the moose's food, for example, I don't think it's that easy. I do not think it depends solely on forestry methods. I can look after myself. I'm a landowner and hunter. We work a lot with natural game feed on my land. We work with brows, and we leave much of the RASE:n as game feed. Yet we have very strong early summer grazing on pine for some reason. I don't know. I don't have the answers because I'm not a scientist. But I think there is a bigger problem with moose and grazing pine, at least in southern Sweden. The favourable conservation status of the wolf is a political objective. That is a figure that has been set politically. MVP, on the other hand, the smallest viable strain, has been developed scientifically. The figure given by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, 300 wolves, is politically judged on their part. They refer to the research they have ordered. But the clearest research we have is still the one that Skandulv has reported. With regard to favourable conservation status, we believe that we must adopt a political objective. There we have set 170 wolves for the Moderates. Then there is inbreeding, absolutely, and there are problems. But if we were to reduce the wolf strain to the levels we are now talking about, there might be an opportunity to pick up more individuals to mix up the blood we have. But they probably don't come from the north by themselves. I don't think so. But if we can have a smaller wolf strain, we can also do more to the inbreed, for there will be a completely different acceptance of the wolf.
i-3vhL2gRdDCP23XA2YvUpAJ	Madam President, I would like I have to honor John Widegren a line, too. I think we need to discuss this issue. There has been a demand for a review of the hunting law, because it is old, out-of-date and not fully relevant. However, there have been two recent reviews. A review started in 2014 with bearings on Eskil Erlandsson's hunting team investigation. It concluded that it is feeding that needs to be regulated. This resulted in a bill to the Swedish Parliament. The majority in this House said no to the proposal presented by Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht. It was then revised, and there was another review of the hunting law. As a result, in 2021 we decided in this Chamber that county governments should be able to limit feeding when there are too large tribes, for example when landlords overfed to breed large deer tribes in order to sell hunting. This is about deer that can be shot by hunters who must have confidence in landowners. It's just like John Widegren saving his brows. It is very important that the landowners ensure that there is grazing for the game. It is not the hunting law that ensures that there is grazing for the game. However, it regulates this and says that the landowner has a responsibility for the game. We think this is a good thing. That is what we are defending, and we cannot understand why it is precisely the hunting law that is being aimed at for everything in the world. There are many other things to object to, but not the hunting law.
i-U4LB3ruGWXUUXxcaxjDBox	Madam President, I would like I didn't really get a question, so I think I can reason a little freely about this. The first proposal on feeding was rejected by a majority. On the part of the Moderates, we also said no the second time, for neither the first nor the second time could you present any scientific evidence that this would have an effect, but it was more an emotional assessment from the government when it tabled the proposal. I know that trials are under way which show a sharp increase in game strains, but there are also clear examples where it has not been feeding that has led to this. So that's not the whole truth. A feeding proposal does not solve the whole problem. I am a little surprised that the Social Democrats are so reluctant to review hunting legislation. We need to find all the ways we can to deal with this problem, don't we? Farmers in productive agricultural areas choose to stop producing food because they feel that the pressure on the game is far too strong and that they cannot find cooperation. Then we have a problem. The Social Democrats often beat themselves to the heart of a food strategy that came to 2017 where three action plans have been created. However, we do not want to address this problem, which involves hugely elevated game strains. I know, Madam President, that the Social Democrats and Isak From think a lot about northern conditions, the moose hunt in Norrland and in Isak From's home, but that is not the problem we want to solve with this.
i-GcXEQQ9sywcmUVHdhvFApR	Madam President, I would like I note that neither John Widegren nor any other representative behind the announcement of the hunting law has been able to demonstrate that it would in any way be the hunting law that is the problem in managing the game tribes. There are many other parts you need to grasp. So I actually thought I'd go over to talk a little wolf. The Social Democrats have Congress decisions on 200 wolves. It's been forgotten sometimes. We have felt that this issue is very important and that it should have a large large majority. We have complied with the predator bill of 2013. But what goes crazy and that John Widegren actually misinterprets is that this is not a goal. The law says that we should have favorable conservation status, then it sets a target between 170 and 270 wolves. I think it may be problematic if we get 170 wolves and have a number of individuals who are very prone to injury. Then we need to remove them. Then I think you need to have a margin for it, no matter what number you have. The proposal put forward by the Moderates in this House is a conservation proposal, and there may be reason to take steps towards a management bill. We will be instrumental in finding a broad majority to ensure both favourable conservation status and reduced damage to agriculture, the sheep industry, the reindeer industry and so on. But John Widegren and others can't come here and say it's a goal. In fact, John Widegren's party colleagues have voted for a conservation bill here that we now have to deal with, plus that we have the Species and Habitats Directive and so on, and yet we are able to navigate it quite well. John Widegren may have to change his argument a little so that it relates to reality.
i-Npg577cRdmSkrHdmDMLm6A	Madam President, I would like Then perhaps the Social Democrats should inform their own ministers of the decision to vote. Favorable conservation status is something we decide on in this country. If we then have research showing that we can handle 100 wolves on the Scandinavian Peninsula with a disaster every ten years, where more than 50 percent of the tribe can disappear, then 170 wolves as favorable conservation status can certainly be a way out. We could have 171 wolves. Then we are very far from the 100 that research shows as the smallest viable strain. That is what we, the Moderates, are saying. Then there are a number of targets in the predator bill that we are not close to living up to right now, and we see that as unfortunate. That is why we, together with several parties, want us to have a political decision now, because we are not getting any further on the wolf issue. Several times when I have debated with Socialist ministers, I have stretched my hand and said that we can sit down together and find out what it should be like. But so far I have not received a single invitation to the Government Office to find a common solution to this, and then this upsetting battle will continue. On the moderate side, we will not surrender. We need to reduce the wolf strain properly. That's what we're going to do. I hope that the Social Democrats will come to terms with this and perhaps want to find a cross-block agreement, which the Social Democrats very often want to find on other issues. The Moderates and the Social Democrats have looked together at permit matters in recent weeks. Why shouldn't we be able to look at the wolf tribe together?
i-NKcsorKQUDifY2baLePHv3	Madam President, I would like It feels a little strange to stand here and debate today while people die in a war near us. I myself was a pilot in the Air Force during the end of the Cold War, when the Berlin Wall fell I thought we would see a bright future for many years. Unfortunately, that light has been extinguished today, when Russia is invading Ukraine with its vile actions. As many others have said, democratic processes must continue in this house. That is why I shall now turn to the debate on the report itself. I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report, for the most unusual reasons. Anyone listening to this debate, which deals with hunting and game conservation, may feel that there are a lot of questions missing. However, a number of these issues are reflected in the report on conservation and biodiversity, and the questions of hunting weapons are dealt with in the Committee on Justice. The Center Party is pleased to note that the report of the Committee on Environment and Agriculture which we are now debating contains three announcements on issues that we have been pursuing. It is about reviewing the hunting law, about bringing back the hunting and game conservation mission to the Swedish Hunter Association and, finally, about improved opportunities for people with disabilities to pursue hunting. Madam President, I would like With regard to the announcement of a new hunting team investigation, it can be noted that the hunting team was subject to review under the alliance government, but the commission was closed without justification by the Red Green Government after the change of power in 2014. Since the hunting act came into 1987, wild game conditions have changed significantly in Sweden. At that time many species were threatened, and the challenge was primarily to recreate good game strains. In recent decades, increased access to game hunting has led to new challenges. The game is currently causing major economic damage to different industries and society at large, which also calls for new legislation. This development must be broken, and a new hunting team investigation with broad acceptance from both landowners and hunters therefore needs to be added. Madam President, I would like The next announcement is about bringing the hunting and game conservation mission back to the Swedish Hunter Association. First, you may have to ask yourself why you wanted to destroy a well-functioning business. The Government has made a decision that the hunting and game conservation mission, which has been at the Swedish Hunter Association since 1938, will be procured. The grant, i.e. the money to do this, comes from the Wildlife Conservation Fund. The Wildlife Fund, in turn, is financed by the state hunting cards paid by Swedish hunters, which amount to SEK 117 million per year. A few years ago, a person reported to the EU that the hunting and game conservation mission should be procured, and this resulted in the European Commission questioning the Swedish model. This is where something went wrong. The government should have fought with the EU, as the hunting and game conservation mission is not subject to public procurement rules because grants are not subject to procurement obligations. Several lawyers who are experts in public procurement believe that the hunting and game conservation mission is unique because it is the hunters' own money that finances the grant itself. The former rural minister Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht says to Svensk Huntt that it is not the EU that has been concerned. Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht says to Swedish Hunting: The general mission has largely worked well. It is the hunter's money that other organizations now want. ..................................................... That the Riksdag is now sending an announcement to the Government to return the hunting and game conservation mission to the Swedish Hunter Association is absolutely right. Madam President, I would like I will now refer to the third announcement, against which only the Green Party has reserved itself. The Center Party believes that the hunt should be accessible to all. Unfortunately, it has been shown that the hunters who use motorized vehicles because of a disability encounter problems with the current regulations. The use of motorised vehicles in most cases requires exemptions from the cross-country driving law, the hunting regulation and the hunting law, and the county administrative boards around the country handle exemption in different ways when it comes to area and time constraints. Dispense applicable to a restricted area means that a person with a disability can only hunt in the area for which he or she has applied for an exemption. This means that people with disabilities may need to apply for a new exemption for hunting outside the restricted area. Many active, disabled hunters therefore have a large number of exemptions that must be brought to each hunt. The system means that exemption management is unnecessarily time-consuming and costly. The time needed to deal with exemption cases – two to six weeks – could be used for more priority cases. Therefore, it would be desirable to apply the derogation applied for and granted for hunting with motorised vehicles throughout Sweden for at least five years. Madam President, I would like The existence of broad confidence in hunting and game policy is an important prerequisite for the effective implementation of the policy, and this presupposes that those who live and work in areas with a lot of wild game and large predators have influence over management. The vulnerability analysis prepared by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency in preparation for the 2013 parliamentary decision indicates that the smallest viable population for wolf in Sweden and Norway is 100 individuals. According to the parliamentary decision of 2013, the wolf's favourable conservation status is reached at 170 – 270 individuals. The current government, and the former government, have allowed the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency to set a new reference value of 300 individuals. The wolf moves across large areas and not infrequently across national borders. That's why the Center Party wants the wolf to be co-managed with Norway. The total number of wolves in Sweden and Norway is estimated to be 480 individuals. But there is an uncertainty interval in this, and it allows it to be up to 624 wolves right now. And then we haven't counted the wolves born this year. The Center Party believes that the government has failed to achieve the purpose of the 2013 parliamentary decision, which was about increasing acceptance of the wolf administration and predator policy. On the contrary, the level of conflict has increased. The excessive number of wolves in the Central Swedish administrative area, combined with the fact that acceptance to allow a growing wolf tribe in the southern and northern administrative areas is very low in reindeer owners, sheep owners, horse owners and other keepers of animals, clearly shows that the wolf management has gone wrong. In order to regain acceptance of the wolf administration, the Center Party believes that the wolf tribe as a first milestone should be limited to 170 wolves, which the Riksdag has decided as the lowest possible number, but the long-term goal should be 150 wolves. Madam President, I would like Predatory damage can be prevented. When attacks are carried out despite preventive measures, protective hunting shall be possible. The Center Party has made several proposals to achieve a more efficient and rapid hunting of wolves. Several of the proposals have also resulted in a announcement to the government in 2020. The 2020 announcement is about making it safer, easier and faster for people to apply for protection hunting but also about making it possible to decide on protection hunting on a whole territory. In addition, protection hunting should not have to take into account the genetic status of the wolf causing significant damage, unlike in the case of licence hunting. The government is also invited to review the confidentiality rules in relation to protection hunting and licence hunting. An applicant for a protective hunt or a protective hunt shall be able to obtain his or her personal data on a confidential basis if he or she so requests. The state should also take greater responsibility for protection hunting. The great predators are the wildness of the state, and it is reasonable for the state to take greater responsibility for the damage caused by predators. The government has not yet made any of these announcements. Madam President, I would like Incidentally, I stand behind the people of Ukraine.
i-NCUUJqxrtiXaaxfV4V3nh9	Madam President, I would like It is late hour, and last but not least, I can talk about hunting and game conservation policy. I am, of course, humble – it is my first year here in Parliament – in view of the knowledge of all my colleagues in the committee. It is both rewarding and gratifying to listen to the commitment that exists to our nature, to animals and to wildlife conservation. It's instructive, and I always spike my ears. Before I start with what I had intended to say, I would just like to add something, so that there is no ambiguity about it, Madam President: the Liberals are also behind Parliament's decision of 170 – 270 wolves as a favourable conservation status. But we also see that a game conservation agency could be a good solution, where expertise can manage. It is not always easy to do so from this House in terms of an exact number. Madam President, I would like Hunting and game management engage. It's been a long time. For how long? Yes, my frame of reference extends back to Genesis. That's where I usually land. It's about managing, taking care of. That is where we end up here tonight when we debate this subject. How should we manage animals and nature in the best way? It naturally lands in the responsible and faithful hunters who, in our country, carry the stewardship with respect and pride. That is why I support today's report and the proposed announcement to the government that the general mandate, the stewardship, should return to the Hunters' Union, which has proved to be good at both efficiency and responsibility. As an active member of civil society, one is always moved and happy when civil society and an authority are able to work closely together and in a cost-effective way. This is something of value that we should take care of. Madam President, I would like What we in the Liberals can talk about in terms of hunting policy is disability policy. In this respect, I welcome the proposal for an announcement made by the Center Party. It is a policy that we in the Liberals have also pursued over the years. Each person should be able to shape his or her own life, and therefore good accessibility will be to prevent a disability from becoming an obstacle. Today, hunters with disabilities require time-consuming planning, paperwork and exemption applications before the hunter is allowed to use a motor-powered vehicle in hunting and can get out in the terrain together with the hunting team. So today is an obstacle, not a help. It is our firm belief that such application work must be balanced and must not burden either the hunter or our common resources more than necessary. To begin with, we see no reason why county boards should repeatedly have to assess the need for exemption for the same person. The disability does not change depending on which forest you enter. In the same way, area restrictions should not be imposed. Some county boards issue exemptions for the entire county concerned, while in other counties a derogation only involves certain hunting grounds. There is currently no possibility of general exemption throughout the country. This means that a hunter invited with his hunting team to hunt the hunting grounds next to the usual may need to seek a new exemption. Then it is to be hoped that there will be some foresight in the invitation for the six weeks it takes to apply for a waiver. This is unreasonable. The system also costs a lot of money and is time consuming. It is desirable for the county administrative boards' exemptions for hunting with motorised vehicles to be valid for at least five years and to be issued for hunting throughout the country. Modern cross-country legislation through general exceptions improves the opportunities for hunters with disabilities. It shouldn't be an obstacle when hunting. To conclude, Madam President, I would like to return to the hunter whom I mentioned in my speech during the last debate, Torgny, who, at home on the farm on an early morning, glimpsed an elk up on the hill in his binocular vision. He was puzzled when he suddenly saw that the moose split up and went in two different directions. It was responsible for Torgny not to fire a shot. After all, he could not ensure what kind of animal it was, which it was not. It was just me and my future wife who, at dawn, stood up on the hill and had just been engaged to us. It's a privilege to be in the hunting book with that hunting story. It's about being responsible and being there in time and out of time, caring for our nature and having the whole game conservation mission and commitment with you. We need to be grateful for this and, on the political side, create such good and good conditions that I see the report stands for.
