i-3gYuf2YSBmCZA8BZjyxZ2P	Mrs. Old President! Here in Stockholm we met with beautiful weather today. At the same time, just 1,000 miles away, there is a terrible war going on where people seek security to protect their lives or perhaps flee to some neighbouring country. When we Christian Democrats called for this special debate on the economic situation in the green industries, none of us knew that this terrible war, which takes place just 100 miles from here, would break out. Russia's invasion of Ukraine has shown how fragile the security situation is and that we must have a plan to increase our country's food readiness. Today it is down to a bottom level – below 50%. We are self-sufficient only on sugar, wheat and carrots. Mrs. Old President! The prices of inputs such as diesel, electricity, feed and chemical fertilisers have skyrocketed. That is why we Christian Democrats put forward a proposal to reduce the reduction obligation and thus reduce the diesel price at pump by SEK 3. The farmers we meet clearly say that it is not subsidies that they want in the first place but measures that last over time.
i-Tdg96g9ZMj1UgBe32obDBp	Mrs. Old President! Let me begin by saying a few words about the situation in which we find ourselves. This is a worrying development in our neighbourhood. We now have the most serious security policy situation since the Second World War. Of course, it creates great uncertainty. In the situation where we are now, the government prioritises three areas: sanctions against Russia, support for Ukraine and strengthening Sweden. I attended an extraordinary ministerial meeting on Wednesday to discuss market changes as a result of Russia's invasion of Ukraine. At this time, EU cooperation is an important tool, not least in the efforts to ensure that our supply chains work properly. As regards the situation in Sweden, civil defence is to be rebuilt, and food security during crisis and war is an important part of this work. During 2021, civil defence was strengthened by SEK 1 billion, and in the coming years the investment will increase gradually to a total of SEK 4.2 billion in 2025. It is the biggest investment in civil defence in modern times. Work is also taking place in the EU where the Agriculture Council has adopted Council conclusions on a contingency plan to ensure food supply and security in times of crisis. Ensuring food security also requires a functioning domestic agricultural and food production, while the flow of goods in the food chain needs to continue without interruption. A competitive food industry also depends on being able to export in order to be profitable. At present, we do not see any direct impact on the Swedish food chain. But the world situation can change rapidly, and we are closely following developments. Today we are here to debate the economic situation of the green industries. It is an important issue in many ways. Strong and growing agriculture provides high quality food and raw materials, jobs throughout the country and better preparedness. The profitability of agriculture is challenged by cost increases as a result of increased prices of several inputs. At the same time, the settlement prices of most agricultural products have increased, which can partly compensate for the increased costs. The government has announced a strong support package equivalent to SEK 1 billion to facilitate farmers and greenhouses in the short term. Supporting the sector at a time when many farmers and greenhouse growers are concerned is an important measure to ensure continued Swedish food production. I would like to emphasise that the government is working on a long-term basis to strengthen the competitiveness of Swedish agriculture in line with the food strategy and through the common agricultural policy. The government has also made major efforts to strengthen infrastructure and services in rural areas. Substantial efforts are the actions that we take in the framework of the various food strategy action plans, a long-term strategy that will contribute to making full use of the potential of the entire food chain. In total, three food strategy action plans have been decided. This involves efforts of approximately SEK 200 million. These include investments in research, innovation, regulatory simplification and skills provision. The design of the EU's common agricultural policy is also an important tool for strengthening Swedish agriculture. The next strategic plan for the CAP will allocate SEK 60 billion, and we will add more than SEK 4 billion to national measures. Swedish agriculture is important. We should be proud of our Swedish agriculture. Sweden's farmers not only contribute the good food. They are also rural developers, climate changers and green job creators.
i-8Z4fvCyFUZ17phuzaPgKUh	Mrs. Old President! Friends, as Magnus Oscarsson said, some things have happened since this debate was requested. Ukraine is in a terrible war. The world holds its breath. And the world is doing sanction work, which is great. It also affects the world food market, and it has a major impact. We know that at the moment there are about 15 million tonnes of wheat in the Black Sea area that is being trapped there. It has an incredible impact on the world market. We know that different climate effects are currently affecting the harvest situation around the world. South America flies for bad crops that also have a major impact on the world market. Inputs are locked, and inputs are hoarded by large nations such as China and India. In addition, China is on virtually all Europe's assets with regard to active substances in our plant protection products. Russia plays, as they have always done, by one week saying that they have stocks for export and by the second week saying that they have no stocks. And at the moment, no one, except China, would like to buy what is in stock in Russia. This, my friends, is blowing up to a perfect storm when it comes to the food market and food production around the world. What happens in Sweden? Well, at this point we are reducing our food production. This is a complete disaster. Food production will become a world policy again, whether we like it or not. Then Sweden needs to show the front feet in a completely different way. Then Sweden cannot stand and say that we are spending 1 billion here and 1 billion there in various crisis packages, because that will make no difference. The Moderates are, of course, behind the crisis package presented by the government. But that is not enough at this point. I'm not going to use expressions like they're too late and too little, because we're tired of that. We need a policy that changes in the long term for Swedish agriculture so that we dare to increase food production. If you go out and ask farmers what they want to increase food production, it is, just as we from the Moderates have always talked about, reduced taxes, reduced rules and strengthened ownership – which is the same as long-term rules. It is these things that farmers want to have in order to dare to bet. It is in animal production that we actually have the opportunity to increase food production in Sweden. When it comes to wheat, for example, we are already supporting, as Magnus Oscarsson said. In principle, we cannot grow more autumn wheat than we do in Sweden; we use the area that we can use every year for it. It is about livestock production, and that is where we need to strengthen the chain. Therefore, I look forward very much to today's debate and to hearing a little concrete from the government about how to increase Swedish food production.
i-DnmzwaQACi3gwojqdQMiqx	Mrs. Old President! First of all, I would like to say that my thoughts today are with the hard-pressed and courageous people of Ukraine. I would also like to thank the Christian Democrats and Magnus Oscarsson for raising the important issue that we are debating today: the economic situation of the green industries. Mrs. Old President! The crisis in agriculture is certainly worrying, and emergency measures must be taken. Small entrepreneurs and Swedish dairy farmers have proposed a reduction in electricity tax, a reduction in diesel tax and a reduction in the EU minimum reduction requirement. I note that these are three proposals that the Swedish Democrats have already put forward. In addition, we have tabled proposals to abolish the general salary levy for three employees. We also support what other parties are putting forward to the benefit of the green industries. The Swedish Democrats are serious. Swedish agriculture needs to have a lower cost situation that is in line with what applies to its competitors in the EU. The cost crisis is just a symptom of an underlying problem. The underlying problem is that Swedish agriculture's competitive situation is too poor, and this has its roots in bad politics. We need to make changes for long-term good conditions. In addition to reducing costs, we must reduce the hassle and develop and disseminate new technologies. We must also scrap idealistic and romantic goals. We should not say yes to everything in Brussels. Much of what is being proposed in Brussels is a necessary development for agriculture in some countries, but it would be very difficult in Sweden. Both Swedish and EU objectives must be analysed in the future as regards the impact on other values such as the economy, the conditions for rural areas and the impact on the environment and culture. Comprehensive impact assessments must be carried out. As it is now, politics is arranged from the top down. You come up with a goal, take a number out of the air and then work towards that goal and see what happens. Now what we have warned about all along in the climate area is becoming visible – high ambitions for the climate will result in increased costs for citizens if they do not do so properly. We warned against this when everyone else chose to introduce the reduction obligation, and we have warned against it many times before. Those of you who want to continue with the aim that Sweden should take precedence at any price must tell the voters that this will create economic difficulties. You can't close your eyes. In the election campaign, you must ask the Swedish people to open their wallets. Be honest, then, that the predecessor effect is a very uncertain effect; it may be that the largest emitters still continue as before. Should we sacrifice land, forests and rural areas for an uncertain effect on the climate? No, we need to discuss alternative proposals on how to reduce global warming. The consequences of the other objectives will also be evident. Now we are three parties that want to get to grips with this, and I am very pleased about that. Together we can offer a completely different policy on these issues as well as on other issues. We can offer another resistance to the EU's proposals that harm Sweden, and a conservative government will not over-implement EU rules.
i-PBVRs4Dv2Pu84iEXNo16ZZ	Mrs. Old President! The Centre Party's agricultural policy stands on three legs: strengthening competitiveness, strengthening innovation and reducing vulnerability. Swedish agriculture has suffered in recent months from dramatically rising prices of fertilizers, electricity, soya and diesel. The cost shock risks, in the short term, leading to the exclusion of farms, the suspension of investments and a drastic reduction in food production. This is very serious for our security of supply and for entrepreneurship throughout the country. Long-term cost increases may also affect the conditions for the green transition in agriculture. It is also, of course, about our basic security of supply and the fact that there is food on the table in times of unrest. Mrs. Old President! This is a very serious security policy situation. It's been a whole new world situation for a week since Ukraine was attacked by Russia. Millions of people are on the run, and we do not know what to expect in our absolute vicinity. ÖB is talking about an increased threat to Sweden, and the Swedish Defence Committee is called in to take strong action and come up with additional measures for the current defence decisions. As the Minister for Rural Development mentioned, civil defence has been added 4.2 billion in increased resources, but 500 million of this money is spent on food and water security. The Center Party believes that this needs to be supplemented by much more in the near future in order to take up the deterioration of the security policy situation. Russia has for a long time been destabilising and trying to undermine the EU and engaged in grey zone activities against Sweden. How to regulate access to natural gas has shown how vulnerable our society is and how dependent we are. The cost of fertilization has risen tremendously. It's gonna take a lot of time. We need to review the Swedish conditions for primary production in a national crisis perspective. Having primary production is also being able to defend and persevere. We are extremely dependent on imports, and when world developments go in the wrong direction, the government must take decisive action. We in the Center Party have taken the initiative for an emergency billion to Swedish agriculture; it is good that this is supported by Sweden's parties. We have also called for a double refund on diesel and a reduction in the tax. However, further measures are needed to promote Swedish agriculture both in the short and long term.
i-HoJkzhrcnuc7C73Hm1Tabw	Mrs. Old President! Thank you for the initiative for this debate. The thoughts today are, of course, with the Ukrainian people and the people who are now on the run. Mrs. Old President! Green industries, which we are debating today, have a crucial role to play in building a sustainable society. The focus of the Left Party is that the state, through financial support, instruments and regulation, will contribute to a sustainable agriculture in accordance with Sweden's adopted goals, both nationally and globally, and that strengthens Sweden's self-sufficiency in food. I was going to stick to agriculture and that we need to increase the level of self-sufficiency in Sweden. I do so not least because of the security policy situation but also because of the climate change that is going too slowly. Climate change needs to take place urgently, and all political decisions need to take account of the acute crisis we are in. Today, we are in a climate emergency and in a completely changed state of security policy. We in the Left Party have for a long time been proposing a strengthening of Sweden's self-sufficiency in food. For times of crisis, we have also proposed initiatives with regional centres for fossil-free food and for Sweden to prepare food emergency stocks. Since the presentation of the draft budget by the Left Party, the costs of agricultural inputs have increased sharply. The government has now come forward with a support package, which the parties here support. We do, too; this is very welcome. However, the fact that some go to diesel and become part of a diesel subsidy does not seem to us to be the right way forward, as we will then lock our industries into a diesel dependence. We want to keep the money, but instead we want to focus on general support for agriculture. Having said that, the Left Party is open to the possibility that further support may be needed to compensate agriculture for increased costs.
i-GiYCBD6ofhJi3rh9FkSdH4	Mrs. Old President! In the latest dairy farmer's panel, the four main issues are: 中 profitability and competitiveness; Here the farmers highlight, among other things, the importance of having the same conditions as farmers in the countries with which they compete and of having long-term rules and goals. 中 Regulatory and entrepreneurship. It calls for a simpler, clearer and smaller regulatory framework. . Food production and rural areas. The panel farmers wonder what is actually happening to the food strategy in practice. They say this: Is it only words, or is Swedish food and Swedish agriculture for real for the government? . Tax and energy. This calls for, among other things, a reduction in taxes at EU level and a reduction in the burden of reduction. Mrs. Old President! The list that I read and which we can all take part of is the basis for another agricultural climate in our country. From the adoption of a food strategy in summer 2017 to today, it has been five years. Five years have passed, and this is as far as we can go. The strategy states that profitability and competitiveness will increase, that the regulatory framework will be simplified and that food self-sufficiency will increase. That's what we said in 2017. Now we've got it in hand. How'd it go? Unfortunately, it has actually been the opposite. Profitability is worse than ever. Simplified rules have not been seen by any farmer on the farm. Food readiness remains below 50 per cent. Mrs. Old President! Those who were most happy when we adopted the strategy in 2017 were many farmers I met with. They said: Finally, Magnus, there is faith in the future in the Riksdag among the parties! Today they say: Is it only words again, or is Swedish food and agriculture really important to the government? If I were a minister, I would really be concerned that we have not made it further than this. I was going to finish by reading a letter I received. The headline is: Is there a future? Here's what it says: Hello Magnus! What happens to Swedish agriculture? Today we have no liquidity left in animal production and live at best on rust and rot. There's talk of crisis support, but it feels like nothing's happening. We have no Lisa Nilsson who can reach out media and get people to understand the seriousness. The energy price has broken us fast. There are no reserves left, especially in Swedish milk production. We have not made money in the foreseeable future and have therefore not consolidated ourselves.
i-LNdf59u99FJfzFTwjwircF	Mrs. Old President! Being a farmer is a life-skull. It is not the case that you become a dairy farmer today in order to make an economic career. You do it because you love working with your hands. It is done because of the love of animals and the great heart of the farm. All of this causes one to put one's soul into what means that at least this morning I had to drink a glass of cold milk. There's a huge soul behind it. It's hard to understand what it's like to live in our farming culture today in Sweden. But at home with our teenage sons, Mrs. Old President, I try to pass on a proverb I heard from my grandfather Otto when I came into the kitchen, lay on the floor and complained about my bad back and my chafings after a day of hard work on the farm: Boy, what does not kill, it hardens. A farmer is used to hardening, but today's situation is quite different. For it risks killing, to extinguish the spark that makes you able to fight on. I would therefore like to express my thanks today to you farmers who are listening to our debate. Thank you for continuing to fight, even though it sometimes feels reasonable to just lay the ground down! Those of you who are young farmers are struggling despite the fact that the future looks uncertain. You wipe the tears from your cheeks, as I've seen. You do it even when no one sees it. You spit in your fists and keep going. My colleagues have said what needs to be said about the measures we need to take. It's about the fuel, the electricity, the feed and the manure. These invoices must be paid, not least in order to double our food readiness, which is needed. That is why we from the Liberals today want to say that we are willing to talk. We are not ruling out anything as far as talks are concerned, because the situation before us is a crisis. If we stop farming, we are no longer a free nation, Madam President. Then we are completely left to the good will of other countries in crisis and war. We just can't lie down and give up. If anything, the last week's war in Ukraine has taught us.
i-GeeVZjoLwyYRaDBYvqnGYV	Mrs. Old President and the Minister for Rural Development! With Putin's invasion of Ukraine, we've all woken up to a nightmare. Peace in Europe is broken. Post-war has become wartime. When this debate was initiated, we saw a strained situation in which the world market price of energy and fuels had increased drastically. Swedish farmers had suffered from high prices of diesel, fertilizer, feed and more. With war in Europe, the situation worsens. Energy policy is geopolitics is security policy. I would like to add climate policy. Climate policy provides solutions. It gives Europe increased independence from oil, gas and uranium, but it also provides a tool for turning weapons out of Putin's hands. We're not going to fatten Putin's war fund. We must stop energy imports from Russia and stop the financing of the war. Anyone who doesn't like Putin closes his windows, that's what was said in Ekonomiekot Extra on P1 last weekend. One could say that the farmer who does not like Putin is using diesel and commercial fertilisers and investing in sustainable production. We must invest heavily in biofuels and renewable energy and reduce taxes on biofuels. We must give every farmer, small farmer, large grain farmer, eco farmer and gardener an agricultural deduction instead of a diesel deduction. Every farmer who can invest in solar electricity, wind power or biogas production or energy efficiency in their operations must receive stronger subsidies from Sweden. We need to strengthen both households and companies' efforts to cope with high electricity prices. The profitability of agriculture has declined for decades. Already before Christmas it was reported that a thousand dairy farmers in Sweden may have to close down. I would like to say to the Minister for Rural Development: set up a crisis commission! Every farmer, small farmer and greenhouse grower should be able to continue, and young people should be able to take over the farms. All farms are needed for our safety and defence capabilities.
i-BKBzq6v8Act2CsJeJroEgL	Mrs. Old President! I agree with much of what Members say, for example as regards import dependence. We need a competitive and environmentally sustainable agriculture, and we need to break our dependence on imports of the inputs that we could produce ourselves. As the committee knows, both the government and the European Commission have long been watching the question of how we can access fertilizers so that we can both sow and harvest. Here the European Commission is working with the EU countries, and there are exciting suggestions on how we could increase our own production, including in the study on fossil-free agriculture. The government has increased its long-term investment in research and innovation in this area for several years, and in last year's research bill, the government allocated half a billion to research into food, bioeconomy and rural areas because it was simply needed. As you know, the government has also recently announced a strong support package of SEK 1 billion precisely because the government is taking responsibility for Swedish agriculture while at the same time investing long-term in strengthening competitiveness. It is, as I said, about strengthening the entire food chain through research, innovation, development and so on. That more people choose our Swedish safe and good products is visible in the trade. I don't have any figures on how the public kitchens work with shopping Swedish, but I'll find out. What is the situation in the regions? My party is not part of many rulers there, but I hope that they will make use of the changed procurement policy that will enable them to shop more locally and regionally. And what about the municipalities? It is by purchasing Swedish products that Swedish agriculture is strengthened. It is a difficult situation right now, but at present we see no impact on the Swedish food chain. However, we are closely following developments.
i-YNi6a7xkdoLs8AhV4F9UFw	Mrs. Old President! Reviewing the procurement of food is a good idea, although the procured food only accounts for about 10 per cent. Nevertheless, it has an important symbolic value to show that it is procured Swedish-produced food. Many have already mentioned that Swedish farmers sell their products on a global market at global prices. What policies can influence is the cost situation. Recently a news flash came up about new price increases on fuel. Dieseln approaches, if it has not already passed, 25 crowns a gallon. The billion that means SEK 2 in increased bonuses is not enough. Now we have to take the blade from our mouths and dare lower the tax on fuel. Are the Social Democrats ready?
i-9qBvpi3X8B1qYUDg9drHN8	Mrs. Old President! I thank the honourable Member for his commitment. There are many ways to strengthen competitiveness. The increase in the cost of inputs such as fertiliser and fuel creates a difficulty for Swedish agriculture. Therefore, agriculture already has a reduction of 1.93 litres and, with the Government's proposal in the spring change budget, has a further reduction of 2 crowns, which makes almost 4 crowns a litre. It is also important to mention the efforts made to reduce the import dependence on diesel. We should be able to produce more biofuels and biogas ourselves.
i-6LFCwSvjYbo8K68sxPUF85	Mrs. Old President! I interpret the answer as saying that the Social Democrats are not ready to reduce diesel tax at this point. There are many other costs affecting agriculture, and one in four farmers now says that they will reduce their production in 2022. Over-regulation leads to increased costs. Behaviour legislation is an example of this. Furthermore, various exemptions are required for biotop protection and other things, such as removing piles of stone and gravel. The Swedish meat control fee stands out in the EU, and the Moderates have been pushing for many years to make it more equivalent to other EU countries. There are a number of costs that we can quickly remove or reduce. When do we start, Prime Minister?
i-6MmWhkjdMy2mrxjr9y9Qzh	Mrs. Old President! Let me remind you that there has been a great deal of simplification over the years. The EU's common agricultural policy is now also making a lot of new simplifications precisely because it is known that it is a regulatory sector and wants to see more production and less administration. There were also simplifications during the pandemic because visits could not be made in the same way, and I am therefore having a dialogue with my authorities if there is anything to look further at. For example, more has been digitised. The regulatory simplification work has therefore been ongoing ever since the food strategy came. Let me remind the honourable Member that in the Moderates' changes to the 2022 budget, there was no difference in these areas – except that they chose to reduce the money for those forest owners who voluntarily want to protect their forests.
i-2hoYuKDqaJsTqnBbWE8GXj	Mrs. Old President! The European Commission has set a number of quantified targets before carrying out impact assessments on agriculture, forestry and rural areas. Mineral manure is to be reduced by 50% and plant protection products as well, 25% of agricultural land is to be grown organically and so on. The EU wants to regulate agriculture in detail and even govern what consumers need. These objectives will lead to poorer economies and less food production. That is not just what I say, but also an American and a Dutch analysis. The government should at least say no until there are impact assessments showing the effects. A dividing line in today's policy seems to be how much you care about consequences. Does the government care about consequences?
i-Mgh1nDhVn2fGKtf5sH8Mk9	Mrs. Old President! That was an incredibly strange question. I remember when I met Members in various debates and interpellation debates, and they stuck their finger up in the air and said, ‘This is needed', without having carried out an impact assessment, that is to say, we saw the cost analysis but not the revenue analysis. It goes without saying that a government analyses consequences as well. If that was the honourable Member's sincere question: yes, of course!
i-TCaucBiXwm6n4Yz3oAkWBU	Mrs. Old President! Thank you for your answer. The minister says the government cares about consequences. In a broad sense, I think this is the case, but when it comes to European work, it is an order that goes from top to bottom. We have the question of impact assessments, and then it has come into the government's positions. But the government has not said no in Brussels, and that is the crux of the matter. Now we have the targets, and we have to implement them. Each Member State must demonstrate its strategic plan and how it works towards these objectives, and the European Commission must approve the plans and follow the course and the outcome. I am rewording it to the effect that the government does not seem to care about consequences as much as we Swedish democrats when it comes to the European Union's very ambitious objectives. Then I wonder: what will happen after the elections if the Social Democrats are to cooperate with the Green Party again? How will impact assessment work continue?
i-9zJ7cSWRHGsHALaZDXazLN	Mrs. Old President! As far as European policy is concerned and when all countries are to cooperate and develop policy, it is of course the case that different things can be good for different countries. However, with regard to Swedish politics, I would like to remind the honourable Member that when the Swedish Democrats settle and want to change the budget for 2022, we do not see any rural investments and no additional investments in agriculture, but we see only a reduction for those forest owners who want to voluntarily protect their forests. This is something that we really control ourselves.
i-7EssMGrJQF1ULo2mrZ2Ys4	Mrs. Old President! We note that many speakers from the parties' representatives have said that no measures are excluded from the situation of Swedish agriculture. Yesterday at the Defence Committee meeting, I raised with the Minister for Defence, who is the government's representative in the deliberations, what measures the government intends to take to strengthen civil defence, focusing on the conditions of primary production and our security of supply. The question to the Minister for Rural Development is: Is the Minister for Rural Development prepared to gather representatives of all parties in Parliament for parliamentary talks on the basis of the cost crisis in Swedish agriculture, also to strengthen our security of supply in a very deteriorating security policy situation?
i-TwoGQBp4iCYUynaCqKXsvz	Mrs. Old President! When I was in the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture, we said we should look at how we meet. Then it was not the situation that we have now, and Russia had not invaded Ukraine. We did, however, have a discussion about Swedish preparedness, which we are now building up. We haven't had a very good stand-by. There I am still fully prepared to somehow ensure that we involve Parliament and have a close dialogue, because this is incredibly important.
i-DMGTfTkatc4deuNMHLApgh	Mrs. Old President! I think that's promising. It is absolutely necessary based on what we risk seeing this spring with much lower production on Swedish soil and also what this can lead to, in the long run, with excluded farms. A collection from Swedish agriculture is needed, and this needs to be done in parallel with strengthening both civil and military defence. We need to reduce our external dependence. One related issue that has been raised in the debate is increased production of domestic fuels in order to innovate and also increase entrepreneurship and strengthen the rural economy. Is the government prepared, as the Center Party proposes, to tax renewables in fuel, and does it intend to take steps to ensure that the EU approves this from 1 July?
i-8apfzxzife9QQShYyYDZ45	Mrs. Old President! That is what the honourable Member says. We must reduce our dependence, especially on those inputs where we are dependent, for example, on Saudi Arabia or Russia, whether on natural gas or on Rosatom and uranium for nuclear power. This dependence must be reduced. If I remember correctly, the Minister of Finance has already submitted a notification to the EU on the tax exemption for biofuels. If I'm wrong, I apologize, but that's how I understand it.
i-NXBFheBPkfgQDV3CPJEywU	Mrs. Old President! This year, the Food Strategy is five years old. Its intention is that profitability should increase and that there should be more self-sufficiency of food, regulatory simplifications and more. With the facts in hand, we see that it is exactly the opposite. We see that profitability has fallen rapidly, that no one has met regulatory simplifications and that food readiness is below 50%. As I began with before, if I were a minister, I would be really concerned that farmers are experiencing it exactly as I read out. The Minister said in his speech that the government is working on these issues in the long term. My question is this: is this what the Minister means with a long-term view – that it has taken five years and that nobody notices any of it?
i-eFWQv6CCSZmx7QHxc4GJr	Mrs. Old President! Food readiness and the food chain, as I described, do not have any problems with now. However, we are of course looking at self-sufficiency. During the period mentioned by the honourable Member, we in the government have dealt with a milk crisis and given money there. We have handled the drought and provided support there. Now we are investing again, because now the inputs are expensive for Swedish agriculture. No one should believe that a Social Democratic-led government is not constantly trying to work for Swedish agriculture. It must also be seen in the long term so that we achieve the competitiveness and profitability at farm level and in the whole food chain that we want.
i-AtYeDuWtkdWDuqwU9MYDbi	Mrs. Old President! Thank you for your answer, Minister. That is exactly what I think many people who listen to this are thinking. So you get subsidies and support when there is a time of crisis. The farmers I meet say that, for example, the emergency billion that is now being given is better than nothing, but that is not how they want it. They want something that's real so they can see that it works over time. It is not possible to constantly prune out a grant here and a grant there, but there must be something substantial here. That is why we Christian Democrats want to reduce the reduction obligation and thereby reduce the diesel price at pump by 3 SEK. We believe that what actually makes a difference over time is to see the problem and do something about it.
i-2xDnwXMgwajTAuj2MuabKD	Madam President and the honourable Member! I have not heard the Christian Democrats say that we are going to lower the price by SEK 3 for the rest of the future, but it also seems to be an emergency measure – although a Christian Democratic emergency measure in that case – to just lower the reduction obligation. This is now available at the Swedish Energy Agency to check how it beats. But we should also know that we will not make it without a change. We will not make it if we do not produce more biogas and more biofuels and ensure that we get a competitive agriculture that does not have the most expensive inputs but instead can reduce its costs while at the same time becoming more sustainable and climately smarter. And that's what the nutrition wants! They have set themselves the goal of being fossil-free by 2030, which is why it is important that we lead and help with the transformation instead of overturning the will of the industry.
i-BLSRmoYiviGqsh3wNJ8jWi	Mrs. Old President! I am continuing on the subject of renewable fuels. Yes, we have a crisis billion committed to this. I have a question for the Government. Before I went up here in the speaker's chair, HVO diesel cost 28, 80. Will these subsidies be able to go to those who have chosen to start rescheduling? The price is 28.80 and on the way up to 30 kronor. Is that part of it? And if not included — why?
i-5ywmnVsD9BQYUcKaCvhHsM	Mrs. Old President! In order to get the support out as soon as possible, we had a discussion with the industry about what to do and where there were already support regulations that could be used. Since we already have a 1,93 diesel reduction, this is what we chose to spend 700 million on. But we also spent 300 million on the agricultural sectors that are the toughest, that is to say, the greenhouse, poultry and pig sectors.
i-Xg9FwuAP5NBiaKQJHXnDVU	Mrs. Old President! Thank you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for your answer, although I understood that this was not included! That is very regrettable. Electricity costs are rising and will continue to be high over time. To be able to reduce the excise duty on electricity would be a very good measure for our green industries. Excise duties are levied on alcohol and tobacco, not on fossil-free energy. Is there anything you can take with you and still try to consider?
i-BfJpGcuJ4g3hH3qhSAFe9d	Mrs. Old President! At the moment we have a situation in Europe that will affect us in very many ways. We see how inputs such as energy, fuel and chemical fertilisers have already increased significantly in price. But we can also expect that, with these inputs increasing in price, food, what we are doing, will also increase in price. Having said that, we are following the situation closely, and we need to have different scenarios and assessments of whether the crisis is going to be long and deep or what it will look like.
i-PhvKVr6hnSgvRuT9wdGJnh	Madam President and the Minister for Rural Affairs! The government's support billions are welcome, but we would prefer to see the Green Party not using the method of subsidising fossil energy. The study on fossil-independent agriculture has come up with a proposal to replace this type of support with a general farmer's support. I would like to ask the Minister for Rural Development whether it is not appropriate to go to the EU right now and ask whether a farmer's deduction can be allowed to be used as a model and approved under state aid rules.
i-STcAZMBx4Nd3CvMx97z7iT	Mrs. Old President! In the study on fossil-free agriculture there were many good suggestions. The agricultural deduction was one in which, instead of getting the diesel reduction, support is given to be able to invest in changing and doing other things. There was also a bio-premium and many other things. All these proposals have just been submitted to us, and we are now dealing with them in the Government Office. We are also working intensively on this issue, but we have just received referrals to the investigation.
i-NkfV6TEo93XjypaenJfnbp	Mrs. Old President! I would also like to ask another question relating to aid billions. When we had the drying aid, there were many farmers who were not included in it. This applies to all sheep farmers with 60 sheep and fewer, small farms and small farmers. They are very important for national security and for reducing the vulnerability of the agricultural sector. Will these small farmers also be able to access the aid?
i-JR4r9ZK8S948M69JnH8TTi	Mrs. Old President! Yesterday, the Government instructed the Swedish Board of Agriculture to look at the subsidies and how they should be designed into the sectors I mentioned. This applies to those who, according to the Swedish Agriculture Agency, have the biggest problem at the moment: the greenhouses, the pig sector and the poultry sector. The Swedish Board of Agriculture will now come back to us and tell us what the support should look like to get it right. It is also a question of the aid for diesel and its reduction in relation to the agricultural needs of diesel. But we are also trying to add 300 million to the sectors that are currently in the most difficult situation.
i-VqtmwCWzLCNYGMFUkiLtSn	Mrs. Old President! The food strategy is five years old. It is high time that it received a revision; at least we must begin by evaluating what it actually has led to. Have we managed to achieve the objectives we set ourselves in the food strategy? The short answer is: No, we do not. An evaluation and revision of the food strategy is therefore needed. The situation we are in now is, as many have lifted, crisis-stricken both in the world because of war and in Sweden because of Swedish food production. Crisis support is one thing. We do not think it is a measure that we should have to take every time it crises, but we need to have good rules for the long term. On the part of the Moderates, we think that reducing fuel taxes is absolutely an important first step. The Moderates are the ones who have proposed the most tax reduction on fuel. That is not to say that we are against the proposals highlighted in the study on fossil-free agriculture – certainly not. But we're not there! We do not have the proposals in place. We need to take action now, and now agriculture is dependent on diesel as a fuel. We want a regulatory and simplification Commission to reduce red tape in agriculture. It is not a small Commission that should sit for a year and watch, and then it is good. This should be something that, over the years, works with regulatory and simplification work continuously for Swedish agriculture. We need a proper review and revision of the environmental code. There are a number of measures there which are of concern to agriculture and which we need to revise. We need clearer and more pro-active work in the regulatory letters to our authorities. The authorities are supposed to work with agriculture, not against it.
i-Kg1Yx7bxweyqSyJfcG6K1z	Mrs. Old President! We need strong and competitive agriculture. The honourable Member said that some things he wanted to do were to start a commission. I am thinking of the Moderates and agreements. It is not easy for moderates to manage to keep agreements on long-term rules of play. I sat on the Parliamentary Rural Committee, and the day after we made our proposal, the Moderates said no to travel deductions that would benefit the countryside. I am also thinking of the energy agreement and the agreements on migration and defence. What does the honourable Member think would result from a new Commission? And does the honourable Member mean that the Moderates will be able to remain in such a position?
i-6PsQUZaonC3Qm9bbJTtQmx	Mrs. Old President! The idea on our part of a regulatory and simplification commission at this stage was not really that it should be politically established. We want a regulation and simplification commission where the industry is represented together with the Swedish Board of Agriculture and works continuously. We have set aside budgetary resources for it in our budget for a few years now, because it is something that should be there all the time and work to look at rules and simplifications all the time. We are incredibly good – we all know that in here – at implementing, for example, different rules that come from the EU in the worst possible way. If we then have a regulation and simplification commission that works continuously to meet them and do so in the best way, we also implement them in a very good way for the industry that does not involve loads. That was the idea of our Rules and Simplification Commission.
i-W7bVr5yxCBb3xMNZx8UY4D	Mrs. Old President! The government is definitely working on simplifications, and we definitely need to focus on regulatory simplification. Much is now happening in the long-term strategic plan and the common agricultural policy. But if there was money set aside, where can I find it in the 2022 budget where the Moderates, Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats still made changes?
i-MDNfL872nwDn2FGRiJMbzi	Mrs. Old President! I thank the Government for the questions. It was in the Moderates' draft budget before the budget was negotiated that this initiative was included. It is not included in the budget negotiated. It is a short and simple answer. On the other hand, the Moderates in a government situation, hopefully, after the autumn elections, will push for this. I am absolutely convinced that the parties with which we intend to cooperate after the elections will be in favour of this work.
i-X3mLZVyt3PxKtL6RE8ckj6	Mrs. Old President! When you listen to the Moderates, you often hear that we should strengthen the competitiveness of agriculture. As an environmental party, I am in favour of increased profitability for Swedish farmers, but competitiveness is, after all, about producing food where it is the cheapest. It creates a large world market for food that in turn creates incredibly large vulnerabilities and large dependencies. We now see a great dependence for Swedish agriculture of diesel, feed, chemical fertilisers, chemicals, machinery and so on. Is enhanced competitiveness really a mantra for the Moderates in the next food strategy?
i-RjVhCv8QFVVDXf8vRY9KKm	Mrs. Old President! This is, in fact, an interesting argument. Strengthening competitiveness can be seen in many different ways. From a moderate point of view, enhanced competitiveness is an opportunity to increase profitability and thus increase production within the borders. It also means increased security for Sweden that we can have a high production. If competitiveness is about producing as cheap food as possible t the answer is yes. The market wants cheap food, and we have been pushing for it for a long time in Sweden with size rationalization. We are also good at producing bulk. Swedish farmers show among the world's best production results when it comes to agricultural products, but we have among the lowest profitability in the world due to political burdens. That is where we need to make the changes, and that is where competitiveness is strengthened.
i-ExmANU397V2syN48tm78qP	Mrs. Old President! I had in my speech an introduction that we should not support energy imports from Russia because it fattens Putin's war fund. How do the Moderates view the issue of stopping imports of diesel and commercial fertilisers from Russia?
i-3SwpoVMeLtLKma7oRGjrZb	Mrs. Old President! As far as mineral fertilisers are concerned, we had virtually no imports from Russia even before the war broke out. We're not big buyers of Russian mineral fertilizers. Our mineral fertilizer comes from the EU. On the other hand, there are large deposits of potassium in Russia and Belarus, for example, which there is a great European need for European fertilizer factories. There is, of course, a vulnerability. But even before the war broke out, Yara, the major fertiliser manufacturer in the EU from which Sweden is trading, chose to say no to potassium from Belarus, for example. It's the same with oil. From what I understand, Swedish oil buyers have also decreased sharply on the purchase of oil from Russia. So I do not see these two issues as the major problems to solve right now.
i-B68vvavRnQbExVokPf8o22	Mrs. Old President! As I said in my first speech, agriculture is in need of long-term good conditions. Reduced hassle is part of it. The problem costs time, money and motivation, and we have to keep it down as much as we can. The EU's new, ambitious objectives, which Sweden has not said no to, will, of course, land in detailed regulations and legal requirements in one way or another. This means that a farmer who is both a plant grower and a dairy producer receives even more legal requirements than the 450 that it currently has. If 450 can't do it, I'll ask. Apart from the fact that Sweden must act differently in the European Union, as I have said, we must tackle the problem at home. Red and blue governments have also tried. I've seen it up close when I worked at the Board of Agriculture. However, the results have been rather meagre. The fault then was to focus on what is complicated with the authorities. This is certainly important, but we politicians are guilty of the big problem. It comes from political ambitions. The Swedish Democrats want to establish a routine for a continuous review of existing rules within the green industries with the aim of finding rules and political motives that are not effective and that one can consider to be abolished. It is also important to encourage all authorities to comply closely with the Administrative Act. It contains many pieces that are important to ensure the operator's legal certainty. We want the reintroduction of civil servants' responsibilities and we want to lay down legal requirements for supervisory staff to understand the industry over which they are to supervise. The last is important for supervisory staff to make correct assessments and take realistic decisions. It is also essential that the principle of proportionality set out in the Administrative Act should be observed. I would like to emphasise that well-functioning authorities are a great asset to the nation. It is about correcting what is not working today. Flexibility for the farmer is important. It allows you to fulfill what society wants in a way that suits your own business, and then there will be fewer conflicts of interests.
i-7mDd6uiSuYJKJm9Q4RCDdL	Mrs. Old President! There are many different issues that in this situation affect Sweden's security of supply and also Swedish agriculture in the future. We usually share the long-term objective of strengthening competitiveness and increasing food production. Now there are far more powerful reasons for this, and that is Russia's very threatening expression, military aggression and terrible war in Ukraine. To do so both for Swedish preparedness and for food policy is important in order to reduce vulnerability and strengthen our security. If the Swedish Democrats do not intend to increase domestic production of fuel, in what way does the honourable Member see that imports from Russia of fossil fuels solve future security challenges?
i-6MJ8gwYP6KJknfqRvYAMXF	Mrs. Old President! Thank you for asking, Daniel Bäckström! Today, when we use biofuels, we import between 80% and 90%. So it should not be thought that moving to biofuels will automatically make it a domestic option. What you can do is two things. One way is to provide support for domestic production. We are not categorically opposed to that. One thing to consider is that Swedish agriculture becomes more dependent on support, which has negative effects. The second approach is to step up research and development efforts in order to break through technology so that domestic production of biofuels becomes cheaper and competitive, because production costs are currently too high. That is something that is being provided on a temporary basis, but it will also apply after 2030, so long-term support must be envisaged if it is based on support, and that is not good.
i-QrQTKF4PodQBvFFno4GArM	Mrs. Old President! The reduction obligation has very important long-term objectives. The Center Party wants to tax the low-interference that is taking place now and is becoming increasingly high. The 30% tax exemption would correspond to approximately SEK 1 and 10 øre per litre. In addition, we support the application submitted by the Government for continued tax exemptions on high-congested fuels. As interference increases, our resilience also grows, and we reduce our external dependence and our imports. In this situation, continuing to promote foreign fossil fuels – that is what we should base our infrastructure on – when we need energy, as the Swedish Democrats say, is both dangerous and not sustainable. In what way will the Swedish Democrats in practice promote conversion, reduced external dependence and increased domestic production of fuels in the near future?
i-KPavjRSXmWTyRctBfFtG4g	Mrs. Old President! We have to do everything with realism. We must first acknowledge that the current situation means that Sweden uses more than twice as much biofuels when involved than any other EU country. Sweden is vacuuming the market in biofuels. What does that mean? Well, that means that there is already a high demand today, but that supply is limited, which drives prices up. But what if we sharpen our ambitions without ensuring that domestic production is cheap enough in a situation where other EU states are both forced and want to increase their use of biofuels? Well, demand will far exceed supply, which means that the price will stick up to the ceiling. Becoming dependent on biofuels can be difficult if it is not done in a sensible way, because it is very unpredictable where the price lands. We do not want to lock up Sweden's farmers in such a situation. We want there to be a free choice for Sweden's farmers. If they want to change, it's great, and then we'll try to support it in some way, and if they want it, they shouldn't be allowed to continue as they are today.
i-Whqo7RPiZtFQhkqxe7XEaf	Mrs. Old President! For the Center Party, it is a clear link between security policy and strengthened primary production. We have worked for, and will continue to work towards, seeing these links but also taking steps to increase our security of supply and reduce our dependence on both inputs and energy from abroad. The Centre Party has presented several proposals to strengthen rural and agricultural conditions when it comes to energy. This means 2.7 billion to reduce the tax burden on renewables. It is about the level of 2022, and as the incorporation of renewable fuels increases, it becomes a greater effect on fuels when it comes to price. It is important in a longer perspective, also on the basis of the decision that is now made that this should increase gradually. Of course, it is also extremely important to boost domestic production. Therefore, the state must invest now to get more production going and give a clear signal to the investors who are actually considering here and now if they dare to invest in Sweden. These are large refineries that are changing to renewable production. It's about Östergötland and other parts of Sweden that actually want to move on now. In this situation, with the security threats and our dependence on imports, which are a security risk, not contributing to these major efforts is not sustainable either in terms of security or in terms of agriculture. We need to make major efforts now to develop nationally produced renewable and sustainable fuels that with more research can be developed to work for our vehicles.
i-KpZEsT5vy1Jhygv1WhXFwY	Mrs. Old President! Another important part of the green transition that I mentioned earlier is investment in sustainable food production. Here we fully agree that we must safeguard food and self-sufficiency, as has been mentioned here in the debate today. Increased self-sufficiency would make us better equipped in times of crisis and extreme weather and reduce our dependence on imports. Much of the food and energy we consume comes from the countryside here in Sweden too, but at the same time it becomes more difficult to build a good life when service and welfare are increasingly concentrated in the big cities. This needs to go hand in hand with economic policy as a whole.
i-GoKv9ZMeKy3g6LzViXCw2W	Mrs. Old President! We are seeing today how the price of fuel is hugely high. It will soon be up to 25 kroner per litre at the pump. The price shock is, of course, linked to Russia's invasion of Ukraine, but most of our fuel costs are actually decided here in the Swedish Parliament. We Christian Democrats proposed earlier this winter that the requirement to dilute diesel and also petrol with biofuels be reduced. The government's objective is that Sweden should have four times more interference than the EU requires. The fact that Sweden has the most expensive price is therefore not due to the war in Ukraine. This is because a majority in Parliament wants it that way. Mrs. Old President! When the outside world looks like it does, with war in Europe, we must see the cost of fuel as part of Sweden's security policy. The expensive dilution of our fuel is a sanction against our own economy. It hits individuals and families. It's hitting the transport industry. It's hitting our forestry. It also hits our agriculture and thus our own food production. We demand that the government immediately submit proposals for a reduction in the dilution of diesel. A vast and sparsely populated country, which Sweden actually is, cannot and should not have the world's most expensive diesel. We Christian Democrats have proposed a reduction in the reduction obligation so that the diesel price falls by SEK 3 at the fuel station.
i-Mfe8EduEXLVkxxDqxNjXqL	Mrs. Old President! I would like to thank Magnus Oscarsson for the opportunity to have this debate today. It is extremely urgent. My question to the representatives of the Christian Democrats is whether you can describe in more detail how you have come to the conclusion that the reduction to 14% is equivalent to SEK 3 in tax reduction. According to the sources I have listened to, it is about somewhere around 8 – 12 cents per percentage point. It would be interesting to see in practice what the reduction proposed by the Christian Democrats would give in crowns. How do you arrive at the exact level, SEK 3 in tax reduction, linked to the proposed level of reduction that you persist with?
i-FzQzxuR6iqspuLdRdCo85t	Mrs. Old President! Thank you for your questions, Daniel Bäckström! It is calculated by the economists and based on what one can follow. So we know that this reduction in crowns will be correct. In fact, our reduction obligation today is 30, 5. The government and the Center Party want up to 66 percent. So we know that the price will only increase. At the pump it is today 25 crowns. It is remarkable that the Centre Party does not want to be involved in lowering the price of fuel in the way we wish. The reduction of SEK 3 would make a difference to people where both the honourable Member and I live, in the countryside, and actually reduce their costs at the pump.
i-854WoboYzTpXBR6Yjcd52u	Mrs. Old President! The committee initiative presented by the Christian Democrats proposes a decline to a level of 14%. Then it is interesting to know what the difference of just over 16% corresponds to per percentage point, as you arrive at a reduction of SEK 3 in the diesel price. Nevertheless, I would like Mr Oscarsson to explain in detail how this is calculated, on the basis that it is a sharp proposal that the Christian Democrats are pushing. The world market price has risen by just over 20 percent in the last week since the war broke out in Ukraine. It is extremely tough for the green industry. I agree with that. At the same time, however, we are in a situation where we need to increase domestic production of renewable fuels. With the Centers' proposal to exempt renewable interference, it will be a gradual price effect that will also benefit rural areas. I ask again: How has Magnus Oscarsson calculated to arrive at the 3 crowns?
i-YG1fvM4Qg66A7rbr121v8u	Mrs. Old President! Thank you again for your great questions, Daniel Bäckström! I'll give the honourable Member all that later. I do not have an exact outline of how it is calculated, but we will be happy to give it to the honourable Member. Then maybe the Center Party will come along. That is precisely what we want the Center Party to accept responsibility and agree to this. Making more biofuels is very important. But the fact is that today we are buying in 85% of it. And where do we buy it from? Well, we buy it from outside, from Brazil and Indonesia. Is it particularly amazing? Are we good and fantastic in Sweden, and can we say that we are the best in the world when we buy from countries that we might not buy from? More domestic production is great. But a price that is 3 SEK lower at the pump we think is very positive. The Center should be in on that, too.
i-5QRZgxxBWN75crzcyguqmG	Mrs. Old President! I do not know when the Minister for Rural Development last visited a farmer, but I did this in February. I visited a family on Gotland. They were sleepless over the electric bill. They wondered if it was worth fighting on, to pass it on for the sake of the children. They didn't feel they had time for the family. And because of the electricity bill, they couldn't afford to hire anyone. They were now thinking about closing down and instead trying to entertain the Stockholm tourists on the island. I previously asked the Government a question about the electricity tax. It is difficult to grasp the fact that there is no greater desire to reduce electricity tax. It would create a longer-term and more favourable climate for our green industries. For greenhouse growers and farmers, electricity and fuel are two large parts. What if the government had struggled a little to keep some reactors? They would have been very nice right now, in times of crisis. Anyone who has not lowered the temperature this winter and who has not been sparing should now get a big penny in his wallet, and it comes just in time for the election. Yes, there is a crisis billion. But it was before the war. Moreover, that money is barely enough to cover fuel costs. What Sweden needs most is a new government. It is time for these seven meagre years to be followed by at least seven fat years with a new liberal government.
i-PKPx9pghaGBKoriyBMvaz7	Mrs. Old President! Support for agriculture is necessary, but the Green Party will never advocate designs that help to secure agriculture in a fossil dependency. The aid must also not contribute to greater structural rationalisation with the exclusion of small and medium-sized farms. We think it is wrong that, at this stage, the government should give priority to aid to industrial poultry producers rather than to dairy farms. We must increase self-sufficiency in Sweden and in the EU. In addition to crisis support here and now, we must act resolutely and quickly and step up efforts on the energy transition in agriculture, in order to reduce vulnerability and cope with climate change. We want to provide climate support for increased energy efficiency, increase investment support so that all farmers can produce their own clean and renewable energy solutions and invest in biogas, solar heat and solar cells on all farms throughout Sweden. The industry can contribute to both Sweden and the EU investing in more fossil-free fertilizers. Now that we have to reduce dependence on fertilizers, conversion to organic farming is a strategic opportunity. We want to protect a viable Swedish agriculture throughout the country. Priority must also be given to small farmers and farmers with sheep and dairy cows, who are allowed to graze and keep the countryside open. It is not only about primary production, but also the Swedish food industry, restaurant industry, trade and Swedish consumers need to strengthen Swedish agriculture.
i-Jq6L87bYDgPGnqrprAj4Tq	Mrs. Old President! Thank you, Maria Gardfjell, for recording in the debate! It is often difficult to understand the reasoning of the Green Party. You talk about how you want to do the dinner and the date but don't really have any concrete tools. The Green Party often talks about the need to shift towards more sustainable agriculture. Is Swedish agriculture not quite sustainable today in comparison with the rest of the world? That's my first question. It is often said that we need to grow more organically. How will this lead to increased production in Sweden? How will it meet the food strategy's objectives of increased production? What tools does the Green Party have to increase production in Sweden?
i-9Dmf4ymitFKbNgfkcjnNzn	Mrs. Old President! The Green Party has a wide range of tools to strengthen Swedish agriculture, not least in the climate area. The investments in the climate category and the Industriklivet will be able to help make Swedish agriculture independent of fossil energy and cope with the climate challenge. The initiatives that we are proposing and that we have put forward in the Committee on Finance are about strengthening the investment opportunity for Swedish agriculture to produce clean energy itself. Organic farming is strong in Sweden and has been strong for many years. We have many good farmers who produce a lot of organic food.
i-6VTywyUiQkjKERyPMRpjvo	Mrs. Old President! I did not really get an answer on how to increase the production of food in Sweden. Instead, the Green Party is talking about strengthening agriculture. But I want to know how to increase the production of food. The Green Party very often talks about various subsidies here and there and one and the other, but we need to strengthen agriculture fundamentally without subsidies and crisis packages. That's where we have to go. In agriculture, people themselves say that they want to change. They absolutely want to reduce their fossil dependence. But we cannot move towards the future with zero profitability today, because then no farmer will be able to make the transition. We need to strengthen profitability now so that we can move forward in order to reduce fossil dependence. Today, fossil dependence can be reduced very much in the production of mineral fertilisers, for example. It's good for mineral manure increases the harvests.
i-K1fTz2exT8uPT1q5qqFvcF	Mrs. Old President! The environmental party is one of the parties in the Swedish parliament that is pushing for increased self-sufficiency of food in Sweden. If we go from 50% to 80%, production will obviously increase. It is also obvious that the farmers in Sweden who invest in organic production are good. They have a high level of production and aim for their products to reach a market. We in the Green Party have pushed for Sweden to get an origin mark on meat and fish in Swedish restaurants. This will lead to a strengthening of the production and consumption of Swedish food in Sweden.
i-6BF5UKHn4L9NGW69xT8yHL	Mrs. Old President! Thank you, honourable Member, for your speech. The Member and environmentalists around the country talk a lot about providing support. It's support here and support there. The honourable Member, Mr Widegren, also raised this point. When I'm out talking to farmers, many say: But don't you get it? Don't give us support! Instead, give us some solid measures that will make a difference to us at farm level! We want to collect in the barns because we know there will be crises now and then, but you give us some support here and some support there. Instead, give us something solid that can be something! I would therefore like to ask the honourable Member whether that is what they are thinking, that is to say that one can only throw away a little support here and there. Give them some real action! We have. I wish the Green Party understood this as well.
i-LXBq8nPDPTLZEMfnCQoHGM	Mrs. Old President! The environmental party is the only party in the Swedish parliament that wants to phase out subsidies for agriculture and replace them with compensations, such as environmental compensation and compensation for active climate work. Yet Magnus Oscarsson stands here and accuses the Green Party of wanting to pamper support. We want to invest in Swedish agriculture so that it becomes fossil independent. But Magnus Oscarsson wants to end and inhibit the development of biofuels in Sweden. He wants to increase climate emissions by almost 25% through the proposal to lose the chances of a change of fuel. It is not climate policy. It's playing Putin in your hands.
i-WN18ypxGQP5kce5ECeCFkw	Mrs. Old President! Thank you, Maria Gardfjell, for your answer! This is the case: today we are buying in about 85% from countries such as Brazil and Indonesia. It doesn't work very well for the environment. We do not think this is very positive. We certainly want more domestic production. There's a hundred of us on that. But today it is bought in very much. I would like to take this opportunity to thank everyone for today's debate. It has been very interesting to discuss with the government and other parties what we think should change in Swedish agricultural policy. We see that something is needed that makes a difference in the situation. Many thanks to all who attended!
i-GMJYKFB8KjqpL1FuuwJPUF	Mrs. Old President! The Environment and Agriculture Committee visited Piteå and Sunpine, a company producing biofuels. Magnus Oscarsson may have forgotten about it. We have many large industries in Sweden that have been commissioned to develop more fossil-free fuels. They are currently getting started with their production. But this production Magnus Oscarsson wants to stop. As far as agriculture is concerned, I am also pleased that we have had this debate. I believe that agricultural issues will be important in the run-up to the elections. I would like to see us invest in small and medium-sized farms throughout Sweden, because all farmers are important.
i-WJDDWyqYYuK7qZqGmGjjJn	Mrs. Old President! Thank you, the Christian Democrats, for the invitation to an important debate, and thank you also to Members for a good debate! This is a worrying development in our neighbourhood. We shall have sanctions against Russia, support Ukraine and secure Sweden. These are the government's priorities. Swedish agriculture is important. We want to see more good Swedish food on the plate. We want to see increased food production. We want to see stronger food processing and a food chain. We need to break the dependence on expensive inputs and reset. I believe that many in this House agree on this. We need to tell you how proud we are of our Swedish agriculture so that more people choose and believe in agriculture. A week ago I visited Forsa Fjällbruk. It received its first bull calf two days ago and named it Zelenskyj. Mrs. Old President! With that, I would like to thank you for this debate.
i-VD8SfCbQuMZH5eE3feRbaq	Mrs. Old President! Pia Steensland has asked me questions in two interpellations on the requirements of assistance compensation and the review of the right to assistance compensation. I answer them in a context. LSS and assistance compensation are important efforts to ensure that people with disabilities are able to achieve equality in living conditions and full participation in society. Personal assistance and assistance compensation shall be of high quality and legal certainty. Everyone who is entitled to support should receive it. Persons who have been granted assistance should not have to live in constant concern about having it reviewed just because the case law has changed. The proposal submitted by the Government to the Riksdag in 2018 concerning personal assistance took away the requirement for a review of assistance compensation at two-year intervals. In this way, the Social Insurance Agency no longer reviews the right to assistance, in relation to, for example, amended case law. The government currently has no plans to reintroduce the two-year trial. However, this does not mean that the right to assistance can never be reconsidered. If there are significant changes in the needs of the person entitled to assistance, it is reasonable that the Social Insurance Agency should review the right to personal assistance. In that case, it shall be a matter of substantially changed circumstances relating to the insured person. Thus, new legislation or case law does not update a review and the review is limited to the changed circumstances in which the right to assistance compensation has been reduced. Such a review should, of course, be characterised by predictability and legal certainty. The Government has received Försäkringskassan's request to provide the Main Authority with additional directives, and it is prepared for the occasion in the Government Office. Since it took office, the Government has carried out a large number of reinforcements of personal assistance. Breathing has been introduced as a basic need, and all aids related to breathing and meals in the form of probe feeding now give the right to personal assistance. The government is now making proposals based on the investigation Strengthening the right to personal assistance. The proposals are estimated to lead to 1 800 new recipients of assistance compensation and is the largest reform in personal assistance since the introduction of LSS. The Government intends to return to the Riksdag with further changes to the right to personal assistance based on the investigation's proposal. The government's reform work contributes significantly to personal assistance meeting what was intended by the assistance when it was introduced. As regards the possibility for the Social Insurance Agency to recover assistance compensation, it is obvious that this should be handled in a legally secure manner. In cases where a beneficiary or organiser has provided incorrect information or has failed to fulfil a duty or obligation to notify, the Social Insurance Office shall decide on the reimbursement of assistance compensation in accordance with the Social Security Code. The same applies if a beneficiary or organiser has received assistance compensation which they should reasonably have realised was too high. I believe that this system is reasonable, but I intend to follow it on the basis of the questions raised by the interpeller. The assistance allowance shall be of high quality and legal certainty, and the funds allocated to personal assistance shall go to it and not to anything else.
i-KWCbX9qCcVLaH9X3wkv61a	Mrs. Old President! Thank you, Minister, for your answer. In my two interpellations, which we are debating here today, I had highlighted two issues which, although both relate to assistance, are based on two very different aspects. One is a question of reconsiderations and how it affects the individual assistance recipient. The second is about the Swedish Social Insurance Agency's recovery and how today's system risks running serious assistance providers into bankruptcy. These two issues deserve an in-depth debate on their own. I would therefore have liked the Government to have answered my two interpellations in two different answers. But I think we are making the most of the situation here today. I would also have liked some more concrete answers on the basis of the concrete questions I have asked. Now it was a generalising response that I still have a certain hope for with regard to certain wordings. Mrs. Old President! I intend to devote the first time to the part on the re-examinations. I fully agree with the Government when she says that it is reasonable to reconsider when there have been major changes in the need. Mrs. Old President! The Social Insurance Agency can review changes in life. For example, it may be moving to another apartment, starting a study, or something like that. This means that people with disabilities may feel compelled to refrain from moving away from home, studying, getting married, becoming cohabiting or having children just because they are afraid that there will be a review despite the fact that the individual need has not changed. That's the whole part that makes me raise the question. In the past, we have highlighted the need to change terminology to ensure that there are substantially changed needs and not conditions in themselves that govern a review. It is from this point of view that I wonder whether the Government is willing to review the situation that is now. One of my main questions in my interpellation was whether the Government shares the position of the Christian Democrats that all basic needs should be assistance-based in their entirety, that is, the whole toilet visit and all clothes and not just those closest to the body. It is a question of such a change of law being in place before the review ban is lifted. Mrs. Old President! I have full respect for the fact that the Government has not yet caught it up, but yesterday a decision was taken in the Committee on Social Affairs, where a majority is now behind the idea that an additional directive should be given to the Main Authority inquiry on these elements. The decision will be taken in plenary later on 16 March. I still want the Council of State's reflection on it. It is such a supporting part when we look at re-examinations that one looks at the whole. People with disabilities have special needs that need to be met. Their needs do not disappear because assistance is withdrawn. We must find a way to meet the needs so that people with disabilities can live with full participation in society and have the same ambitions and goals as the Government and I have. But they need support and help with those efforts, and we are not there today.
i-U4Ue7W76fLMYUdPP74Vh4z	Mrs. Old President! It is true that there are a few different perspectives, which Pia Steensland addresses in the interpellation. However, I believe that the debate here gives some answers to them. It may not be possible to get there all the way when it comes to the administration on the basis of the fact that it is difficult to go into individual cases. These are often the ones we have in the back of our head, but Pia Steensland is of course well aware that I cannot comment on individual cases and situations. That is not what has prompted this discussion either. First of all, I would like to say that the government has no plans to reintroduce re-examinations. Regardless of the question put by Pia Steensland when it comes to fundamental needs, there are no plans to reintroduce re-examinations. At the same time, I think there are very relevant issues raised by the interpeller. After all, they highlight the problem that we do not have any re-examinations, or that we may not have found the right way of dealing with re-examinations, perhaps I should say. The fact that regular reviews are not carried out also risks, of course, that if there are errors, they can last for a long time. On the other hand, I do not intend to reintroduce re-examinations because it also causes concern. But that balance I think the interpeller is involved in his questions. That's a difficult question. I would also like to get into it on the basis of the question whether it is not needs that govern rather than changing circumstances. I would like to say that it is primarily the needs that govern the right to assistance. But if you can have the needs met by other means than personal assistance, for example, if you live in group housing or go to school, then you are not entitled to assistance. That is essentially what is meant. Then it is a relationship that has changed the conditions for personal assistance even if the needs have not changed. You should still have the opportunity to live your life like others, but you have the needs met in other ways. Therefore, it is not only changing needs but also significantly changing circumstances that affect needs that may lead to a review of assistance.
i-RaTaM8ru3UYT8nDpNrg88q	Mrs. Old President! I thank the Government for its answer. I fully agree – when a reduced need arises, I think that everyone agrees that there should be a reduction. But if you look at the whole thing today, you can see that that is not the reality. Many people actually live with fear of what will happen if they change something in their lives. Their needs remain, but yet there must be a review via Försäkringskassan because they have conditions that are not directly linked to the need. That is also what the Government is up to. I am pleased, I should say, that the Government says that there are no plans for reconsideration. I assume that this also applies when the amendment of the law based on strengthened assistance is in place. It is a change of law that we Christian Democrats have been seeking for a long time, so we welcome it. I'll interpret the government that way. However, as the Government was concerned, many people who have long-lasting disabilities are also not actually going to improve. That's the problem if you're going to have regular trials every two years that are exactly the same. That was my fourth question – whether you can find a way to have individual intervals. I usually take my party colleague David Lega as an example. He'll never be able to use his hands. He'll always need assistance. Then a review should be about ensuring good quality, not about being questioned fundamentally based on your needs. I would like to hear a reflection on whether this is something that the Government sees as a possible way forward. I want the Government to take with it the fact that there is a great deal of concern among many people and that when a review takes place, it takes place on the basis of current case law. Then we come back to my second question on all the basic needs. Is the Minister willing to think about these parts? Would it be possible to satisfy Parliament's will in the head office inquiry that will be in a few weeks' time? I have noted that the investigator has now said that it is state authority that is the case, and I am very pleased about that. But we want to see that, if you are to have a government head office, the assessment process also needs to be reviewed. Here there is a golden opportunity to correct the case law that has emerged from the devastating government regulation letter to Försäkringskassan 2016, which was about reducing the number of hours, to break that trend. This was the case law that led the Authority to interpret old judgments from 2009, 2012 and 2015 much more restrictively than before. That is what created this breakdown of basic needs, such as the fact that not the entire toilet visit counts, but only the private parts. I would like to appeal to the Government to take that part with it and review it, because I would say that is by far the most important issue for functional rights organisations in general – that you get back the possibility of self-determination in your own life and that you get the support in everyday life that you need.
i-NdRwHcvL8HNvL2txMNm3At	Mrs. Old President! Let me just remind Pia Steensland that, even during the time when the Christian Democrats were in charge of the Ministry of Social Affairs, during the time of the Alliance Government, we had a problem raised in the then Social Committee, which was about the need being dismembered. It looked at if you could take food on the fork and bring it to your mouth. I think that Pia Steensland should perhaps be a little careful to say that it was exactly a letter of regulation. We have discussed it many times, but it was during the time before a very unhappy development that I am very happy that we try to meet in different ways. This is complicated legislation. I've said it many times. Maybe that's the hardest thing that I'm doing as Minister of Social Affairs. I think there are quite a few people who feel very much about the issues and who want to achieve things, but it is not easy to find the simple solutions. That is why we also had a comprehensive LSS investigation that worked for many years. There were several representatives who helped to put it on the shelf. There were parts in it that we could have taken further; I am convinced of that. Now it has not happened, but instead we have started over in various parts and paragraphs, for example, when it comes to the right to assistance for breathing and probe feeding in its entirety, but also, of course, the proposals for decisions via the bill that will shortly come to Parliament about the narrowing of parental responsibility, which is about being able to get assistance also in terms of medical supervision. There will certainly be two different proposals, but it still means, as I mentioned in my interpellation response, that, according to the assessment, nearly 2 000 people will be entitled to personal assistance – a very big change. I think it is positive, and I want to say it again: we have no plans to reintroduce any review. But it is still interesting to hear Pia Steensland talk about individual reconsiderations, for it is clear that in one way or another you must feel that you understand the order. But we're not there. That is not something that we are considering right now, so that we are clear in this discussion. I would also like to say, with regard to substantially changed circumstances, that I understand that there is concern. I have also met a great many people who have conveyed this concern, both individually and through their organisations. But materially changed conditions are not the slightest change that is taking place, but they are very substantially changed conditions. I also gave examples of what it essentially refers to. It is that circumstances become such that needs are also met in other ways. Here, too, we should not say that the legislator means in any way the slightest change, but materially changed conditions are precisely substantially changed conditions. As far as the entire head of investigation is concerned, it is a comprehensive mission. The investigator will look at what it could look like, and then we will have to decide if there is something we should proceed with. Neither Pia Steensland, me, nor anyone else – except possibly the investigator. However, I do not think he has any idea what the report will look like in the end. What are the balances that we are forced to make? There are no simple solutions. Perhaps it is not just in this debate but in many debates that if we just let someone else be responsible and everything becomes state-owned, then everything becomes simple and clear. I'm not so sure it'll be that simple and clear. But there is now an investigator looking at the issues, and let us wait for the report before we draw too much conclusions. Then we can reason with the report in the back of our minds, and of course the referral bodies should have their say.
i-Jeu1JX13m5DXUHCDUaTaga	Mrs. Old President! I said myself that it was a matter of old judgments, but they started to be interpreted more restrictively after the 2016 regulatory letter. That's what the statistics show. 2,000 people fell out of the system, and it became considerably more difficult to get in. Allow me to devote my last minute to my second question of interpellation, namely the recovery from the Social Insurance Agency. Let me be clear that fraud, over-exploitation and organised crime in assistance should be prosecuted. But this is about something completely different. This is about when, in good faith, a serious assistance provider has acted and performed assistance on the basis of a decision granted by the Swedish Social Insurance Agency. They have carried out exactly what the Swedish Social Insurance Agency has said they should do and the needs that exist. Now the situation is that Försäkringskassan can make recovery. There are reports that Försäkringskassan in its decision states that the wrong payment lies with Försäkringskassan. The Social Insurance Agency says the decision was their fault. I would like to put the following question to the Government. Should an aid provider be able to rely on a decision from the Swedish Social Insurance Agency that has been made on the correct basis? I think that is reasonable. You shouldn't have to question a government decision. But is what is happening today reasonable, that is to say that recovery is being made to an aid provider despite the fact that, in good faith, the organiser has carried out the assistance mission entirely in accordance with the authority's own decision? Now there is the situation where individual assistance providers, usually small ones, receive recovery of millions of SEK, and they risk going bankrupt. Then it becomes an assistance market with only large players.
i-2nwqjQ1xKAVrTqcb3zdgCe	Madam President, I would like It will be easy for us to talk about individual cases and situations when Pia Steensland describes these issues in this way. Basically, an assistance provider should rely on authority decisions. When it comes to prosecuting cheating, welfare crime, we need legislation that makes the right demands. What does the law say? Well, the Social Insurance Agency may decide on the recovery of the compensation which it has itself decided upon, if the compensation has been paid incorrectly or with an excessive amount and the person receiving the compensation has realized or should reasonably have realised this. It is not that Försäkringskassan can claim compensation from assistance providers in all situations. That is when the organiser should reasonably have realised that the compensation was too high. Of course, I cannot comment on the specific cases that might have been contacted about Pia Steensland, but basically I find it difficult to see that we should change the legislation that says that when you should reasonably have realised that you have received an incorrect amount, you are liable for repayment. This is an important part of ensuring that the resources that we jointly devote not only to the welfare at large but also to personal assistance in particular really go to those who need personal assistance. It is important, and it is a reasonable order. If one can always say that one has acted in good faith, it will have consequences for welfare. But again; one should reasonably have realized that one has been wrongly paid out. That is what you have to deal with when dealing with these issues.
i-Y7utDZjzMNsqHaWasDeqQa	Madam President, I would like Ulrika Jörgensen has asked me whether I and the government are prepared to take a holistic approach and prioritise prevention and work towards a national health promotion strategy. In addition, Ulrika Jörgensen has asked if I and the government are prepared to actively find broad solutions across several departments to get a long-term collaboration for a healthier Sweden. Finally, the interpeller has asked whether I am prepared to put the preventive and health-promoting work high on the political agenda. In an international perspective, Sweden's population has a good health. At the same time, there are considerable differences in health between different groups. The aim of public health policy is to create social conditions for good and equal health throughout the population and to close the avoidable health gaps within a generation. The objective clarifies society's responsibility and requires joint and cross-sectoral work. The work is guided by the eight target areas based on a life cycle perspective starting with the conditions of early life and covering education, working life, our living environment and health-promoting healthcare. It is necessary to recognise health differences as a matter for society as a whole, both in order to achieve sustainable development and in order to make effective use of public resources. As part of the work towards the public health policy objective, the Public Health Agency was commissioned in 2019 by the Government to develop a support structure for public health work. The support structure is based on the public health policy framework with the overall objective and the eight target areas. For each target area, national targets and responsible authorities have been identified. It is through actions in all parts of society that equal health can be achieved. A number of indicators are linked to each target area, which should show direction and be used to follow up overall public health policy. Follow-up to public health policy is the engine of the support structure by clearly demonstrating developments in relation to the overall public health policy objective. With the help of the follow-up, we can also identify where there is a need for further knowledge or action. The framework makes it visible that public health policy is cross-sectoral and that work for good and equal health needs to be directed towards the conditions in people's everyday lives that have an impact on the development of public health. The support structure contributes to and enables systematic and coordinated action between authorities. Overweight and obesity are one of our major public health challenges. To slow down development, long-term preventive work is needed at local, regional and national level. The work needs to be carried out by a number of actors and sectors in society, ranging from preschool, school and working life to health care, transport, the food industry and civil society. An active outdoor life is also important for physical activity, health and well-being. The government has decided to set up a committee to propose measures to promote physical activity. I and the Government have also commissioned the Swedish Public Health Agency and the Swedish Food Authority to develop proposals for national targets with indicators to provide a clear focus for the work with sustainable and healthy food consumption in Sweden. The government continues to strengthen national work on sexual and reproductive health and rights. In particular, the focus will be on implementing the national SRHR strategy and creating the conditions for long-term and coordinated work at both national, regional and local levels. I would like to conclude by saying that there is now an opening to strengthening health promotion and prevention. The Government has decided to pay 4 1⁄2 million SEK in 2022 to professional organizations working to prevent and treat unhealthy living conditions. The funds are distributed by the National Board of Health and Welfare, and the focus should be on patients who have the greatest need, both medically and socio-economically, of interventions.
i-16PsdVvxpp3GjxYXkTTCm7	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. Never before has it been more topical to actively work for a more healthy Sweden. Today, a quarter of Sweden's health investments are spent on clinical care, while only one hundredth is spent on preventive efforts on the population's health behaviour. Healthy living habits in the population as a whole could prevent up to 90 percent of cardiovascular disease and 30 percent of cancer. Research shows that children and young people are becoming more and more sedentary. Overweight and obesity are a growing problem in Sweden. The fact that children and young people are physically active is a key factor in improving health in Sweden individually and in general. Active children and young people become active adults. As many as one in ten four-year-olds in Sweden today have overweight and obesity. The figure increases with increasing age and contributes to both physical and mental ill health. There are few areas that are so broad and in need of more collaboration between different organisational drains and issues such as health promotion, and which are therefore better suited for long-term strategy work. Madam President, I would like The Moderates were the first party to raise a motion in the Swedish parliament on health-promoting strategies. We mentioned, among other things, early interventions and the individual's responsibility for his/her health. We Moderates believe that Sweden must start working more coherently, coordinatedly and systematically with measures that are health-promoting, preventive and long-term. A stated goal should be to build an active, healthier Sweden, which is sustainable for all residents in the long term. Peesticks, coercion and bans will not lead to people starting to live more consistently and in the long term healthy, but it is access to support, aids, knowledge, advice, cooperation and inspiration to live more healthy that can help people acquire health-promoting lifestyles. Active health-promoting, preventive work should be given more place on the political agenda, I think, as it should be seen as an investment with good returns. Each invested crown will return SEK 6. In his initial reply, the Minister points out that overweight and obesity are one of the major public health challenges. Here we feel the same; we have discussed this before. There are good examples around the country. In my home county of Halland and my municipality of residence Kungsbacka, we were early out and implemented a collaborative model ten years ago, where region, municipality, association, business, school and leisure work together. Now we will also start a group for young children of 3 to 5 years, with early intervention. The collaborative model is designed to create a holistic view of the child's or youth's entire life situation. The model is based on long-term work to prevent obesity – obesity – and physical and mental illness. The starting point is always to strengthen the participants' motivation and self-esteem. Unfortunately, we see that in many places there are pipe problems – difficulties in coordinating and interacting between the state, region and municipality, even in these areas. There are also more obstacles along the way, such as the use of new technologies and digitalisation to share their health data with healthcare. I am very concerned that there are so many differences across the country in terms of the state of aid. That is why I think that more preventive work is needed and that this should be given priority and put as high on the political agenda.
i-UNbDtv8HSMnL9h1eG2xd6Y	Madam President, I would like There will not be much debate on this! But if I'm going to ask Ulrika Jörgensen for something specific in the next post, it's to reflect a little bit on the work that is actually going on. It is not a strategy but rather a whole bill that has rendered a main mission to the Public Health Agency, namely to have this support structure. There are a lot of nice words for what we work with in Sweden and among authorities, but the purpose is precisely to ensure that it becomes clear both locally, regionally and between authorities who does what and that one overall goal is that we end the avoidable health gaps within a generation. It was a very ambitious work that my predecessor, Gabriel Wikström, started with a Commission. There we also took the impression from the Marmot Commission, for example, which has a lot more years on its back. This was followed by a special Commission in Malmö, a Commission in Östergötland and certainly elsewhere. I hope that this is taken further and that it is understood that it is not just about information. It is basically a question of socio-economics playing a role. The pandemic has possibly made a few more than Ulrika Jörgensen and I have put on these glasses. It matters where you grow up, what your parents' educational background is, what the financial conditions are and whether your parents have a job to go to. All of this also ultimately affects health. We know how it can distinguish in life span between different parts of the same municipality. It is therefore not just a question of what policies exist and whether it is free of charge or costs to visit different health services and seek treatment. Addressing socio-economic differences in society is fundamental if we are to get to grips with unequal health. It's about the conditions for all students to fix the school. It is a question of allocating resources according to the needs of health care. It is not always the case that the most resources are directed towards those who have the toughest challenges. I would like to contribute to this in every way I can in my role, but it is also important for municipalities and regions to look at how to allocate resources and equalise unequal conditions. Ulrika Jörgensen specifically mentions obesity and obesity, obesity. I would like to make a little reflection on smoking and alcohol too, where I think I see a slip in this House. This applies not least to the parties on the right, which no longer seem to be so concerned that young people are starting to snort and do not seem to think that it does so much that we may increase the supply of alcohol and so on. There is a huge commitment to everything from farm sales to opening hours and that we should state that snus is not so dangerous. You're upset every time we limit smoking in public places. This flow makes me a little concerned. Nevertheless, we have this issue in this House, and I hope, of course, that Ulrika Jörgensen will support a continued restrictive policy on ANDTS.
i-B43oP9KtSikBC2RYt8kGbg	Madam President, I would like In his introductory statement, the Minister mentions the Committee to propose measures to promote physical activity. The committee's interim report came last week; the minister has probably read it. It was very interesting and contained many wise things that we can certainly take to heart. Much of this ties in with Moderate politics, so there's a lot to get along with. As I said, it's an interim report, and I thought I'd talk a little bit about it. No actor alone can achieve a society that promotes physical activity and reduces sedentary sitting. Strategic and active work is needed in several sectors and activities, both public and private, as well as civil society, of course. Health-promoting health care focuses on the overall contribution of care to improving health for the individual and for the population, and not just on disease-promoting measures. The Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare's follow-up to the national guidelines on healthy living habits shows that many more people would need support in changing their lifestyles. It is positive that the government is going in with extra support. This includes disseminating knowledge and creating learning environments and a basic understanding of the impact of individual activities, as well as a willingness and opportunity to prioritise their health and see it as an investment in the long term. This is an enormous area. It is about the cross-sectoral aspect, and I think it is important to cooperate at all levels and, of course, between the departments of the Government Office. That is why I raised these issues, because I think you have to talk to the others as well. This is not just a matter for the Ministry of Social Affairs, it is a cross-sectoral issue. It must be addressed at different levels and between different authorities and other activities. The Committee has seen that guidance documents and guidelines are necessary to promote physical activity. It is extremely important that it is evidence-based. But the implementation also needs to be further underlined. It is incredibly important that, as the Minister said, this should come out to the level of municipalities and regions. The demand for education on health effects of physical activity as well as on various implementation models is huge. We Moderates have put forward proposals for this to be included in the education for the health professions. The Committee's proposals contain, in my opinion, many sensible things. We will have to look at this further, of course. The minister wanted me to reflect a little. Smoking is definitely one of the biggest health risks that exist, and there we have come quite far with Non Smoking and more. The latest thing that has come up, however, is sedentary, obesity and overweight, as well as diet and lifestyle. The diet is of great importance. I think that we should get in a little bit more with the preventive work at school and review the meals. The Minister was on the socio-economic side. Some children may eat their only meal in school-- maybe that's all they can afford. It must, of course, be nutritious and meet the requirements so that we can take advantage of what is needed. You also need to review the school environment; it is very important. What does the building look like? How do we build our schools? How can we contribute to activity without using touchsticks and without the need for gymnastics clothes and so on? One should be able to move around in one's free time – it is extremely important. There may not be as much debate, as the Minister says, but perhaps we agree. Nevertheless, I believe that this needs to be addressed more at national level. If we strengthen the political will of us at this level, I believe that it reflects itself and gives rise to rings on the water. I think we need to be carrying there.
i-G4ySHrzopDguw4xVoSTjZK	Madam President, I would like Already in 2015, the Social Democraticly led government appointed a Commission on Equal Health. The task was to propose ways of reducing health gaps in society. The Commission presented its report in 2017. Of course, it was a referral, and we handled it in investigations. Then there was intensive and very important work to develop the Public Health Bill Good and Equal Health – a developed public health policy. When Ulrika Jörgensen asks for the issue to be raised to a higher level and for us to have a national perspective, I would say that we have it. But this was decided in 2018, and it is now 2022. We do not achieve equal health and deal with this in a year or two. We hope, of course, that we will see progress on a continuous basis, but there is a reason why we have the objective of closing the avoidable health gaps within a generation. We must be long-term and persevering. We must also not think that we should change our way of working if a working method does not work for a year or two. This requires a long-term approach. New structures and approaches need to be put in place. I would say that this support structure is nevertheless some kind of paradigm shift when it comes to improving public health. Now the responsibility of different authorities is clarified, as is the role of the Public Health Agency to be both driving and coordinating. It is about systematics and being able to follow up in order to ensure that we acquire more knowledge and that we are increasingly led by knowledge in the work to improve and strengthen public health. To be systematic and long-term I think is A and O. That's what's leading the way. The Committee recently submitted its interim report. Now it's time for a referral, and then we'll get back to you. But I am fundamentally very much in favour of the Committee's work. I think it is a good committee, which has the right free hands and which is also working to coordinate and associate itself with reference groups. It does not focus on the traditional groups that still move and do sports. It is not there that the Committee should have its main focus and its main proposals. I hope that I have the continued support of Ulrika Jörgensen and the Moderates when it comes to being restrictive also in terms of smoking, alcohol and snuff. If we do not understand that it affects public health but instead start focusing on physical activity, we will lose out at the other end. I would really like to emphasise that it is a combination. I don't want to say which is the most important thing-- I think it's hard to say. But all of this plays a very important role. It is about taking action in the field of ANDTS and continuing efforts in the area of physical health. But it's also about making sure you have a job to go to and that the kids get a high school education so that they have the opportunity to get a job. You can really say that it is frightening to look at statistics on unemployment, depending on whether people have finished ninth grade, have finished upper secondary school or have post-secondary education. It can also be seen that with better education and with better conditions, where people get resources as needed, there is every possibility of continuing to change and even out the socio-economic differences that still exist.
i-TRqmnoGWcpyhLkRTVJTdWJ	Madam President, I would like That's what the minister says, isn't it? That's exactly what I think I'm doing. It is a broad area, and this is not just a matter for the Committee on Social Affairs. I hope and expect perhaps a little bit that the Minister will make contact with other departments so that it will be pushed forward in a different way. I think it is a little bit that the Commission was also concerned about: it takes a lot of time to get it out of hand. I fully agree with you that it should be long-term and sustainable. That is, of course, the most important thing of all – and the fact that this is addressed with school, outdoor life and the community building, as I mentioned before. However, in view of the interim report and what we have discussed here, I still think that we may have to work in a slightly different way from what we are doing now. We're gonna collect the report and everything. But we have to start a lot sooner. We need to see a whole picture of this. You can't work in drain pipes. If you work in drain pipes at our level, it may also become drain pipes when you come down to the regional and municipal level. It is precisely about collaboration, which we have talked about when it comes to my municipality of residence, Kungsbacka in Halland. There we work in a completely different way with collaborative models. I find it unfortunate that it looks so different. The Minister also knows that care is different in different places in the country. But even health is very different. Can we find something governing at the national level makes it easier at this level too? I hear that the Minister thinks that the health promotion work is urgent. It is so good, but I do not think that the Minister really has answered: are we prepared to take more of a holistic approach and to prioritise and work towards a more national overall health-promoting strategy? I think that's what's needed. Now many authorities have different missions. Gather it all together! The Public Health Agency has the biggest mission – absolutely. But we have the Food Department. We have other departments that are also tasked with this. How are we going to bring it together so that there will be a national overall health-promoting strategy in the future?
i-YAkVPk5pdAsmr5hbKXvfKg	Madam President, I would like I cannot say this more clearly than that this House has decided on a public health policy proposal that really sets the light on how important it is for us to coordinate, evaluate, learn even more and be guided by knowledge. It is a thorough work that is going on. And, as I said, another bill I don't think will make things any better. This is the ruling one. This is why the Swedish Public Health Agency has a responsibility to be both coordinating and driving. It is a work carried out by many authorities, but of course also in municipalities and regions. The County Administrative Boards in Stockholm and Västerbotten, I believe, were given the government's task to implement each of their pilot projects in 2019– 2021– they have therefore quite recently been completed. It was about developing methods and working methods. How can we carry out regional work for good and equal public health? The aim is for the knowledge that has now been developed to be taken into account and disseminated to all county boards. It is just one example of the work that is going on.
i-Ujiezawrx6m14BXvR8sB9p	Madam President, I would like Margareta Cederfelt has asked me how I intend to act in order to ensure that restrictions on the freedom to conduct a business in the healthcare sector do not reduce the number of patients who receive care on time, and how I intend to act in order not to restrict the freedom of the healthcare business. Together with public health care providers, private health care providers contribute to providing Swedish patients with world-class healthcare. The basis for this scheme is strong professional careers, public funding and the principle of care being provided as needed. Therefore, the government is concerned about developments in which individuals with private health insurance have been able to gain priority in healthcare. Different contracts with private care providers provide insurance patients with shorter waiting periods than non-insurance patients. If the visit results in a referral, it can be used directly by a fully publicly funded healthcare provider. This arrangement provides opportunities for insurance patients to buy priority. The development has been described by the Swedish Agency for Health and Care Analysis, among other things. The Health Act states that those with the greatest need for healthcare should be given priority to care. If this system is not followed, there is a risk to patients. In addition, people's confidence in health care and, by extension, the welfare society as a whole is at risk. For these reasons, in August 2020 the Government commissioned a special investigator to propose measures to ensure that patients with private health insurance do not have faster access to healthcare or better care in the publicly funded healthcare sector over patients without such insurance. The investigation submitted its report in October 2021, and this is currently being prepared within the Government Office. In addition, on 8 February 2022, the government commissioned a letter investigator to supplement the investigation's proposal. The letter investigator shall report on his work by 30 June 2022 at the latest. In parallel with efforts to secure the principle of care as needed, the Government is taking several measures to increase accessibility and short waiting times in healthcare. A key element of this work is to ensure that there are sufficient staff with the right skills. It is a prerequisite for everything from increasing the number of places of care in emergency hospitals to securing the right of the population to its own fixed doctor at the health centre. Among other things, the government has increased the number of training places in healthcare professions and increased the general state grants to regions and municipalities by SEK 22.5 billion since the beginning of the mandate. In addition, the Government allocates close to 3 billion available to support and stimulate regional efforts to shorten waiting times and increase compliance with the healthcare guarantee. The Government has also recently commissioned the National Board of Health and Welfare to pay out approximately SEK 420 million to the regions in order to increase the number of care places. The state grant should, among other things, be used to hire nurses, doctors and other healthcare professionals and thus create more care places. The ongoing primary care reform is also very important to provide more patients with treatment at the right time. Care should be provided on time and as needed. Whoever has the greatest needs should go first. The government is acting to protect that principle.
i-KA4TEFhuhSfYgfwgCf7LQZ	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Minister of Social Affairs Lena Hallengren for her reply. I would like to start by saying that I find it very strange to stand here and debate when we have a neighbouring country that is at war – it is the biggest military attack on a country since the Second World War. I know that this is a view shared by Parliament and by the government, so I say it not to launch a political debate but only because I think it is important to emphasise. At the same time, it is important to keep the national political debate alive. We are elected to make laws for society and as parliamentarians to follow the work of the government. That is why we must also have a debate. I asked my questions to the Minister for Social Affairs because I see great risks in the proposal that the government will draw up. I do not feel more secure when I hear the response of the Minister for Social Affairs, who shows in my ears a great deal of over-belief in socialist health care. I can't see it can lead forward. Today we have a health service that is in crisis. It is good that it is pushed to financial resources, it is good that there is quality work and it is good that there are more students. However, I cannot see that a publicly funded health service alone has a chance to cope with all the current challenges of ensuring that the care to which patients are actually entitled exists. The Minister of Social Affairs mentions doctors and nurses. Others were referred to as other professions and groups. Let me also mention physiotherapists, dieticians and biomedical analysts – large groups that have private activities and at the same time have agreements with the public side. It cannot be the intention for a functioning healthcare system to be strangled and broken because of a social democratic philosophy that it is the public side that is absolutely best placed to carry out healthcare. When I am in contact with citizens, I hear many people say, for example, about the publicly funded health centre that they spend days trying to arrive at the telephone time that has been set. Once they call at eight o'clock in the morning, all the emergency times have passed, and they get a visit in two months. So they call the next morning – the same story. I cannot see that this is a problem that in any way has to do with what the Minister for Social Affairs says about care not being given on time. There's another clou that I haven't heard the Minister of Social Affairs touch at all. It is good that money is being spent on education, because more staff is needed, not least midwives, specialist doctors and specialist nurses. But how are these students going to complete their education if they cannot do the clinical training because there are no care places and staff and there are long queues and waiting times? That dimension must also be included. I want to see a functioning healthcare system that can make use of a functioning industry that is willing and interested in offering healthcare. That is exactly what is being done, for example, at St Göran's Hospital in Stockholm.
i-6TAmu75EbQh188sKvv9s9x	Madam President, I would like I am not entirely sure that Margareta Cederfelt has understood neither what the investigation should do nor what the Social Democratic policy should do. Let me therefore take this opportunity to describe this a little more. To sign agreements with private parties is what we want to achieve. We want care that goes hand in hand and everyone takes responsibility. You can't just pick out and split up the care, but that's very much what's happening. Margareta Cederfelt is getting into training. I am still not quite clear on how it facilitates education. We have a dilemma today, and that is that many private actors are not contributing. They have neither AT, ST or VFU sites. This may be because they have got a nice agreement from Region Stockholm that says they don't have to have it, but it's something we've seen. It is a problem that not all parts of healthcare contribute in terms of education. On the other hand, we naturally want to see people who are then fully trained, general or as specialists. Something else that I find very problematic is the fact that Margareta Cederfelt does not seem to think it is a problem that you buy yourself before in the queue. It is therefore reasonable that some of those who are trained to work in Swedish healthcare should work and only help those who have been able to afford private insurance. And who, then, has private insurance? It's not just anyone. The limit for taking out an insurance policy often goes somewhere between 63 and 70 years of age, and people with chronic diseases who really have a great need for care are in practice very difficult to take out an insurance policy. It is also the case that the reviews that exist – they are not so many, as the first investigation that the government set up pointed out – show that it is difficult to get real transparency and to see how one prioritises. The proposals that we are going to put in a first proposal are therefore to make it easier for regions to ensure that it is the needs that govern and that you do not go ahead just because you have taken out a private insurance policy. The dilemma is that if, according to the Health and Care Analysis, people who have private health insurance receive care more quickly, it could be assumed that all these people happened to have greater needs than those who did not have private insurance. But I guess that's not quite likely. I would like to hear Margareta Cederfelt put out the words on the issue of available care capacity that can be used and whether we should divide it up in Sweden and say that the person who has a private health insurance as well as has a track of her own. The moderate regional council in Stockholm wrote for not so long a book that she would be happy to dismantle herself, because instead we could have private health insurance and a completely different governance of health care. Is that what the Moderates are looking at? Is private health insurance supposed to replace the system we have? Otherwise, you have to decide what should guide you in Swedish healthcare: that you can pay for yourself or that you have needs that a coherent care should meet.
i-BGdmeJjnFnQwbfD1cEZjXo	Madam President, I would like I thank Lena Hallengren for the answer, but I have not become wiser about it. It was the Minister of Social Affairs who raised the student question, not me. I responded to the question, because it is a problem with lack of clinical sites. Let me remind you, however, that there are a large number of hospitals that receive students. Lena Hallengren doesn't seem to see this. I'm thinking about Sophiahemmet, I'm thinking about the little that's left of Ersta Hospital and I'm thinking about St. Göran's Hospital. I am also thinking of a large number of health centres and so on. This is a dilemma that I do not hear the Minister of Social Affairs touch with a single word. My question included what the Minister of Social Affairs intends to do to ensure that the number of patients receiving treatment on time is not reduced. The Minister for Social Affairs does not seem to be quite aware of my example with the health centre, where the chronically ill patient who has his care contact is told to wait a few months. Now it's taken, because the times disappeared five past eight this morning. A little more focus on this, I want to see from the government – a focus on how all citizens should actually be able to get care and what to do, not just blind talk about that there are some who can get care through insurance. Instead, how can we coordinate this? How can we enable private initiatives? One thing I have been thinking about in all these years that the issue has been raised is that it is the same rhetoric from the Social Democrats all along, but it is a perspective that is lacking. You say that you want more women and that women should have the same opportunities as men. Then there are a large number of nurses, often women, and a large number of dieticians, biomedical analysts and physiotherapists who have their receptions and are dependent on being able to have both insurance patients and publicly funded patients in order for their activities to go around. Is this what the Minister for Social Affairs and his colleagues want to stop? That is to say that fewer women should be able to be entrepreneurs and use their skills. I see that the Minister for Social Affairs does not like the question, so I assume that there will be an answer that is in line with the previous one. But I want to see a gender perspective when it comes to the possibility of both working privately and being able to run private activities, because I think this is healthy for health care. I see great advantages in this, as it provides a variation in how patients should be treated as well as opportunities to be able to specialize in a different way. Then the Minister of Social Affairs talked about Region Stockholm and my party colleague the Council of Finance Regions in Region Stockholm. But that is not what this is all about. This is about the government and what the government wants to do. So stop throwing dirt at others, but be sure to answer what should be done not to limit the freedom of business! Also ensure that patients receive treatment on time and that the outside group is reduced. That's exactly what it's all about.
i-NnPe1zthm3iCHMW9fNFoVC	Madam President, I would like It is clear that it is interesting what the largest opposition party has in response to how to increase accessibility in healthcare. You have had to test your politics for 16 years in Region Stockholm. The Regional Council there herself has written a book, and she says that she likes to wind up herself. The Moderates had a voice last autumn where they talked about privatising emergency hospitals but also other healthcare services. Margareta Cederfelt may be able to spend her last two minutes talking about how much is to be privatized. And is privatisation the solution? There is something fundamentally different between Margareta Cederfelt and me in this debate, and that is that I am not in favour of a debate about my wanting to achieve the greatest possible freedom of trade. I want to provide care as needed. I want people in Sweden who need care to get it. That is why I think this is completely unreasonable. And I am convinced that most of the Swedish people and quite a few in this House, with their hands on their hearts, do not think it reasonable to buy insurance in order to get ahead of a queue, as long as there is one. It is clear that the ambition is for us to increase accessibility. But this is completely incomprehensible to me. Why does it have to be that a private operator should have a sour cream file for insurance patients? Why not make an agreement with the region for 100% of its capacity and contribute with the skills it has – for which we have jointly funded the training? Then you contribute by ensuring that both basic education and specialist training are provided. That is not the case today. My answer is therefore that it is not about business freedom and female entrepreneurship. It is about the conditions for operating and at the same time contributing to care as needed.
i-LAvd2zJGWMu3VLaGyBCarH	Madam President, I would like It's about care on time. That is exactly what I have asked my question about – the number of patients to receive treatment on time. Let me highlight an example here of those patients who are in line in regions to replace their hip joints. The health guarantee has been passed, but the pain persists. The region often sends patients to St Göran's Hospital and Sophiahemmet Hospital. Does the Minister of Social Affairs think that it is all right, so when it is a region that is referring because it is unable to fulfil its own mission, it should be able to refer patients to private units, but not if it is patients who are in trouble and who cannot get the help they need and on their own initiative actually make sure to get a guarantee for receiving care? This is what it is about for very many people who have private health insurance, either themselves or through their employer, so that there is a lack of confidence in public health care and what it can achieve. These are perspectives that are important, and these are perspectives that I am concerned about not being included in the social democratic inquiry. The question is not as one-dimensional as the Minister for Social Affairs thinks. When we talk about health care and health care workers, there are, of course, opportunities to find other ways forward than public employment. It is an important issue and an important parameter. Not least, it can be seen that many private carers have much easier recruitment than public carers. The working environment is also often said to be better.
i-FZNwVsokWF7wAEaEUSd2Qj	Madam President, I would like It is fascinating how one-eyed Margareta Cederfelt is when it comes to the fact that private health care providers are always good and best. I am not saying that private carers are good and best, and I am not saying that public carers are always good and better. I say that one should jointly contribute to people receiving care as needed. My view is that a private operator should have an agreement with a region. You should ensure that you contribute so that people who need care should not have to think about whether they should take out a private insurance policy and should not have to think about which hospital to turn to or who to call. People pay taxes, have care needs and turn to care. They are beginning appropriately with primary care, where we also propose changes and improvements to increase accessibility. But then it should be uninteresting for the individual if it is a private or public actor. They will cooperate and cooperate for the benefit of patients. That is the opinion of the Social Democrats, and that is also what this investigation aims to ensure.
i-UtV2ZT2KaL7J741iHRUmQb	Madam President, I would like Pontus Andersson has asked me whether the government will raise the issue of longer Saturday opening at Systembolaget in the Riksdag, and, if not, why the government does not want to let the Riksdag decide the issue. As I answered Pontus Andersson's question on 23 February 2022, Systembolaget in Sweden holds the exclusive right to retail sale of spirits, wine, strong beer and alcoholic beverage-like preparations. This exclusive right has a social policy purpose e, to limit the medical and social harm of alcohol, which has also been supported by the Parliament. The main means of achieving the objective of the monopoly are the possibility of restricting access and excluding private profit in the retail sector. Restriction of accessibility comes about by Systembolaget under the Alcohol Act and through an agreement with the government having control over store establishment and opening hours and ensuring that alcoholic beverages are not sold to persons under 20 years of age. It is on the basis of Swedish alcohol policy and its social policy purpose that an increase in opening hours must be seen. Systembolaget has highlighted the issue of increased opening hours based on generally changed purchasing behaviour and the company's legitimacy. Against this, the government has weighed the increased availability and the increased damage that longer opening hours would entail. In this assessment, the government has also taken into account that Systembolaget has been offering e-commerce for some time now and that new research shows greater risks with alcohol than previously known. The accessibility restriction is also important to ensure that alcohol policy continues to meet the requirements of EU law in a systematic and coherent manner in order to maintain Systembolaget's retail monopoly. In terms of legitimacy and trust in Systembolaget, we can see that it continues to be large. Systembolaget measures in opinion polls on an ongoing basis how many people want to keep Systembolaget and the monopoly. For 2020, this figure was 76%. Based on this assessment, it is the government's position that Systembolaget's opening hours on Saturdays should not be extended. Systembolaget's opening hours are decided by the company itself within the framework of the guidelines established by the Riksdag. However, the Government has no obligation to make proposals to the Riksdag when state-owned companies make proposals. The government has conducted a dialogue with Systembolaget's management on the matter, and the company has subsequently announced that they will not proceed with the plans.
i-2SRpwn92MijrmRL91YZ9s4	Madam President, I would like In September Systembolaget's management raised the question of extended opening hours on Saturdays. A change in opening hours requires a parliamentary decision. Systembolaget therefore wanted the matter to be raised in the Riksdag. Unfortunately, their proposal seems to have been rejected by the government. In the answer that I now receive from Lena Hallengren, it emerges that the Government refers primarily to the social policy objectives of Swedish alcohol policy and that increased accessibility would adversely affect these objectives. The Government highlights, among other things, the claim that increased opening hours on Saturdays would lead to increased damage. I respect the views of the Government on this issue, but I do not agree that longer opening hours on Saturdays would have a negative impact on public health. However, the question was why the government, despite Systembolaget's wishes, has not chosen to proceed with the proposal to the Riksdag. The government may definitely think that longer Saturday-opening would have a negative impact on public health, but regardless of the government's opinion on the matter, it is the Riksdag that decides on Systembolaget's opening hours. If the board of Systembolaget thinks it would be appropriate to extend these, I believe that the Parliament should decide on this issue. There is really no indication that the Swedes have more alcohol problems now than when Systembolaget had Saturday closed or before the Company got self-service stores, so it is strange that the government does not even let the Riksdag try the issue of letting Systembolaget open for a few extra hours on Saturdays. Furthermore, the Government said in its reply that the state has control over retail establishments, that it should not sell to people who are under 20 years of age and that confidence in Systembolaget is very high. I also have high confidence in Systembolaget, Madam President, and I think it is a good thing that careful checks are carried out on the basis of the age limits that exist. But this does not really have much to do with the question itself. What I am reacting to is that the government is stopping the proposal for longer opening hours. I can't see that this affects neither the government's control of retail establishments, age controls or trust in the Company. It is the fact that it is the parliament and not the government that decides the question that requires this question to be asked. When there comes a request from Systembolaget's board for longer opening hours, I think it would be reasonable for Sweden's highest decision-making body, the Riksdag, to examine this issue. In view of this, I would like to ask Minister of Social Affairs Lena Hallengren: Will the government raise the issue of longer Saturday opening at Systembolaget in the Riksdag? If not, why does the government not want to have the parliament, which is the country's elected representative, try this question?
i-Tcs4QFXZyAFwaNq4KyqQd6	Madam President, I would like These are precisely the questions I have answered in the interpellation answer, but I will try to put out the words a little more. It is Systembolaget itself that decides on its opening hours, but they do so within the framework of the guidelines laid down by the Riksdag. The Government has no obligation to raise proposals coming from various state-owned companies to the Riksdag. The government has had a dialogue with Systembolaget's management on the matter. The company has subsequently announced that they will not proceed with the plans, and then the government does not consider that there is any reason to proceed with the proposal. I would really like to say to Pontus Andersson and others who are listening to this debate that the question that this could increase accessibility is not a secondary issue. That's why we have Systembolaget. That is why we are granted a monopoly in the European context. There are social policy reasons. We try, of course, on the part of the Government and the Riksdag, but not least it is Systembolaget's task to balance this and ensure that there is access but that it is within the limits set by the Riksdag. It is a question of maintaining restrictiveness and taking the social policy responsibility that the issue requires. Alcohol is not just any product. The government acts as owner and has a mandate to make decisions and state its views on issues related to Systembolaget. I think Pontus Andersson was concerned about what it is that says that these two hours could increase the harmful effects of alcohol. It is true that there is no analysis made of exactly these two hours, but the research clearly shows that there is a strong correlation between increased availability and increased consumption. There was a time – I have read about this myself – when it was Saturday closed at Systembolaget. The extension of the opening hours until 3 p.m. was preceded by a trial period in a number of areas in Sweden for a year to review the consequences. It then evaluated, looked at risk factors and made the assessment that this could be achieved. Accessibility has recently increased at a different end than the opening hours that this interpellation is about, and as I mentioned in my answer, in the form of e-commerce and home delivery throughout Sweden. Therefore, the overall assessment made by the Government when the Company makes contact and discusses the issue that it is not appropriate to further increase accessibility.
i-GBTD4EXbdMnNdQKVGT6xxp	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. At least since the 15th century, Swedish leaders have in various ways introduced different types of restrictions regarding the alcohol habits of Swedes. As early as 1494, Sten Sture the Elder issued a ban on both burning and selling spirits in Stockholm. Between 1917 and 1955 strong beer was prohibited. In 1919 the counterbook system was introduced, and in 1982 Systembolaget closed on Saturdays. Over the last 30 years, we have witnessed some liberalisations of Swedish alcohol legislation. For example, in 1991 the first self-service shop was opened to the test, but not until 2014 did all stores have self-service. In 2001, all system companies were re-opened on Saturday, and in 2018 an announcement was voted to allow farm sales through the Riksdag. However, this has not yet been introduced. Madam President, I would like There are probably many of us who have been in a situation when we spontaneously invited friends to dinner on a Saturday and thought it might be good to have a bottle of wine or a couple of beers for the food, but Systembolaget has already closed. If you really want a bottle of wine, it usually solves itself anyway. Maybe you can borrow from the neighbor. The guests might be able to bring with them. I live in Rydebäck, outside Helsingborg, has only 20 minutes by ferry to Denmark. Just like when strong beer was banned in Sweden, we can buy our wine or other alcohol as soon as we are in Danish water. To take turns was, and still is, a thing in Helsingborg because of Sweden's alcohol policy. If you always want to be spontaneous, you plan your purchases from Systembolaget. You can simply stock up with beer, wine and spirits so that you always have it available when you want it. This is exactly what bad opening hours lead to – it increases the availability of alcohol in the home. Then we might ask ourselves whether these planned purchases, which make you always have a warehouse at home, lead to people drinking less or drinking more. I rather believe in the latter. Sweden's restrictive stance regarding opening hours probably has the effect of people drinking more, although the purpose of the government is the opposite. That the government chooses to raise this issue puts the age of government in a new perspective, I feel. The government recently made a proposal that 15-year-olds, for example, should be allowed to change gender. It is now proposed that twelve-year-olds should be able to change legal sex. However, adults over 20 years of age are not considered to be of age enough to buy a bottle of wine after 3 p.m. on a Saturday. For me, this is becoming quite absurd. Madam President, I would like In his answer, Minister Systembolaget mentioned high confidence and that the state has control over store establishments and that this way you can ensure that people under 20 can not buy alcohol. But that is not really what this issue is about. I have received a good answer regarding the fact that this question is not being tried in Parliament precisely because the government does not need to raise the issue. But my party, like all other parties, does not push the question of the abolition of Systembolaget. Like all other parties, we do not want to change the age limit for the purchase of alcohol. However, I would like to ask the Government whether it would not be reasonable to make people's lives a little less complicated by actually allowing Systembolaget to remain open longer on Saturdays.
i-8bHGWnVyMDZ6LebkY7AEPd	Madam President, I would like There are certainly some people listening to this debate, because many people think it is important that we have a system company where you can buy both alcohol and, nowadays, non-alcoholic beverages and which has a range that many people who come from other countries become quite envious of. We are really going to do everything we can to ensure that the monopoly is maintained. We shouldn't challenge it in different ways. This is just a small input to Pontus Andersson in view of other debates that are going on. We should not challenge Systembolaget's monopoly in Sweden; that is my very firm opinion. When it comes to inconvenience and if it wasn't a little easier to have it in a different way, I want to say that it is the inconvenience that Pontus Andersson, I and some others can buy and find ourselves given that we know the negative consequences and backsides of alcohol being easily accessible to those who can't plan their purchases and for those who restock as soon as it's over. I hope I break open doors when I say that alcohol can be a contributing cause of violence both inside and outside the home. This can be about bar-related violence between unknown people. Alcohol is also at moderate levels a risk factor for, among other things, various forms of cancer. Alcohol also increases the risk of liver damage, cardiovascular diseases, mental illness and much more. It is quite a common misconception that small amounts of alcohol would be harmless or even healthy. There is no scientific evidence for this. We know that alcohol reaches all organs and affects the entire body on both the inside and the outside. It is estimated that around 300 000 Swedes have an addiction to alcohol. Every year between 5 000 and 7 000 Swedes die of diseases or injuries related to alcohol. If you only include deaths with alcohol-related diagnosis, the figure is 1,938 people aged 15 years or over in 2019. There's quite a few of them. Also remember that it is not only the alcohol-dependent people who may experience an alcohol-related disease – even moderate drinkers may be affected. According to the Swedish Cancer Society, approximately 1,300 cases of cancer per year are related to alcohol consumption. Alcohol consumption causes 2.3 per cent of all cancer cases in Sweden and is one of the main avoidable causes of cancer. Studies have also shown that alcohol costs society considerably more than the benefits give back. Research clearly shows that consumption increases as availability increases. As consumption increases, alcohol damage and social costs also increase. It is therefore important that we do not increase the availability of alcohol and increase consumption. Instead, we should ensure that we reduce consumption – I did not say accessibility – in order to improve public health and reduce the number of people affected by disease. To return to Pontus Andersson's question about extending the opening time by two hours, I would like to say that it is always a matter of making an overall assessment. Now Pontus Andersson went much further back in time than I did when I talked about Saturday-closed system companies. He was somewhere 700 years back. But it shows that this is important to take seriously. Of course you can change your outlook. As I said, we have increased the availability of e-commerce and home delivery after extensive experimental activities. We must ensure that we do nothing that will be difficult to reverse from. In this case, the government has had a dialogue with the B olag that we do not see this as appropriate, and the B olag has decided not to proceed with the matter. Therefore, there is no reason to raise the issue in the Swedish parliament, as the government sees it.
i-RiSEta5m5RsHZEpPb6eQJr	Madam President, I would like I believe that the Government and I can agree that we do not agree, so I will not prolong this debate much more. But to sum up what we actually agree on: none of us push the question of abolishing the System. We agree on the damage mentioned by the Government. The Government and I agree on age rules for the purchase of alcohol. I am sure we also agree that, just as we are about to continue to allow e-commerce. But what is important in this debate, which is about extended opening hours on Saturdays, we do not seem to agree on. I stand by my opinion – if Systembolaget's board believes that extended opening hours on Saturdays would be desirable, this issue should be examined by the Riksdag. In accepting the proposal, people's everyday lives had been simplified and people's need to keep alcohol at home had been reduced. It is therefore about the availability of alcohol at home. Over the last 30 years we have seen a slow but gradual liberalisation of Swedish alcohol policy. Even if this does not happen now, I don't think it will be long before the Swedes of the government are considered to be of age enough to buy a bottle of wine after 3 p.m. on Saturdays.
i-TftGmWJvsK4GXZkKEGKink	Madam President, I would like I would like to draw Pontus Andersson's attention to the fact that if all proposals made in dialogue with state-owned companies were to generate proposals to take a position on in the Swedish Parliament, this would be a major feature of the work. That is not what the management system looks like. The government rules the kingdom, which is sometimes mentioned. This includes being responsible for the governance of state-owned companies. It also involves having a dialogue with the companies. This may well result in the conclusion, after careful consideration and after discussions, that proposals should be submitted to the Swedish Parliament, but it cannot be made every time proposals are made by state-owned companies. I have not ever taken part in any research that says that we have a situation where there is more alcohol at home and that it increases consumption. Maybe that research will come. In that case, we will have to take a stand on it. It can be easy to overlook that we have the relatively low consumption that we still have today in Sweden thanks to all the restrictions that are in place. There is no guarantee that we will remain at that level if we take steps by step. We have taken steps to increase accessibility. Let us follow that trend before we take even more steps, so that we do not create problems that we could not foresee.
i-XkPUcKA4152p8DCZwLYM9h	Madam President, I would like Thomas Morell has asked me whether I and the government intend to give the Customs Agency additional resources and whether I intend to work towards increased cooperation between the Customs and the police to stop the criminal gangs on the roads. The government takes organised crime very seriously. As the Prime Minister has said, this government has as its clear priority the turning of every stone to combat it. All the tools the government has at its disposal should be used in that work, and there the state authorities that have a law enforcement mission are of course particularly important. The Finnish Customs has a broad mission. It is a matter of setting and levying duties, taxes and levies in order to ensure proper recovery. The authority shall also monitor and control traffic to and from Sweden in order to comply with rules on the entry and exit of goods. In addition, the Finnish Customs must prevent and combat crime in connection with the entry and exit of goods. In the law enforcement work, the Customs Agency will prioritise stopping weapons, narcotics and explosives from entering the country. In recent years, the government has significantly strengthened the resources of the Customs Agency. Since 2017, the Agency's funding has increased by 30 per cent, which has enabled the workforce to increase by approximately 315 annual workforces by 2021. With the parliamentary budget decision for 2022, the Swedish Customs Agency's funding has been increased by an additional SEK 175 million for 2022, which will allow for even more employment. However, Parliament's increase in appropriations is not permanent. I would like to point out that the continued increase in resources for the Customs Agency is a matter for the forthcoming ordinary budgetary process, and I cannot and do not want to anticipate it. The Police Authority has also received substantial reinforcements of resources in recent years. According to the Police Authority's personnel statistics, in January there were more police officers employed than ever before. The government's objective is to increase the number of police employees by 10,000 between 2016 and 2024, and by January the number of employees had increased by nearly 6,500. So the police authorities are well on their way to the target. For a number of years now, there has been a well-established and well-functioning cooperation between several government agencies, not least between the Customs and the Police Authority, in order to tackle organised crime. The Police Authority has strengthened its efforts to improve controls on heavy commercial traffic, increased days of checks and increased the number of people involved in the control of professional traffic, which should also be useful in detecting and prosecuting the transport of contraband and stolen goods. The Government has also taken a number of measures to ensure that the Customs Agency has relevant tools to make it more difficult and prevent different types of organised crime. One example is the amendments to the Smuggling Act introduced on 1 August 2021, which means that customs officials in connection with customs controls can also act upon detection of suspected crime that is outside the Customs Administration's ordinary criminal catalogue. For example, there may be a suspicion that stolen goods are about to be taken out of the country, smuggling or money laundering. As a general rule, however, the police must first approve the intervention. Another example is the study which, in November, submitted the report "Actions in border areas" to the government. In order to improve the possibilities for combating cross-border crime, the investigation proposes that the Police Authority, in particular, should be given specific powers in certain border areas. These include increased opportunities to conduct camera surveillance and to intervene in crime prevention. The proposals for camera surveillance also include the Finnish Customs. The report has been referred and the period for referral expires in March. Another example is the investigation that the government set up last year to create a transparent, efficient and uniform regulation of the Customs Agency's powers so that the Customs Authority is better placed to carry out its mission effectively. The investigator shall also consider whether the Authority should be given additional powers and, if so, propose such powers. According to the directives, the report is due to be submitted on 16 May 2022.
i-JvDYhgZy8GRGRm5yh7bJ4C	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. This is not the first time we have discussed crime on the roads. This probably won't be the last either. The road is our biggest crime scene, and we can see that these criminal networks operate in the country in a way that is worrying. As early as 2012, ten years ago, some police officers at the then county war in Västra Götaland stated that these criminal networks and the illegal traffic on the roads are closely linked and that these criminal networks create economic conditions for carrying out other criminal activities. If we look at what has happened in Sweden in recent years, we see that the crime is increasing dramatically. You steal machines and equipment for large amounts, which then leave the country. Into the country we get drugs, weapons, explosives, alcohol and even people. There are quite a lot of people being smuggled across borders. It is not people who come here to seek protection, but people who are then exploited most severely, including in the construction industry, and young girls are used for prostitution. This is the reality we have to deal with, and that is why we need to put all the resources in place to get to grips with it. It is about having a well-functioning control at the country's borders that stops the exit and entry, and having a well-functioning control device on the country's roads that stops vehicles and makes checks to see where the vehicle comes from and what its cargo is. It avoids the process of obtaining prosecutor's decisions on search warrant and such matters when you have a well-functioning control apparatus, because this is part of the service. As a car inspector or as a special officer for flying inspection, I own the vehicle until the inspection is complete. I'm the one who decides what to do. If I have stopped a vehicle, I can decide that it should be checked, and I can go in and look in the cargo hold to see if the goods are secured. If I discover anything in that situation, I'll have to contact a senior officer who in turn will contact the prosecutor. Thus, with a control device that works, you have access to the vehicle until you are finished with the control. It's extremely effective, but then you have to have people out there. If you can combine the Customs' control of the country's borders with a well-functioning control on the roads, you put in a strong counter-fire against the criminals. It is about creating as much gravel in their machinery as it can only be so that they cannot create the economic conditions for carrying out their criminal activities. The ten-year-old report shows what we had to do then, and it is not yet done. So criminals have a ten-year head start. It would be interesting to hear what ideas the Government has to solve this. I have ideas, and I'm happy to share them with the Government.
i-BxHrTDwoHmSzUpATeLWfLo	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Thomas Morell, for another debate on crime on the way and the road as a crime scene! We've discussed this before. The ten-year perspective is interesting, because this has really been tightened up in the last ten years. We have a completely different situation today, with an unprecedented expansion of the police organization and a substantial reinforcement of border customs. We also have well-developed cooperation between law enforcement authorities to tackle, not least, organised crime on the road. We have also pushed in Europe to get a much sharper regulatory framework for the unregulated road traffic market with stricter penalties, penalties and complaints – all to make demands for the sector to be cleaned up. Interpellation is a lot about the important Customs. Many trucks roll into Sweden, and then there are special control possibilities and an organization that can keep track of both entry and exit in a wise way. Intelligence cooperation between the police and customs services is crucial here, because the police fight crime throughout society, while the Customs Agency has its specific competence, especially at the border. The Swedish Customs Agency is now developing this and is growing as an organisation. Last year there was a strong growth, especially at the border, and this year it continues to grow. Interpella nten asked if the Swedish Customs is going to grow and if more resources are needed. The answer is yes. More resources have been added, and resources continue to be provided. The Customs Agency also adds new technical materials, such as scanners, radar and more. I have also initiated an investigation dealing, above all, with the powers of the Political Authority in a border zone. The investigation is out for a referral, and we'll see what the referral points are. The proposal gives the police more opportunity to work with crime prevention, work with cameras in a more systematic way and work with the storage of data from these cameras so that you can see movements. This facilitates further cooperation with the Finnish Customs in the area of law enforcement. A lot is done, and a lot is going on. Much remains to be done, and I share Thomas Morell's view that much of organised crime is linked to the road, whether we are talking about the smuggling of weapons, drugs and people into the country or the export of stolen goods from our country. We have had several interpellation debates on the international leagues, but they are not the focus of today's debate. The Customs Agency will have increased resources and will work even closer to the Police Authority, and with the new investigation, which we look forward to moving forward with, we will not least give the police new powers but also customs linked to the cameras. There is also a major review of the Swedish Customs regulations. As I said, much has happened, much is happening and much remains to be done.
i-FuyG87tiJMmXmqPJfNjncB	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. Yes, much remains to be done, and reality says otherwise than the government's answer. This morning I looked at what it looks like when it comes to wanted machines. In 2021 a total of 272 construction machines, tools and tractors were requested in Sweden. Of these 204 were machinery and equipment and 68 were tractors. Of the 204 wanted machines only 29 were recovered, which means that 75 machines and the tools are still gone, that is 86 percent. Of the 68 wanted tractors, 22 had been recovered, which means that 46, or 68%, are still missing. There is much evidence that these machines are leaving the country. The police report I mentioned stated that it was on-demand work. The criminals had a list of what to get, and then the stuff left the country at night. The Germans have taken a number of transports with stolen cars from Sweden. My old boss was able to tell me that since the E6 and the Öresund Bridge are wide open after 8:00 p.m., just drive out what you've stolen... and a little bit it is. Construction machines and tractors are not something you carry under your arm over the border, but the only chance to get these big, heavy machines out is by truck. It is important to have a coordinated role with the Customs and the police to break down criminal networks and their ability to create financial resources. When Encrochat was broken, it turned out that ten times more drugs were introduced in Sweden than was previously understood. Then we understand the extent of what is running across the border and the need to ensure that the limit of that type of transport is protected. However, it is not enough, but it is also necessary to have a watchful eye on the roads in the country so that operational activity can be slowed down. The criminals are extremely effective and know exactly what to get and then drive out of the country. I myself was active in the police when a thief's hideout was taken up in Värmland. Materials had been collected that had been stolen and hidden out in the woods, and then a truck came to pick it up and drive it out of the country. But the police had learned what was going on and had been spying for a while, and they took the gang that had engaged in theft. After the police had obtained them, it turned out that they had been here before but under other names. They're changing identities to make it harder to track them. The government's ability to put sticks in the wheels is lagging behind. We've been constantly discussing things. One is customs, the other is police and the third is another authority. Instead, we must ensure that the authorities have more cooperation space to take the criminals, otherwise we will not be able to do so.
i-5PSf766H9FvUy6MuZ5sbEY	Madam President, I would like I am interested to hear whether Thomas Morell has received signals from the Swedish Customs that they do not think they are cooperating with the police when it comes to accessing international theft leagues, for example. My picture is that the police and the Customs are very proud of the intelligence cooperation they have. It is possible that I am wrong on this point and that Thomas Morell has other tasks. It is de facto the case that the government has given the authorities the task of cooperating and that they have now established cooperation forums within regular structures, including between customs and the police. When it comes to international theft leagues, it is an enormous priority that the government has done to stop the theft leagues from even entering Sweden. If you have committed crimes in the past, you do not have the right to enter, and cooperation with other countries can be crucial to preventing the criminal gangs from entering. We have tightened the penalties for both systematic theft and fence crimes. We have also tightened the penalties for burglary in homes because we previously had too low penalties that made Sweden more attractive than other countries to commit this type of systematic theft. We have increased international cooperation both within Europe and with our neighbours in order to tackle theft leagues. We are coordinating the work between police and customs, as I have already mentioned. We now make it easier to expel criminals and ensure that more criminals convicted of crime in Sweden are allowed to spend their time in prison in their home countries rather than in Sweden. We're strengthening customs resources. We have done this by 30%, and it continues. Their focus is very much on strengthening border control and also on new technical equipment in order to get to the criminals. We are making a historic effort on the police with more employees. We've never had more cops than right now, and there's more coming. We are also working systematically on the camera issue now, not least in a border zone. And then we have the preventive work where the police have cooperation people when it comes to crime prevention work precisely against the international theft leagues in each police region around Sweden. There you work with neighbourly collaboration, boating and more things, and we see that when you do that kind of work, thefts reduce quite dramatically. This is an important piece of work. I'm a little surprised that Thomas Morell paints the picture that customs and the police aren't cooperating. That is not my picture on this issue.
i-FEtvRVXNHTQF5uefjh4F94	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. It's a matter of listening. We need more roadside checks. They're far too few. That's where the cooperation should be. I have never questioned the fact that there is a great deal of cooperation between the ordinary regular police and customs, but we have far too few officials on the road who can intervene against this type of activity. Then there's this thing about them changing their identity. If they have been punished once as Pelle Pettersson in Sweden, they will appear as Olle Gustavsson next time. That's the crux of it. They change their identity and change them all the time. Here it is up to all the authorities to be on their toes to get to this kind of crime. The cars change their identity. If they go north, they'll have one plate, and if they go south, they'll have another. So it's about being in the game. It's a little interesting to see what insurance companies are writing. Ann Hassel Tano, head of investigation at the insurance company If, writes: How is it possible that everyone agrees on strong action but that nothing is happening anyway? That's what she's asking. She also writes that the problem is that customs and police lack resources and powers. Sweden is particularly vulnerable because the risk of being caught and convicted is small, and the penalties are so mild that it does not act as a deterrent. Previously, seven people were arrested in Malmö with 1,034 catalysts. They were arrested, but released. It was 2021. That's the reality. It's got to be a lot tougher. Just this week, I was talking to my old colleagues in the traffic police. They have not received any additional resources. There are no more officials on the road. That is the problem we are facing.
i-9SgqGUCzLm67hShUUepMff	Madam President, I would like About the last one, we can be in complete agreement. We need more checks on the roads. This is what the police authorities have as their plan. These professions are fairly well educated and take longer to train, and so it takes longer to put them on the road. Better controls will be needed both to combat crime and to ensure that there is order and order in our ways. Otherwise, we flag out our haulage industry, as we have done historically since we did not really have any regulations. We had a government in the past that did not care about these issues but rather liberalised the whole of this market, which led to major problems for the hauliers and for the people being used. Here our government has taken a wide range of measures to tighten things up. We have tightened the penalties for organised and systematic thefts and also strengthened customs and police, and we are moving on to use modern technology to get to grips with this. I look forward to continuing to strengthen the work as both customs and the police grow so that we get more checks on the roads, using modern technology to ensure that the theft leagues cannot operate in Sweden in the way they have done. One can be quite pleased to note that some of the work bears fruit. If you look at thefts of boat engines and boats and burglaries in houses, you can see that the number has fallen over time, but more work remains. The criminal gangs are very clever. They change, and depending on where the great profitability is, they change the mode and make money out of it. We should not let them terrorize Sweden or operate here. More work remains to be done, but in this area one can certainly say that the policy has delivered a lot and will continue to deliver.
i-PqMUFRuKzoEU48r4X7zNMh	Madam President, I would like Thomas Morell has asked me whether I and the government intend to reduce energy taxes in accordance with the promise made in connection with the introduction of the reduction obligation. The government announced at the time of the introduction of the reduction obligation that the reduction levels would increase over time and that the CO2 tax could be adjusted on the basis of the increased biofuel mix, and this has also happened on several occasions. For example, in order to meet increased fuel prices as a result of increased biofuel blends, the Government reduced the energy and carbon dioxide tax on petrol and diesel on 1 January 2020 and also paused the so-called Bnp indexation for both 2021 and 2022. Under the rules of the Energy Taxation Directive and the Energy Tax Act, fuels used as motor fuel should be taxed as their fossil counterpart, unless there is a state aid approval for the fuel. Therefore, in the context of the introduction of the reduction obligation, biofuels under the reduction obligation started to be taxed at the same energy and CO2 tax as petrol and diesel. Previously, the biofuels involved had been tax-free. Fuel prices have risen sharply over the past year, and we are closely following price developments. This is mainly due to the increasing price of oil, but also to the increased involvement of sustainable biofuels in the context of the reduction obligation. As far as fuel taxes are concerned, these have not been actively increased at any time in recent years. On the contrary, the Government has submitted a proposal to Parliament to reduce the energy tax on petrol and diesel.
i-GktWRqvYw6Eczo3h1m365D	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Fuel prices have really hit the ceiling, as it stands now, and we are in an emergency. There are haulage companies closing down, and many will go bankrupt. We can't have a diesel price that's 25 crowns a litre – there aren't plans in the world. How are we going to cope with industry and its transport? How are we going to manage the forest industry's transport? How are we going to cope with agricultural transport when there is no one who can afford to refuel the truck? It just can't be done. You often hear from the government that it is the world market price that sets prices. Then it is strange that the world market price is 7 SEK lower in Denmark. Something else is wrong. I checked the prices. Today the diesel costs 18.84 in Denmark, and the price in Sweden is 24.77. On 23 December the price was 18.42 in Sweden. So Denmark has about the same price as we had at the time. There is something else that is wrong, and it is mainly the reduction obligation that is the culprit in the drama. The government has to do something. I assume that the Government will take a quick march back to the Government Office and then take action for the Swedish haulage companies, because this is not possible. Yesterday I listened to a piece from Radio Värmland. It was about a skier named Jan Nilsson in Grums. He will close down his company because of the high diesel prices. He has cancelled his new truck, which also means that the driver he had planned to hire does not get his job. There are no margins left, Jan says. There is also a radio feature from Västernorrland. I read: On Thursday, the target price for a litre of diesel was raised by over SEK 1. There will be a million pounds in the farm's financial statements, and in a larger context our export companies lose competitiveness towards the outside world. Then I don't know what happens to Sweden, says Richard Ferm. This entry comes from Radio Västernorrland. In its answer, the Government writes that the Government is following price developments closely. Surely no one has an interest in the government following price developments closely if there is no action! I can't do this. Sweden's Åkeri company has a long time come with a debate article today that questions this. It is not possible to have this price trend. You cannot compete in the market when Sweden is so high compared to other countries. There are hauliers who have diesel clauses. They can thus increase the price of their transport. But they lag behind one to three or perhaps up to six months, and some have year - long contracts. I can't. I was talking to a haulage company who since 1 December had had increased costs of 800 000 SEK – almost the million. That's what they've taken from the savings. And when the savings are over, what do you do? That's when the company goes down. Then how are we supposed to get food out to the stores? How are we gonna get drugs to the hospitals? How are we going to get the equipment they need to operate on their patients? There is a need for lorries to be able to carry out the transport. It requires that there are hauliers who can live in a healthy market. It is absolutely horrible with 25 crowns gallon. I can't do that! Now the government has to deal with this, and today, preferably last week.
i-JW8uTYzQbrMSw3ZPR3QLNZ	Madam President, I would like It is an important issue that is being discussed. We have exceptionally high petrol and diesel prices in Sweden right now. If you look at recent price developments, you can see that it has nothing but to do with the war in Ukraine. It creates uncertainty about oil supplies in the future and whether Russian oil will be used in Europe at all. It is now driving up oil prices internationally. That makes the situation very tricky. This is an acute situation not only in Sweden but in many countries that see fuel prices rising. You have to take that seriously. Now we're eight nine days into the war. It is clear that at the moment there is quite a lot of uncertainty on the markets internationally about what will happen to fuel prices. Although Sweden is not directly so exposed to Russia in our exports or imports, in this area we are directly affected by world market prices. This applies to both diesel and gas, although Sweden is a fairly small user of gas in a European perspective. This also applies to food prices, which have already increased and which will increase in the future both because of diesel prices and because of other inputs that are limited. To believe that a war in Europe does not affect the price picture is not realistic. On the other hand, we need to think about how we do this in the long term. Then I think an important part is that, in the long term, we cannot depend on Putin's oil in the way we are today, because he uses the price instrument for political purposes. We saw this already last winter when Russia did not deliver enough gas, as they did before, to Europe. Then gas prices and energy prices also went off in Sweden. Although we did not have so much of our own gas imports to Sweden, our prices increased. What is important to see is that we also have to cope with another crisis. This is a crisis, a war crisis, which we have in Europe. The second crisis is the long-term climate crisis, where we must reduce emissions from the transport sector. What is good here is that the long-term transformation of the transport sector goes hand in hand with both a reduction in dependence on Putin and his prices and a reduction in CO2 emissions. It is incredibly important to have these two questions in your head at the same time. So, what can you do right now? The European Commission will next week release a report on how they view both state aid rules during the wartime and energy issues linked to a tool box – what Member States can or can be expected to do to deal with emergency situations linked to, for example, price changes, such as those that are up now. It is important that we prepare. We look at different scenarios, and we take this issue very seriously. Nor, however, can it be said that the market in this area should not absorb price effects. If you have skiers who deliver to you, you have a responsibility to also ensure that the skiers can continue to deliver. Then you have to adjust prices. That's how it is with all inputs. If companies want deliveries in the future, they must also adjust price levels so that these deliveries can take place. Anything else would be unreasonable. Imagine that these companies would knock out their own supplier of important goods, medicines or whatever it may be-- responsible companies cannot act. Unfortunately, this is a situation that we see not only in Sweden but around Europe.
i-FDVycikh4bvJVivzRbQaUP	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I want to start right at the end. It is important that you take responsibility when buying a transport, that you pay and do the right thing. Then I think the Government should march to its office and get in touch with the state companies, because that's where we have the big concerns. They don't want to raise. Start there! That's good. Denmark is in exactly the same situation as we are. They are part of Europe, and they are also affected by the world market. But they have a diesel price of 18.84 per litre in Swedish money. I checked right before I came here. How can they be? The Taxpayers' Association says that 60 per cent of the fuel price in Sweden is tax. Here, the Government has every opportunity to adjust so that we land at the level of the other comparable countries and get a competitive situation that works. I say nothing but that we must take responsibility for the climate. But what does it help the climate if we put aside the conditions for our industry, for entrepreneurship and for people to have the opportunity to get to and from work or even have a job to go to? You need to get out on the track and see what's going on. It's the same if you're going to change. That's great. But I was in a haulage company, one of the larger private haulage companies, up in Dalarna and discussed this. That was before the prices had gone off like this. They wanted to switch to electric power on their cars. They could buy a car pretty much the moment I was there, and the supplier was ready to deliver it. However, there was one catch: neither the municipality nor the electricity company were interested in expanding the electricity grid, and they needed 240 amperes to be able to charge the truck. So they could reset, but they couldn't load. And a truck that can't be loaded is pretty useless. You haven't thought about it all the way. A lot of taxes and charges are being imposed to impose alternative forms of operation, but the alternative system is not working. Here you have a lesson to do within the government, but that lesson will take time to read in. You must do something about price developments as it is at present. Otherwise, we face enormous problems. Just take one such thing as drinking water. How long before it stops coming when you turn the crane? Four days. Waterworks do not get the chemicals they need to ensure water quality. These are delivered by truck, and this assumes that there is a truck to drive with. You're about to put this away. You are about to remove the preconditions for industrial transport. How will the milk come from farm to dairy? How is it going to get from dairy to store? Then there is no concern for the one who is going to the store; you can take your bike and go there. But there must be a milk pack when I open the hatch to the fridge.
i-ASZQ4SrMorh4LK5V1QB4gA	Madam President, I would like You have to be a little careful about what you say, such as that we would not get water supplies in Sweden because we would have some urgent problems with this. We haven't. We have checked everything now, because we have a war situation in Europe. There are good deliveries. There are no problems with water supplies in Sweden – just to create some order in the debate. We fully agree that the charging infrastructure must be expanded. It is then incredibly important that we make the major climate investments that we have made in the budget and that the Swedish Democrats often want to reduce. If you are going to manage this expansion, it will not be better if you do not have the necessary climate investments. Sweden may have the best energy system in Europe when it comes to the conditions for switching to electrification. We will use this to reduce dependence on both Sheikkers and Putin's oil and gas prices in Europe. We have to do that. The idea of the obligation system – just so we remember it – was that not everyone would have to buy an electric car. You could continue driving your diesel or petrol car. This would allow us to use, for example, the Swedish pine's products for large-scale biofuel production for the idea so that one did not have to buy a new electric car but could continue to drive a petrol or diesel car but still reduce emissions. This debate is becoming a bit lame, because the Swedish Democrats do not have to take responsibility for any climate policy. You don't have a climate policy! This House has decided that emissions from the transport sector will be reduced by 70% by 2030. In what way? The Swedish Democrats have no such proposal. It is easy to stand here and say things, but if Parliament has decided that we should reduce emissions from the transport sector, we must do something. I am the first to say that we are currently in an unreasonable situation. Then you have to act. You have to look at different ways forward. When it comes to ordinary people who cannot get to and from work because it gets so expensive, I think it's time to develop the travel allowance, which has not changed or increased since 2008– 2009– just to give an example. I note that Mr Morell is now saying that the tax should be reduced. I guess you could discuss that. We can also discuss other support in this war situation in Europe in order to be able to do something here and now. However, I note that the budget motion by Mr Morell and the Swedish Democrats did not include any major tax cuts in this area. You didn't want the indexation. Fine, that is an adjustment, but it was not a major tax reduction you proposed. So do not stand here and pretend that you had big proposals in the tax field that you did not have in your budget! Then you agreed to make an adjustment to the tax, and it was at 50 cents. That's what you agreed with the Moderates. It was not 3 − 4 crowns, that one can get the impression here in the debate. Now we have a new situation with a war in Europe that affects prices and creates great uncertainty. Of course, we must take this seriously. We need to understand where prices will be more long-term and how it will change over time and also look at whether there is a need for action in different areas. We showed it in the winter. When Putin reduced gas supplies to Europe and this pushed up electricity prices, we chose to introduce a compensation for electricity prices that households could take part in. It is clear that we are now looking at several different scenarios, because we have an exceptional situation not only in Sweden but throughout Europe.
i-4FfYruYRna3qtNvdaLQbnp	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. First of all, it would be good if the government read our motions. It would be a good point if he did. It says that we want to increase the rate of electricity expansion. I'd love to look for the page, but I can't do it right now in these two minutes. Secondly, the travel allowance does not help in the situation we have now. Of course, it helps individuals, but what we are talking about is the supply of goods, goods and necessary equipment. Water supplies will be disrupted if trucks are not able to deliver the chemicals needed, because then water quality cannot be guaranteed. You must be in the game and see what's going on! Nor can water be supplied to ensure the quality of these chemicals due to the fact that there is no haulage company that can do so. You can't operate on people in hospitals unless the equipment arrives. Now, horsemen go out and say, "We can't do this. We'll have to set up our cars. Then the government must face up to the situation and understand what is about to happen. This won't hold! When we discussed the budget, the fuel price was just over $1.50 (U.S.). There's a big difference, because now we're up and about 25 kroner. It's a new world situation. But the world situation is also affecting Denmark, and they are much lower than we are. Then there is something else we must do to regain the opportunity to push our country forward. There's war in Europe. I'm aware of that. But it doesn't help that we put away our own business and the opportunity for people to work.
i-HExXtEcSg9jLPc1SrSLrAK	Madam President, I would like I still think you should be careful to say that hospitals will not operate or that we will not have water treatment in Sweden because you would stop paying the haulage companies that you need for their deliveries. Why would that be the case? If you need your deliveries, you'll have to pay for them. That is how a market economy works. In the long term, we must change from the unhealthy dependence on Putin and Russian oil. Then I mean that we have a unique asset in Swedish forests, which can be used to a much greater extent to also produce biofuels. We have unique energy resources in Sweden, much better than the rest of Europe, that are to be used to switch the energy sector so that we become less dependent. That is the long-term perspective for tackling the climate issue as well, which we must do. Unfortunately, the Swedish Democrats have very little interest in this issue, but it is about reducing dependence on Russia and also clarifying the climate issue. It has to be done. We can't opt out of that. Here and now we have a completely different situation. I totally agree with Mr Morell on that. We have a war in Europe that is now driving up prices and creating a great deal of uncertainty. My message is that we are taking this issue very seriously. We showed that last winter. When prices ran away so that households could not handle their electricity bills in a reasonable way, we went in with support. If this turns out to be a new level of oil prices, we may need to act. Next week, the European Commission will present new views both on state aid rules and on the energy side, which toolbox is available to Europe's countries. I think we should go through them very seriously and see if we need to take action, but we also need to deal with the long-term perspectives: reduce our dependence on Russia and also clear the climate issue. Otherwise, we don't have a planet. Otherwise, we don't have trucks to drive. There won't be people left on the planet if we don't meet the climate issue.
i-EqSAsGsS1bSC5TvrHeynfK	Madam President, I would like Bengt Eliasson has asked me if the government is considering introducing national guidelines for the assessment of the nursing allowance and the additional reimbursement. The interpellant also asks whether the Government intends to set up an independent inquiry into the Swedish Social Insurance Agency and its working methods, as well as whether the Government intends to implement the proposals in the report Strengthening the right to personal assistance at a faster pace than planned to facilitate parents of children with disabilities. The reform of the care allowance and the additional reimbursement was carried out to increase transparency, predictability and uniformity in the decisions and to create better conditions for monitoring the individual's needs. Work on the reform of the health care allowance and disability benefit has been carried out in close dialogue with the functional rights movement. The Parliament's Social Security Committee has also had a strong and constructive commitment to this issue. In 2020, the Government commissioned the Social Security Inspection to review the reform. Reforms like this always need to be evaluated. For the government, it is particularly important to monitor how the outcome of the reform corresponds to the legislator's intention. It has been clear from the government and parliament that the aim of the reform has not been to tighten up the requirements or reduce the financial situation of the target group concerned, but instead to create simpler and clearer rules for the compensation of children and adults with disabilities. The recommendations made by the Social Security Inspection in its review are an important basis for action. The results of the review are now carefully analysed to consider what will be the next step. The government has taken the information on the effects of the reform very seriously. For the government, it is important that these support for families in particular need of them work well and in the way that is intended. The government is prepared to act if the intention of the reform is not met. There are ongoing work concerning Försäkringskassan and the Authority's working methods. For example, Försäkringskassan is now carrying out an analysis of the management of health insurance. Among other things, the work on legal governance and support is being reviewed, and a supervisory function is being set up to follow the results of the Agency's work in a new way. In parallel with this, R Egeringen has commissioned Statskontoret to review the measures taken by Försäkringskassan in connection with an investigation. The purpose of the mission is, among other things, to ensure that these measures lead to people having their right to compensation investigated and tested. With regard to Bengt Eliasson's question on the proposals in the report Strengthening the right to personal assistance – Increased legal certainty for children, more basic needs and safer health care, it is the responsibility of Minister Hallengren. As announced by the Government in its Budget Bill 2022, the Government intends to come back with proposals based on the report. Funds for the proposals are also available from 2023. The Government decided on 10 February 2022 on the Council of Law referral Strengthened the right to personal assistance – basic needs for people with mental disabilities and increased legal certainty for children. During the spring, the government will make further proposals on the basis of the investigation's proposal on the strengthening of the right to assistance and on self-care. Our ambition is for the proposals in the two proposals to come into force simultaneously next year. Benefits such as nursing allowance are important support for families with children with disabilities. The Government is keen that the aid should function as intended.
i-7Dh3agAUoR57pswwGj2KLX	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. This question is of course very important because this has been going on for quite some time now and the stone has rolled quite a long way, so to speak. We must not forget that it is children with disabilities in general and neuropsychiatric disabilities in particular who fall between the chairs of welfare. Reports and stories about families that do not put together the puzzle of life and parents who get exhausted and crash have almost become everyday food, at least in the little bubble that I live in. Many are forced to struggle with inadequate schooling as a result of a municipal zeal leading to the withdrawal of resources, the closure of special education groups, the closure of resource schools and the centralisation of special schools, etc. Many end up in year-long queues to bup. You end up in long waiting times with the municipality to get support through LSS, housing support and family teams. It goes without saying that many parents are forced to reduce their working hours. In the past, the care allowance has had to lean on, and now, of course, they are applying for care allowance from Försäkringskassan. And there too many cases, just as the ISF points out and the Minister himself has noted, are met by the withdrawal or rejection of aid, that is to say, aid which has been withdrawn completely. It is quite clear that it is not the needs of children that have changed. It is also not Parliament's decisions that have changed and, as the Government itself just stated, it is not the government that has changed its view on the matter, but only the management and regulations of the Social Insurance Agency, which have been developed internally, have changed. I have received the answer earlier from the government when we have debated the questions of the care allowance, both in committee and in this House, that this needs to be examined. You have to analyze and look at what's happening and why. Now there's the analysis, I mean. Now there is the ISF report, as well as a wide range of other reports. Försäkringskassan has started internal work itself. But it is, I think, a concern when authorities start to look at themselves and that they should produce an action plan that relates to their own actions when the outside world indicates that they themselves are part of the problem. My question to the Minister remains: what does the government intend to do to actually ensure that this reform is implemented now, rather quickly, and in the way it was actually intended? These parents today stand without support or with a sharp drop in support and are quite desperate. What's the minister's message?
i-UDmaHNd9wu4dX1CwCtsyi2	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Bengt Eliasson, for the interpellation and the question! The mission I have received from my boss, Sweden's Prime Minister Magdalena Andersson, is to work to take back democratic control of welfare and thereby also strengthen our social insurance policies that have had a negative trend in recent decades. The protection and security of our Swedish citizens has deteriorated in recent decades. This has happened in some parts without changing the legislation. What has happened is that practice has become more restrictive. In other areas, we have seen significant legislative deterioration, especially in the period 2006-2010, and it has had long-term effects on practice, which ultimately affects people. Our task, the task of government and parliament, is to correct this and ensure that citizens' financial security is protected and that citizens who need these insurances and benefits receive what they are entitled to. The government has followed the implementation of this reform closely. I want to make it clear that the ambition of the reform was not that it would be a more restrictive application. When there are signs of problems, including long processing times and the effects of application, we have taken action. Initially, it was a matter of the government allocating additional funds to the Swedish Social Insurance Agency for the management of these benefits. When there were signs of problems with application and of the risks that legislation would ultimately lead to more restrictive application, we instructed the Social Security Inspection to analyse this. We received the analysis from the Social Security Inspection in December 2021, and the Social Insurance Agency submitted a response to the report that the government is currently analysing. I want to be very clear; we will act to ensure that these citizens have the financial security they deserve. We will cooperate with the Riksdag. I am not ruling out any measures at this stage. We are prepared to take the necessary measures to ensure that these people have financial security. If it was the case that the intention of the government and parliament was not to make the legislation more restrictive, as was the case, then we should act to adjust if necessary. We serve the Swedish people. That's why we're sitting here. That is why we sit in the government and in the parliament. It is about nothing but serving the citizens. Legislation must therefore be adjusted if necessary. On this issue, there is no prestige without cooperation. I really appreciate that Bengt Eliasson and several other members of Parliament, together with the Government, are following the issue and the legal developments. Should we land in the conclusion that legislative changes are required, we will of course be transparent towards and work closely with the Riksdag in order for it to be resolved as soon as possible.
i-LtMEgGkZGP6c9EejZ9qtKz	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. As I said, this is an important issue. Just to get some perspective on how long has passed, I can tell you that the Swedish Down Association, the Autism and Asperger Association, the National Association of FUB and more associations already in the summer of 2019 raised the question and said: There will be a gap during the introduction that will be far too long. When decisions then began to roll through, they also pointed to the problems that we have highlighted in this debate, i.e. that it was reduced or withdrawn or that the decision-making criteria were changed too strongly. I agree with the Minister; that was no one's purpose. On the contrary, it would be more transparent, better and functional legislation that would benefit families and parents. But it has become just the opposite. As I recall, there was also total agreement in this House on the government's proposals. Madam President, I would like A large part of my question and also in the investigation Strengthened right to personal assistance is about the very concept of parental responsibility, which the Social Insurance Agency uses in many of its decisions. Försäkringskassan has developed and uses something called the DFA chain, i.e. diagnosis, disability, activity limitation. There is nothing in the law about it, and there is no other definition than that of the treasury itself. It uses, among other things, the legal concept of parental responsibility for what is included in normal parental responsibility for the payment of the nursing allowance. There is a problem when there is a strong distinction between the interpretation of parental responsibility and parental responsibility when deciding on personal assistance, for example, according to LSS. There is now an investigation that we have jointly produced, pointing out that the concept of parental responsibility will be much better, clearer and broader than the cash register has used in terms of personal assistance. But the question is – that's why I linked the questions in the interpellation – if we can then ensure that the new concept of parental responsibility in LSS can also be applied here? That would be a big case forward. It would then be easier for parents to understand what is normal. What's normal? What can a two - year - old, five - or twelve - year - old child do? What's normal? What is the concept of normality when it comes to these issues? And why is it so different from the LSS? It is strange that this reform of subsidies, which was intended to make it transparent and better, has led to what we can call an accident or at least major difficulties and is already suffering severely. A reasonable solution would therefore be to ensure that this is improved quickly, to ensure that those who have previously received the care allowance are granted the new and that there is clearer decision-making in the future.
i-WYfqDPDbBukgfrpY3YRrE8	Madam President, I would like This is a very important issue that Bengt Eliasson highlights. These are precisely the differences in the assessment of parental responsibility in the cases concerning the benefits we are talking about. We have focused on the issue through the evaluations that have been carried out. The issue of parental responsibility is complex and not entirely new in relation to the care allowance. These are difficult assessments that are required. They were also included in the assessment of health care benefits, prior to this reform. It is good that we now have an analysis that the Social Security Inspection has carried out on behalf of the government. In the reply given in response to the ISF report, the Swedish Social Insurance Agency agrees that it is of great value if the scope of parental responsibility could be clarified. But they say that it is not sufficiently clear that the guideline will have the effect that we want to see. Försäkringskassan believes that flat-rate deductions, as proposed in the investigation, Strengthening the right to personal assistance could be a possible solution. The results of the review are carefully analysed. Of course, we also have a dialogue with the section of the Ministry of Social Affairs that deals with assistance issues and not least with Minister Lena Hallengren. The government described in the bill for the reform we are now discussing why the government did not consider it appropriate to specify in this context what is covered by the concept of normal parental responsibility. It is the care and supervision that the child may be presumed to be in need of because of his or her disability that should form the basis for the assessment of the right to nursing allowance. The need that can give entitlement to the nursing allowance should be outside what a parent has to meet within the framework of parental responsibility under the parental code. A similar difficulty exists in the assessment of the right to personal assistance, which Bengt Eliasson also concerns. The report Strengthened the right to personal assistance, which has the designation SOU 2021:37, was handed over to the government last May. Among other things, it contains proposals that mean that more children will have the right to personal assistance by narrowing the so-called parental responsibility and making it more legally secure. As the government announced in the budget proposal for 2022, we intend to come back with proposals based on that particular report. The study proposes that the proposals enter into force in 2023, which is deemed to be the earliest possible time. Funds for the proposals are also available from 2023. The government recently decided, on 10 February 2022, on the Law Council referral Strengthened the right to personal assistance. It is very important that the process continues and that we act to take the necessary steps as soon as possible to ensure that the right to assistance, but also the other benefits for which I am responsible, are secured for our citizens. I think it is incredibly important that we put citizens' needs in focus when it comes to assessing what needs to be done. It is the systems that are to be adapted to the citizens and not the citizens who are to adapt their lives to the different systems that exist. The point of our social security and of the benefits that the Social Insurance Agency is responsible for is to provide security to people. At any given time, the government and parliament must be self-critical in their assessments of what has been done and be prepared to put aside any prestige and take the necessary measures and legislative changes to ensure the security of citizens. I can assure Bengt Eliasson that it is definitely the government's perspective on this issue. I also see that Parliament is following the question.
i-ES1fTT1nqDA6nz3qQZqak9	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. I am extremely pleased that the Government and the Government have this view on the whole field of interventions and support for people with disabilities. It really warms up. I hope that we can continue this work for the short time remaining in the mandate. I also hope that the Council of State, from its opposition role, will then be able to support the new government in the work that must continue for a long time, regardless of which government is in power. I also hope that the government, the forthcoming parliament – and also the one that exists during the remaining term of office – and above all the authorities and municipalities will learn a lot from what has happened in this area. One can say that this is a small area of benefit in the vast area of the Social Insurance Agency, but when one sees the effects on the individual family, I think one must learn the lesson that this must not happen again. It must not happen when the legislator agreed that this would be a broader and better grant, grant or support, whatever its form, but it was exactly the opposite. We really need to learn from this. Thank you, Minister, for a good and important debate. We will continue to follow this issue very closely and very closely. I hope that this will be a quick and effective treatment vis-à-vis the decision-making authority so that the contribution or support to families can be restored.
i-78A88YXVUhcccKd11D2Lt4	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Bengt Eliasson, for the important interpellation! I very much appreciate the commitment and cooperation on this issue that is important for our citizens. When modern social security schemes were introduced in our country in the early 1950s, this was done in broad agreement. All parties except the Right Party participated in the work and supported the introduction of general health insurance, which was then extended to the various areas we are talking about today. In recent decades, however, we have had more ideological conflicts on these issues, and this has ultimately affected the citizens as security has deteriorated. What we are seeing today, that is, a broader political consensus on re-establishing social security, restoring the financial security of people in our country and restoring the security of those who, because of disabilities, lack the capacity to work and need the support of society, is important. The broader the consensus we have in this House, the more we are in a position to serve our citizens and give them the security they deserve. I really appreciate the straightforward transparent dialogue with the Riksdag, Bengt Eliasson and his colleagues. In the government, we will do what we can to take the necessary measures to provide better financial security for the group we have discussed today.
