i-3M5f8iqNC1totYtiE6MmMV	Madam President, I would like Lars Beckman has asked me what measures I intend to take to increase labour market training so that more people get into work and to increase the volumes to private matching companies. The Government agrees that labour market training leads to more people getting into work and has therefore promoted an increase in the level of ambition in labour market training. The government also proposed increased resources to increase volumes most recently in the 2022 budget bill. However, the Parliament then chose to support the budget adjustments proposed by the Moderates, the Swedish Democrats and the Christian Democrats, which represented a smaller addition for labour market education than the Government's proposal. The Government has commissioned the Public Employment Service to increase the number of instructions for labour market training in the regulation letter for 2022. The Authority shall also ensure that the instructions are addressed to participants who can benefit from the training and that the transition to post-graduate work is increased. In addition, the Employment Service shall ensure that labour market training is used in accordance with the aim of combating labour market shortages. In February, the rule changes came into force which means that also job seekers other than those who lack previous experience in the Swedish labour market can take part in labour market training at post-secondary level. It broadens the target group for labour market training. During 2021, the matching services provided by independent operators have increased and the growth has continued clearly in 2022. In the budget proposal for 2022, the government proposed that additional funds be added to these efforts in order to strengthen matching in the labour market. The increased funds allow the Public Employment Service to increase the volumes of matching services. The Employment Service's regulation letter for 2022 sets out objectives aimed at clarifying the government's priorities for the agency's work in 2022. One of these objectives is that the number of participants in developed matching services should increase while there should be a wide range of other labour market policies to which job seekers can be assigned. Unemployment in Sweden has fallen rapidly over the past year. The number of unemployed persons enrolled in the Employment Service has decreased by over 100,000 persons since June 2020. In January 2022, the number of employed persons was over 5 million. The number of unemployed persons enrolled in the Employment Service is now on the same level as before the pandemic. However, long-term unemployment remains too high and there is too much difference between domestic and foreign born. In particular, foreign-born women need to enter the labour market to a greater extent. Two clear political priorities for the government are breaking segregation and creating jobs throughout the country. The government is therefore continuing its efforts to ensure that more people get into work, to ensure that jobseekers receive the right support and to make it easier for employers to find the skills they are looking for. Matching services and labour market training are two tools in this work. Labour market policy will continue to contain a wide range of actions that can meet different needs of job seekers and employers and are carried out by, for example, suppliers, municipalities and ideas-based actors or by the Public Employment Service itself.
i-D28VqV3PNf8shSoVhfBbyo	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. We all remember in 2014 when the Social Democrats in general and Stefan Löfven in particular went to elections that Sweden would have the EU's lowest unemployment rate. It was not a small promise; it was an important promise. Sweden would have the EU's lowest unemployment rate. Madam President, I would like In this year's elections, voters have every reason to evaluate how Sweden has turned out. If you are interested in these issues, you can access the Financial Facts website and click on the unemployment tab and then on the unemployment tab – internationally to see how things have turned out. Yes, we have lower unemployment than Spain, Greece and Turkey, but that is also what we have. Madam President, we are among the worst in Europe in terms of unemployment and youth unemployment. It is a fundamental failure of the government. One of the reasons why things have gone so badly and go so badly is, of course, that the government has focused on the wrong thing. One of the things that the government has focused on is extra services, a publicly funded labour policy measure, the aim of which has been said to be that the person who has had an extra service should be able to get a job. The latest report from the Parliamentary Investigation Service shows that in Gävleborg 3 per cent have gone to work without support – 97 per cent have not done so. A few weeks ago P4 Gävleborg had a feature, which you can find on their website. It was about Ibrahim who today has an extra service where he helps people to borrow skis. I don't think the P4 reporter even reflected on what she wrote in the text. It says here under the caption:... Ibrahim Ibrahim is a trained welder but likes to help people borrow skis. When the extra service is completed, he will be allowed to leave it. Therefore, P4 Gävleborg has of course asked Gävle municipality why they do not hire Ibrahim. Then the chairman of the environmental committee says: we cannot afford that. We have not budgeted for these services. They don't fit inside the frames. Ibrahim, who is a trained welder, a deficiency profession in Sweden, has thus been lending ski boots and ski equipment. When the extra service ends, Gävle Municipality has not budgeted the service, and Ibrahim may go home. This is what it looks like with the extra services around. It'll be like a squirrel wheel for the individual. This is a completely pointless measure. Instead, one could have had a labour market policy measure that would have given Ibrahim the opportunity to obtain, for example, a license as a welder or an internship at a firm so that he could have worked with what he was trained for. I do not know what conclusions the Minister for Labour has drawn from the fundamental failure of extra services, but clearly Sweden has very big problems. At a recent round table with the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, the private matching companies said that they have never had such a high demand for work. If the cranes opened, they'd get people to work.
i-SGQ99jEBnun5jnRhWYQGnd	Madam President, I would like I want to start where the honourable Member started, in 2014. It is very important to remember that the labour market and the world have changed very strongly since 2014. What we are looking at now is that we have been in a very serious and deep crisis in the Swedish labour market as a result of the pandemic is that the Swedish labour market has recovered very strongly. More people can now set the alarm clock in the morning, go to work and support themselves. Today, we have over 201 000 vacancies at the Employment Service's place bank. In many ways we have a very strong labour market. It looks bright for many people who are currently outside the labour market. Here is the policy's task to ensure that people get into work faster, including through the matching services mentioned by the honourable Member. The government is now making sure that more people have access to them through the Public Employment Service. I also regret the fact that Lars Beckman and his party in this House withdrew the opportunity for us to continue using the additional services. Why? Because auxiliary services are an important measure of labour market policy. Not least many women born abroad have been given the opportunity to get into work and self-support through an extra service. Forty-nine per cent of those who had extra posts last year were women born abroad. Madam President, I would like Then it is true as the honourable Member says. An additional service does not always go on to regular employment. What we should remember is that, although additional services are more expensive than some other labour market policy measures, they are aimed at those furthest from the labour market. For us Social Democrats it goes without saying that if you have great needs you should also get stronger support. If you can quickly get into a job on your own, and many do not even need help, it can be a simpler form of a fast matching service into work that applies. It is about providing support based on the needs of people. We know that having subsidised employment is not enough for many people. It may be that the extra service is the way in to gain experience from working life and then step into an education or perhaps into an additional subsidised employment and then be able to get to a job where you can support yourself. Madam President, I would like I very much regret the fact that Lars Beckman and his party withdrew the opportunity for us to continue to assign additional services. They are important not least for foreign-born women. It is important that we do everything in our power to ensure that people receive the right support. The policy of the Moderates is a bad policy. As we look at the interpellation that is being made, we see that labour market training is being promoted. It is a very important tool. It is then very strange how the Moderates chose to reduce the volume of labour market training, too, if you now think they are so good. It's a policy that doesn't go hand in hand. Madam President, I would like Instead, what we need now is a stronger mandate for the Social Democrats so that we can continue to strengthen the Swedish labour market, strengthen the Swedish employees and ensure that additional jobs can be created throughout the country. This can be done thanks to the major new industrialisation that we are seeing going on here and now, but also by putting in more and better measures so that those who are outside the labour market will have the opportunity to have their own jobs and livelihoods.
i-4McYwEmdCch5r9vxShiujQ	Madam President, I would like Thankfully, we interrupt something as bad as extra services. Of course Ibrahim will thank you most of all for that. A trained welder who stands in Gävle and lends ski boots cannot seriously be satisfied with. If the Minister had visited a single company in Sweden, for example in that industry, she would have heard that there is a demand for welders. Then I guess Ibrahim shouldn't be lending ski boots. It's completely insane. It's a waste of money, and it's a waste of time. It is the time aspect that is so important, that action is quickly taken and that it is quickly entering the labour market. Madam President, I would like I note that the Minister is pleased that Sweden has lower unemployment than Spain, Greece and Turkey. Well, that's it. But to do more of the same, Madam President, is to get more of the same result. For eight years, the Social Democrats have had the opportunity to push back unemployment. It is not that covid and corona only affected Sweden, but it affected the whole world. The figures that relate Sweden to other countries only show what a disastrous policy Sweden has pursued. For example, it is believed that a labour market policy measure with 3% going to work without support is good, that is, 97% does not. I think it is one of Sweden's most expensive labour market policy measures of all time. I find it hard to imagine something that has been more expensive and worse. Madam President, I would like It's going to be a round. The person ends up in extra service and is not entitled to unemployment benefit. When the extra service is over, the person goes back to the subsistence allowance. Then comes a new find-on action, and then it spins around. The municipal councils in Gävle-Sandviken, in my constituency, have been very clear. Extra service is not about someone getting a job, it is about getting people out of support. This was last said in a municipal council debate a few weeks ago by the highest responsible Social Democratic politician in Gävle on these issues. Just go to gable.se and watch the debate. It's not at all about people getting jobs. He even said that, Ahmed Amin, who is chairman of the board. This is not a labour market policy measure, it is a matter of getting people out of support. If you think it's good, of course you think that extra services are good. We Moderates want an effective labour market policy measure. We think you should work closely with the business community. That's why I'd think the extra services have gone so badly. It is just as the environmental partyist says in the interview at P4 in Gävleborg: We have not budgeted money for this service. It doesn't matter that the trained welder is good at lending ski boots. At least we're not in a position to hire him. Of course, you should put the time and effort to match the business community and the jobs that exist. Even those who do not know Swedish perfectly, Madam President, and even those who do not have an academic education, can plant forests and work with the spring harvest. There are lots of green jobs that these people could do if we had an effective match. It is, of course, completely baroque, and that is something that we will be addressing in another interpellation debate. We can see that there are alarms everywhere: we do not get workers. The restaurants in Gävleborg even went out in a roll call the other day. They said we'd be happy to hire people in the counter. We can teach them. But where is everyone out of work? It is enough that a single individual like Ibrahim has spent a meaningless time if the purpose was for the person to get a job. It is, of course, a failure. But here we're not talking about one person. We're talking about tens of thousands of people who've been locked up in extra services. The result is that unemployment in Sweden is one of the highest in the EU. Those are facts.
i-qHaYNnAeFGffUkV7vpf26	Madam President, I would like When municipalities make important efforts to prevent people from being dependent on support, I think that is a very good thing. It is clear that different people need different types of support. These could be labour market policies. These can be different types of social policy interventions. It can be different educations. It is important that people are able to support themselves and that they are supported to do so. Here goes a dividing line in Swedish politics against the Moderates, who only think that people should have duty. For us Social Democrats, it is about doing the right thing, duty, but also a right to receive support to support yourself if you need such support. With regard to the example mentioned by the honourable Member here with Ibrahim, I am the first to say that the skills of every human being should, of course, be used in the Swedish labour market. It is about people having the opportunity to use the skills and develop them. It is extremely important for both individuals and society. I wonder at the same time: Why are the demands of the Moderates not raised? Why do you not come up with proposals to reinforce validation or to ensure that there are even more matching services that come in place to help Ibrahim and others? What we hear here is criticism and whining about the government. But we hear very few suggestions from the Moderates themselves. All they want to do is remove opportunities for people to get closer to work. I'm looking at the period when the Moderates last had power. Then what happened? Well, then the active labour market policy was slaughtered. At that time the Moderates thought it was better to just print out people and that they were idle. The consequence of this was an increase in supply aid. There were increased costs for municipalities for the supply support. It is a cynical and bad policy when more and more people leave the labour force. Instead, we will ensure that people receive the right support, that more are in the labour force and that more are given the opportunity to support themselves. Work is the basis for the financing of general welfare. Of course, having a job of your own is also the basis for people's freedom and their ability to feel community and develop. This is an important issue in the run-up to the elections. Will the voters support the Moderates, who slaughter labour market policies every time they have the opportunity? Or do voters want to see that the Swedish labour market continues to be strengthened and that more and more people have their own work to do? I think the choice is obvious.
i-SpJGHmCPzN7DzdsgsrYURA	Madam President, I would like There's a fact. After eight years of socialist policy, Sweden has lower unemployment than Spain, Greece and Turkey, but we are among the worst in Europe. I really think that voters should evaluate the government on labour market policy. That would be desirable. It is of course a fundamental failure that there is a trained welder – a deficiency profession – and lends skis in an extra service in Gävle. It is a fundamental failure, and it is an appropriate rating for the whole government. That's what happens when the government loses focus. You do not have a business policy, you do not have a labour market policy, you do not listen to employers to hire and you do not get the match to work. In the round table that we had a few months ago with the private matching companies, they said: Where are all the unemployed? I myself brought this up with the Secretary of State in the committee and asked why Gävle is so bad when it comes to the private matching companies when they flag for jobs. But it may be a symbol of the Social Democratic policy that it says a trained welder and lends skis in extra services instead of making the match work. This match would allow the company that needs to hire a welder to give Ibrahim an internship that allows him to show what he can, obtain the necessary licenses and gain the experience needed according to Swedish conditions. Then this will work. That is where you have failed. You're exhausted, and you're tired. You have no ideas for the future, which is regrettable. It's flosskeler, but it's not a workshop. I really think that voters should evaluate this government on unemployment.
i-RzTbMHshEwrEfaAyhEPv17	Madam President, I would like There will be no more internships or more support, Lars Beckman, unless you provide resources. It is very important, Madam President, that we talk about a shovel like a shovel here. If resources are constantly being reduced to labour market policies, people will not receive the support they need. The honourable Member here claims that it is a tired government. It's almost laughable. Just today, I have been able to tell you that we are now moving forward and providing resources for the start-up jobs that will soon be in place. It is another new tool that this government is delivering and which will target the long-term unemployed and newcomers. It will give many people an opportunity to enter the labour market and support themselves. I am very proud that Sweden is at the top of the list when it comes to labour force participation in Europe. When it comes to employment, i.e. how many people work, Sweden is at the top of Europe. That is extremely positive. However, we are not satisfied, but of course we want to push down unemployment further. We are back at the levels we had before the pandemic, but we are going to push down long-term unemployment. And we will ensure that those employers who now want to employ more than 200,000 job vacancies are able to employ more quickly. There is intensive work going on, including delivering new tools to support this development. But of course it creates problems when the Moderates try to pull some important tools out of the toolbox for us; I will admit that. The extra services are such an important tool, so I very much regret that. I regret that you are cutting back on resources for labour market training, which is something very popular not only among those looking for work but also among employers because we are tailoring the effort for the job vacancies. We need a policy that is both duty and right, Madam President. The Moderates are on duty. You slaughter the resources. For us Social Democrats, it goes without saying that we should have both clear demands and strong support.
i-NMPtSGc94rwzXLdf9Ctupr	Madam President, I would like Lars Beckman has asked me three questions. The first question concerns the urgent measures I intend to take to ensure that foreign born with supply aid comes to work in green industries. The second question concerns cooperation between the Employment Service and industry associations in the near future to ensure that there is labour in the green industries. The third question is whether I intend to change the compensation system so that it does not pay to receive subsistence aid, additional service or unemployment benefit in order to motivate people to take up jobs in green industries in this way. Nothing is as fundamental as having a job to go to, and nothing is as crucial to becoming part of the community. Those who do not have a job should therefore meet a clear expectation but also many and good opportunities to get into work. Everyone who can work is going to work. Two clear political priorities for the government are breaking segregation and creating jobs throughout the country. The government is therefore continuing its efforts to ensure that more people get into work, to ensure that jobseekers receive the right support and to make it easier for employers to find the skills they are looking for. Unemployment in Sweden has fallen rapidly over the past year. The number of unemployed persons enrolled in the Employment Service is now on the same level as before the pandemic. The employment rate between the ages of 20 and 64 is among the highest recorded in the EU. Today, a higher proportion of foreign born work compared to 2014. In addition, the entry of newcomers into the labour market has gradually improved over the last decade. However, long-term unemployment remains too high, and the gap between domestic and foreign born is too great. In particular, foreign-born women need to enter the labour market to a greater extent. Those who are unable to make a living but who are able to work are entitled to support if they are at the disposal of the labour market. This means, among other things, that the individual must be registered with Arbetsförmedlingen, be an active jobseeker, accept assigned suitable work, participate in training and job search activities and, if necessary, participate in basic education in Swedish. Newly arrived immigrants who have a residence permit that can form the basis for population registration have the possibility of establishment measures. This applies to breast-feeding requirements such as for other unemployed people to apply for a job and to take part in education and training. The government has also introduced an education obligation. Both in unemployment insurance and in the framework for compensation to participants in labour market policies, there are sanctions if the jobseeker mishandles his/her job seeker, prolongs the period of unemployment or causes his/her unemployment. The applicant must, among other things, actively seek suitable jobs. If, for example, sanctions in the event of mismanagement are repeatedly imposed, the jobseeker is shut off from the compensation on a rising scale. The right to compensation may eventually cease completely. The Employment Service has been working for a long time with a number of initiatives aimed at the supply of skills in green industries, such as labour market training, support for employers and national industry councils and other collaborations with the industry. For the 2022 growing season, when conditions have changed with the war in Ukraine, cooperation between the Public Employment Service and the relevant industries is even more important so that all available tools and interventions are used optimally. To create a structured collaboration between Arbetsförmedlingen and the industry, Arbetsförmedlingen and LRF have together launched a national industry council for green industries. The mission is to work to supply the industry with skills and thus create the conditions for a competitive and sustainable increase in production. The purpose of sectoral councils at national level is to meet representatives of the social partners, professional organisations and experts' authorities and to increase the knowledge of the Public Employment Service about the skills needs and levels of education required for certain professions. The first meeting was held on 4 April 2022, i.e. yesterday. The situation on the Swedish labour market continues to improve. Employment continues to rise and unemployment has turned down. The government follows the issue of seasonal jobs closely and has a dialogue with the industry.
i-9eJTDiTKLCNUoELWVoJrKf	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Let us first remind voters of the promise made by the Social Democrats in 2014. It was not Stefan Lövven's promise, it was the Social Democrats. Sweden would have the EU's lowest unemployment rate. So, how's it going? Yes, we have lower unemployment than Spain, Greece and Turkey, but it is also only those who have higher unemployment than we do. It's a fundamental failure. On the one hand, Madam President, we therefore have what can be described as mass unemployment, not least among those born abroad. On the other hand, we have employers who have said for a number of years that they do not find labour. At the same time, the parliamentary investigation service has shown that approximately 700 000 foreign born are not self-sufficient. This, Madam President, is very difficult to put together. We have the third highest unemployment rate in Europe. We have 700 000 foreign born who cannot support themselves. At the same time, we have employers in green industries who say that they do not find unemployed people who want to plant forest, pick tulips, pick berries, pick strawberries, work with spring sowing or whatever they are going to do. They have solved it with labour migration from Ukraine, among others. In Gävleborg, for example, we have a company that has gone out and told us that you do not know how to solve forest planting this year. There are always such and so many people who come from Ukraine. This is a picture of a system that does not work: third highest unemployment, 700 000 foreign born who cannot support themselves and, at the same time, companies that solve easier jobs with labour migration. This was an emergency. The terrible war in Ukraine with a Putin who has invaded a nearby country has made these men fight for their lives and for their country's freedom. Of course, they will not then be in Sweden and forest plantation. But even without the war in Ukraine, this was a fundamental failure. The Government lists how the regulatory system works. No one has questioned the rule system. On paper, of course, it sounds great. I think, however, that everyone who sees this debate is asking themselves: why is this Somali woman, for example, or any other foreign-born woman whom the Government itself has raised, not out in the woods picking berries? Why don't you plant the forest? Why don't you work to get an income? What is it that makes the system not working? I think these are reasonable questions that the Minister should ask himself. What is it that makes the system not working? If the regulations that the Minister read out are so perfect, why is it that we have 10 000 berry pickers coming to Sweden while we have 700 000 born abroad who cannot support themselves with a collective agreement salary? You've cleared this business very well. Something is fundamentally wrong, and that is why I asked my question 3 to the Minister: does the Minister intend to change compensation systems so that it is not worthwhile to receive support, extra service or unemployment benefit, in order to motivate people to take these jobs in this way? This is, of course, as the Government said in another debate here, duty and right. What is it that makes these systems not work? What is it that makes you not go out and take the jobs in the green industries? And what does the government intend to do?
i-Ns6RyNhGyR2wonReMj3Hra	Madam President, I would like Lars Beckman and his party often talk about the importance of working and that we get people to work. So does he this time. It's just that the politics that the Moderates stand for doesn't work. People do not come to work because they are getting poorer or because we are reducing security systems in Sweden, rather the opposite. People are coming to work because they are being supported, because we are putting in the right labour market policy efforts, because we are continuing to expand the knowledge boost and because they are getting a matching service to get closer to the jobs that are now available. This is how we support people to get into work – not by reducing unemployment, not by making people poorer. I want to be very clear about that, Madam President. We are now debating the green industries. It is very important that we can strengthen the supply of skills to these. Just last week, the Minister for Rural Affairs and I had a meeting with the green industries and the Employment Service. Both employers and trade unions were represented. There are several different things that need to be done here. One thing is the long-term, to make sure that more people go to work in the green industries. It is, of course, important here to see the expansion of the Knowledgelift that the government has been working hard on in recent years and which today, 2022, includes 160 000 more training places. But we also see that an increasing number of students choose to go to agricultural upper secondary schools with a special focus on the green industries. This, of course, creates long-term conditions for green industries to secure their skills supply. However, we also see that we need to reduce vulnerability here and now. It is therefore important that we can continue the work of tailoring training courses that lead to jobs in the green industries. Here, the Swedish Public Employment Service, together with the industry, has an ongoing work in which it invests both in tailor-made labour market training for this particular industry and also in various types of shorter courses and interventions. There are also not only national sectoral councils but also specific regional initiatives. I would also like to emphasise something that is important here: in the vulnerable situation that many employers in the green industries find themselves in, when you cannot trust the foreign labour force that you have previously had to be able to come here, it is important to report the vacancies available to the Platsbanken so that everyone who is a job seeker has the opportunity to see that these jobs are available and can apply for them. The meeting that I and the Rural Minister had with the green industries last week showed a broad consensus that there is no quick fix here and now that solves everything. We are in the midst of a war, and it will have a major impact on labour mobility both within and outside the Union. Now it's about both focusing on the long-term efforts that I was in on, with more educational paths but also a higher attractiveness for this industry, and continuing the collaboration that exists between the industry and Arbetsförmedlingen.
i-NbD2EeSNhm7XyvFvFiArVV	Madam President, I would like Let me be clear: unlike the Social Democrats, the Moderates believe that those who can work and support themselves should do the same. The person who can work and support himself also has a responsibility to support himself. Here it is an obvious mismatch in Sweden when we are the third highest in unemployment in the EU, have 700 000 foreign born who cannot support themselves and have employers in the green industries screaming for labour. And it's not just the green industries; it's restaurants looking for dishwasher staff, cleaning companies looking for cleaners and so on. Something is fundamentally wrong, and the Minister must see that. However, I would like to give the Minister the right: there is a big difference between the Moderates and the Social Democrats. You're making contributions, and we're doing work. We think it should always pay better to work than to go on grants. So that's right. The situation at the moment has become acute due to the abominable war in Ukraine, but this is something that has been going on for a number of years. It's nothing new. The problem, Madam President, is that if you do not see or admit a problem, you cannot solve it either. That is the problem of the Social Democrats. Of course, deep down, the Minister and the Social Democrats know why this is. Of course she knows that. Of course, she reads the media and takes note of the calculations that exist, which show that it is not worthwhile to work without even being able to punish yourself to start working because of the combination of benefit systems so that it becomes negative. It can't go on like this. At the end of the day, someone's paying. It is the single mother of three children in Ljusdal who goes to work and with her treasure will support those who do not work. It's not sustainable. Each person has a responsibility to make himself employable, stand on his own feet and support himself. I think we will see many positive examples from Ukraine now. For example, there is a Facebook group in Gävle called Gävlebor helping Ukraine, and there are many other similar Facebook groups, where people do posts where it says, for example: I don't speak Swedish and have just come from Ukraine, where I worked as a chef, and I am now looking for work in a restaurant. I'm absolutely convinced that that person may already have got a job in a restaurant as we stand here and talk. Then it is Facebook and not Arbetsförmedlingen that has matched. It would be very unfortunate if afforestation did not get off the ground now because the men are fighting in Ukraine and these companies are not getting their hands on labour. I believe that extraordinary efforts between municipalities and employment services are needed to identify which men and women of working age have the ability to work in the green industries so that we can quickly see that they are coming out into work. It will provide work experience that may even cause people not to return to subsistence support. I believe that these are such strong measures that we need to see. It would be interesting to hear what the conclusion was during yesterday's meeting between the industry and employment services.
i-DPiJtHpD8S4ajNm4JLhSzj	Madam President, I would like The meeting was last week. Cooperation continues between the green industries and Arbetsförmedlingen. Looking at the specific labour market training programmes specifically targeted at green industries, in last year there were 309 people per month in labour market training with a focus on nature conservation and forestry. The previous year the corresponding figure was 166, so we have expanded these training courses very clearly and are of course still prepared to take further action. But then it is important that we do not have any opposition in the Swedish parliament that constantly pulls the carpet away when it is time to make important labour market policy efforts. I also think it's not quite honest when Lars Beckman talks about 700 000 foreign-born people not being self-sufficient. In fact, if we are to be able to compare supply aid in real terms, it is a much better measure to look at how many people need financial assistance. If we look at what it looked like in January of this year, barely 82 000 foreign-born people had financial assistance. This is a significant reduction from last year, when the number exceeded 100 000. With the policies of the Social Democrats, therefore, more go from contributions to work. What we need to do is continue to invest in an active labour market policy in which people are supported to get into work and not a policy that the Moderates stand for that pulls away the carpet. It removes additional services and labour market training, which is a very important tool for people to support themselves. Madam President, I would like Active labour market policies are the way forward. What the Moderates are doing is bad politics. It is clear that the Moderates are happy to talk about the importance of the green industries, but what are their solutions? We don't hear anything about that here. What the government does is we invest in targeted labour market training that leads to jobs. The Moderates are constantly trying to get the opportunity to abolish everything about active labour market policies. Madam President, I would like The policy of the Moderates is duty and nothing about right. For us, it is about both duty and right – getting the right support to get to work. I am very sorry, once again, that the Moderates have removed the carpet for, among other things, the extra services.
i-5haYvNY4pFFKN7m82VaDTS	Madam President, I would like This government has failed on the most important electoral promise it gave to the Swedish people in 2014: Sweden would have the EU's lowest unemployment rate. No one forced the Social Democrats to make that electoral promise. It was you who chose it, it was you who designed it, and it is precisely on it that you are to be evaluated. In fact, we are now among the worst countries in Europe. When Ibrahim in Gävle, who is a trained welder, is in an extra service and lends skis instead of getting a match to the job he is trained for, it is a clear symbol of the government's failed labour market policy. My interpellation is about the urgent measure that is needed now and the fundamental failure that green industries do not find labour despite the fact that unemployment is one of the three highest in the European Union. That's what this interpellation is about. The Minister has comments on the statement that 700 000 are not self-sufficient, and one might think that she may then turn to the parliamentary investigation service and express her criticism, because it is they who have calculated it. But there's a dividing line. The Moderates say that it must pay off to work, and the Social Democrats raise the subsidies. The Moderates say, "Let's put society's resources into getting people to work." The Social Democrats are raising the subsidies. They're passive contributions to people who don't work. I think a lot of people are tired of it. I think there are many people who may even get pissed off, not least in the Minister's county of Norrbotten, when there are berry pickers from Thailand while there are already people in place who could pick the berries. I don't think anyone thinks that's reasonable. We have noted in this debate that the Minister did not have any urgent measures to quickly address the needs of the green industries, and I regret that.
i-ErSQKQGZaWWL7S1zTQKVp4	Madam President, I would like In the work to strengthen Sweden, of course, competitive green industries are something very central. We need to continue to work together with the green industries, with authorities in this area and with the parties in the Swedish labour market in order to succeed in matching the needs and opportunities for work and self-sufficiency. Many people are now coming to our country – I am thinking, for example, of many women from Ukraine – who have the right to work in Sweden. Certainly many of them could imagine, among other things, these jobs but of course also a lot of other vacancies that exist, for example in the battery plants in northern Sweden or for all part in the care to strengthen and develop it. It is important that Arbetsförmedlingen is given the opportunity to continue with its important work to match people to jobs and that the efforts that the government is making now on both matching services and labour market training, although I regret that the Moderates have cut back on the volumes, can now continue. It is also important that the industries themselves continue to take joint responsibility in their sectoral councils, together as social partners and also in the regional initiatives that we see taking place at the moment. Once again, I would like to urge all employers who have job vacancies to report them to Platsbanken, because this is a prerequisite for the Employment Service to be able to inform about the jobs and match job seekers to them. Thank you for the debate.
