i-9WH3xVREHmF5b2UzL6Frv1	Madam President, I would like Amineh Kakabaveh has asked me what I intend to do in order for the social services to acquire competence and knowledge of honourability, and for the social services not to place children in families or institutions that do not have competence and knowledge of honour oppression and exposure to honour. The government has taken many initiatives to improve the conditions for the work of social services in this area. For example, the National Board of Health and Welfare has developed a special assessment support to detect honour violence and assess the risk of repeated violence when investigating children in social services. In February, the agency published an in-depth education on honour-related violence and repression for the social services, which is aimed at people who meet children and young people in their work as well as managers and business developers. With the support of the county administrative boards, regional resource centres for honour-ridden children and adults are emerging in several places in the country. Municipalities can also benefit from state grants to improve their efforts for this target group. The departmental board of state has the task of developing the agency's internal competence regarding, among other things, honour-related violence and repression. In the next few years, the Health and Care Inspection will strengthen the supervision of social services' work with support and protection for children and young people and the work against honour-related violence and repression. Furthermore, the Government has set up an investigation to ensure that children and young people who are placed outside their own home are always guaranteed security, safety and otherwise good care. Finally, I would also like to mention that the government, as announced in the 2022 budget bill, will give the National Board of Health and Welfare the task of providing support for the application of the Act (1990:52) with special provisions on the care of young people (LVU) with a focus on, among other things, honour problems.
i-URNZ2SxuZWmWQbELmrr9bo	Madam President, I would like I thank Minister Lena Hallengren for an objective and good answer. Unfortunately, however, I can see that these transparency functions to which the Minister refers have not worked, because instead it has been the media that have drawn attention to the misdemeanours of the honourable. It is therefore very important that the government now invests in the competence development and education of various authorities, not least in the social services. It was not only because of revelations in SVT that several cases have been brought to the attention, but also in January and earlier at the end of last year. SVT has reported on Yasmine placed by a municipality in Östergötland in a home run by the State Departmental Board of Criminals and Addicts. Unfortunately, I myself have the experience of working in institutions during 1999-2000. There were many vulnerable girls who were not known to have this problem. But it was 22 - 23 years ago that I worked on this. But this is also happening now. Although Yasmine today is older and has left this behind, these abuses and this terrible thing with these girls in their lives follow. Many of them have missed education, for example, and they cannot meet their family and friends because they must be in sheltered housing. They have also been in debt because they have not been able to attend school in previous years. There are so many problems around these young girls when they are exposed to violence in their homes. But these abuses do not end just because they have been placed in a home. It is good that the government itself is aware of this and is investing. But it must be invested not only in 2022 but also in social workers and already at the School of Social Sciences and at the university. We simply need to address the issue of honour during education, and that part should be integrated into education itself and also into further education. It concerns family homes, social workers and institutions such as Sis and other institutions. It must simply end this terrible thing that affects girls not only at home with their own parents but also when they are placed. That is why I would like to ask the Government a question. Could the state not replace these girls, such as Yasmine, who have been treated in this way and missed education, work and much more because of this?
i-9Vm7tcDZCvtmANiA4Dozcq	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the interpellation. Let me say at the outset, however, that the interpeller is now actually asking a completely different question from the one put in the interpellation. I therefore propose that we have a debate on what is the approach of the interpellation, namely how to increase the competence and knowledge of social services in the field of honour repression and exposure to honour. I believe that there is no doubt that during the two mandates that have soon passed, the current government has had this as a priority area brought together under the umbrella of men's violence against women. This whole responsibility is not in the Ministry of Social Affairs. But social services are of course located in the Ministry of Social Affairs and are an important part. Social services often meet girls, but they can also be adult women. Often it is done in collaboration with others. They are part of collaboration groups with police and social services. Then it is of course very important that all the parties involved really have knowledge of what honor-related violence and oppression mean. In recent years, the government has also made extensive efforts to tighten up legislation and to amend the constitution. There have also been many assignments to authorities, to civil society organisations, to municipalities and to regions. This is, of course, important. Legislation must clearly express society's rejection of honour-related violence and oppression. It is something that does not belong in Swedish society. That is something we must never accept. As I said, strengthening protection by means of enforcement is a part of it. We have for the next two years a special child marriage crime, a penalty for crimes with honorary motives and an exit ban to protect children from being taken abroad to enter into child marriage or genital mutilation. But I would really like to emphasise that legislative measures are one thing. That, of course, is not enough, but then it is also a matter of competence about honour-related violence and oppression. We need to continue to increase our skills, I would say. Although much has happened, we need to further increase the knowledge of the people who work closest to the young and young adults who are exposed to honour-related violence and oppression. However, it is also a question of providing financial resources for the work to be carried out. It should be possible to operate here and now, but also, of course, in the long term. These are changes that need to be made and which, unfortunately, will take time. All that has been done, of course, is positive, but we must ensure that we can continue to work successfully. This year, SEK 215 million will be added to the work to combat men's violence against women. This means that there is a total of SEK 350 million during the year, of which 80 million are dedicated specifically to increasing the competence regarding honor-related violence and repression. The funds I mention are also permanent from 2024 at the level of SEK 300 million per year. I am saying this because I would like to emphasise how important it is that we do this long-term over time and that we all, as a society, endure to provide the support that the honour-violent girls may need. In addition to law enforcement and financial resources, there are also assignments given to many authorities, such as the Equality Agency and the Agency for Family Law and Parental Support, but also to the County Administrative Board in Östergötland, which will prepare the establishment of a permanent national competence centre.
i-HAQPwVy8GqJCbMfGTBrvSd	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your statement, Minister. I am very well aware of the laws; during my 14 years in Parliament, I have been one of the blowlamps for this. We didn't have these laws before. I agree with and have no doubt about the government's genuine ambition in terms of legislation and such efforts, but, as the Government was concerned, it is not always the legislation itself that is lacking. However, both efforts and legislation must be monitored and evaluated. It's important– I've been saying it all these years and I'm saying it now too. We have invested hundreds of millions of dollars in the field of honor over the last 20 years, but we have never followed up and evaluated: Has it been right? Has the money gone to the right stakes? What happened? We legislators press buttons and write laws, but there are others who implement. That is why we also need to follow up. In fact, it is the government that must do so, and that is the responsibility. You can't just bet money, you have to make sure that the money goes into the right hands. I have no doubt that many people work both in the non-profit sector and in the authorities, but they may not always benefit from it. This is about girls and LGBT people, but also about adult women, with whom I have daily contact and who are subjected to honour violence. They may not be able to find shelter themselves, leave the home or leave their children because of this. That is why we must have responsive authorities. This applies to everything from Arbetsförmedlingen and Sfi to folk high schools, universities and primary schools – as well as midwives. The work must be done at different levels and be continuous because people change jobs, retire and move. I therefore believe that this work is extremely important if we are really to eradicate the problem of honour. If we are to turn over every stone, as Prime Magdalena Andersson said, we really have to work. To overturn all these stones, we must take even greater steps forward. I know we have the National Skills Team, but in these countries it happens every year that children disappear. There are abuses in Si s-homes and family homes that are not actually appropriate. There are family homes where there's honorary oppression. In homes where your own children do not have the same rights, you place children only because according to the Social Services Act – and as a social worker I myself have been critical of this – it is always the family that is the best for the children. It is not always so; in an honor-related context, the family is not the best. Of course, this does not apply to everyone in the family, for there are always good, modern and progressive people in all social classes. When it comes to oppression of honour, you have to have completely different eyes and ears and a completely different competence. Training is needed in order to be able to make the right assessments. These children should not suffer. Finally, I would like to say that you can always ask a new question, I am thinking – even in the speaker's chair!
i-U6AG4mtAMgiZFNyw9SFJb4	Madam President, I would like I really want to thank Amineh Kakabaveh. We have had many debates on the same issues but with different angles, perspectives and issues. I really feel that Amineh Kakabaveh's commitment is extremely genuine, and I would like to say that all the work she has done has been very important. I want to say something about this with Sis, because I think that anyone listening to our debate is surprised that we are using Sis to place girls who are subjected to honour-related violence and oppression. I would really like to emphasise that this is not normal in any way. It has, however, obviously happened on a few occasions, even though they are few. There must always – always – be a good basis for placing in a Sis institution. Selecting a Sis institution thus offers the possibility of a locked location instead of other solutions, such as HVB or family homes. If a municipality applies for a locked location, it could be because the person placed is perceived as endangering himself. It could be a risk that he or she discloses his or her location and, for example, as may be the case here, instead lives in very unsafe environments and in inappropriate company. There is protection against misplaced placements by social services because immediate care is subject to administrative law. So it is not the case that the social services themselves decide and that it can be wrong, but that there is also a review in the administrative court. When it comes to family homes and also HVB homes, I would also like to say that we have an investigation that is now working to review the quality of family homes, if we are going to have registers and so on – but also how we are going to get more people to want to be family homes, so that we get more homes that can be fitted and matched against the children and young people who need a temporary or longer placement outside the biological home. However, if it turns out to be wrong, there is inspection and supervision, and it is important that it works – of course that is the case. What, then, are the effects? That is of course always interesting, and that is why I mentioned that legislation is important but that it is not enough. It should first and foremost be followed, but there should also be resources, knowledge and competence. This knowledge and competence should be found in individuals who can meet children and young people, girls and adults who are exposed to honour-related violence and oppression – but it is also knowledge that may need to be found in entire authorities and that we as a society need to have. I believe that both the regional centres of competence and the national centres of competence to be established in Östergötland are important, not least for the development of national statistics on honour-related violence and repression in order to better assess the long-term impact on society. Then there are the very long-term effects, so I think this requires a combination of daring to take action and to allow them to exist for a time. This is something that, unfortunately, will not go simply and quickly, and so we must have patience and perseverance to take the measures that we believe are needed.
i-Q7tGdXwvydwdDn5XsP5ap7	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for both her sensitivity and the sensitivity of the government to these issues. There have been decades when you have invested, and many lives have been wasted. Many lives have also been destroyed because of the oppression of honor. This is important, and it is urgent. This is really the problem of society. For individuals like Yasmine it is huge, but it is also from a societal perspective. Many children cannot cope with school and end up in spirals of violence when they themselves form a family, out of fear and because they do not know. I have contact with a lot of girls. They ask me: Why just us – why do we end up in a spiral of violence again? I'm not saying everyone does, but a lot of people do. Therefore, society must be extra careful and give extra support to the honorable. Not least, this is about Sweden's face outwards. Millions of us have been cursed and surprised by the disinformation that Islamic groups have spread about Sweden and social services, which would take children from Muslim families. We must prevent this from happening again. Sweden deserves a better reputation. We will not be harmed by such hate speech, but it is important that we can protect our citizens and our children. I would therefore like to end by asking whether the Government sees that those who have been most vulnerable and paid a high price, such as Yasmine, will be able to receive some sort of compensation from the state.
i-FmhAUnw6SZuykJNUdSGNNF	Madam President, I would like For men's violence against women is some kind of extreme oppression in terms of inequality, or some kind of ultimate proof of inequality. Honour-related violence and repression are part of the government's strategy work, even if it becomes even more specific, of men's violence against women. Society really needs to act decisively. This applies to all forms of oppression, not least honour-related violence and repression. Never accepting that people are not allowed to choose who to marry, who to live their lives with, how to live their lives, what to work with or where to live is central to a country that calls itself a democracy and wants to welcome people from different backgrounds. You're supposed to be able to live your life free. Anyone exposed to honour-related violence and oppression has the right to support and protection. This applies to women, girls, men, boys and, not infrequently, LGBTI people who are subjected to honour-related violence and oppression. The fact that you are also aimed at boys and young men is not irrelevant. Although they are rarely the subject of our discussions or are the ones we are thinking of in the first place, I would really like to take this opportunity to say so. The government will continue to do what is necessary to counter all forms of honour-related violence and oppression.
i-KYsVJwveQ3BCU4E6gNGXYn	Madam President, I would like Pia Steensland has asked me whether I think it is reasonable that basic needs such as personal hygiene, meals and dressings should be cut up into smaller parts according to what is very personal or of a privacy sensitive nature and, if not, what measures I am prepared to take to ensure that all basic needs are considered as assistance-based in their entirety. LSS and assistance compensation are important efforts to ensure that people with disabilities are able to achieve equality in living conditions and full participation in society. Personal assistance and assistance compensation shall be of high quality and legal certainty. Everyone who is entitled to support should receive it. It is important that we do not forget what personal assistance is and who personal assistance is aimed at. In accordance with Paragraph 9(a) of the LSS, personal assistance refers to personal assistance provided by a limited number of persons to those who, due to large and permanent disabilities, need help with breathing, personal hygiene, meals, undressing, communicating with others or other help that requires in-depth knowledge of the disabled, i.e. so-called basic needs. Those who need personal assistance for their basic needs also have the right to personal assistance for other personal needs if the needs are not met by other means. The preparatory work for LSS shows that the government considered that personal assistance would be reserved for demanding or complex situations in various respects, usually of a very personal nature. This means that the needs to be met shall be of such a nature that they are privacy sensitive to the individual and that it is therefore justified for the individual to decide who is to perform the assistance. The Government believes that personal assistance should continue to be a personally designed support for people with large and permanent disabilities and that it should be reserved for a very personal need. The government recently decided on a bill and a legislative referral with proposals to strengthen the right to personal assistance, including the introduction of two new basic needs. This is the biggest reform in personal assistance since LSS was introduced. At present, there are no proposals for further changes in basic needs.
i-P7q4GwTgNnLYZr9KbYE25A	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Social Affairs for his answer, but I must say that the answer disappoints me. And if I am disappointed, I can only imagine how heavy it must be for the more than 2 000 people with extensive disabilities who have lost their right to assistance since 2016. It is people with extensive disabilities who have lost their assistance despite the fact that their needs have not changed. Madam President, I would like To be particularly clear, I would like to say that today's debate is about the government saying no to assistance being given, for example, during a full toilet visit or to put on all the clothes. The Social Democrats seem to think that current case law is okay, that is, assistance should only be given for those parts of the basic needs that can be considered to be of a very private nature. As far as toilet visits are concerned, Madam President, in practice this means that it is only the time it takes to wipe the butt that counts. For the clothes, it is only the time it takes to put on the clothes that are closest to the body that counts – not helping to put on an outer jacket, even if it is 20 degrees cold outside. Madam President, I would like I believe that the government's unwillingness to act is remarkable, partly because it was the S-MP government's regulatory letter to Försäkringskassan 2016 that forced the current case law. That is already the reason why the government should have pulled the emergency brake a long time ago. But the government's unwillingness to act is also remarkable because a majority here in the Riksdag recently said yes to the Christian Democrats' proposal that all elements of help regarding all basic needs should give the right to personal assistance. Parliament's decision is an expression of the will of the people, and yet the government says no. I find it very difficult to understand why. For me, and for the Christian Democrats, it is about human rights. It is also about people with extensive disabilities being able to live a life with full participation and self-determination in their own lives. For many, assistance is a prerequisite for it to become a reality. Madam President, I would like I interpreted the Government's answer as saying that it is in the preparatory work for LSS that there is support for today's strict case law, where the basic needs are divided into small parts. I believe that this is an incorrect interpretation. In the preparatory work, it is true that personal assistance should be reserved for demanding or complex situations in various respects, usually of a very personal nature. It also states that it should be crucial that the individual needs personal help to cope with his or her hygiene, to get dressed and undressed, to take meals or to communicate with others. But – and this is important, Madam President – there is nothing about basic needs being divided into smaller parts according to what is of a personal nature or not. It should therefore be interpreted as meaning that the basic needs as a whole are of a personal nature. This is also an interpretation that Bengt Westerberg has said he is behind in an interview in Assistanskoll, and he should know because he was the Minister of Social Affairs who was responsible for producing LSS. Madam President, I would like Let's play with the idea that the Minister of Social Affairs' interpretation is right. Why, then, was there not until 2016 a strong impact on decisions by Försäkringskassan where the basic needs were divided into smaller parts based on what was considered to be of a very private nature? If it were the view of the preparatory work that this should be the correct assessment, then the decision of the authorities should have been characterised by this approach already when LSS was introduced in 1994. I would be grateful if the Minister for Social Affairs could discuss this a little.
i-DXWwhhYoR5TSKuAaDFPScG	Madam President, I would like I certainly do not share Pia Steensland's view that the government would be unwilling to act because so many initiatives have been taken, so many efforts have been made and so much resources are being put in place. As recently as a few weeks ago, another bill and legislative referral that will probably justify around 2,000 more assistance, which is very good. It is misleading when Pia Steensland describes that you do not get assistance for an entire toilet visit but for a small part or to put on just some clothes. When you are eligible for assistance, of course, there is no break-up, but of course you have assistance for the whole need whether it is to get dressed, eat food or something else. Pia Steensland asks how to assess the extent of the individual's needs. The Social Insurance Agency has, in response to numerous judgments since 2009 onwards and in order to increase the equivalence across the country, come to dismember. It is not a political initiative. It was also not a political initiative in 2016. Although Pia Steensland repeatedly describes a regulatory letter that speaks of breaking hourly development, no legislative change has been made and no intention of the legislation has changed. It is therefore wrong to describe that assistance would be provided for only certain parts of the basic needs. However, of course, the dialogue with the authority continues on how to ensure that the person in need of assistance actually receives the support to which it is entitled. Let me also remind you that the Government has commissioned the Swedish Social Insurance Agency to provide knowledge support to administrators of the assistance allowance in order to help ensure that the privacy breach is as small as possible, and not least in this House, we have discussed how it is done when you describe your needs. It is important to be clear what gives the right to assistance, that the right people receive assistance and that the right assistance is provided, and I would really like to emphasise that this should be done in a way that is not more intrusive than is absolutely necessary.
i-L1KMq5G35WtLVYQErVrxP	Madam President, I would like Of course, those with extensive disabilities who are lucky enough to be granted more than 20 hours for basic needs will receive assistance for the whole of this time. However, as the Social Insurance Agency makes the assessment of the basic needs and then cuts up into smaller parts based on what is of a personal nature or does not arise a bias. Through this rigorous assessment, people do not come up with 20 hours of basic needs, and then they do not have the chance to enter the state assistance compensation system. In practice, it makes the strict assessment that you do not get assistance for basic needs such as toilet visits. I very much welcome the initiatives that have been taken to strengthen the right to assistance in relation to, for example, narrow parental responsibility, which is something we have been fighting for for a long time. Let me point out, however, that there are, unfortunately, shortcomings in this proposal. The committee is now dealing with this, and the Christian Democrats see a risk to those who need assistance in order to function in society and reduce their outward behaviour. As described in the bill, you should have a frequency in your outward behaviour. However, we believe that having a good dialogue between the recipient and the assistance will reduce this behaviour, and we see a risk of deterioration if a new assessment is obtained on the basis of this wording and is no longer justified. According to the proposal, parental responsibility for teenagers should be one hour per day. For example, it can be problematic for young people who attend a national high school and do not live at home. If you need assistance around the clock, an hour is missing, and what do you do? In families with children with extensive disabilities, everyday life is extremely tough. Here, too, normal parental responsibility can be so overpowering that you cannot cope with everything around you. We would therefore like to see some kind of valve where the limitation of the number of hours in the parental responsibility standard can be reviewed. The Minister of Social Affairs often says that the person entitled to assistance should receive it. The Christian Democrats usually say that anyone who needs assistance should get it. It is clear that the 2016 regulatory letter included the mission to break the development of the number of assistance hours. The Authority has to live up to that, and then it started to interpret old judgments from 2009, 2012 and 2015 much more restrictively than before. I believe that the change in the agency's behaviour is a direct consequence of the regulatory letter, and then the government should act to correct the problems that have arisen.
i-TUxptiWfKFcfJtx7RAqZ8V	Madam President, I would like Regarding the 2016 regulation letter and that the government should act: If what was stated in the regulation letter about breaking hourly development because the number of assistance did not change but the number of hours of the individual continued to increase no longer remains in the regulation letter, what more should a government do? I maintain that a letter of regulation cannot trump legislation; it is the legislation that applies. When it comes to basic needs, the assessment is that one should come up to 20 hours in total a week. If you have done this, it is not a question of making an assessment of what is fundamental needs, but personal needs can be added to this. Do I understand correctly that the Christian Democrats think it should be 20 hours but that the whole part should be included? If so, how many do Pia Steensland and the Christian Democrats estimate that it is the need for assistance that is not receiving it today? It would be interesting to know.
i-XzkiGMFxY6D8YwjdhWcshk	Madam President, I would like Of course, I do not have the exact figure. But as I said before, if you need assistance to cope with your everyday life, you should get it. According to a report by Försäkringskassan, the removal of the two-year review procedures has led to the retention of remuneration by some beneficiaries, although they would most likely not have been entitled to assistance compensation if they had applied today. Madam President, I would like If the case law has changed, as it did after the letter of regulation, we must correct the law in order to get back to the basic intention in LSS. Nevertheless, I would like to thank the Minister for Social Affairs for a clarification debate, although it may be heavy news for people with extensive disabilities. Today, voters before the Swedish Parliament have received an important message. The Social Democrats are not willing to implement the important decision that is required that all basic needs need to be assistance-based in their entirety. People's lives and families are being torn apart today when they do not get the assistance they need to cope with what is most necessary in their daily lives. The fact that the government then stands passive and does not implement the change that is now also the will of the Riksdag is unworthy. The slogan of the Social Democrats is: A better Sweden for all. I think it sounds false. It seems that the Social Democrats' definition of everyone does not fully cover people with extensive disabilities. I'm sorry about that. The fact that the Social Democrats say no to the amendment of the law is a clear sign that a new government with strong Christian-democratic influence is required.
i-SVxaYG4BzjZ1YVHg2DAFTJ	Madam President, I would like In recent years, we have made major changes to personal assistance in order to give more rights to the assistance they need. It's about breathing and probe feeding. It is about both the review that has been carried out and the review that will be done with a possible state head office. It is also about the major reforms that will increase the number of aid beneficiaries by some 2,000 people at a cost of over SEK 4 billion. It is remarkable that Pia Steensland claims that it would be a matter of disinterest and disengagement, or whatever word she is using. In any case, I note that at least in opposition, the Christian Democrats have a high voice. In 2009, it was the Christian Democrats who sat at the Ministry of Social Affairs. At that time, there was no interest in counteracting the judgments that began to develop a new case law. We will continue to ensure that both general welfare and assistance are safeguarded so that those who are entitled to assistance also receive it. Pia Steensland describes that you should have assistance for the whole of the basic needs, or that the basic needs should be based throughout the module. We can discuss 20 hours a week. Of course, it's done on and off. Nevertheless, those who have basic needs to an extent of 20 hours a week do not receive assistance in minutes or in pieces, but receive assistance based on the needs that exist. I'm very surprised if the Christian Democrats' message is that everyone who comes up for 20 hours in a week – and then you have to put together the whole elements that are basic needs – the entire target group, has assistance. Then I think that the Christian Democrats should come back and make an assessment of how many things could be done and then we will have a new discussion.
i-NdLsXYspxxmoqqPxjfGs2c	Madam President, I would like Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson has asked me several questions about a Council of Ministers for Infrastructure within the Nordic Council of Ministers. Cross-border transport is of great importance for both growth and accessibility in our respective countries. It is important that the cross-border infrastructure between our countries makes it attractive to live and work across national borders and also makes it possible to travel and transport goods between our countries in a more sustainable way. As I have also mentioned before, we Nordic transport ministers have good cooperation. We meet in a variety of contexts, bilaterally and in joint projects. I want to continue to safeguard good informal cooperation and do not see the need to set up a special Council of Ministers on transport infrastructure.
i-D55YWLDs5wQmthH2rvfVoP	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. On 3 March, I asked the Minister for Infrastructure why the Swedish Government did not follow the recommendation of the Nordic Council to introduce, among other things, Council of Ministers for Transport. The question was formulated: What is the obstacle that prevents Sweden from complying with the decisions of the Nordic Council? In his reply, the Minister for Infrastructure wrote: We meet in a variety of contexts, bilaterally and in joint projects. I would like to continue to safeguard good informal cooperation and do not see the need to set up a special Council of Ministers on Transport Infrastructure. It is very much as obedient to the answer that the Minister came up with here and now. I have still not received an answer to my written question which I asked on 3 March or the question on which we are now having an interpellation debate. What are the obstacles? The fact that there is good informal cooperation today is not an obstacle to making it even better. At least I've interpreted it. This is something that can be done better. In the 2018 minutes of the Nordic Council, we can read what is said from the Committee on Growth and Development in the Nordic Region, which has dealt with Nordic transport policy. There are several points, but I read one of the points on which the Nordic Council recommends that the Nordic governments should re-establish a Council of Ministers for Transport, with the main focus on growth-enhancing and green change, i.e. how to promote the movement of persons and goods at the Nordic level, how to promote the transition from road to rail and maritime transport, and the digitisation and interconnection of the modes of transport and technical solutions in and between countries. The Council of Ministers could be an ad hoc Council of Ministers for a limited period, after which the benefits of formalised cooperation could be evaluated for a possible continuation. That recommendation was supported by all parties, all party groups, all self-governing areas and all the countries of the Nordic Council. There was total unanimity behind the recommendation. Yet, as one of two countries, if I understand it correctly, Sweden chooses to stay out of it. You don't want to introduce it. If you look at the department that Tomas Eneroth himself leads, the Ministry of Infrastructure, it says on the government's website that it is responsible for issues related to transport and infrastructure, digitalisation and IT. That is exactly what a Council of Ministers for Infrastructure should take care of. Although it is not the Minister who decides which departments we should have without the Prime Minister, we have something here that the Social Democratic Government thinks is good in Sweden. But it's obviously not good at Nordic level because you don't want the same there. Madam President, I would like I would like to ask the question for the third time: what are the obstacles to Tomas Eneroth and the Swedish Government not wanting to heed the recommendation of the Nordic Council?
i-Svbddz3McmTE25NncoivnW	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson, for your commitment! It's important. For me, it has been very important, not least in the period after a pandemic where several countries – not Sweden, but other countries in the Nordic countries – closed their borders, to ensure that we have a well-functioning labour market between our countries and transport that makes it possible. We have a number of ongoing projects. We just need to mention Helsingborg– Helsingör, Stockholm– Oslo, Gothenburg– Oslo, Meråker- and Mittbanan or, for that matter, Ofotenbanan, not to mention Haparanda – Torneå. During the pandemic, Sweden has also worked for open borders and opportunities for mobility so that we can have functioning common labour markets. We have a well-functioning cooperation between the Nordic ministers where we bilaterally resolve issues. Bornholmstrafiken is a good example of this. We also talk together about the conditions and challenges. This is particularly true at the latest when it came to the consequences of the Russian invasion of Ukraine. It is quite another matter to set up a formal structure, which would involve a Nordic Council of Ministers dealing with the transport plans of the different countries. I have worked hard for us to speed up our planning processes, for us to have fast decision-making paths and for us to have increased collaboration with industry, municipalities and regions in order to be able to roll out the strong demands that exist for more infrastructure investments more quickly. Unlike when Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson's party was in government, when they demanded infrastructure investments as compensation for company closures, everyone now wants more infrastructure investments because there is such strong growth. These are new battery plants and new industrial investments. Rather, most people say: Can it go a little faster? We are working hard to have faster planning processes. We provide funding from the Swedish Transport Administration to the county administrative boards to accelerate planning processes there. I think it is important that we ensure that we have a high pace in the transition that needs to be made, and I see that we have well-functioning cooperation. I also do not see in this situation the usefulness of building a new structure that at the Nordic level will formally deal with common transport infrastructure policy plans. I can see that this is an attitude that not only this government has taken, but that all the previous Swedish governments – including the bourgeois – have had, because we would prefer to protect well-functioning cooperation as it is today between our governments.
i-JZ2qGqmvfjz4urhsUsDJr1	Madam President, I would like As for the mobility during the pandemic, I could stand here and talk for a long time, because I really have it on as a resident 100 meters from the Norwegian border. I've seen what those border closures meant. This shows the value of our mobility between our Nordic countries. However, there may be two different things. This is about formalised cooperation on infrastructure, and there were other issues that were higher on the agenda. When the Nordic Council makes a recommendation, the Council of Ministers shall respond to it. The answer from the Council of Ministers came in 2018, and that is very similar to the answer given by Mr Eneroth here today. What is included in the answer, however, and which Mr Eneroth has not mentioned now, is that we want to focus entirely on European policy. That's the thing. Not all the countries of the Nordic Council are with the EU. But the stronger we Nordic countries become as a joint partner, the better the conditions for action towards the EU and other countries. We are somewhere – it depends a little on – between the tenth and twelfth largest economy in the world if we merge the Nordic countries' economies. As I said in my previous post, all party groups and all parties were in agreement on this in 2018. On 24 January, a member proposal came to the Nordic Council. It's written in Norwegian, but since it's a quote, I assume that you have to read it out even if we're going to speak Swedish in the Chamber, which some people tend to give me a little sparkle for:.The sosial democratic group whispers to a stemmige wood roof fra sesjonen i Akureyri in 2018... om å opprette et ministerråd for transport. The group registers that it to date ikke has væ rt will på regjeringene til å etterkomme Nordisk Råd sin vedt sälv selv om dente har bättt ett lättligt gjentatte gånger. ..................................................... So it is Tomas Eneroth's own group that is calling for this again because there have been no results. So this is from this year. Therefore, in my interpellation, I chose to ask the question in addition to this with the obstacles, to which I have still not received an answer: Has Tomas Eneroth, as his own group has now come up with a new membership proposal, and the government has changed its mind? Are you therefore in favour of introducing a Council of Ministers for Transport? Despite this, it is apparently not, so I note that the parliamentary group and the government are not talking about this. Tomas Eneroth also mentioned several projects that were under way. One of the projects that he did not mention is Fehmarn Belt and the work done there by making a corridor from Norway through Sweden and Denmark and down to Germany. It is a gigantic infrastructure project, and they are calling for a common platform among the Nordic countries to implement this. They want a common platform that they can turn to and bump against. We have a number of other such major projects that wish to do so, and so it is the business community that wishes to do so. One thing that is quite interesting is that Iceland, Greenland and the Faroe Islands, that is, countries to which we do not have car traffic or train traffic from us, really want this through. They see the value of getting this Council of Ministers even though we do not even have that possibility of mobility to these countries.
i-D2u2VpJAssg2D2wo31spFY	Madam President and Mr Ottosson! I appreciate, for example, the inclusion of Fehmarn Belt. It is true that when Fehmarn Belt is built in cooperation between Germany and Denmark, it means that traffic across the Öresund Bridge is likely to increase dramatically. Today, that traffic is to be received by an E6 limited and by the Southern Main Line. That is why we want to build a new main railway between Lund and Hässleholm. The Christian Democrats are against that. You want to limit that possibility. You spend SEK 50 billion less on new infrastructure and say that there is no need for money for this, despite the fact that it is a fundamental prerequisite for the traffic increase the investment in Fehmarn Belt can entail. It would have been interesting to hear if Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson has any different views, because that is how I see Nordic cooperation and cooperation between countries to work. You follow each other's traffic investments, and you see the consequences. It does not matter however solemnly we talk about Nordic cooperation when, in reality, the Christian Democrats say no to meet the investments now being made on the Danish side for an increased infrastructure policy. That's a little bit of the point of departure. Action is needed here. Action is needed here. We do so with a national plan of nearly 900 billion in infrastructure investments. There is more investment in new infrastructure, not least to connect our country but also to increase the conditions for relations with our neighbours. Unfortunately, the Christian Democrats have chosen to spend 50 billion less on new infrastructure. With all due respect for the Nordic commitment – absolutely crucial is what you actually do in reality. We have a well-functioning Nordic cooperation. We make sure that we meet up with the investments that are being made. In the same way that we in Sweden electrified the Midway right up to the bridge over Great Hell, I have seen positive signs that Norway is now also ready to begin electrifying Meråkerbanan, which goes all the way up to Trondheim. There we were in Sweden before, but in Norway they waited a bit to make this consequent investment. I think it is positive that we are now receiving signals that Norway wants to strengthen the Swedish-Norwegian infrastructure. This is how Nordic cooperation should work.
i-JkG4EtwM6xxwcNstdTupoy	Mr. Old President! Let me remind Tomas Eneroth that it is not the Christian Democrats who decide whether we form a Council of Ministers for Infrastructure. In fact, it is the government that owns that question. It's the minister himself, so he can't burden anyone else with that. As far as money is concerned, we are spending less because we see the high-speed train as a big cuckoo who will take so much money from all other investments. We note how we are lagging behind in maintenance today on our existing railways and on our roads that need so much more money. Even if we invest more in rail, the railways do not reach out everywhere. That's what the roads do. Instead of spending money on the roads now, the Swedish Transport Administration chooses to reduce speed, because you do not have money for maintenance. This means lowering speeds, and this is certainly the wrong way to go if you want more mobility. Eneroth is calling for action. Well, just say yes to a Council of Ministers for Infrastructure and you'll get even more action on the whole! It is again the government that must show action, because it is the government that owns the issue. We as an individual party in the Nordic Council and in the Swedish Parliament do not own the issue. Finally, I must ask whether the Minister believes in Nordic cooperation. We have said that the Nordic region will become the world's most sustainable and integrated region by 2030. If we're going to be, we're going to have to show action right now. Because just as Mr Eneroth was on the subject, the pandemic has indeed shown that we are now extremely far from it. We have a long way to go. Precisely in order to improve mobility with all infrastructure – note well, it is not just road and rail transport; it is all infrastructure – we must give it a boost. We do this by formalising cooperation. Does the Minister believe in good Nordic cooperation?
i-VKgg66uzm8fXSr8W6KP9Wj	Mr. Old President! The answer to that question is unequivocally yes – of course. We have good working cooperation between the Nordic countries. We also already have special ministers who have that responsibility. We have Nordic co-operation ministers who link Nordic co-operation. It works well. I understand that the question becomes difficult for Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson. In reality, the Christian Democrats want to reduce the opportunities for working transport between our Nordic countries by saying no to Lund– Hässleholm and new main tracks down in Skåne that meet up with investments made in Fehmarn Belt because otherwise the Öresund Bridge risks being overloaded, in the same way that we meet up with Gothenburg– Borås or an investigation of the entire Stockholm – Oslo track. As we move from words to actions and invest nearly 900 billion in infrastructure, it becomes a concern when the Christian Democrats say that they want to spend 50 billion less on infrastructure. This is money invested to actually meet the transport needs that exist throughout the Nordic region. Our starting point, as with previous governments – including governments where the Christian Democrats have been involved – is that we have a well-functioning Nordic cooperation. We do not now see the need to set up a special Nordic Transport Council. Rather, it is that we continue to exchange information and have rapid decision-making processes. We need to build more to meet the climate requirements. More rail traffic, increased electrification, increased investment – that's how we face the future. We do this by strengthening the entire Nordic region and the entire Nordic region as the labour market.
i-93utgZGhLCsGnb19TBQkyF	Mr. Old President! Jens Holm has asked me several questions about investments in railway maintenance. The Government has only recently received the Swedish Transport Administration's report from the assignment they have had to report measures to implement certain railway maintenance under their own direction. The report will now be analysed. The government has systematically invested in maintenance of both railways and roads, both in the current infrastructure plan, in the infrastructure bill presented last April and in several budgets. I can say that the Swedish Transport Administration has never had so much money for maintenance before. This creates the conditions for improving robustness, raising standards and improving accessibility.
i-XDhqE4G8H7YMS1GSupa4E7	Mr. Old President! I would like to thank the Minister for Infrastructure for the brief answer to my interpellation. Swedish railway is in an emergency. Everyone who has travelled this spring, especially on the Western Main Line and the Southern Main Line, has had to live with heavy train delays. This has been the result of a number of acute track failures, in particular rail cracks, leading to major delays. Unfortunately, we will have to get used to many further delays and emergencies. The Swedish railway is very badly maintained. The money that Tomas Eneroth is now so proud that the government has allocated SEK 165 billion for the next twelve-year planning period is completely inadequate. They'll only build on the maintenance debt. We will leave behind a worse railway than before after the planning period until 2033. That is why we in the Left Party have allocated another SEK 60 billion to the rehabilitation of the railways. Why do we do that? Well, ultimately it's about road safety, about trains being able to arrive on time and, of course, about us being able to move more transport from road to rail and achieve our climate goals. However, the question of rail maintenance is not only about more or less money but also about how we organise maintenance. Since the beginning of the 2000s, the maintenance of Swedish railways has been completely liberalised and outsourced to a number of different external companies. The Finnish Transport Agency does not perform maintenance in its own direction as it did previously with Banverket Produktion, when it had overall responsibility and did maintenance itself. At that time, the railway company also had very good control and insight into the facility, i.e. the status of our 14 000 kilometres of rail, our 11 000 switches, our 4 500 bridges, our tunnels, our IT systems and everything else that is part of the large railway facility. We in the Left Party have long criticised this liberalisation and privatisation. It has led to fragmented responsibilities. No one has the joint responsibility and control at the plant when this is laid out on different executioners. This has also been noted in a number of investigations. I think it is also the opinion of Tomas Eneroth's party, the Social Democrats, that liberalisation has been bad. That is why, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the Social Democrats in the 2014 election campaign went to the elections to nationalise railway maintenance, that is to say, that we should take it back on our own initiative. Since then, the Social Democrats have set up five investigations into railway maintenance but have not taken a single step forward in order for us to have more rail maintenance on our own. For this reason, Mr President, I would like to ask Tomas Eneroth: Does Tomas Eneroth think that today's order, or rather today's disorder, on railway maintenance is good? If not, what changes does the Minister of Infrastructure want to make? Does the Minister of Infrastructure believe that the Swedish Transport Administration's short report is sufficient? If not, what does he want to do? And what happened to the Social Democrats' election promise to nationalise railway maintenance? No step in this direction has been taken so far.
i-TCikUDN6xdQuBYy2t8euMV	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Jens Holm, for the commitment! I appreciate it. I think we are very much in agreement that there is a need for proper investment in the Swedish rail system. It was also among the first I had to present as a relatively new minister already in the national plan 2018, where we increased our investment in Swedish railway maintenance by 47 percent – a dramatic increase. In the proposal that is to come in a national plan and where already the Riksdag and therefore also Jens Holm – at least the Riksdag – have supported the efforts to maintain this is about the biggest investment ever on railway maintenance. However, I believe that everyone who has followed the debate knows that I have been critical of how the costs have also increased considerably in terms of the implementation of rail maintenance. The report I now hold in my hand, which deals with measures for certain rail maintenance in my own hands, is the result of a multi-annual development and investigation work that has come about on my initiative to investigate the conditions, following a far-reaching liberalisation in which the Finnish Transport Agency took all the opportunities to carry out its own maintenance activities, to carry out this on its own initiative. Railway maintenance is mainly carried out by state actors. It may not be the Swedish state's company – yes, Infranord – but it is other states' companies that act. Is there a value in that the state itself and the Finnish Transport Administration themselves have their own capacity? I believe that this is important, both in order to find benchmarking when purchasing railway maintenance and in order to increase knowledge and knowledge about the status of the rail system. This is the starting point for the assignments we have given, and it is also the starting point for the report that the Swedish Transport Administration has presented. What we should remember, because Jens Holm asks what has happened, is that the last study that put its report also received quite extensive views during the consultation. Although I am convinced that Jens Holm and I can have a similar view on some of these issues, it is the government's responsibility to listen to the opinion and the views expressed by a number of stakeholders on whether it is feasible to proceed according to the investigation's proposal. That was the background to the fact that we also had to give Trafikverket a deeper assignment. Now that report came on April 20. Trafikverket sees that it could be possible to transfer a number of the contracts to the Swedish Transport Administration's own direction. I see this as an important step on the way to regain democratic control and to ensure greater access to railway maintenance by myself. I think it might be useful both for the Finnish Transport Administration and for taxpayers.
i-UpkDgYtnRKvpmRNi6AHEgs	Mr. Old President! I would like to begin by asking the Minister for Infrastructure whether he believes that the financial framework of SEK 165 billion plus just under SEK 30 billion in rail charges is sufficient to renovate the railways so that they have a considerably better standard after the renovation. I do not think so. SEK 165 billion is far from sufficient, and all other assessors feel the same. You can read in Trafikverket's proposal for a national infrastructure plan that there are many railways that will decay and thus be in a worse condition after the planning period 2033 than at the beginning, 2022. Why? Because the money isn't enough. So the money is one thing. Is it enough money or not? We in the Left Party did not think it was enough, and that is why we budgeted an extra 60 billion. But the organisation for the maintenance of the plant is at least as important. It is just as the Minister says that this is not just about the Trafikverket not having control of its own facility and not being able to act as the plant owner and manager that Trafikverket is of the railways, switches, IT systems, bridges, tunnels and everything else that goes with it. It is also very cost-driven to make procurements. There will be tenders, and some tenders are frankly a joke – they are very low bids, and even zero bids have occurred. It will be very expensive in the end, because compared to the tender price, the price of the work increases by over 70 per cent, as the Swedish National Audit Office has rightly stated. I think it's good that Tomas Eneroth seems to agree with me – he said that too – that we need more railway maintenance on our own. But the question is: Will there be railway maintenance on its own? Since 2014, when the Social Democrats went out with the election promise that maintenance would be nationalised and thus taken back to their own direction, the Social Democrats have presented five investigations: two SO U's and three commissions for the Swedish Transport Administration. But we have not taken a single step closer to self-directed railway maintenance. The investigation commission that came last, last week, from Trafikverket is about the Trafikverket to receive the administrative responsibility for 3 basic contracts out of a total of 34 maintenance contracts in Sweden. 3 out of 34 – does Tomas Eneroth believe that it is a sufficient step for us to have railway maintenance in our own direction? Even in this proposal from the Finnish Transport Administration, they are not saying that they should carry out maintenance in their own right, but that you should have the administrative responsibility and rather a control responsibility. What is this really about, Tomas Eneroth? Are we going to get a train maintenance on our own? How much longer do Tomas Eneroth and the Social Democrats intend to investigate instead of acting and taking control of railway maintenance?
i-6Qb32oPgam1pXhm9xWM4wx	Mr. Old President! Acting is, among other things, investigating. This is how you change the conditions from having had a development for a long time with the alliance government when you completely liberalised so that all the operations were managed by other companies in pure procurement to now starting the rather slow process – I can understand the frustration of Jens Holm – that it means to acquire documentation and investigate the conditions for re-regulation. This is what we are talking about: if the Swedish Transport Administration should increasingly have its own operations. The studies show – it is a study of additional directives that put the report – that there were many views during the consultation opinion that were critical and had objections and some that applauded the proposals. I think it is important that, if this is to be done, it should be done with broad acceptance. I also believe that both Jens Holm and others who follow the debate are well aware that in this House there is not currently a broad acceptance of the immediate nationalisation of railway maintenance in Sweden. I believe that one important way to go is to show that it is possible and that it is good and means an increased knowledge of the rail system. This also means that the Swedish Transport Administration will be given knowledge that is absolutely necessary to gain sufficient control over the status of the railway. The existing framework is sufficient. It is the largest framework ever for railway maintenance. What is troubling is the evolution of costs. I am so very keen to put an end to a development in which we have a 70% increase in the cost of both road and rail maintenance. That is not acceptable. It can be linked to procurement, with lack of competition, with ordering times, with lead times or material issues – let us now turn every stone around to ensure that we can break the cost development we have seen precisely in terms of rail and road maintenance. It may well be that one conclusion is that it even better supports a development where the Swedish Transport Administration acquires even more self-directed activities. I think it is good that we now finally have a basis. There was nothing before 2014, but now there is a solid investigation material and consultation bodies and documentation that means that a government, not least now that we have analysed Trafikverket's own proposals, has the opportunity to act. Then, of course – I would like to take this opportunity to say to those who follow the debate – that the Left Party can of course always add 60 billion more or 200 billion more or as many billion more, because the Left Party will always have a lot more money. We choose to put in place a budget in which we take overall responsibility and make the necessary priorities for infrastructure, defence, the police, health care, pensions and other important measures. We spend a total of almost SEK 900 billion on infrastructure now. Never in Swedish history has what I know, if we do not go back to Gripenstedt's days, been spent so much money on infrastructure. Let us also ensure that these resources are used as efficiently as possible! With 165 billion for maintenance to rail, I am convinced that we can get much better efforts that mean a status raising of the standard on Swedish rail. That is what we are working on from the government.
i-MizujuRUrcDDfn8Bvvc78x	Mr. Old President! SEK 165 billion is not enough for railway maintenance until 2033, and there is not a Minister of Infrastructure who has not boasted and said: This is the largest infrastructure budget ever. Why? Because the economy is growing. What this is about, Tomas Eneroth, is that we must reprioritize. A bank tax could be introduced. Taxes on high-income earners and large companies can be increased. Then you get more money that you can invest in sustainable infrastructure. That is exactly the policy of the Left Party. Today, Mr. Age President, Sweden is the one who calls itself if you look at the organization of railway maintenance. Sweden today has Europe's most liberalised railway maintenance. There is no country that has liberalised so much that an authority does not do any maintenance at all itself. The Swedish Transport Administration doesn't pull a single nut on the railroad itself anymore. Recently there were elections in Norway, and they got a Social Democratic government. There, the procurement of railway maintenance has been stopped. You slowly start to take it back to your own direction. Britain was the first European country to privatise the railways and also railway maintenance. It went completely to waste, and now they have taken back railway maintenance under their own direction and outsource what suits, but most of it is done on their own. Germany, Switzerland and other comparable countries have always had railway maintenance entirely on their own. Why? Because it's a very complicated system. Someone has to have overall responsibility, and it can be the state. And where the state has no competence, you can put it on someone else. Tomas Eneroth! Is it now complete with the maintenance of the railway? Does the government intend to act and take steps towards a railway maintenance that works better, which is more cost-effective and which is under its own control? Do you think that the Swedish Transport Administration's proposal for only 3 out of 34 basic contracts in its own right is sufficient? I don't think so.
i-PAkmRMBeQuM2aSPuXFURqm	Mr. Old President! I believe that the argument that both Jens Holm and I are in favour of will prove to be the right direction, that is to say, towards greater state responsibility. It should be an increased democratic control of important activities. What we have to do is to reverse the trend from the liberalisation and privatisation of everything in the 1990s and 2000s to the recognition that there are fundamental structures in society for which we must take greater joint responsibility. If there is anything the pandemic has taught us, it is that there really is a need for a stronger state and a stronger society. It turned out when previous governments had liberalised pharmaceutical supplies and basic needs. Now we are also in a situation where total defence needs to be guaranteed more resources. We need to strengthen society. I think everyone realises that it was not wise at one time to disarm or even abolish universal military service. Yes, I think it requires a stronger state and a stronger society. I'm sure this isn't the last investigation. However, we will act to increase public responsibility for rail maintenance. At this stage, the Finnish Transport Agency has provided us with a good basis for moving forward. I hope and believe that in the future we will have an even greater share that might be carried out more in the direction of society. I believe that this is necessary in order to maintain good knowledge of the status of the rail system and, at the same time, to be a driver in keeping a tight cost development and to ensure that we use the resources that Parliament has decided in the best possible way.
i-N3DFfgL443ebs32sqXvkJ3	Mr. Old President! Thomas Morell has asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure a better winter road management coming winters. It is of great importance that the winter road maintenance of the roads is of high quality. This is important for both accessibility and road safety. The Finnish Transport Agency, which has the Government's mission to be responsible for winter road maintenance, has therefore developed requirements for what should apply to winter road maintenance on the state roads. The requirements vary according to the type of road and traffic. However, the requirements apply equally in all parts of the country. The Swedish Parliament and the Government have decided on a financial framework that ensures that the Swedish Transport Administration can carry out the task. In 202 2, nearly SEK 1 3 billion has been allocated to the operation and maintenance of state roads. Trafikverket procures the implementation of winter road maintenance and has developed new, modern methods and working methods for monitoring. The Finnish Transport Agency also hires a third party to follow the contractors' work and check that efforts are both started and completed at the right time and with the right quality. It is important to ensure that entrepreneurs meet their commitments. I can thus conclude that Trafikverket has the financial resources required, developed requirements for winter road maintenance standards and procedures and methods to follow up the work of entrepreneurs.
i-FuRtLRhiW331ttDzRigukN	Mr. Old President! Thank you for your answer, Minister. This is not the first time, either this year or last year, we are discussing winter road maintenance. There is every reason to discuss it. Just a couple of weeks ago it was stopped again, on E4's, E18's, E20's and Highway 50's. There were cars carrying goods on board that did not reach their receivers. There will also be another concern; even emergency services will find it difficult to get around when it looks like that. The question must be asked: Is the government living in a parallel reality? Why do they find it so difficult to see what the real situation is on the road? I often get reports from truckers and drivers about what it looks like. Last time I got a film on highway 50 from Dalaporten to Hällabacken. I didn't count how many trucks were standing there, but there were several. That's the way it is as soon as there's some snow. I know that the Government does not like it when I say that I have 45 years of experience with all kinds of vehicles on the road. But it has never been as bad as it has been in recent years. The smallest little snow that will lead to the road becoming glass hal. You put on the brine that thaws the roadway. Then it freezes, and the road becomes slipperyer than ever. You also trust blindly those meteorologists in the ditch — the camera and the bottom thermometer. And you don't go out until that meteorologist wakes up. Then it's been slippery for a couple of hours. That is what the Government refers to when he says that new modern methods have been developed. It is quite clear that the new, modern methods do not work. There needs to be an old roadmaster who goes out and inspects the roads to see what it looks like and puts in action where it is needed. You need to increase the salinity. Those who are driving and doing maintenance on the winter roads know where it freezes and in what slump there are problems with refreezing. On some parties, for example in curves, it is much more insidious than on other parties on the road, because they have the different climate zones in the landscape. I have a friend who's been working on winter road maintenance for over 30 years. He quits now. I can't. He is ashamed in front of his colleagues; everyone knows that it is Tomas who should be out and entertain the road. But he can't go out. If he were to go out before the on call pleases the call, it will be white. He knows it's slippery. He knows it's awkward. But he can't go out, because some poor guy sitting on a computer screen hasn't alerted that it's slippery. They have removed the knowledge of the entrepreneurs who carry out the work, and rely blindly on the new, modern and effective methods and do not even take advantage of the knowledge that has been built up over 30 years of slip fighting on the roads. The result? It's gonna stop. It stands still on major European roads. Traffic's not getting through. Emergency services are not coming through. Now the government has to wake up.
i-7RhUxc6374fAqJDQatM54H	Mr. Old President! For those who follow the debate, I would like to start by saying that there are no cost restrictions on winter road maintenance. The Finnish Transport Agency may use the resources required because it can snow very much one winter and very little another. Use the resources! Last year, as I said, it was nearly $1 billion. That's a lot of resources. The Swedish Transport Agency does not conduct the winter road maintenance in its own direction, but procures it. Because it is important to know that taxpayers' money is being used correctly, people who have been given the assignment have also been provided with a GPS so that it is possible to follow where and when they drive. Mr. Old President! It's just like Thomas Morell says; it's no longer just a roadmaster who goes out, where you have the opportunity to go out, and feel a little what the weather is like. Now we have sensors and scanners that can properly ensure that you get reporting on the status on the road. Thomas Morell mentions April 8. Of course there was trouble in traffic then. In Gästrikland it fell within a short period of three inches of snow. There were large amounts of wet snow, and there was strong wind. Trees fell across the road. Most people understand that problems arise when trees fall across the roads. Then it is not good enough to develop a roadmaster, but then other efforts must be made to ensure a well-functioning winter road maintenance. Whether we use manual or digital technology, there will also be future times when the weather is incredibly bad. I am pleased that we have hauliers who, at this point, are very concerned about their staff and tell their suppliers that there will be concerns and that it is not certain that they will arrive on time or even come forward at all because the problems on the roads are so great. There's one thing I know, though. According to the reports I have received, there were no personal injuries or road deaths on 8 April. At the time when there were only manual measuring methods, we had 1,300 dead in traffic. Now it's under 200. So fewer people are killed or injured in traffic than ever. We have a safer traffic situation, thanks, among other things, to the fact that the cars but also the traffic as such are better technically equipped. We use new technology to ensure both driver support systems and technology that tells us what the road status is. There are vehicles that even communicate with each other to tell you that later on it may be slipping. Mr. Old President! Thomas Morell and I have debated this several times. I'm a tech optimist. I believe that we will see a continued reduction in the number of injured and killed in traffic and that an important part of it is the technological development where vehicles talk to each other and where driver support systems facilitate. If it is really poor road status or heavy slips due to black ice somewhere, the driver support system may even tell you that you should take a different route instead. I believe we will continue to see progress. Of course, you should also use the experience of people who have worked 30-40 years in Swedish road maintenance. You have to take advantage of that knowledge and take advantage of it before some of them retire to see if their knowledge can be taken advantage of and digitised so that it is institutionalized not only in a person who happens to live in a certain place where you monitor part of the road network, but that the knowledge can be used throughout Sweden. I think this is important. We are in a development where we can predict and predict bad weather in the past. The Finnish Transport Agency, and perhaps even the vehicles, can go out with better information and talk about what kind of road you will see. We also have better opportunities to quickly go out with the right efforts where they are needed to ensure good road safety.
i-W9dwpoPgwKoLpZsJeqfYD4	Mr. Old President! Thank you for your answer, Minister. I'm not hostile to new technology. I'm in my other car, communicating with other cars. It's always one step behind me as a driver. Before the car tells me how the road team is, I have noticed how it really is. Driver support systems are great, but they're a little late. They're just like the electronic meteorologists in the ditch. They won't wake up until they've had breakfast coffee. So it's taking too long. The guys and girls who run road maintenance have an experience in 20, 30 or 40 years. In the morning when they wake up, they know exactly what they would have to do, but they have to sit at home and wait because on call has not released them. If they leave early, they'll get a penalty payment. Meanwhile, cars drive off the road because of the slip or it stops. What happened at Dalaporten on April 8 is documented on film. I have that film and I'm happy to share it with the Government. We can look at what it really looked like and how miserable it was. My friend wrote a little documentation of this. It's a little comical. He's a tow truck and had called the Transport Administration and explained the situation. He wrote this: Nothing happened when I called and asked for help. About six calls were later at ten o'clock in the morning, and then I was dismissed as an inciting troll who only calls and disturbs them. They had no reports that there were problems on highway 50 Silverhöjden. The traffic's floating, they said. The video shows exactly the opposite relationship. The Finnish Transport Administration's perception of reality differs from that of the road. If this is the information the Government receives from the Finnish Transport Administration, I am not surprised by the answer I receive in the debate. It is quite clear that there are two different worlds: one for those who sit and watch a computer screen and one for those who have to use our infrastructure. Transport is vital for food, clothing, health care and industrial production. In particular, emergency services and ambulances must be able to make their way. You can't do that when it's stopped and blocked on the road. Then there is really only one way for emergency services and ambulances to get through, and that is by helicopter. And we don't have so much of them in this country. Let's look at the bug reports that have come in to traffic management. It was about the E20 and the hill outside Finnerödja, a classic place. You didn't go out there and make preparations. There was a stop at E18 at Immetorp, on the hill towards Örebro. There was also a stop on the E18 between Kristinehamn and Karlskoga, towards Karlskoga. There was also a stop on national road 50 outside Lindesberg, in Hällabacken in Storå, as well as national road 50 at Silverhöjden. These are just a few examples of what happened that day. That there was going to be snow was no surprise. That was told on TV two days before. It should have been possible, therefore, to prepare for action before stopping traffic in view of the social costs associated with such stops.
i-N2byfbE9gc8gdtT6jKqCzz	Mr. Old President! I appreciate Thomas Morell's commitment. I hope that, with his experience, he puts himself at the disposal of the Finnish Transport Administration to share his knowledge of how to do the anti-slip even better. There are clear criteria for when to start winter road control. It has been divided into standard classes. For those who are curious and follow the debate, I can tell you what it looks like. Standard Class 1: 2,200 kilometres, about 14 percent of traffic. When a centimetre of snow has fallen, the plow car has two hours to plow the distance. After it has stopped snowing, the road should be snow- and ice-free within two hours. Slip control normally occurs with salt. Standard Class 2: 6,500 kilometres, about 27 percent of traffic. When a centimetre of snow has arrived, the plowcar normally has three hours to plow the distance. After it stops snowing, the road should be snow-free and ice-free within three hours. Slip control normally occurs with salt. This is what the system looks like. It is structured, and nowadays there are also measuring points to know the status of the roads. This can always be supplemented – and should sometimes also be supplemented – with personal experience and knowledge and with a collaboration between the Swedish Transport Administration and the various road hauliers. I think that's how it needs to work. I think it is dangerous to give up so clearly the use of new technologies. We know that with new technologies we now have a much better and more road safety situation than we have ever had. There are fewer dead and injured in traffic. In the situation we are now talking about with three inches of wet snow and hard wind, trees fell across the road. Schools were closed. I'm sure most people realize that this was an extraordinary situation. Nevertheless, in Sweden we managed to cope with personal injuries, as I understand it from the reports. It is a positive development that Sweden is still able to do this. We often watch TV about major traffic accidents or storms that go by in the world. We see the chaos it creates. In Sweden, we have built an infrastructure that is more capable of doing this and ensures that fewer and fewer people are injured and killed in traffic, and that must be the most important thing. Whether it is when we as individuals are going out to drive or a racer who is going to send out a number of people who in their job have to keep Sweden rolling, you must always retain the judgment and responsibility to be able to say that in a particular situation you should not drive. I am, of course, concerned about ever tougher conditions for professional drivers, which is a discussion that we have had in this House in the past. One is stressed to arrive with the goods as quickly as possible due to just-in-time. As a result, many professional drivers have an increasingly tough everyday life. This is why we have been working for many years to strengthen professional traffic by getting a mobility package in place with tougher rules and penalties for those who violate driving and rest rules. The government has introduced requirements for winter tyres also for all foreign trucks available in Sweden. We have extra-audited the EU trailers where there is a folding knife effect and a risk of serious accidents. This is how we systematically work to increase road safety. Then anecdotal evidence is not enough with your own experience from one time or another, now or before. This must be combined with the accumulated experience. Let us find a way to both use the experience of all those working on road standards and ensure that new technologies incorporate that knowledge. I hope that Thomas Morell will make his knowledge available to the Finnish Transport Administration and will talk to them about how to make road maintenance even better.
i-MaafPVY2Jkjc3C6eQRnjkt	Mr. Old President! Thank you for your answer, Minister. I'll make myself available any day, no worries. And I can bring the Government with me, and we can have a real discussion about this. One doesn't rule out the other. I guess you can use new technology. But the experience that an experienced road keeper has accumulated for many years is difficult to beat. You know what will happen on the road in certain weather conditions, and technology cannot predict that. This is the difference between technology and experience accumulated during a professional life. I had a visit yesterday from a trucker. He reported what happened between Sundsvall and Luleå during this particular period, the 7 – 8 April. They then had additional costs for salvage of 12 357 SEK, for extra time for personnel of 14 000 SEK and for fuel of 6 000 SEK, due to road maintenance that was during all criticism. It was therefore a total of 32 357 SEK for the cars that day. It'll take a week for the trucker to bring that money back in. This is a serious skier who takes safety very seriously. But when the stuff gets standing up along the way, there's no chance. This trucker also runs food. A prerequisite for the vast majority of citizens to pass their day is that there is food in the shops. This is just one example. I can take several more, where you have calculated what it costs when road maintenance does not work. Many people are watching this debate, who know how things are on the road. Now the government has to deal with this, because this is not good enough.
i-SCt9cpx3boNakp2xXXAvT5	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Thomas Morell, for a good discussion! It is true that there may be many people watching this debate. Let me make one thing clear: if we are to get our professional traffic together, we must reward serious hauliers and a good working environment for professional drivers and ensure that there are rested and well-trained drivers who drive our goods or food along our roads. This is why, from having had a fully liberalised transport market before 2014, we have introduced squabbling, fines, ordering liability and winter tyre requirements and ensured that there has been an increase of 470 % in police controls on vehicles that violate cabotage rules and driving and rest periods. We have worked internationally for a mobility package that is now coming into force and which means that you have the right from day one to require the posting declaration of foreign drivers; otherwise the vehicle will be stopped. This means that you can require Swedish agreements and conditions. Together with the Swedish haulage industry, the Transport Workers' Association and others, we have systematically worked on this, and now we are there, when the mobility package enters into force. It's a victory. Thomas Morell is working for Ulf Kristersson to become Prime Minister in Sweden. Ulf Kristersson represents the Moderate Coalition Party, which called this type of efforts protectionism when in government. They did not lift a finger so that we could get things together in the Swedish transport system. In the EU, together with the party friends of the Swedish Democrats in Law and Justice, this type of effort has been opposed. So, seriously, if you want to keep track of things and make sure that professional drivers have good conditions and that we have good opportunities to have safe transport on our roads, you should use Fair Transport, and you should continue to work for a Social Democratic government.
