i-XEjFLP6WdTfWLCZwiRa89u	Madam President, I would like Thomas Morell has asked me what I intend to do to ensure that state-owned companies comply with the legislation in force in the transport sector. It is working intensively to promote healthy competition, road safety and a good working environment in the road transport sector. For this reason, the government has introduced new rules in the field of road transport, among other things, by tightening customer responsibility and enabling so-called clumping. Sweden has also been a driving force in the EU to get through the mobility package adopted in summer 2020. As part of the implementation of the mobility package, in May 2021 the Government introduced new fines for infringements of driving and rest rules. At that time it was also possible to decide on advance payments for the penalty fee, for example when the driver has spent the normal weekly rest period in the vehicle. On 1 December 2021, the sanction fee for unauthorised cabotage operations was increased from SEK 40 000 to SEK 60 000. This means that Sweden has among the highest sanction rates across the EU. The message is very clear. G working conditions and fair competition shall apply on the roads. Madam President, I would like Companies with state ownership are subject to the same laws as privately owned companies, such as the Companies Act. The Swedish Companies Act provides for a division of responsibilities between owners, board members and management. The company's board and management are responsible for the company's organisation and management of its affairs and the day-to-day management of the company's operational operations. I assume that state-owned companies comply with laws and regulations. In addition, companies with state ownership in accordance with the State's ownership policy must act exemplaryly in the area of sustainable entrepreneurship and otherwise act in such a way that they enjoy public confidence. I assume that this too will be followed. In the case of Postnord for the Ministry of Industry, a continuous dialogue with the company on the challenges of the road transport supply chain and the importance of ensuring order and order and the fair conditions of all its suppliers. It has also included a specific dialogue in which the company prepares for how they work with transport purchases and how it continuously improves its procedures to ensure exemplary behaviour regarding transport purchases. I take seriously the reports of unauthorised cabotage and illegal weekly rest in vehicles. These are issues that I will prioritise in talks and ownership dialogues with the company in the future. Postnord performs a very large number of transports in Sweden every day, and the need for transport capacity increases. The Coronapandemine, combined with strong growth in e-commerce, has brought additional challenges to the entire industry. In 2020, total e-commerce in Sweden increased by around 40 per cent and has since continued to increase by two-digit amounts in the first three quarters of 2021. Having said that, I naturally expect the company, even under the current coronapandemia, to comply with the current regulations.
i-LX6Fu9gMzpgvefHpw5Lfnz	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. This is the fourth debate I have on the subject – three times earlier with the representatives of the Government. I have also raised a written question. This morning I looked to see if there were more Members in this House who had debated the illegal shipments within Postnord. There is. The issue is well debated in this House, but we still have a problem with Postnord constantly typifying in connection with illegal transport. It's really embarrassing. The state should lead by example, and state companies should not be in an environment where illegal traffic occurs. The state is quite quick to point the whole hand at the citizens and say that they have done wrong and are to be fined. Laws are there to be followed, and those who do not follow them should also take their punishment. At the same time, however, to see that the state figures in the most cloudy waters does not create confidence in either state activities or legislation. There's got to be a tightening up. The Government's response showed what measures have been implemented, including tightening up the client responsibility. But the question was not about this but how the government will ensure that the state companies comply with the regulations. Companies that do not comply with the rules should be punished according to the legislation in force, and that is a good thing. Similarly, the client should be punished for breaching the regulations. Nevertheless, the basic principle must be that state companies comply with the law. Good working conditions and fair competition shall apply on the roads. That's the government's message. But then it will be strange that, time and again, we are debating Postnord and illegal activities. I feel we are coming to an end where we lose confidence in the government's ability to conduct serious talks with Postnord. The question is, is it enough to talk to you in the future? Now we must take action against the management so that there will be order. The Government also said that there has been a specific dialogue in which the company reported on how they work with transport purchases. But it is clear that dialogue is not enough. We are here for the fourth time, and other Members have had the same debate. It's a record that goes over and over again. Now something has to happen, and one has to take the problem seriously. It is about not getting these constant reports that Postnord figures in an activity that does not comply with the legislation. How should it be possible to impose requirements on other companies to comply with the law if the state does not? It'll be weird, and then there'll be a crisis of confidence. The Government also said that it expects Postnord to comply with current legislation. That promise has been made before, and nothing has happened. Now I am excited to hear what the new Minister of Economic Affairs has to say about how to deal with the problem.
i-Hwz5aCM5wFHzJRT4fx6bHy	Madam President, I would like I thank Thomas Morell for putting his finger on this very difficult issue time and again. Keep nagging, and we in the government will be forced to keep an eye on the difficult question all the time! I think this is one of the EU's greatest failures following the enlargement of the EU in the early 2000s. We simply lose control of the labour force in the EU, and unfortunately at the moment there were political winds in the EU that were going to take the opportunity to start doing things cheaper than was the case under the countries' collective agreements, which should have applied all the time. I have a background in trade union work. I've been working more on this issue than on any other issue in the last ten years. It is extremely difficult to get the spirit back in the bottle and get enough good rules for how this will work. That is why the government has devoted a great deal of time to this and to very ambitious plans within the EU, also with the European Parliament. Mr Eneroth has devoted much of her work to the EU, and the former Member of Parliament – and the current Minister – Mr Danielsson has worked on the whole mobility package. Without Swedish action, we would never have achieved the new regulation within the EU. From there to the fact that everything will work from day one, however, we have not come, and unfortunately I think it will be very difficult to find a solution that applies to all companies. The EU is still influencing the fact that we have a lot of people in Europe who are poorer than the people in the western part and who take up work under the collective agreements that apply here. The basic rule is now laid down once and for all: the collective agreement in the country where the transport is carried out shall apply to transport there. The history of cabotage is really quite good. After all, there was a lot of transport that previously went to one country and went back empty, and it naturally had a major impact on the environment that so many transports in Europe went without goods. The idea of cabotage was therefore good from the beginning, but no one could then see the enormous problems that this would create throughout the transport sector. I know that you, Thomas Morell, have a background in the sector, so you know better than most of the problems that have arisen. Unfortunately, these problems apply not only to foreign road hauliers but also to Swedish road hauliers. We have worked very hard on the part of the government to follow up on this and get legislation in place. As far as Postnord is concerned, my impression of the first talks is that they take this issue very seriously. Their big dilemma is the great fluctuation over the year in transport – for example, the Christmas season involves a doubled amount of packages. This has also, as I said in the introduction, grown very much. This simply means that they cannot last the whole year with their own staff and trucks, but they are forced in turn to take in subcontractors. About 12% of those taken in by Postnord are from other countries, and 3% are cabotage. They have a plan. They have signed agreements that any company that wants to sign a contract with Postnord must sign. They work hard to follow this up on every single transport, but, as Thomas Morell pointed out, the problem has unfortunately returned time and again. My belief that Postnord is working on this is very great. They have it at the top of the agenda, and I have seen in the answers to today's interpellation debate that they take this very seriously. However, we will have to continue, as I said in my initial reply. I will follow this issue in every ownership dialogue. They should not carry out transports against Swedish law – end of story.
i-DWKNHQLvi47LTBC6EjFGCK	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. It actually sounds positive and as if there is an ambition to overcome the problem. After all, the basic approach must be to comply with the legislation in force and not to end up in a situation where you are in the cloudy water in which all other such dirt is found. I am well aware that there has been a large increase in the volume of transport and the difficulty of getting cars and drivers available to carry them out. Nevertheless, the basis must be compliance with the legislation in force. For the state, this is all the more important, because you get your eyes on yourself. Out in the business, from which I come, Postnord is a wise one, and it is not a positive show in that sense. The business is not only in Sweden and Denmark, but also in Norway. On January 12, a large article was published in Norway about Postnord. A customer who has shopped from a network company speaks out like this: Now that we know which carriers they use and how the drivers are treated, I am happy to pay for the freight if it means that they hire a carrier that does not engage in social dumping. Until then, I will avoid using online stores linked to these. You do not want to use stores linked to Postnord. There is a Facebook group called Bojcotta Postnord which has around 3,000 members. One of the members, Jørn Eggum, writes that Postnord is a bandit company that wins assignments through social dumping. It is embarrassing that we have a state-owned company that figures in such contexts. I sincerely hope that we do not have to have another debate on Postnord. For safety's sake, perhaps we should still sit down with our calendars and book the next debate right now, because to be honest, I do not have much faith that there will be any improvement. Many times Postnord has promised that there will be order, but yet they end up in the police network. The traffic police are understaffed, so it's really a wonder that you show up in these controls – so few are they. However, I know my old colleagues in the police. They probably have special eyes on cars connected to Postnord, and when they see these cars they bring them in for control. Most of the time, it also becomes a report. Unfortunately, after all, we will meet in more debates on this.
i-P8uB6tfAM4H8r7CfDx8U7q	Madam President, I would like I very much hope that the new rules introduced by Postnord and the code of conduct and certificates that those who want to run for Postnord have to sign are so binding that no one dares to take the chance that Postnord does not make a check. But I'm supposed to be a realist at the same time; we've seen how the industry develops. I myself was not aware of the scope until I made a visit to the port of Trelleborg ten years ago. There, between 80 and 200 drivers live in trucks. They meet their needs between the trucks and wait for a hit on the Swedish labour market. They are far from their families, far from social rights and far from human life. The fact that there are skiers, or clients of skiers, who behave that way towards people in Europe is a disgrace. We see it in many areas – we have seen it in the construction area, in the construction area and in blueberry picking in the northern forests. It exists in many industries and is an evil. On this issue, it is also a question of giving resources to those who can enforce this. There we have begun to expand the possibilities. One could say that the 100 million we have invested in the police being able to train more and use more traffic police are not enough to transform such a large industry, but it is still 100 million. The police have now begun to educate more people who will be able to do the important work that I know you yourself, Thomas Morell, have been involved in doing before. I myself have been very frustrated about how few cases lead to clapping. The number has been very small in relation to what we suspect is the scope. The Transport Workers' Association, together with researchers in Lund, has carried out a survey that estimates that the problem in the Swedish transport market is such that it takes place somewhere between 2 000 and 3 000 illegal shipments in Sweden every day. Claming took place only in a few cases in the first few years. Now, however, the Swedish Transport Agency sees an increase in the number of notifications – from 61 cases at the start in 2016 to 349 cases on 30 November last year. I think the only way to do that is to get them and it's expensive. That is also why we now have one of the highest penalties in the European Union. If we get the police and the authorities to take this seriously as it should be taken on, maybe you and I won't have to have this debate, Thomas Morell. We may have many other debates, but this debate may not be necessary. You're supposed to be a realist at the same time. This came at a time when there was a political will that people could do work in Sweden under collective agreements. Many followed this up and said that the trade unions that stood up for collective agreements in Sweden were old-fashioned and wanted to prevent healthy competition in Sweden. Now there is some other sound in the bark also in the Swedish parliament. If you, Thomas Morell, are to cooperate with the parties it is talking about today, you will have a much bigger problem in the coming years, because there is not the same understanding that this will take place. We have made many of these changes with direct resistance from, for example, the Moderates, with whom you want to cooperate over the coming years. In the European Parliament, it was indeed the case that Johan Danielsson had to work very hard to ensure that the bourgeois also supported the stricter rules. I hope – and I am optimistic – that this issue is so debated in Sweden that we, together with the police and authorities, will get back the basic rule that is so simple: In Sweden, Swedish collective agreements will apply. So simple, and so difficult, I hope it will be the coming years to make this apply to everyone. ( FIRST VICE TALMANN: I would like to remind the Minister that we do not use you and you are talking through the President. )
i-Jwue4rL4mCpxkWvFcZwh3r	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. There's been a change. I quit traffic police in 2007. At the unit in Skara where I worked there were three lucky teams working in external service and nine officials in each lucky team. We could cover the days of the week decently to do checks. We had a pretty good grasp of what happened on our roads in our territory. We reported diligently on what was wrong. When I talk to my old colleagues now, I hear about a development in the police that has gone straight into the basement. In Skara today, there are about five men working with controls. They also have technical examinations of road accidents and other things that take time. These developments have been seen throughout the kingdom. Team sharpening does not help unless there is someone out there on the asphalt who physically stops vehicles, does checks and reports when it is wrong. This development has created a market in Sweden that has allowed the criminal part to grow. As early as 2012, the police conducted an investigation, a report, which shows that the illegal traffic is linked to other criminal activities and is an economic engine. You invest in other crime – drugs and things like that. All the misery we see around us is linked to illegal traffic. That's where you have the logistics flows, the transportation of weapons and ammunition, and so on. It creates the economic power to carry on its criminal activity. If we are to tackle this, we must have more checks on the way. I sincerely hope that the Government is involved in helping to get it.
i-Pjzqv3dS6qWm16NrrjNoWk	Madam President, I would like I'll take this opportunity to apologize. When I got a little involved, I forgot Parliament's rules on how to approach people. I'll do everything I can to get better at it. I've been told once before. It sounds like Thomas Morell and I agree on the problem picture around transport in Sweden. When cabotage was introduced, it was a good idea – they would reduce the environmental impact. But it has become very dangerous, because it is difficult to control who makes a cabotage transport and who makes an illegal transport. It's really hard for the police to follow up. This is about the same thing that I came up with before, Madam President – the problem is simply that everyone, including the police, has said that this is less important than other crime in Sweden. It has not been given sufficient priority. We hope from the government, Madam President, that the additional 100 million and our ongoing debate with Postnord and others will enable the police to understand that much of the crime begins in organised crime around transport. We could make a lot of money out of that. I welcome further examination of how Postnord behaves, and I will be responsible for the ownership dialogue with Postnord myself. They're supposed to do the right thing from start to finish.
i-2rG6gLra8jmLN4bJxruYXh	Madam President, I would like Ulrik Bergman has asked the Minister for Finance if the Minister intends to take the initiative to carry out a census so that the identity of residents in Sweden can be ensured. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. The framework on behalf of Statistics Sweden is long-standing register-based in Sweden and is based on data mainly from the Swedish Tax Agency's population register database. The change made at the end of the 1990s meant that a form-based system was abandoned in favour of a more efficient and less costly register-based system, which also became easier for the population and gave the opportunity for better and more up-to-date statistics. The data in population censuses and population statistics shall be accurate and consistent with reality. I share the interpellier's view of the importance of order and order in our systems. Determination of the residence of a person and registration of information on identity, family and other circumstances is done through the population register. The data in the population register must reflect the population's residence, identity and family law conditions so that different social functions are given a proper basis for decisions and measures. Among the measures taken by the Government to improve population accounts are the fact that the Swedish Tax Agency has had to increase the funds and more tools to be able to detect, investigate and correct more errors in population accounts. For example, the authority has been given the opportunity to de-register false identities from the population register and to make visits to check a person's residence. In addition, criminal records have been re-introduced. According to the general rule, public authorities now also have an obligation to inform the Swedish Tax Agency if it can be assumed that an entry in the population register is incorrect or incomplete. Many measures have therefore been taken to strengthen population records, and it is important to point out that a broad and continued long-term work is needed. The Government Office is now also preparing proposals from a government investigation tasked with proposing measures to further reduce the presence of incorrect information in population records. In addition, the Swedish Tax Agency, in collaboration with a number of voluntary municipalities, has been tasked with setting up a pilot project to investigate the extent of the problem of incorrect population records and to develop methods and working methods to correct errors. Sweden, like the other EU Member States, has an obligation to implement the so-called C ensus every ten years, which corresponds to a population and housing census. The Central Statistical Office is the authority responsible for carrying out this census in Sweden. The next c ensus will be implemented with reference year et 2021. In Sweden, this census is based on registers, as was the case in 2011. The bill thus rests on the register information that the government and the relevant authorities are systematically working to improve. Thus, an effect of the work carried out and continued by the Government to improve population accounts is also better quality in the basis for the population and housing census carried out by Statistics Sweden. D first is an ongoing development work that the government continues to follow. Further efforts can not be excluded.
i-SivQQXB4SFQGHM4m4SyTAr	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. The background to my interpellation is the fact that various samples have revealed errors in the personal registers handled by different authorities. I can take an example from my municipality of Borlänge. The residential area of Tjärna meadows is built for around 3,500 people. But there are assessors who expect that there may be up to 10,000 people there — perhaps more, perhaps fewer. No one really knows, because a regular census has not been carried out for many years. This is a concern. At the same time, random checks have revealed that people had several identities and have sometimes also been written in different municipalities with different identities. This poses a number of problems. The same person can then, through false identities, receive grants from different municipalities and authorities without this being revealed, and that is of course very bad. The social contract itself means that every taxpayer expects tax revenue to be managed wisely and responsibly. A further dimension is that with identity, voting rights also come into play and that the authorities must also deal with this issue in an extremely responsible manner. We celebrate this year that it is 100 years since the first women took place in Parliament. In the past, there was a graduated voting right where one person had several votes. If we do not have control of false identities, this means, on the one hand, that we risk having people who are in the country on incorrect grounds and, on the other hand, that the same people are given several votes under several identities. The principle and the foundation of our democracy, one person one vote, are thus in danger of being undermined. It is good that all authorities that detect errors in the population register are obliged to report it to the Tax Agency, which is the responsible authority. The problem is that it is difficult to detect these errors if effective control measures are not in place. How will the Government act to facilitate such control measures?
i-Hj59bzsTdokXoyu6KtNmBi	Madam President, I would like I thank the interpellant for the interpellation on an urgent issue. When it comes to elections, one vote per citizen is one of the most fundamental foundations of our democracy, and we must safeguard that. That is why people's records must function well and shortcomings in them must be detected at an early stage. It is therefore gratifying with these missions, and I would like to mention one in particular. On 17 December 2020, the Government commissioned the Swedish Tax Agency, in collaboration with a number of voluntary municipalities, to set up a pilot project to investigate the extent of the problem of population registration and to develop methods and working methods to correct errors. The pilot project will be conducted and conducted in areas where the Swedish Tax Agency and the municipalities believe that problems with emphasis on, among other things, overcrowding and illicit trade in rental contracts are or have been particularly common. The assignment shall be presented by 1 June of this year. The investigation is therefore under way, and I am very much looking forward to the final report. Borlänge is one of the municipalities involved in this pilot project. The other municipalities are Botkyrka, Gothenburg, Helsingborg, Malmö, Stockholm, Södertälje and Uppsala. This is one of many assignments that the Swedish Tax Agency has received to improve the registration of people. Our assessment is that the most accurate way to find out which people are in Sweden is through the population register. A population register with correct data is the most effective and effective tool we have to work with, and therefore the Swedish Tax Agency has received a number of assignments in this area.
i-PvRpAn8tpHipoAmxuXmP5B	Madam President, I would like There should be at least two perspectives on this problem: how do we deal with those who are already in the country on incorrect grounds today, and how do we deal with those who come to the country and are completely unknown? In the first case, it is about people who are in Sweden and have provided false information to Swedish authorities. There are examples of people who have several driving licences issued under different identities. Authorities that are controllers use the population register, but can they trust it? When people are entered in the register they do not always have biometric data or fingerprints. How does the Government view this fact? Does the Government believe that Sweden must be better at using biometrics and other safe methods to overcome the problem of a person being able to live under several false identities in the country?
i-R5eKKHbPPu6nBDLb5PNStS	This means that foreign citizens have the right to vote in municipalities and regions after having been registered in Sweden for three years. However, whether they really exist or live here, we do not know for sure. On the basis of the population register, voting lists are drawn up, and voting cards are issued. The voter shall identify himself at the polling station. When issuing passports for Swedish citizens, biometric data is taken. It is a high-security system, and in principle only states can issue several passports for the same person. Should not the same high level of security apply to all other identity documents, including for foreign nationals, and should the data be checked with the population register so that false data is discovered? As I said, there are examples of issuing a driving licence to the same person because of several identities. I am aware that such biometric data are not being taken today. Can we trust that a Swedish driving licence acts as an identity document? How does the Government view this?
i-T6a3kzh5MNJeWwctFZhhzX	Madam President, I would like How people's records can be developed with different technical solutions is something we are constantly following, and I am absolutely sure that we will develop the systems as society and technology evolve. In Sweden we have basically good access to register data, and these data are of high quality. That is not to say that they are completely flawless, because there are shortcomings. It is therefore in order to further improve the systems and close the holes that the government has given these particular tasks to, among others, the Swedish Tax Agency. In 2018, the population registration error was estimated at around 198 000 individuals, which was 1.9 per cent of Sweden's population. The most common error type is an incorrect address. When I not too long ago studied political science in Luleå there was a big discussion about where students would register, so it is a common error type in the folk records. We need order and order in the systems, but in order to overcome the errors and shortcomings, we need to be effective and not invest in, for example, a large census, which is sometimes advocated. Since 98% is correct, it is better to attack the 2% where there are errors and shortcomings and fix them. It is the most effective way to tackle this problem.
i-RGHCHNGCt8g4ZUMxQVQUDC	Madam President, I would like The Government mentions an investigation that should look at this and that we can expect answers in 2023, if I remember correctly. This means that any action will come after the forthcoming elections. Isn't it a little late? In elections to municipalities and regions, the difference in votes between parties may be small. Then individual votes can affect the election outcome, and each vote is important and must be handled with respect. Faced with this fact, can we trust that those who vote really exist? Is there an action plan to access people who use false identities so that we can rely on this year's election results? Finally, Madam President, the Moderates are proposing a ten-point proposal today, including that the Riksdag should entrust the Government with the task of carrying out a national census and ensuring implementation through missions to the relevant authorities. The Moderates also believe that the Swedish Tax Agency should be responsible for the implementation and cooperate with the municipalities and relevant authorities in the implementation. The Moderates also believe that physical visits should be made to addresses in areas that are distinguished and where there is a suspicion of incorrect censuses. Those who have not been verified in the census should be able to miss out on certain welfare benefits. The Moderates also advocate the verification of biometric data as a general rule for the issuing of coordination numbers and for public records. The Moderates also want to abolish confidentiality between authorities so that a new general rule of confidentiality law is established that means that the relevant authorities should always be able to share relevant information with each other. How does the Government view our proposals? Can we have an impact on this?
i-WT3TpJybU6bRuv5Stq9Dte	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Bergman, for another intervention in this debate! It is gratifying that our proposals are in many ways synchronising. What the Swedish Tax Agency is already doing today and the assignments that the Swedish Tax Agency has already received include carrying out inspections. It was a law amendment that entered into force on 1 July 2018. The Swedish Tax Agency has also been given the opportunity to unregister the person registered in the population register under a false identity. This amendment entered into force on 1 July 2018. The government has also introduced a non-disclosure clause which makes it easier for the authorities to obtain information from each other and to have a strong exchange of information on the population records. As I said, on 1 July 2018, we also reintroduced the civil record crime, which was abolished in the 1990s. In addition, the pilot project that I mentioned earlier in the interpellation debate is under way. So there are a number of things going on where I feel that we have quite a great deal of consensus between the Social Democratic Government and the Moderates on how we can get to grips with the problems, and this is gratifying. There are things that you can continue to look at, and we are prepared to discuss this with other parties. We are convinced that the most effective control measure is not about carrying out a large census, but about actually using the systems that we have today, which are of good quality and ensure that they are improved. The question is what will be most effective and accurate, and where we think that the most accurate thing is to improve population records. I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for this very important interpellation.
i-ChXYcvjmFd1CTyhHGfXLzg	Madam President, I would like Alexandra Anstrell has asked me whether I intend to introduce some kind of emergency package for agriculture. John Widegren has asked me what measures I intend to take to strengthen the competitiveness of Swedish agriculture. Magnus Oscarsson has asked me if I am going to take any initiatives in relation to the data presented in the Farm Barometer and what measures I intend to take to mitigate the effects on the economic crisis we are now seeing in Swedish agriculture. The profitability of agriculture has been challenged in 2021 by cost increases as a result of increased prices of several inputs. Cost increases not only affect Swedish farmers but are linked to changes in commodity prices and energy prices in general. At the same time, in 2021 and 2022, the prices of most agricultural goods have increased, partly compensating for the increased costs. In line with the Swedish Food Strategy, the Government is actively working to strengthen the competitiveness of Swedish agriculture in the long term. Three food strategy action plans have therefore been decided. Action Plan 1 contains investments of more than SEK 1 billion through national funds and earmarked funds in the rural development programme. Action Plan 2 includes investments of SEK 122 million annually in 2020 – 2025 and an additional strengthening in 2020 of SEK 114 million. Action plan 3 includes additional investments of SEK 74 million annually in 2021 – 2023. The Government estimates that for the years 2024 to 2025, SEK 36 million annually and for the years 2026 onwards SEK 11 million per year. The action plans include investments in research and innovation, regulatory simplification and skills provision. In addition, a further strengthening of SEK 10 million was announced annually for 2022 – 2025 in the budget proposal for 2022 to the boar package, which is an action in the action plans. In addition, the Government has made major investments in the budget for 2022 to strengthen infrastructure and services in rural areas. The design of the EU's common agricultural policy is also an important tool for strengthening Swedish agriculture. A key starting point when Sweden's strategic plan for the common agricultural policy is designed is to strengthen the profitability of agriculture and facilitate the achievement of the objectives of the food strategy. The strategic plan covers just over SEK 60 billion in total during the period 2023 – 2027. In addition to this, it is estimated that approximately SEK 4.3 billion will be added during the same period to national measures meeting the CAP targets. The future evolution of the price of inputs and agricultural products will be an important factor in the profitability of agriculture. I have a close dialogue with the industry on these issues in order to analyse and monitor the situation.
i-FopAhaf7GMWKAPBvX99nBH	Madam President, I would like There are currently around 15 000 full-time farmers in Sweden. The farmers' costs run out, seriously. In an up-to-date estimate, the LRF can show that the costs to farmers in recent months have increased by SEK 4.1 billion on an annual basis. Bearing these 4.1 billion on top of all other running costs will be very difficult and for many farmers totally unsustainable in the long run. That it is unsustainable in many ways can be seen in the Swedish Board of Agriculture's statistics between 2010 and 2020, which is still a fairly long period of time. Land area used as agricultural land in Sweden has since 2010 decreased from 3,085,365 hectares to 3,013,041 hectares in 2020. It is a decline of 72,324 hectares, corresponding to almost 1 hectare per hour. Since 2010, the number of farms in Sweden has decreased from around 71 000 to around 58 000 in 2020. That's a 17% reduction in ten years. I'll continue with more numbers. Sweden had around 348 000 dairy cows in 2010, compared with only 300 000 in 2020. It's a fall of 13%. What is remarkable is that during the same ten-year period, the number of dairy cows has decreased from 5,619 to 3,087, which means 45 percent fewer enterprises. Many also own fewer dairy cows. If you look at the number of cattle in the country, you can see that it went back by 5%, and the number of cattle farms fell by 29%. The number of enterprises with pigs decreased by 32% over the same period, and the number of enterprises in sheep farming has also decreased, by 8%. One thing that has increased is chicken production, which is good, and also the proportion of laying hens. On the other hand, in the case of eggs, the number of companies involved in laying hens has fallen by 34%. Food and potatoes are what we usually say we need to get by. In 2020 potatoes were grown on 24 000 hectares of arable land. That is 3,130 hectares less than in 2010, a 12% reduction. During this time we have thus become 1 million more people in Sweden who will share less Swedish produced food. Madam President, I would like In 2020 we imported agricultural products and food to a value of nearly SEK 130 billion. Compared to 2010, this is an increase of 65 percent. How will we manage in Sweden in the event of crisis or war or if something happens to logistics, with transport? The Swedish Food Strategy, adopted a few years ago, set out a path towards increasing production in Sweden and thus providing a higher degree of self-sufficiency. Well, it doesn't look like that yet. For example, only 29 percent of the lamb we eat comes from Swedish production. Farming is needed and is very important for us to get food with high quality in the future and for us to get food with high quality when there is a crisis. Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, none of what the Minister is pointing out is something new or something that has produced any major results that give a sharp turn. What does the Minister say, would it not be good to have a little more hard work, so that we can continue to eat meat from the local farmer or buy milk from the store in the area?
i-WP6g1jteBXdnFxRsy5XKHd	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. But, Madam President, this is in no way good enough. We have a food strategy in Sweden today. That's great. The Minister highlights various action plans and measures. In the years of the food strategy, we have clearly seen that this does not help. It's not enough. In 2018, we had a drought crisis in Sweden. Over the last eight years we have had many tough years for milk production. We have had a so-called milk crisis for many of these years. We have seen in recent weeks the emergence of a pig crisis. Madam President, I would like At the same time, we have a world situation that looks more and more worrying. We saw already last autumn how Russia joined and ended with the export of, for example, fertilizers – mineral fertilisers. We see India and China vacuuming the market in mineral fertilisers to feed their own populations. We also have various weather phenomena right now that affect food production around the world. While all of this is happening, it looks like we will reduce our food production in Sweden and reduce our ability to support our own population. The rest of the world is increasingly looking to feed their own population. But here we don't think it's important. Or do we think so, Minister for Rural Affairs? Do we think it is important to produce our own food? In that case, this is not good enough. The Minister for Rural Development says you have a close relationship with the industry. I also have a very close relationship with nutrition. It is no longer possible to say that we are following developments. Now we are two months from spring use in Sweden when we will prepare for the 2022 harvest, with cost levels described here earlier that are immensely higher than before. I myself have a farm at home with an increased cost of about SEK 1.2 million when it comes to mineral manure, fuel and energy. That's a lot of money. At the same time, I intend to try to produce as much food as I can to support the Swedish market and the Swedish inhabitants with food. Madam President, I would like We have to do something else. It may seem sad that we are once again standing here talking about crisis packages and other things for Swedish agriculture. But that is where you end up because we have had such a bad agricultural policy. And then I'm not just blaming the latest government or the government that's been sitting with Stefan Löfven at the helm since 2014. This is a bad agricultural policy for a long time. We have not thought this to be important. We have not protected this. When you talk to large sellers of agricultural products today, they say that there may be a shortage of, for example, mineral fertilizers but also of seeds. But there will be completely different cost situations. And what will happen? In the less favourable agricultural areas of Sweden you might choose not to sow your fields this spring. What does that lead to? Yes, it will lead to a reduction in food production in Sweden. Madam President, I would like What I am very concerned about is that when agriculture disappears in these less favourable areas it is never started up again, but then it is gone. I am therefore very interested to hear the rural minister's reasoning on this. What happens when we switch food production in Sweden now?
i-TkJXAS1hz4BhkiNajudRkV	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. The fact that there are so many – three Members – who want to discuss this today shows how big this issue is. This is not a small question or a non-question, but it is an incredibly big question. That is why I am so grateful that there are so many of us who are discussing this with the Minister. We see, as my good colleagues have said here, that the economic situation of Swedish farmers at the moment is extremely tough. The price of diesel has skyrocketed, the price of electricity has skyrocketed, the price of feed has skyrocketed and the price of fertilizer has gone off like a rocket. Just as Mr Widegren was on the subject, the question is whether fertilizers can even be obtained longer. There are many who have contacted me and appealed for help. Last night I received an email that I was going to read to the minister. The subject is: Is there a future? It reads as follows: Hey, Magnus! What will happen to Swedish agriculture? Today we have no liquidity left in livestock production and live at best on rust and rot. There's talk of crisis support, but it feels like nothing's happening. We have no Lisa Nilsson who can reach out media and get people to understand the seriousness. The price of energy will break us fast. There are no reserves left, and above all, Swedish milk production has not made money in the foreseeable future and therefore has not consolidated itself. I believe that the Swedish Parliament will bite its tail if nothing is done now. Another milk business operator called and said that he had hoped that the increase in the price of milk that they actually received a while ago would allow him to pay the rent and cook a little bit in his diet. But he said that with the high costs that we now see, he can't take any pay anymore and can live on his wife's pay and that he can't continue in this way. I can continue to tell you about another dairy entrepreneur who has about 90 cows. When he started in 2014, the average was about 58 cows. Today, it's actually over 100. So he's a little below the incision. He told us, as John Widegren told about his farm, that his increased costs on the farm he runs were about $8,000. He said: Magnus, where should I find this money? If I have received so many desperate e-mails and conversations with appeals for help, I understand that the Minister has received an incredible amount of e-mails, phone calls and other things. That is why my question to the Minister, like that of my colleagues, is: what is the Minister's response to the calls for help? Can the Minister tell us something today to anyone who actually listens to this and who has really appealed for help? Is there anything the government can do right now? It would be great if we could hear it.
i-8TNXytaJep6DpKb4k4Sd1c	Madam President, I would like The government and I see that this is a serious situation. Inputs have increased. Imports of certain inputs are also not quite simple. This is an extremely serious situation. At the same time, the situation must be analysed as a government, and that is what we have done. We know what cost development it has been, but we also need to look at the revenue side. Has it met up? No, our assessment is that it has not really met up but that, as I said in my previous speech, it has helped a little to see a higher settlement price and other things. But the situation is serious for many farmers in rural areas. So what do we do? Yes, that's what I'm saying, let's analyze. Both the industry and my Secretary of State and others will come to the Committee on Agriculture and the Environment and allow the committee to take note of the analysis that will be produced. I will see the nutrition again in the near future. After that, the Board of Agriculture will also present its report on 3 February, so that Members will know, where they have also analysed what it looks like with both expenditure and income for agriculture. Having said that, I would like to say that we are seeing the situation. The proposals we have received from the industry are also very much what the study on fossil-independent agriculture takes on board. That investigation is now out for a referral and will be right back to us. There are many interesting suggestions. First it should be out for two more weeks, I think, and then we'll get it back so we can start treating it. But we also do other things here and now. As you know, the food strategy is only for the year 200 million SEK. We also know that a long-term approach is needed. The situation is here and now, but other measures are also needed to reverse the trend and achieve profitability at farm level. I think that the strategic plan takes care of a little of it, where we are moving towards more active agriculture, ensuring that more young farmers are given more opportunities and ensuring that food production hopefully increases as agriculture becomes more active. So things are done in the long term, but things are also being done now that are important. Other investments in rural areas that are also important if you run a farm can be broadband or that you can now apply for support for a biogas plant in the Climate Centre. The transition is also important, we know – that we do not have this dependence on inputs. We would rather see a production in Sveg than have to wait all the time for imports from Saudi Arabia and not know the costs of it. So a lot is being done. What I can say in the emergency is that we are still looking at the situation. I know that those of you who sit on the Committee on Environment and Agriculture will meet both industry, State Secretary and others already, I think, the first week of February.
i-HV9E6zSTp1g3VXFkE7FKSk	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for the developed answer! It's good to have analyses. I very much agree with that. But then you also have to act. I think that the government needs to act more and take the lead shirt now that Sweden's farmers are so heavily affected by increased costs for feed, fertilizer, diesel and the like. It is impossible to escape: the animals must have food, we need manure for the crops and you need your tractor and other machines. These are powered by fuel. There's nothing else you can make out. Prices have increased most of the time. Only between 2020 and 2021 had fertilisers and soil improvers increased by 157.5 per cent. It's horrible! Energy and fuel had grown by 35.3 per cent, and it was before the terrible electricity prices in December and the continued flashing prices of fuel. Madam President, I would like The high prices of electricity and fuel represent an unsustainable situation for Sweden's farmers. John Widegren told earlier about the increased costs it could be only on a farm. But this also happens in other industries, for example in the horse industry. We have a horse owner in Sala, Westholm, who has about a hundred horses. Their electricity bill has gone from 60 000 a month to 154 000 a month — only on electricity! It is reported that the situation is now tougher than when farmers and keepers were hit by the drought in 2018. Demand for food and agricultural raw materials is increasing, both in Sweden and around the world. At the same time, our production is decreasing here in Sweden. We'll be vulnerable. In the early 1990s, Sweden's farmers produced 75 per cent of the country's food. Today there are a lot more of us, which I was talking about earlier, but we are not producing any more food. We trust the imports. We trust the Port of Gothenburg to work. We trust that everything will be able to get into and out of Sweden all the time. About every other bite we eat is imported. Self-sufficiency has fallen to 50 per cent. In Finland it is about 80 per cent. Nevertheless, we have flour, sugar and carrots on which we can be self-sufficient, but that is not enough for very long. Even if carrot cake is good, it's not good forever. Of course, it also takes an oven to bake it, and then you also need electricity. Madam President, I would like Every citizen is expected to take responsibility for their own food, but the big question is, of course, where it will come from when it really comes, when there will be a crisis or at worst war. The harsh truth is that our country no longer has food for all its inhabitants. We may not notice the lack of a normal day in peacetime, but we would become painfully aware of a crisis. After all, we have been in a pandemic, and we saw how shelves were empty at the beginning of the coronapndemine. Our country can no longer feed its people. It's horrible! Should Sweden reach at least 80 per cent of its supply level, it would contribute to less climate impact, strengthen food production and ultimately provide a lot of new jobs. We would have a more robust society. We need that if we are to build up Sweden's total defence. It would take about ten days before the central warehouses were empty, according to the League of Civil Defense. Then we have not even mentioned the situation for children and adults in our schools, our retirement homes and hospitals – activities that our municipalities and regions are responsible for. The question really touches them. We need to talk about this. This is important! Therefore, it is not surprising if I and many others wonder: What is the plan for this really to get better?
i-7c9eRdN6KbV1yDaxLgy4Z2	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for some answers. But perhaps I did not get the answer to the last question I asked about what happens when production disappears in the less favourable areas and perhaps never starts again. Are we simply leaving that land, that asset, for the foam? There is a risk that we will get there. Then, Madam President, I agree with the Minister in many respects. We have to look long-term, and we're going to have a good strategic plan-- definitely! But it does not help when we have such a liquidity crisis as we are currently having. Then the Swedish farmers will not deliver the environmental and climate benefits that we ask them for and that we know we have in the green industries. It will not be possible when we have such a large liquidity crisis, which was mentioned perhaps worse than the one we had in 2018 when the drought struck. Then, in 2018, the government came with a crisis package – although under pressure from the Moderates and Christian Democrats in many ways. I don't like emergency packages. I would rather that we have long-term conditions that are good for Swedish farmers. What, then, are long-term conditions that are good for Swedish farmers? Yes, it is a reasonable cost situation in relation to the countries we are going to compete with on the agricultural market, the free market, which we are protecting here in Sweden. We shall have long-term opportunities to actually use and determine the land at our disposal. We have an environmental code which today very often causes problems. I think it's time to review it. We need to have official work that does not lean too much against activism, as we see many times today. There, officials of some of our authorities are pushing questions on their own behalf instead of being subject to the legal order that we have decided in this House, Madam President. There we have some of the long-term things that we need to change if there is to be increased trust from Swedish farmers. This will make us increase our production just as we ask in the food strategy and as we aim to be done by 2030. 2030 is approaching quite fast, and we are in a tough position. I'm very worried that those who never stop will start again. There is another thing too. It's getting into a bad trend. The climate is making a mess of things now in some parts of the world, as I said before. This makes it very capricious to know how much food there is on the world market. Will there be food to import? What happens in Sweden in the long term? For example, if we're going to get really nerdy, we can look at some soil chemistry. These are funny questions. What happens now when the cost of mineral fertilizers runs so fast is that farmers may choose to buy pure nitrogen fertilizers instead of using NPK fertilizers where they store fertilizers in a different way. Then we also reduce soil health in the Swedish arable land and perhaps enter a worse trend. Tell them that we remain in the high cost situation for a few years and that the high settlement prices will not remain at the autumn harvest or next year's harvest. Then we get into a really bad trend. There are many fears. That's what we're gonna have to do in politics. Most of the time, the government will have to take it on. Now the Social Democrats have been running things for a long time, and we are becoming weaker and weaker. When the crises come, we become weaker in being able to respond to them. We have to reverse the trend at some point. We need to get our eyes open because it's important. The Minister for Rural Development needs to wear a coat and show the front feet of this. We must now move forward, Madam President.
i-StXZwi4jwfnqfmoEdGFnjv	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Perhaps I had hoped for a more precise answer and that we could somehow have given many farmers something a little more concrete on the part of the government. That would have been amazing. But I hope it may come in the course of further conversation. We have adopted a food strategy in this House, as my colleagues have said. I myself received the great honour of working together with the then rural minister Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht. We put it through in the Chamber in June 2017. It's a few years ago if you think about it. In fact, it will now be five years this summer. It's been around for a while. It's kind of interesting. Those of us who worked on it thought we got some pretty good stuff. It says that Sweden should have more food production. Competitiveness will increase – feel it! Swedish agriculture will have more profitability. Those are wonderful words I'm saying now, I feel. Our food readiness will increase. Many rejoiced. I remember a headline in a big agricultural magazine. It said: Yes! Finally! We believe in the future, said one farmer. But it was then. It's been five years this summer. I have to ask the Minister if, when she visits farms, some farmer is saying: we feel that the food strategy has made a difference. If so, it would be interesting to hear it. I have not heard any Swedish farmer from north to south, wherever I come, who has said: This, Magnus, you did well. No one's ever said that. It's the other way around. They say, "Where did it go?" Right now, I don't even want to talk about it when I'm out. You feel like it's a joke. Madam President, I would like What we are talking about is the economic crisis that we are in the midst of. It affects them so much now. Me and my party leader Ebba Busch were this week out in Östra Husby, which is located in Vikbolandet in Norrköping. There were many there who came forward and wanted to talk about the great economic concerns that I was talking about right here. We were also told that there were several farmers who have quit or who intend to quit in the near future. Why, Madam President? Because profitability is too bad. The revenue and expenditure do not add up. If you add the workload that farmers have then you stop. It's not working. Those are beautiful words that we are saying, which I mentioned earlier. It is profitability, competitiveness and all of this. There is a great difference between what we said then and what we see exactly today. Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats have therefore tabled a proposal today a moment ago on the table. We want to reduce the fuel tax on the reduction obligation by 3 SEK. With the budget that we and the Moderates have adopted, it is SEK 3.50 less for everyone. We think it's important. We reduce the reduction requirement from today's 30.5 to 14%. We must do something radical. My questions are: What is the Minister doing to make the strategy a reality? What does the Minister think of the proposal we are putting forward?
i-9Ygn7oA3363YmqaavqF4Qr	Madam President, I would like Thank you, all Members, for recording and dialogue on these issues! I believe that Members, just as I do, still understand one thing. You have your meeting with the industry and the Secretary of State at the beginning of February. The Swedish Board of Agriculture's analysis will be held on 3 February. I think all three nevertheless understand that the Minister does not intend to stand in the Chamber today and make any promises. You have to have an analysis in front of you when you do it. Apart from that, it is a problematic situation. It is because of the expensive inputs. But I also want to see what it has done on the revenue side. That is why this analysis is being carried out. We are talking about self-sufficiency. It's incredibly important. It's about the ability. That is what we can import but also what we can produce. That we want increased food production, we all support it. Then I think the new CAP can help. There you can go towards a more active agriculture. It is activity that makes you get the support. I believe that we will see increased food production and increased self-sufficiency. The drying crisis was raised and there was support. That is absolutely correct. All the crises are different. Of course, there are similarities between this crisis and the drought crisis. If this happens as Mr Widegren mentioned in his speech that we can see a lack of input, it can be the same situation. What agriculture had then was the total shortage of inputs. It made that crisis in some way different from this crisis, if you are to compare it. What you need to know is that Swedish farmers first had the drying crisis in 2018. Then one has slowly come up and is now perhaps in phase. Then there will be new crises due to the fact that input materials are too expensive. When it comes to the reduction obligation, the task now lies with the Swedish Energy Agency to make the stop in the middle. You were supposed to make a check-up. It should also look at just how it hits businesses and citizens in different ways and how it simply works. That's what the Energy Agency is doing right now. I would like to mention something in all of this so that it does not sound like everything is very dark. Then I would like to say that food exports are actually increasing, and it has been doing so for years. It must not be forgotten that it was part of the food strategy. When we talk about self-sufficiency and other things, we should know that it is still positive to see that Swedish products and Swedish raw materials are increasing and that food exports are increasing by, I think, like 6 percent per year. I have to say that's a good thing.
i-YU1n363uExB1Vw2PDyvdzf	Madam President and the Minister. The food strategy, which was adopted almost five years ago, has not delivered the desired results so far. Then I think: Sometimes you have to decide if things didn't turn out the way you wanted them to. How should farmers and keepers around Sweden afford what they do? How can farmers afford to produce the necessary food when we need to increase the level of self-sufficiency, when the fuel price is so high that the tank is swindling and when electricity prices are so high that one would rather not open the electricity bill? As I said earlier, about every other bite in Sweden is imported – every other bite! I think it's a little scary. As I also mentioned earlier, I think that if there is a long-term crisis, or war, and the land border is closed, there will also be problems with transport. Then we're back on flour, sugar and carrots. But it is not really that simple either, because we need fuel, energy and plant protection products from other countries. So if the limit is closed for various reasons, we cannot even produce enough flour, sugar and carrots. There won't be a carrot cake. In other words, Sweden's level of self-sufficiency is even worse at present. Although we have been without war in Sweden for many years, it is no excuse to let go of control and rely entirely on imports. The security situation in our surrounding world looks, to say the least, very uncertain. It is not only more expensive, but also more difficult, to get the things you need. Madam President, I would like Everyone needs to realize that this is a problem that cannot be ignored. It would be better for us to prevent the disaster than for us to be completely hands-on when it happens. We need to rethink, and we need to value our farmers and create opportunities – not build obstacles. Here, Madam President, Sweden needs to be more prepared. It is vital that we become more self-sufficient.
i-PZvWzhEzAa2TTTj661cAqv	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the reasoning of the Minister for Rural Development. It still feels good to show such great interest, because we were not sure that the government had that interest after the summer when they chose not to even appoint a minister. That is why we are very grateful that we now have a minister who is interested in the questions. The industry and the industry need this very much. They also need to hear that we stand here and have our exchanges, because otherwise we will not make progress. The Social Democrats have now had the chance to be a little free from the Environmental Party's shackles, which have held back much of what Swedish agriculture thinks are important issues. It is probably no exaggeration to say that the Green Party is not the favourite party among Swedish farmers. Then the Social Democrats and the government must at least take the chance. Deliver some! One cannot only hope and believe that the strategic plan will be the solution to everything and that it is it that drives active farmers to increase production. I come back to the less favourable areas, because I want to talk more about them. Östgötaslätten, Västgötaslätten and Skåne will be fine; that's how it is. There you have high harvests, and that's where agriculture goes well. But we are so incredibly dependent on agriculture out in the periphery, because that's where we have a lot of diversity, and that's where we have our natural pastures. We also have the problem of predators, from which the government is now also able to break free. There are many things to deal with as a whole in this. Then it is not good enough, Minister, just to talk about the strategic plan and just to talk about the authorities coming back. You have to have your own drive, too. You have to have a vision and be able to tell us where we're going. If we want to achieve the objectives of the food strategy, Madam President, it is time to start delivering.
i-LztyzFurjauJLN3JAe4Ygb	Madam President, I would like Like my colleague John Widegren, I would also like to thank the Minister for having a minister to talk to, because that was not the case last time. That is good, because I still feel that there is a commitment to this issue. I would like to commend the Minister for that. I hope that we can have more conversations and that from the point of view of the conversation it will be a workshop, because that is what many people want. Just as I began by saying, there is an appeal and a cry out there: do something, because we are going in the water! I hope the Minister will take this with him. Our committee will be visited by the Board of Agriculture, the LRF and others, and I think it is very important for us to listen to them. I would like to refer to the food strategy again. It says that self-sufficiency will increase. But now it has actually become the opposite; you can see it from what Sweden's figures look like. Of course that will happen when we have farmers who quit. It can usually be that way when it is spring sowing, as someone was in here, but this year you say that you do not do so but lay the ground in fallow instead. Then of course there won't be any more food. Let's see what the pandemic has meant. We see that the shelves have been empty. We also know that in Stockholm City there would only be two days in a crisis or war situation before the shelves would be empty. In the country as such, it would take about ten days before it is empty. Then the food shelves open empty. This is really serious. I hope that the Minister will now answer that this question is by far the most important question you are working on. It is precisely about what we should do in such a situation, given what it is now like with the Russian who is holding in a way that is very serious for us and our surrounding world.
i-3sTP34jCtVuiBzqHRTLzeY	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank all three Members for their great commitment. I would also like to thank you for saying so easily that we have a rural minister. I promise I'll deliver more than just being one. No one should think that we are not following and analysing the situation. I really want to talk about that. But with that said: There are several meetings planned to do this. It is clear that the food strategy will be implemented. It means innovation and investment and the entry of new farmers into the sector. We also have CAP, which offers more investment and more young farmers. Nor do I want to see what Mr Widegren is talking about in areas where things are tougher. This also includes increased compensatory aid for areas where it is a little more difficult. I would like to conclude with a completely different point, and I am thinking of the food strategy. Yesterday I got to be digital in Bjuv, where I had to open Sweden's first protein factory. Why was that good? Well, it's always good when new innovations come. Why was that good? Because we have Members in the House who live there. Why was that good too? Because you bring every pea. The peas used in the protein factory are peas that are otherwise rejected because they cannot be sold. For a social democrat it was therefore good that all peas should be included, because it was a new innovation, because this is both done, packaged and resold in Sweden and because there is a market in Sweden and around the world for this protein factory. That's what I thought I'd end by saying.
i-Xa4me3DNE2DddA2ESdYjch	Madam President, I would like AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson has asked me h from I intend to act so that fuel stations can continue to exist in the countryside and not create white spots for those who live, work and live there. Good access to both commercial and public services is essential to make living, operating and living in all parts of the country attractive. It is particularly important that the shops and fuel stations operate as service points, i.e. as a hub also for other types of services such as postal and parcel services, payment services and pharmacies, and sometimes also some public services. Between 2015 and 2020, just over SEK 1 billion has been allocated for efforts aimed at supporting fuel stations and grocery stores in rural areas in various ways. This total includes both national state resources and the funds financed under the rural development programme. In addition, an additional SEK 160 million has been allocated to investment support for commercial services in the rural development programme for the years 2021 – 2022. According to the Swedish Civil Contingencies Agency Act(2010:1011) on flammable and explosive goods, the Swedish Civil Contingencies Agency can make regulations regarding environmental regulations for fuel stations. According to the regulation on cisterns with connected pipelines for flammable liquids, existing hot galvanised pipelines in soils which are not moisture-insulated may be used until 1 July 2022 without corrosion protection. This is a requirement that has been included in the Authority's regulation since 2014. The purpose of the regulation is to keep the risk of fire and explosion as low as possible in the handling of flammable and explosive goods and to promote an equivalent level of protection and safety for handling throughout the country. In other words, it should be equally safe to refuel your car in all parts of the country and at all fuel stations. For the years 2022 and 2023, SEK 75 million have been allocated annually for investments in fuel stations that are in need of support in order to implement changes that are necessary to meet the requirements of the Authority's regulations. The government is now working intensively to create the conditions for these investments to be carried out during this period. There is an urgent need for a well-functioning and sustainable transport supply for people and businesses throughout the country, both in cities and urban areas, as well as in sparsely populated and rural areas.
i-Ljof7XWAMp2LZSoXpQCqUv	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I started by listening to the previous debate in here. It ended very well with Skåne and my municipality Bjuv and a great tribute to the peas. There's a lot of excitement going on in our country. Thank you for that intervention. So to the point. On 2 December, the Industry Committee debated the issue of support for the continuation of fuel stations in rural areas. The clock is ticking. We are now in January. On June 30, the doors close for these sandwiches, and for the small country station time runs out. I asked for this interpellation debate to hear how far the government has come on this issue. I therefore hope that new answers will come from the Government in today's debate and not just a repeat of history, for I have heard it many times by both Minister Mikael Damberg and Jenn ie Nilsson. The Government's response highlights to me the money that has been allocated, i.e. 1 billion between 2015 and 2020. That is the case, but there have also been restrictions on these funds. It started by giving them to the rural programme, which meant that they got stuck in state aid and that they could not be paid out. They were then transferred to the regions, which meant that this came to compete with other things that rural areas would need. So it is far from everyone who has been able to take advantage of these funds. There's been money, but the money hasn't been useful. I would just like to say that so that it becomes clear. I have a question for the Government regarding these funds and advances. After all, the committee has also discussed various elements that it wanted the government to move forward with that were about being able to resolve this issue. Part of this was an advance loan. It has been a problem that money is not allocated in advance. Because you don't, owners of small sandwiches are in trouble. You don't have any money left over. There are no big profits in this business. You're going to invest, and there's going to be very little money left if you're going to lie out with money. You talk about 1 million, but it's a lot of money for a small entrepreneur. As a result, they have not been able to seek funds or, even if they could, have not received them. I would like to hear the Government say something about a solution to this – if you can imagine an advance payment or if you have come up with another solution for these gas station owners. That's one of my questions. I myself had the idea that since the money goes out to the regions via the Swedish Agency for Growth, the regions have the opportunity to use Almi, for example, to solve this link. The Swedish Agency for Growth has also been assigned the task of taking stock of which sandwiches are missing. The county administrative boards have not received all the information from the municipalities, who previously had that responsibility. Another of my questions is how much progress has been made in the work on that inventory. I will come back to the next speech and ask supplementary questions.
i-9m9nBQdQjpiGu6C6zrX8TF	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. I, too, have debated this issue several times, and I believe that the Government is aware of this. In my country there is a small village in the mountains called Ammarnäs. It is 90 km to the nearest central town from Ammarnäs. For some strange reason, the central points of all these small villages have become fuel stations. Should the fuel stations disappear, it would mean that the people who live in this place would be allowed to drive 90 km one way to refuel the car. And it's not just private individuals. It's about home help. It's about emergency services. It's about tourism. This applies to all those who want to visit these small towns, which are far from a central town. That is why I agree with my colleague, who, in the past, stressed the need for this inventory to take place and for us to ensure that the subsidies that the government is now devoting can be sought and used. Now the government says 75 million in 2022 and 2023 are set aside. But this law will come into force soon. There's five months left. Then the support in 2023 is not useful because this should already be done. Since the Government lives in the mountains, I know that the Government knows that the frost is deep and that the season when you can do this is short. For the entrepreneurs who are going to perform the operations – dig up the cisterns and improve them according to MSB's regulations – it's not that simple, and the period is very short. So we have a lot against getting this done. There are many actors involved in this issue, and it makes it difficult to understand who is going to do what and when to do it. The Moderates have invested 150 million to strengthen the budget for the re-regulation of cisterns. But there is also a challenge here. Do we have time to do this before 1 July? That's my question. Finally, my question to the Government is: what does the Government intend to do to ensure that we simplify the regulatory problem that has arisen because there are too many actors involved and it is difficult to do so at the right time?
i-JY4s4WvenYqmDQHfEoar4b	Madam President, I would like Thank you, both Ann-Ann-Charlotte and Elisabeth, for the questions, which I am very well aware of because we have worked with them before! I would like to start where Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm ended, with the need for the country trade, which can be the hub that is needed and which makes there are pharmacy and other things and that people in rural and rural areas come together. It can also be a fuel station. There is a need for these, and that is why, for many years, this government has also been investing in commercial services in rural and rural areas. The questions are really relevant, and we're all working with them. AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson asked me if there were any solutions for advances. There we are looking at the regulation; I think we communicated this also in the Committee on Economic Affairs. It's about there being frost in the ground. We also have the issue of exemption, which MSB is looking at. I think that Elisabeth Rahm will have to repeat the question to me and explain what she meant by the problem of the rule. I didn't understand where this was. You'll have to take it very much in your next speech. All the issues on which the committee worked and which the then government also told the committee that it was working on, we are now working hard on. Surely there is no government that wants to spend money on something that then does not reach out where it should. The effort of 150 million will, of course, get to where it is going so that we can have fuel stations in sparsely populated areas and in rural areas. The inventory is under way. I was told that the money we have set aside will be enough for the fuel stations that need it. I'll stop there for now.
i-KuaMWqFDJfFpSkA7QN5PcK	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The fact that the money is enough was a clear message. Then we know that the number of sandwiches that are known to benefit has been reduced. I would also like to mention what my fellow party was earlier on. Now we are in January, and the regulation means that if you have not done what you are supposed to do by 30 June and nothing else happens, these sandwiches must close. That's it. When it comes to the frost and what it looks like in the state council's own county, which has been overslept lately, we know that this is an impossibility, which also came up. When I last autumn was in contact with a company in Norrbotten on this issue they said that they have time for about six jobs a month until the end of June 2022. This corresponds to some of these gas station facilities. Now it's still fewer, so they might have time for some if you think they've been up and running ever since. However, you should do a job and order the material home. We can all figure out that this is not going to happen. It may be possible to solve it for a few, but you will not finish. The question is therefore urgent. In this context, however, we must mention that there has now been a change of Minister for Rural Affairs and, as has been said, we have also had discussions with others, including the Minister for the Interior, on these issues. But they have been discussed for a long time, and we have discussed more intensively in the spring and summer and then in the committee in the autumn. So time has passed. Now it is January, and now we are looking at the issue intensively. But what has happened since we had the debate on 2 December? Where is it stuck? It can not be so difficult to give the Swedish Civil Protection Agency, MSB, the assignment to grant exemption. It should be simple. A somewhat more tricky issue could be the state aid rules, which must be looked at. However, the basis we had in committee already made it clear that exceptions can be made, even from them. It is, for example, about what I have mentioned in relation to white spots. I have previously mentioned the example of Abisko, which is the last stop before Norway. It's a good way there, and it's 100 miles to Kiruna. For those who have home help and are going to drive ten miles to refuel, the effect becomes clear. It may also have participated in previous projects with EU funds and reached the ceiling for how much money you get. That's what the rules look like: If you have reached a roof, you can't get any more. Then it would be impossible to have a gas station there. And then the country is affected and the idea that the whole of Sweden should live because there are no opportunities to live and work everywhere. Under such conditions, there must be a clause in an EU document that will override state aid rules in favour of the country being able to function, because it must not stop working. I'd like some more answers. It's happening, but what else do you think is gonna happen? When can we expect a response on this issue, given that we are now in January?
i-7z4QTac3jjrYguyXpQLHCp	Madam President, I would like Sweden shall be fossil-free until 2040. I have asked a number of written questions and interpellations about this question and got the answer that it is better for a fuel station to buy a charging post for 500 000 SEK. This means that you have to secure your electricity supply and pay large amounts for the electricity bill for a charging pole. A charging post therefore costs 500 000 SEK. I haven't counted the electric cars in Ammarnäs, but I can't imagine that there are many of them. With the expensive electricity prices we have today, it is far from profitable for a petrol station in Ammarnäs to get a charging pole. With regard to the government's question of the rules – I understood that the government wanted me to get there – I was referring to the fact that, at the beginning of the discussion on this issue, it was the county administrative board that was in charge of these matters and was going to make the payments to the stations. It has been very bad with information to all the gas station owners that we have visited. For example, me and Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson have been visiting up in Saxnäs. There was no idea of the regulations. Now responsibility for these issues has returned to the region. That is what I am referring to when I am talking about a regulatory problem in my question. What do we do to make it easier for these gas station owners?
i-Y5PrXbVEMu8exJBT53qpS3	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered today by Minister for Education Anna Ekström, Minister for Foreign Affairs Ann Linde, Minister for Employment and Gender Equality Eva Nordmark and Minister of State Max Elger. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. Minister for Education Anna Ekström answers both general policy questions and questions within her own area of responsibility. Corona Commission access to relevant documents
i-XJeeEDg8H1zRiDckhsYC1F	Madam President, I would like The question is addressed to the minister who takes the issues of general policy. Last week it became public that the independent Corona Commission has long been denied information it considers necessary to fulfil its mission to review the government's management of the pandemic. Minister of Social Affairs Hallengren has stated in both the Social Affairs Committee and the media that she has provided all the information. This is clearly not true, as the Corona Commission was forced to make publicly clear that the government refuses to disclose relevant and necessary documents known to the Corona Commission. My question to the Government and to the Government is therefore: Is the Government now going to disclose all relevant and necessary documents that the Corona Commission considers necessary?
i-HvjvVr9HrfpyvcoCrJumaQ	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Camilla Waltersson Grönvall, for the question! The Corona Commission is an important Commission. It is set up by the government, and the purpose is to evaluate the capacity of the government, authorities, regions and municipalities to deal with the pandemic. It's a very important mission. It is about getting a thorough analysis, not least in order to learn in the face of future crises. And it goes without saying for the government to be so transparent that the Commission can do its scrutiny. The Corona Commission has the right to access public documents held in the Government Office. This also applies to documents containing confidential information. In addition, according to a special constitution, the Corona Commission has access to information at the disposal of the Government Office. The Government has ensured and intends to continue to ensure that the Corona Commission receives the documents it may need. This is a very important task, and it is something that the government attaches great importance to.
i-3JR94dTg6kvS8Q9gLtzTye	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. The GSS, the strategic coordination group, is not just any group. It consists, among other things, of the immediate employees of the Minister for Social Affairs and the current Prime Minister, i.e. Social Democratic State Secretary. That these would not have documented their meetings falls on their own absurdity. What is it that the government wants to hide and hide by not giving out these acts?
i-TGhKsNteubAbMpYvy8eaQu	Madam President, I would like The GSS, as they say, is an important group. However, like other meetings in the Government Office, which are not decision-making meetings, GSS does not draw up minutes. And according to established practice, the Government Office is not deemed to have any records kept by officials. The government, as I said, has a great interest in ensuring that the Corona Commission is given the basis that the Commission needs, and the government will be happy to continue to do so.
i-SdXj6UbnjYKEWDtR1PZbPM	Madam President, I would like No one knows today how many illegal immigrants are in Sweden, nor is there any interest from the government in investigating the issue. The reasons why shadow society has spread are, of course, ultra-liberal migration legislation and non-existent internal immigration controls, but also completely toothless legislation against employers who exploit illegal labour. According to the 20th chapter. The Aliens Act can be sentenced to prison if circumstances are aggravating, but the fact is that no one has ever been sentenced to prison for that crime. According to a court ruling, even 21 illegal construction workers are not considered sufficient for the employer to be sentenced to deprivation of liberty. My question is: how many undeclared workers does Minister Nordmark think it is reasonable that you can hire without getting more than a fine as a penalty?
i-LZA47xPAxpDqPAZ8QbKaSn	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jonas Andersson, for the question. My answer is none. We should not have illegal labour in Sweden. We're supposed to have much better control. It is also for this reason that my colleague Anders Ygeman, who is now responsible for these issues, has made proposals, among other things, to ensure that the legislation we have on labour immigration is tightened up. We Social Democrats and the government take this very seriously.
i-9hf1Ty47AxhjGAcysVu8B6	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. We must, of course, start from the current situation. In his report, the Swedish National Audit Office believes that there is an almost non-existent risk of being punished. It is also stated as one of the main risk factors for heavy labour exploitation, that this should be able to spread out. That is exactly the way it is in Sweden today. Should it really be the case that the government does not react to this until the Prime Minister himself happens to hire illegal workers to clean the villa cheaply?
i-5YDr112QgrdMiSavcAmkNT	Madam President, I would like Actually, this is not my area of responsibility now, but I have worked a lot on the questions, so I still want to answer. Labour immigration and the problem of serious organised crime, which has entered Swedish working life, is a huge problem. That is also why the government has made a great deal of effort. We have appointed a delegation against labour crime, and we continue to strengthen that work. It is crucial to ensure that we have a fair labour market, where no one needs to be exploited.
i-NLDFtsLQgJzbW2Tu3Y34Kv	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister for Gender Equality Eva Nordmark. It concerns men's violence against women. It is a crime that is so common today that the common man hardly reacts. It has been 20 days in the new year, and already women have been murdered by men they had a relationship with. Assaulted women enjoy no or poor legal certainty, especially when it comes to custody disputes in relationships where violence occurs. Today's legislation obliges victims of crime to cooperate with their perpetrators even when the victim, the woman, lives with protected identity. Under threat and pressure, she is forced to contribute, for example, to leaving the children for association. Which other victims of crime force Swedish legislation to cooperate with their perpetrators? The question is whether a father who abused his child's mother, sometimes before the child's eyes, is really a good father. Should not the child's right to an upbringing free from violence take precedence over a parent's right to his or her children if, at the same time, it could endanger the woman's life and health?
i-H84HuVS3JjQhqjhAdQ8Kjc	Madam President, I would like This is an issue which is not only a good one, but which also concerns the responsibilities of several ministers, and it is therefore important that it be taken very seriously. The problem raised in this issue falls under a very broad responsibility to act against men's violence against women. The government has a large multi-point programme that addresses the very many different things that need to be done in this area. What the questioner raises is extremely urgent. Unfortunately, I cannot reply at this short notice to the Government's intention to deal with the issue, but I can assure the questioner that measures have been taken, for example, with regard to the penalties for those who commit crimes against their partner in the presence of children – a question that is close to the questioner.
i-W3nDomhMsxAYxBL2mA1cec	Madam President, I would like In the government's action plan to prevent and combat men's violence against women that came before Christmas and as the Minister mentions, there are many good points. It should be said. But there is actually no point in defining this particular problem of violence and custody. Another point that I am happy to send is about a restraining order. Today, the result is that the woman has a protected zone, but outside it, visiting and travelling elsewhere does not apply. It is the freedom of the perpetrator that should be limited and not that of the woman, and a contribution is therefore to identify the area where the perpetrator lives and establish a restraining order outside it.
i-S56hBLZJqawK5eqLkB9rEn	Madam President, I would like It is true that the questioner says that the action programme that has been drawn up is accompanied not only by changes in the area of criminal law but also by changes in support for the many organisations that are fighting for women's rights. An important contribution that the government intends to continue with is the increase in funding that has taken place not least for women's and girls' helpers who give very strong support to women who live in the very regrettable situation that the questioner addresses. The government intends to continue this work with all its might.
i-PN3YLxHim4PSYhgN4KSBN6	Madam President, I would like Nearly 74 500 people have signed up for the university exam this spring. About half will take the test in March, half in May. At the time of the March test, it is likely that several will be forced to cancel because they have symptoms or are ill in the corona. In that case, they will not receive a new examination, nor will they receive the registration fee back. There is therefore a great risk that some will go to the test room even though they have symptoms. The university test is an important alternative way into college. With cancellations and maximum ceilings for the number of registered, as it has been for a while, some have now been waiting for several years to take the test. They shouldn't have to wait till the fall if they get sick. My question to the Minister for Education is whether she intends to act in order to enable those who are ill at the first test to participate in the second test round, both for that person's sake and in order to avoid going to the test room ill.
i-HUBBaFjYxKGxxFLSQ5uFPq	Madam President, I would like To have the opportunity to write the university exam is an important thing for many students and prospective students. The government is well aware of the great sacrifices that students and students have made during the pandemic. They have participated in distance education, they have been involved in a life on campus and in high school that does not contain all the social interaction and contacts that a normal high school period entails. For this reason, and in order to ensure that the roads to the university are kept open also in a pandemic, very large measures have been taken to ensure that the university test can be held at all. We owe a great deal of thanks to the many employees at universities who have struggled to keep the premises open so that the university test can be held. How to deal with the question posed by Ilona Szatmari Waldau depends, among other things, on the state of infection at the time when the test is written.
i-8rKYhxhdL7emrgtX3Suyvx	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for your answer, Minister. At least it gives some hope for those students who may not be able to afford to lose the registration fee or not have the opportunity to wait until the autumn. For me, it's incredibly important that we make sure that no one goes to the university exam sick just because you don't get another chance. Just as we have introduced new rules so that you should not go to work ill, so I hope that we can also ensure that we can repay at least the registration fee for the prospective students who are ill at the time of the exam.
i-MAqH8DrhS8abDg95nMCi7P	Madam President, I would like The high school exam is important. It is important for the university as a way to ensure that there are ways into the university, but it is also important for the many people who each year write the university test. No person in Sweden should go to work with the slightest symptoms, no one should go out into society with the slightest symptoms and no person should go and write the university test with the slightest symptoms. I expect that Sweden's citizens will continue to take the great responsibility that they have taken continuously during the pandemic, including by staying home with the slightest symptoms, even if it is an important test to be written.
i-2AVsAHxU2sm5mJ1Ac7zSXf	Madam President, I would like Tomorrow, it's been 20 years since Fadime 中ahindal was shot to death by his own father. Twenty years have passed, and the violence of honour continues to reap victims. The response of politics has been slow. The opportunity to do something about the problem has had to stand back for the fear of being perceived as someone who points out and plays racists in his hands. Although the time of silence is not completely over today, important steps have been taken. However, a report presented a few months ago from the City of Malmö shows an area that has not been in enough focus, namely preschools. Twelve out of thirteen municipal preschools surveyed had honorary standards.
i-KRVa6fWoBSCvN2PVZMCJXn	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Sofia Damm, for the very important question! Just as Prime Minister Andersson said earlier when she was installed as Prime Minister, we will fight the oppression of honour. It does not belong in Sweden, and it should go away. The government has taken a whole range of measures, which the Minister of Education was concerned with in the past, in relation to, among other things, punitive measures. An important part is also about several different types of assignments that, among other things, our national and regional authorities have been given to counter honorary violence and repression. There I would like to give as an example The Swedish National Agency for Education's mission to make sure to work to raise the knowledge in school and precisely in preschool, as Sofia Damm mentions.
i-EXmEMCcTD9iCQ5Sy8q2RBw	Madam President, I would like In his speech to Parliament just a few months before she was murdered, Fadime said: I hope you do not turn your back on them, that you do not turn a blind eye to them. At a preschool in Malmö, water play has been stopped in order to avoid negative reactions in the parents. Children must not sleep in diapers, because then their legs may appear. It is clear that more measures and support are needed for preschool staff, and I very much hope that the Minister will act. Don't turn your back on them!
i-N7iSuU1Bm4AALFeGqvrs6o	Madam President, I would like This is indeed a high-priority issue by the government and by the Swedish Parliament. I feel the strong commitment that is here. To those who watch and all women, young people and children who are exposed to honour-related violence and oppression, I would like to take this opportunity to say: It is your life, it is your body and it is you who decides!
i-8ePNzMbZeMEnkhL2BXVYcK	Madam President, I would like I have a question for the Minister of Education. Sweden currently has a world-leading infrastructure for polar research, which is also requested by many countries in the world, in the form of the research icebreaker Oden. We have had it for more than 30 years, and it can get to the toughest places in the northern Arctic. It was a big investment for Sweden when we got that boat in 1989. There are also security policy aspects in this, and we know that the Arctic, polar research and climate research are becoming increasingly important areas. In the near future, this ship will need to retire. In the next few years, we will have to make a decision in Parliament, or at least in the government, about what we are going to do now. My question is how the Minister for Education views this.
i-DS6ubmDTPA4yP13pb864sN	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question, Fredrik Malm! We should be very grateful not only that we live in the world's most beautiful country but also that we live in a country far up in the north where we have the opportunity to contribute to the world's overall research on both the Arctic and the conditions there, as well as the climate issue and important biological issues. We can also participate in research collaborations with other countries, which is of great importance for Sweden's security policy in the increasingly hotter – if the term is allowed – Arctic. Icebreaker Oden has been a huge asset for both Sweden and the overall research society, and the government is very interested in continuing to contribute to polar research. We've had a question about Oden in an investigation, and that investigation has just been out for a referral. We are now analysing referrals within the Government Office and preparing the question further.
i-T8rfABdYSeywXRbJ2HFnPo	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. Within a number of years, there are two real options here: either Sweden invests in building or acquiring a new research breaker, or you rent yourself into another competence that another country has. The latter option would be a down-prioritising of Swedish polar and climate research. It is important that Sweden now really spans the bow and that we make this strategically important decision in the future.
i-RDTX4SxcaP2rgmEsz97iks	Madam President, I would like There is no doubt that research needs its infrastructure. The infrastructure can be expensive appliances, large ships or electron particle devices in the Skånen fields. It can also be registers, and it can be sweet plants and herbs. It could be books in a library. The government's government's research bill, which the Parliament voted in favour of, includes the research infrastructure as an obvious part, and the Government intends to continue to prioritise the research infrastructure. It is a crucial component for Sweden to be a leading researcher.
i-HkmytpERdKWkdNWs9Tdz9R	Madam President, I would like Nuclear power is, as you know, drawn with many sustainability problems. It is dangerous to break uranium, to transport it, to use it as fuel and to preserve it for hundreds of thousands of years. That is why the government has been working for many years to ensure that nuclear energy is not considered a sustainable energy source. The Parliament has adopted a target of a 100 percent renewable electricity production by 2040, and that is something that the government is committed to. Exactly the same goal has been adopted by the Social Democrats at their congresses. That is why it surprised me when the Minister for the Financial Market went out and supported the idea of classifying nuclear energy as sustainable while other ministers in the same government have expressed quite different views. My question to the Minister for Finance is therefore: what is the government's position? Does the government believe that nuclear energy is sustainable?
i-E3EiC4a4EiwgKCnDvRznG4	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question. As Minister of Finance, I have the task of contributing to the proper implementation of the EU's green taxonomy regulation, and the European Commission has, after careful consideration, proposed that investments in certain nuclear activities should be classified as sustainable. The Commission's analysis is based on the fact that nuclear energy is a fossil-free type of energy that can make a positive contribution to the achievement of taxonomy's climate objectives. In this paragraph, the Government does not object to the Commission's implementation of the taxonomy regulation, and therefore does not object to the inclusion of nuclear energy as conversion activities and sustainable in taxonomy.
i-81ELFP98UpCtbqwpbFbEYU	Madam President, I would like In taxonomy, nuclear energy is proposed to be a transition technology with a shorter deadline. This time limit seems to the Government to want to remove, while the Riksdag has decided on just one more time limit, namely 2040. This can be interpreted as not being behind Parliament's objectives, and my question to the Government is therefore how he views the parliamentary target of a 100 per cent renewable electricity production by 2040.
i-VfUYuCQVUkNHQufMFqupuW	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question. I will readily admit that as Minister of Finance, I have not had reason to relate to the objective mentioned by the honourable Member. However, if I am not mistaken, the idea of the energy agreement was to set a target but no deadline, and it still seems to be a reasonable approach.
i-JV42vd4NPjva6iF5s29ZpY	Madam President, I would like I, too, would like to ask Minister Max Elger a question. The fight against gang crime is one of the government's most obvious priorities, with very good reasons. We need a safer society. This is often about drug trafficking, but there are also activities in several other areas, such as fraud. I would like to ask the Government what it intends to do to deal with this and continue the fight against gang crime in this area.
i-F6NeBvFFUQsBHneUfxv2F4	Madam President, I would like Thank you for an urgent question, Eva Lindh! It's all well known that the government's overall priority includes breaking the gangs. If there is one thing we know, it is that organised crime needs to launder money, and that is why we are going to hit money laundering and gang wallets. If criminals cannot launder money, they lose the proceeds of their crime; then there will be no money, no cars and no luxury. So we're going to fight money laundering. In this we have contributed money to the police and the Financial Supervisory Authority, but it is only a first step. We shall now move forward, and we will make a far-reaching proposal to improve the exchange of information between banks and law enforcement authorities. If they can exchange more information, we can fight money laundering more effectively, so that's the next step.
i-3Erfrybqx9JEdhv3aKaDFm	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. These gangs are often international organisations, and money and activities often move across borders. So the next question is what can the government do to prevent this crime at international level?
i-EeG9hcViLPWNsWndpW7kLc	Madam President, I would like It is quite true that the gangs' activities do not stop at national borders. It is also important to note that the EU is working against money laundering. The regulatory framework we have at the moment is being supplemented and strengthened; for example, efforts are being made to strengthen the traceability of crypto transactions. It is important to remember that the anonymity of crypto transactions is attractive to criminals. So we are not stopping at the land border, we are working at the EU and internationally.
i-2ZNyhDdBhD7grDor3tjYay	Madam President, I would like I address myself to the Secretary of State. We can agree that we are currently in the most dangerous security situation in Europe in decades. On Friday, that is tomorrow, Foreign Ministers Blinken and Lavrov will meet in Geneva. There is a great risk that at some point Russia will overturn the table. There are massive troop pulls at Ukraine's border both from the Russian side and from the Belarus side. In such a troubled time, there is, of course, added value in trying to achieve as broad a consensus as possible. At a press conference last Tuesday, both the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Defence stated that the government intends to find ways to talk with and listen to the parties of the Riksdag and that it will do so quite soon. Now it has been 48 hours, so I wonder: Can the Foreign Minister tell us what the arrangements are for a real dialogue with the parties in Parliament, and when will the news come about this?
i-FnCgPheScEXTHEWUkjupff	Madam President, I would like I thank Mr Wallmark for the question. The government shares the view that there is a very serious security policy situation. We are keen to have an important and necessary dialogue with the Riksdag. Among other things, the Minister for Defence and I were in an over three-hour meeting with the Committee on Defence and Foreign Affairs on Tuesday, where we had long and highly appreciated discussions. In the near future, we will propose what a further in-depth dialogue should look like. I do not think 48 hours is a very long time, and we will come back in the near future with concrete proposals.
i-2tY9782cF58cKQS2gorqkR	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Education Anna Ekström. One of the largest groups of foreign students in Sweden comes from China. The majority of these students attend technical programmes such as KTH. As early as 2019, military intelligence officers noted that several students and researchers associated with China's defence industry were active at Swedish universities. Must, that is, the military intelligence and security services, does not hesitate for a moment that there has been pure espionage. The Security Service writes in its latest yearbook that China, alongside Russia, is the country that excels most in espionage against Sweden.
i-8DHoZdP6XRyC2RUQj6X5ua	Madam President, I would like The Government constantly monitors that Sweden's security policy interests can be met and that threats to Sweden can be met wherever they appear. At the same time, it is important that, within the framework of our education and research policy, we have a good exchange on a fair basis with other nations. The government's conviction, and my conviction, is that cooperation with other countries is good if it takes place in a way that ensures that Sweden's, Swedish companies and Swedish authorities' obvious need to take into account security policy interests. Yes, we will cooperate with other countries, including China, but no, we shall not assume that we live in a world where we do not need to look at our house.
i-9DZHLZz9y6to3bdD34GDS9	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Max Elger. Having access to a bank account, whether as a private person or for a company, is crucial to working in a modern society. Today, there is a situation in which many banks refuse to open bank accounts even though they are engaged in entirely legal activities either as a private individual or as a company. When this happens generally, without individual examination, a situation is created with parallel legislation because banks can deny something that is, after all, legal. Does the Government think this is a reasonable attitude on the part of the banks? Or is this something that the government is expected to change?
i-2cwx1rcJ2hRSY2HJU5V7wo	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question. I got stuck at the beginning of the question, namely the right to a deposit account. That's how I've seen the order, too. That right must, of course, apply. I am not familiar with the cases mentioned in the question, and I am not familiar with the circumstances in which such a right is not exercised. But I am absolutely confident that the authorities that have to oversee and ensure that Svea Riks law also applies to the financial market are doing their utmost to ensure this.
i-G2wr1ycbo1pG2vBpQTKJBi	Madam President, I would like Despite the fact that the January agreement has fallen, the government continues its efforts to reform the Public Employment Service according to the Centre Party's wishes. AF will continue to be responsible for the administration of labour market policy, but matching and equipping efforts will mainly be carried out by private actors on behalf of the Authority. A review of the referrals from the Ministry of Labour's memorandum with the legislative proposals that the government deems necessary to continue the reform shows a wide-ranging criticism from expert authorities, municipalities and trade unions. According to IFAU, it is strange that such a far-reaching reform can be carried out without a careful analysis of the effects and costs. Of the municipalities that have been given the opportunity to submit referrals, the majority are very critical. Why does Eva Nordmark want to carry out a reform of the Public Employment Service, which has neither support in research nor support from a majority of the consultation bodies?
i-VZy3iBBhQitiTAZ1w8DZEe	Madam President, I would like We need to continue to reform the Employment Service and develop labour market policies. There is no doubt that employers need to find the skills they need to be able to employ more efficiently and more quickly, and people need the right efforts to get to work faster. We have received a lot of comments, which I welcome. This is an important basis for the Government's return to the Swedish Parliament with the necessary legislative proposals. Of course, it is also about being able to invest in the budget and leave new assignments to the Public Employment Service. It should exist throughout our elongated country and play a major role in ensuring that labour market policies work throughout the country.
i-QPfw7oWyFaCgHRv7wvyh9D	Madam President, I would like My question goes to the Minister for Education. The Coronapendem has caused far more people to want to write a will. According to funeral homes and lawyers, there are almost four times more requests about how to write a will. It is good that many have understood to make the important decision to write wills. But unfortunately there is a problem in Sweden's elongated country, namely that there is no public will register. The lack of a system to ensure a person's last will means, in my view, a serious lack of legal certainty. Lack of a will register increases the risk that wills are falsified, destroyed or simply lost. We in the Swedish Parliament have on several occasions discussed the issue of will registers. On two occasions, the Riksdag has announced to the Government that it will return with proposals for the management of a will register. When is the proposal coming?
i-BUyX6aV5gsczjQGJKeEQGu	Madam President, I would like I thank Larry Söder for a very important question for many people. The Government receives announcements from the Riksdag that the Government always takes very seriously. The Government has a routine of how announcements are handled and returns in order to the Riksdag. Regrettably, I cannot state on a standing basis exactly what the timetable for the current issue is, but I would advise Larry Söder either to put a simple question to the minister responsible for the questions or to come back to Question Time when the minister responsible is present. I am convinced that there is a great deal of commitment on the part of my colleague to ensuring that the issue is handled wisely. Thank you for the question.
i-Bw2d1YYGa9G556MmxDXXXy	Madam President, I would like Long-term unemployment certainly has stuck. What worries me most is that it is increasing especially among people who have different types of disabilities. At times, we have seen that there are twice as many unemployed and long-term unemployed among them as compared with the others enrolled in the Employment Service. One issue I would particularly like to highlight is the lack of competence, capacity and ability of the Public Employment Service to assess the work capacity of persons with disabilities. I would also like to highlight the fierce criticism that is repeatedly heard about the state-owned company Samhall. Many people feel unwell, get sick leave and do not get the right support. There are no routines for what should happen when someone dies in the workplace. It has gone so far that some have killed themselves because of inadequate handling. I believe it is time for the government and the Government to put their hands on the table and act. How does the Government view the criticism of Samhall?
i-Fk1cempr81pbpt3wk4Bw4	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Roger Haddad, for your commitment! This is a commitment that we share. Today we have about 26 000 people working at Samhall, and we know that the vast majority of these go to work with great pride. They help to improve our society. But there have also been a number of reports about, among other things, a lack of work environment at Samhall. This has led the government to give a number of assignments, including to the Public Employment Service, to look at how this works in practice. This is an issue on which I have also had occasion to inform the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs. There is no doubt that you, whether you work at Samhall or elsewhere, have the right to a good working environment.
i-9TsuZde976CJT6nsYGS7E1	Madam President, I would like The government has for a long time been working on a professional programme for principals, teachers and preschool teachers. We all want our children to be met by knowledgeable teachers throughout their time at school. Ensuring that our teachers and school leaders systematically develop their knowledge is important for an education on a scientific basis. The conditions for professional programmes are gradually evolving, and we have now been informed that a legislative referral can be expected in the autumn. In the referrals from the higher education institutions, there are comments that it is unclear what their role will be, how much influence they will have on the education and how the merits of professional programmes are linked to the academic structure.
i-G8r27UxZXJJodY3JJh1QiE	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Camilla Hansén, for a very important question! Sweden has a shortage of teachers that we are working hard to overcome. Part of this lack of teachers is that the teaching profession has fallen in attractiveness. International studies show that the Swedish teachers have for a long time received less competence development than colleagues in other countries and that the development of competence has also had a lower connection to teaching and the profession. The government's upcoming professional programme has already secretly started with assignments to the Swedish National Agency for Education. These assignments include ensuring that there is a range of training courses. In my world, it is obvious that education for teachers is evidence-based and based on science and proven experience as well as on research. Therefore, I see it as quite natural that the courses that will be available within the framework of professional programmes will be, to a large extent, courses given by our higher education institutions. I look forward to working together with my colleague Lina Axelsson Kihlblom on the implementation of professional programmes.
i-DCfC5rLkkQ8V9TZvPsZHp4	Madam President, I would like Sweden has one of the world's most comprehensive and generous study support systems, and we will be extremely happy and proud of that. Now the government is in the process of developing a new and important transition study support to increase the opportunity for adults in the middle of working life to educate themselves. The conversion study support is intended to make it easier for people with work experience to further train or study a whole new education in order to strengthen their position on the labour market. For many workers, however, it can be a tough economic transition to start studying after having had expenses for family and housing for a very long time. Therefore, I would like to ask the following question to the Minister for Education Anna Ekström: how will the aid for conversion be designed to enable this large and important group to study?
i-JE7Hraf1iJNbzHUNuMzz6b	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Pia Nilsson, for a very important question! The new conversion study support is the largest security, justice and freedom reform in Sweden in a long time. It is a major effort that is being made to ensure that our labour market and our employers can get the trained workforce needed for Sweden to be the leader in climate change. It is also incredibly important for individuals who get the chance to study at komvux, university of applied sciences, folk high school or college for a year. The conversion study grant will be able to read 80% of the salary, and there will be a generous grant element in this. Moreover, in many collective agreements, the existing ceiling will be increased. The government's assessment is that the conversion study grant will enable around 45 000 people a year to read at least one year to create a new future, in their profession or in a completely new profession, and contribute to Sweden's leading climate change.
i-Jv1uPJfnM4sDEkdCWMGswk	Madam President, I would like The question goes to Minister of Education Anna Ekström. During this autumn's reliefs regarding the pandemic, I once again had the great privilege of having an intern with me – this is one of the funniest missions I know. There was a young and bright guy from grade 9 in Rödebyskolan in Karlskrona municipality. He had many thoughts and questions about the school, including about truancy. I would like to put to you his question, which was as follows: There are several pupils in comprehensive school who do not take school seriously and who do not have much presence during the classes. Some schoolteachers from some classes that they do not find interesting, even though these are important for their own well-being and development later in life. Some people don't go to comprehensive school at all, even if it's mandatory. Right now you get absence in the grade in the form of how long you have been absent. My – that is, David – question to the Minister for Education is if not absence – if you skip – should have more consequences than just a talk on paper, so that you have more opportunity to learn what responsibility you have.
i-Uh2UPqVDnp7HdAfhVa4wmo	Madam President, I would like I thank Mrs Engblom, and perhaps the wise intern David in particular, for the question. In Sweden we have compulsory schooling. All children are obliged to go to school, and all parents are obliged to ensure that their children come to school. We have school duty for a reason. Those who do not come to school will have their absence recorded, but those who do not come to school will also have much less opportunity to learn what you need to go on and study in high school, to get by in working life and to participate in our common social life. We should take school duty very seriously, and anyone who does not participate in the school's work should know that this has consequences. Madam President, I would like Perhaps the most important work the school does in terms of absenteeism is to promote attendance and to catch up on those students who do not come to school. It is about ensuring that the possible obstacles that exist are removed and, above all, about ensuring that students understand the consequences of absenteeism. The government is currently working fully on a national action programme for security and education. This includes these issues.
i-YLFGNTAs7EWdBHqErJV67S	Madam President, I would like During 2021, Swedish households had a grace period because they had small margins in the private economy. These margins are now completely gone. This time, however, it is not because of a pandemic, but it is tax policy that has made the car a class issue when it comes to fuelling and energy policy that has made it expensive to pay the electricity bill at the end of the month. On Monday we heard on the news about Magnus, who has an electricity bill of 16,000 and an income of 13,000. It has simply become expensive to be a common svensson in Sweden today. Now politics has a responsibility not to sit with your arms crossed and wait for someone else to do something. The Minister for Finance can instruct Finansinspektionen to introduce temporary amortisation on account of the elusive prices of electricity and fuel. Can the Minister for Finance give a reason why the government would not use this tool and help Swedish households?
i-LpzhBfVRPeJiC464mhK5N4	Madam President, I would like I can give several reasons why the government should not act that way. It would not be in accordance with the regulations and rules we have. It is the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority that imposes amortisation requirements, and it would probably be against the Constitution if I ordered them to make other decisions. At least for my own account, I will therefore abstain. In economic terms, we have experienced almost a decade of historically low interest rates. This accumulates risk in the economy. The Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority has ensured that amortisation requirements contribute to the fact that household indebtedness does not pull away to the same extent as otherwise would be the case. I think it would be irresponsible for the government to order such a change, in addition to the fact that it would probably be contrary to the Constitution.
i-5JhaFdbTpseh1rQYfvSe7M	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister for Employment and Gender Equality Eva Nordmark. Over 300 women have been killed in the last 20 years by a person with whom the woman had or had had a close relationship. In four out of five cases, for reported assaults against women, the crime was committed by an acquaintance of the victim. The National Centre for Women's Peace has the Government's mission to raise awareness of men's violence against women nationally. They organise training courses for both professionals and students. They are available as support for municipalities and health care and work with method development and information. Since 2007, they have been running the national support phone Kvinnofridslinjen, where you can call anonymously and free of charge. The Coronapandemia has been difficult for many. It has been particularly difficult for violent women. A gloomy record was broken on January 1, 2022. Then 193 calls were answered from the victim of violence. During the last parliamentary term, the Social Democratic Minister for Gender Equality tried to shut down activities. My question is how Eva Nordmark sees NCK's mission and work now.
i-Ghxar5Q2vQ5Aqgf6kPSTxq	Madam President, I would like I thank Annika Qarlsson very much for this very important question. There is no doubt that the government has done and is doing a great deal when it comes to men's violence against women. Just before Christmas, a 99-point program was presented. I am just in the middle of getting into all aspects of gender equality policy and cannot answer the question in detail. I know that this is a very important support that can also contribute to prevention. But I will of course get into this with Kvinnofridslinjen and what Annika Qarlsson highlights here. I look forward to the honourable Member also asking a written question or why not an interpellation, so that we can develop and discuss this further.
i-U137fVqqwcyJ47Fvr5fk4f	Madam President, I would like Soon there will be elections in Colombia. Sweden has an extra responsibility to follow it and ensure a peaceful democratic process, especially given that the murders of activists are increasing. Last week, 14-year-old Breiner Cucuñame was murdered. The great popular protests last year confronted the state with murder, torture and terror. In this respect, the peace agreement that was signed in 2016 is extremely important. I sincerely hope that the government will follow that up. In view of this and everything else that is happening, I wonder whether Sweden is working for the EU to send election observers to Colombia.
i-Vnu7eTFjYFNwxW7aExtqwA	Madam President, I would like I thank Lorena Delgado Varas for the question. It is very important that we maintain the peace process, which is, to say the least, limping. It is now the fifth anniversary of the signing of the peace agreement. It was historic. There's no turning back. The peace agreement is the only way forward. For decades Sweden has been a party for peace in Colombia. We also want the EU to play an important role in implementation. On 6 May 2021, the Government decided on a new strategy for development cooperation with Colombia. Through the new strategy, Sweden will continue to support the peace process. As far as election observers are concerned, we will have to come back to what it should be like. Generally speaking, we are in favour of election observers in all elections.
i-JVLPXQwF7tb81McfKwMzZ5	Madam President, I would like When I speak in this House for the first time, I shall of course raise an issue that is very important for many older people, namely cash management. There has been much discussion. Conferences have taken place. The sports movement has become involved in this issue. The Chairman of the Swedish Sports Federation Björn Eriksson has started the Cash Rebellion. Pensioners' organisations have, of course, been involved in this work all along. A lot of older people don't have the guts to get bank IDs and Swish. They are afraid of the risk of fraud. My PRO association sells tickets of 5 SEK each at their meetings. We've been trying to get Swish to do it, but I want you to know that associations have to pay $2 per transaction for Swish. It is therefore not very profitable to sell lottery tickets anymore. When we receive cash, we don't know what to do with it, because the banks won't accept it. A lot of people are wrestling with this.
i-555NXB5gCMg9WRcMUUHv1u	Madam President, I would like Thank you for a good question! Nevertheless, I would like to start at the end that I started in the past, namely the government's overall priorities, which include, among other things, breaking the gangs. If there is one thing we know, it is that organised crime is indwelled in the presence of cash. The anonymity offered by cash is very attractive to criminals. It's clear. Less cash makes it harder for the gangs. At the same time, however, it is only possible to have very great respect for the people, especially the elderly, who have paid with cash throughout their lives and want to continue in that way. The government has made sure that the banks have a requirement to offer and receive cash throughout the country, even if it does not apply in each office. We also intend to ensure that the Riksbank receives an infrastructure for offering cash throughout the country. Overall, I think it is a matter of balance. But we have therefore taken steps to strengthen the position of cash.
i-LKpLEvgyGobmVDFNMvQ6dm	Madam President, I would like Transparency, transparency and objectivity are crucial for a well-functioning democracy. Unfortunately, the actions of the Social Democrats in government appear to be more marked by what is best for their own party than what is best for our common democracy. A clear example of this is how the government has abused the important appointing power. Appointments should be made on a factual basis, but strangely often it is Social Democratic representatives who have been appointed Heads of Government. How the appointments have taken place has been darkened – no transparency, no transparency. A consistent pattern of government action is precisely to darken. The Government of Ekström, to which my question is addressed, has darkened the school's problems and the Pisa fraud. Now the government is covering up how to deal with the coronapndemine. Important parts of the government's work have not been documented, and important evidence has not been provided to the Corona Commission, even though it has so requested. This year it is celebrated that Swedish democracy is 100 years old. Is it really with the cover-up the government thinks it should be celebrated? Does the government not think that openness, objectivity and transparency are important elements for a well-functioning democracy?
i-XeUhUqFui1HTTth6ntboRZ	Madam President, I would like I can assure Johan Hultberg and everyone listening to this debate that openness and transparency are not only an important issue, but also an issue that is important in ensuring that Sweden is properly managed and governed. We have experience of our constitution and the democracy that we have now had for 100 years. With Johan Hultberg's argumentation technique, I could have gone into how the predecessors of the Moderate Coalition Party acted when women eventually got the right to vote in the Swedish Parliament, not to mention how it was with universal and equal suffrage. We'll take care of our transparency. We will follow the rules that exist. We will ensure that the Swedish people have insight into how Sweden is managed. The Government has every intention of continuing to comply with the rules, laws and regulations but also the constitution that we are so proud of in Sweden. We have taken a great joint responsibility in the Swedish Parliament to ensure that we have them in place.
i-BiHjFpuXELZJkxBbME7vJy	Madam President, I would like My question is addressed to the Minister for Labour. In most business organisations, the lack of skills is estimated to be one of the biggest challenges we face in the long term. In the short term, this applies not least to the tourism industry, which has lost a large proportion of its staff during the pandemic. But listen and be amazed – when they are about to start hiring again, it turns out that it is difficult to get the unemployed to come to an interview even though there are more than 15 000 registered persons directly related to the industry in the hotel and restaurant employees' own unemployment fund. Employment services have long served as an integration authority rather than as a matching authority, as I know the Minister for Labour is aware. This testifies to a very large bug in our system. Now we are working on a long-awaited reform of the Employment Service, but how does the Minister see in the short term that these industries should get people to at least come for an interview?
i-LduCFk1SPNeKvhoYjSBfxS	Madam President, I would like This is an important issue. In addition to long-term unemployment, the matching issue is the real challenge. Many different industries need to employ, and many employers find it difficult to find the right skills. This applies, among other things, to the tourism industry, which the honourable Member refers to. Then it is important that labour market policies ensure that skills are raised, i.e. the basic level of education, and therefore we invest in up to 160 000 training places in the Knowledgelift. This is also why we continue to develop labour market training and local job tracks, but also receive the large conversion study support mentioned earlier. I look forward to discussing this further with the honourable Member because we have a planned interpellation debate on this theme.
i-FgVsKKmb6Bvf8yXFVfB9pT	Madam President, I would like My question is addressed to Minister for Foreign Affairs Ann Linde. Recently, Russia has acted in a way that has greatly increased the tension in our neighbourhood: the mobilisation of soldiers along Ukraine's border, ship movements in the Baltic Sea, tough ultimatum to NATO and, most recently, a planned military exercise with Belarus just north of the Ukrainian border. This has led to a situation that many call the most dangerous security situation since the Cold War. There are now intense negotiations in many different forums to bring down the level of conflict. At the same time, both the Swedish Government and the entire EU and the rest of the Western world have been clear that we cannot accept Russia's attempts to prevent sovereign states from making their own security policy decisions. How does Minister for Foreign Affairs Ann Linde view the new security policy situation for Sweden, and how does she work to secure Swedish interests in the current situation?
i-5mYcUNnJBAARRRBmCdVTsr	Madam President, I would like There is undoubtedly a very serious security policy situation. For the Swedish part, it is particularly serious with the proposals Russia has made that countries should not be allowed to decide their own security policy line and that the possibility of cooperation and exercise activities with the countries they want and in the way they want to be reduced. Sweden is now trying to present its views in various diplomatic ways. Among other things, on Monday, I and the Finnish Foreign Minister will have discussions with NATO's Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg in Brussels.
i-PdkXKhGiAZ8U7WmthoCx59	Madam President, I would like My question also goes to Minister for Foreign Affairs Ann Linde. The very serious foreign and security policy situation we find ourselves in raises many questions. We know that the EU's Foreign Affairs Council will meet in the coming week, and it is of course extremely important that the EU continues to maintain close contact with the US and that the transatlantic link is strong and that the EU does not open new tracks in the negotiations, like what President Macron said in the European Parliament yesterday. I would like to ask the Foreign Minister whether she is prepared to work for Ukraine to be able to defend itself with weapons from us or with resources from us or the EU to buy weapons, because it is obviously hard to have 100 000 soldiers on the border that threaten you.
i-XCtBcndhJW342TttU2amA2	Madam President, I would like I thank Kerstin Lundgren for the question. A close transatlantic link is very important, especially in these times. I am therefore pleased to be able to tell you that the US Foreign Minister, Antony Antony, is invited to our Foreign Minister's meeting in Brussels on Monday and has accepted. He will participate virtually in the meeting so that we can continue the dialogue that we have had for a long time, which is important. Sweden does not send weapons to Ukraine. We have one of the world's toughest export laws, and we do not send weapons to countries in conflict. The most important thing we can do is to continue to actively support Ukraine with great assistance to, among other things, its reform efforts, resilience and the ability to face cyber attacks.
i-RviqZRvbnNkiq1TMj1ptqU	Madam President, I would like My question goes to the Minister for Labour. Occupational crime is a major and serious social problem. Employees get cheated on pay and father very badly because of rogue employers. Moreover, serious entrepreneurs risk losing their life's work because they cannot compete with companies that distort competition. The policy's view of rogue actors who exploit people and distort competition must be uncompromising: it must not be allowed to happen. The situation has been well known for many years, so my question to the Minister is: Why has this development been allowed? I know the government has set up an investigation to deliver its response in three years' time, 2025. Why such a long period of investigation when the situation of working life crime is so unsustainable and unacceptable?
i-3AGqYqrJ42V5ZtDGf2GNkh	Madam President, I would like It is actually Deputy Minister of Labour Johan Danielsson who has taken over responsibility for these issues, but I am happy to answer. When Ylva Johansson was Minister for Labour, she asked for a proper analysis of how things actually were on the Swedish labour market and whether there was a grey sector. The authorities came back and said: It is not grey; it is black. Since then, the government has acted with full force by, among other things, providing a lot of resources. Of the more than 3 000 companies that have been audited, more than half were found to have serious deficiencies and many had to close down. Further resources have subsequently been added, and the joint collaboration of the authority should no longer be carried out in project form but be permanent. We have also appointed a delegation against labour crime. We are prepared to do everything we can to stop this. It does not belong in the Swedish labour market.
i-YQRZPfxbD58TrRgWWpemHn	Madam President, I would like Twenty years ago, Fadime was murdered by his father to uphold the honor of his family. In the wake of a completely broken migration policy, Sweden has failed to protect young girls and women from these disgusting crimes and medieval values. Sweden has a long tradition of gender equality, and we have taken steps over the centuries to promote equal rights between the sexes. This year Sweden celebrates 100 years of equal suffrage, something worth being proud of. In recent decades, however, Sweden has had a new gender equality problem, the violence of honour, which is spreading and growing stronger. Girls live in fear, are threatened and oppressed. They live their lives under the control of the clan and are married to any family chosen. A lot of girls disappear every year. The phenomenon is amplified by segregation and exclusion, and is rife by irresponsible and uncontrolled migration. My questions go to Minister for Gender Equality Eva Nordmark : How is it possible in Sweden today, 2022, that this kind of medieval values exist? Does the government think that the Swedish gender equality policy has gone too well?
i-XEBUygL9UJ2getFrvphY5U	Madam President, I would like Katja Nyberg points to medieval values, and it is precisely the values that are the problem here, not immigration, as the Swedish Democrats often say. There is no talk about honour-related violence and oppression going away; it does not belong in Sweden. That's why the government has done a number of different penalties. That is also why we are investing a lot in prevention, but also in ensuring that everyone who is vulnerable receives the right support. Tomorrow is the 20th anniversary of Fadime's murder by his father. We will do everything we can to honor her memory and continue the fight to remove honor-related violence and oppression.
i-FaFVkUNsXSDW3uaPZ16Nn4	Madam President, I would like We were interrupted in our debate just before Question Time. I will try to remember the issues raised by the two Members. One was once again concerned with the exemption and the state of the aid for fuel stations and the investment that needs to be made. Something that we look at all the time and where we of course should come forward is that one should be able to seek exemption. As we all know, there is frost in the earth now, so even if you can get an advance, it simply will not be easy to make the important investment. We are therefore looking at the exemption procedure. Then I got a question about charging poles. There the government is also making a big effort. The conversion is on G, so while we add the 150 million to the fuel stations to enable them to make the investment, we also invest in charging poles, for which the fuel stations can also apply for deferment. That was another question. Otherwise, I would like to say that I share the views of both Members on the importance of fuel stations in rural and rural areas and on the importance of commercial services such as country traders and what they do in addition to food and fuel. They are often important also from other aspects, and therefore the government has been investing in fuel stations and country shops for many years and has now also permanently supported the country merchants. We make this effort because we want people to be able to live, work and live throughout the country. Those of us living in rural areas know how important this is. Service cannot be far too far, whether commercial or welfare. The government invests both in welfare and in business support, for example in sparsely populated municipalities that can invest extra in their business development. We also invest in tax reductions in rural municipalities because it is more expensive to live with longer distances. So we have a lot of measures. If there is something you know about Sweden's countryside, it is that it does not look the same everywhere. Different forms of support must therefore be provided for different rural areas. I think the government has worked wisely on this, and we can see that rural municipalities receive a little extra support in their development when they have long distances.
i-TrJpw2WX3th1Cho3d1w2H6	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. This is my final contribution to this debate. Macks, fuel stores or whatever you want to call them will be available in Sweden for the foreseeable future, and they are important for Sweden, even during a transition. We've been talking about charging poles. They need to get in place, and it's good to bet. But it is still the case that cars and charging poles are not really tested for the cold we have in Sweden during the winter. It's a long time before we can get them in place and work. Macks are strategic nodes in our country, which have long distances. You have to be able to live, live and work throughout the country. We have said that we want to do this politically. The question in which this comes out is: will this be possible after 30 June of this year? Today there are 159 days left until the ban comes into effect. I understand from the Government that MSB will be given a mission to extend the possibility. The question is whether this F-gas regulation will be able to be resolved – once the State aid ceiling has been reached. Will you be able to make sure that the delays do not mean that those who are going to work, are at work or are going home from work do not get their gas station catered for? Finally, I would like to mention that what has been said is a long distance, and then I have reason to come back to the fact that it is also expensive fuel. It is very expensive to live, live and work in the countryside. To take over 100 miles [100 km] to refuel will be an absurdity. The conversion that was introduced has been necessary because new pipes must be put on the ground for the new fuels that we are looking forward to. They eat, so there's no way to have what you had.
i-2nKggfYC6y96oJdUDCV3Sj	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank both Members for their commitment. I share the commitment that both fuel stations and commercial services should exist at all throughout the country. That is why, of course, we want the money we now spend to be spent. I would also like to say that a great many sandwiches have already made the investment. In 2014, MSB decided that the measures had to be taken. Unfortunately, not all very small sandwiches or fuel stations paid attention to this. This means that we have the time pressure that is currently in place. But now we have invested money, and then we want to see them appear so that we can have a living countryside and a living sparsely populated area. I would like to thank Members once again for their commitment.
i-Vz68NHzderqoCWA2oMot9R	Madam President, I would like Tobias Andersson has asked me how it came about that I changed my mind and no longer work for a review of the gangster rapper. Tobias Andersson has also asked whether I intend to take any steps to overcome the problem he thinks he sees. Freedom of culture is a fundamental principle of cultural policy. A free and independent cultural sector is fundamental to any successful democratic society. The national cultural policy objectives adopted by the Riksdag state that culture should be a dynamic, challenging and untying force based on freedom of expression. This is achieved by organising cultural governance on the basis of the arm's length principle. This means that government instructions and support schemes are regulated so that politicians do not make decisions on artistic content in the distribution of cultural support or decide what scientific perspectives are used in the work of cultural heritage institutions. The principle of arm's length is important to establish and protect and also to strengthen and develop. It is a high-priority cultural policy issue for me as Minister of Culture. This particular ambition is why the government commissioned the Swedish Agency for Cultural Analysis to review how the principle of arm's length distance is respected in practice, which resulted in the report So free is art. I would like to make it clear once again that the basic condition is that art and culture should be free and that politics should have an arm's length distance from the content. I am not in control, nor should I be in charge of the content of individual cultural expressions in my role as Minister of Culture. In cases where links with criminal activities are suspected or exist, there are other bodies and authorities that investigate and deal with these cases. As Minister of Culture, it is important to be sensitive to the discussions taking place in society. My task is to create good conditions for cultural activities and for artists to operate throughout the country, to ensure that art comes to the fore and to protect artistic freedom.
i-99rc88PhhQUFXCyxMXRwPQ	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your reply from the Minister. The importance of the Gangster rapper for the criminal networks in Sweden has been re-examined in the aftermath of the execution of rapper Nils Grönberg, also known as Einár. The fact that there is an obvious link between Swedish gangster rape and gang crime is now a fact. However, there have been those who have done their utmost to defend and continue to legitimise the gangster rap even after the murder. But strong criticism has also been raised primarily from my own party where we were long alone in paying attention to the problem of the public's glorification of often gross criminal gangster rappers. For this we were accused both of one and the other. Not surprisingly did the Social Democrats since our narrative when the then Minister of the Interior came up with criticisms similar to those of the Swedish Democrats. It is no longer possible to turn a blind eye to the fact that the gangster rap in both Sweden and other countries have a very close relationship with criminal networks. Although our opponents of opinion and representatives of public service manic and irresponsiblely repeated that the gangster rapper does not glorify the gangster culture but rather offers some form of innocent reality description of the gangster environment, it does not become more true because it is repeated. Gangster rappers have often themselves stated that they are part of the gangster environment. We have seen in judgments that this is the case, and it can be confirmed that most of these so-called artists are deeply involved in serious crime and also refer to this in their music. In practice, this has meant that music becomes a tool for criminal groupings to convey their message, which for those initiated is either clearly linked to crimes already committed or aims to threaten other groupings with new crimes. It is likely that musical success also means a strengthened brand, which in turn can facilitate criminal activities thereafter. Last time any genre in Sweden was problematized to the same extent as the gangster rapper today, Brå was asked to evaluate it. The aim was to generate a better knowledge base. The report was presented in 1999, and the focus was on white power music. White power music was seen in the seams, and the report contains everything from school activities to a description of the music industry. This meant that the situation could be better understood. Such a report does not necessarily have to be aimed at presenting proposals for legislative changes but would rather present an overview of the gangster rapture today. Hopefully it would then make it easier for society's collective effort, which is needed, to prevent young people being led into crime with the gangster rapper as a contributing cause. Given this, the Swedish Democrats proposed just such a review, something that the then newly appointed Minister for Culture Jeanette Gustafsson supported in one of his first interviews. It was a clear message from the Minister that she unfortunately chose to back down from after that. My question to the Minister for Culture is therefore why she backed away from her statement. Was she not allowed to keep it for the Social Democratic government in which she recently joined?
i-AnF9Jvmr72EAjocQiHci1R	Madam President, I would like I thank Tobias Andersson for asking me this question. This gives me the opportunity to clarify myself once again. I've never had the impression that the gangster rap should be investigated. When the question came, it was my second day at work. I may have expressed myself clumsy. My intention was not, and never will be, to investigate this issue. As I have mentioned before, it is my responsibility to safeguard the principle of arm's length and to protect artistic freedom. Investigating artistic content is not my job and therefore not something that I have supported. There are problems in society, and the government is working hard to turn every stone around to reduce segregation and combat the ruthless crime that today threatens the whole community. At the risk of repeating myself, then, there are other well-functioning bodies and authorities that investigate the existence of crimes. Having said that, it is my job as Minister of Culture to protect artistic freedom. My job is not to censor individual musicians and their music. We live in a democratic society based on freedom of expression. That is laid down in the Constitution.
i-UQfRhB7Hsn3UKLebPKjJ93	Madam President, I would like It is almost possible to believe that Jeanette Gustafsson is arguing against herself when she responds to the statements that have now come from me but that have previously come from her. Although the Minister here in the debate believes that she never had the view that this should be investigated, it was very easy for those who took part in the interview to be led to believe that it was an opinion that the Minister had in the light of the statements she made at the time, including that it is important to check what the gangster rapper leads to. That was something the minister chose to say in the interview. This was then followed by the fact that, if this leads to crime, we must do something about it, as the Minister repeated in the interview. If you, as a simple viewer, study this and try to form an idea of what the Minister's opinion was on the matter, it is easy to believe, even if, according to the Minister's answer in this House, it is now a directly wrong idea that no viewer should have been given, that the Minister had the view she described in the interview that she had then. Madam President, I would like It's not always easy to keep up, and I'll have to apologize if I've been led to believe something else. But I would like to blame the Minister in part for the fact that this happened. In any case, it is of course the case that politics should have an arm's length away from culture. The report which the Minister himself touches upon in his reply, So free is art, and which was produced just criticised that. When it came to arm's length, you had three comments. The first was: Parts of the state grant are governed and implemented with negative impact on artistic freedom. The second was: the principle of arm's length is not fully applicable at regional and municipal level. The third was: At the regional level, but also at the municipal level, target management is taking place that risks adversely affecting artistic freedom. Madam President, I would like Thus, there already seems to be a potential for improvement in relation to the discussion of arm's length, the principle which the Minister has already repeated several times during this interpellation debate. I am therefore critical of the Swedish Democrats on this issue, when the government's own report on the subject criticised the government and other public bodies in Sweden. Furthermore, there is, of course, a difference between freedom of expression, that is, the right to express as a musician what is now desired, and the fact that the public then chooses to play the whole thing, awards prizes to people who have been convicted of crimes and let them be played day in and day out and get Stim money. In any case, I do not think that freedom of expression states that Swedish Radio must play music in which you mock murder victims or where you threaten to commit new murders when you or people around you may have previously been suspected of murder. There are, in fact, examples, Madam President, where murder weapons and vehicles used at the time of the murder have shown the days associated with the murder in recorded music videos for established gangster rappers. When we have such a situation, I think that one could at least examine the links between music and gang environments. It should not be a controversial proposal. I am not suggesting any censorship. I'm not suggesting any interference with freedom of expression. So let us leave it at that in the debate. But can the Minister for Culture at least agree that the problem exists so that we can then perhaps have a discussion about whether we should not find out more about it?
i-E9HpKwgDorFPzQteLjFV9q	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to remind Tobias Andersson that my name is Gustafsdotter, not Gustafsson. Yes, there is a big difference between being seduced to believe and knowing. I hope that with this interpellation, for which I am once again grateful because I have had a chance to clarify myself, I have been clear about what the Ministry of Culture is doing and what I stand for as Minister of Culture. When it comes to the report So free art is true that there were some criticisms. Among the first things I did was to change the parts of the regulation letter that did not change but that there was a risk of changing after the writings. This has today been changed in the regulatory letter. When it comes to what the media play and do not play – in case Tobias Andersson refers to Swedish Radio – it is actually up to them to take a stand on what they play and what they choose to praise in different ways. I have said from the beginning that the distance of arm's length should prevail against the content of both art, culture and, as in this case, public service. It's as simple as that. Freedom of expression is a prerequisite for Swedish cultural life, whether it is culture, art or the media. However, the fact that there are discussions and debates on the limits of freedom of expression is important.
i-TZC6fmH6o2svWTjY8qpRR1	Madam President, I would like Thank you, once again, for the answer from Jeanette Gustafsdotter! In fact, the Minister herself has indicated that she has identified a link between gangster rape and gang environment. Either that connection disappeared after the interview, according to the Minister of Culture and the government. Or it wasn't there, it was just a misunderstanding in the context. As the Minister of Culture mentions, it's hard for me to know. I can only form an opinion of what the Minister of Culture himself says. Against this background, it is easy to believe that it may have been the way the Minister of Culture today says, i.e. that she might have expressed herself a little plum – it was the second day at work, which she defended herself with earlier – and that that is why I and many others who took part in the interview were led to believe that she was of the opinion she expressed. But it could also be that when the Minister of Culture came back to the department after the interview, or perhaps immediately after the interview when the press secretary stood by and tore her hair, she received a lecture that she was not allowed to express support for Swedish democratic political proposals. That could be the case too. It is easy to suspect this. In fact, I see several different scenarios that may have taken place. It may also be that the Minister of Culture changed his own mind immediately after, but I find that unlikely. I think it is closer at hand that others were less satisfied with the Minister for Culture's statement and that the Minister for Culture therefore needed to make a so-called poodle and simply say: No, I made a mistake. I certainly said something, but I don't think so. It was a mistake. And then she had to hold on to it. Either way, a review would not have been problematic in terms of freedom of expression. It is only a question of improving the state of knowledge. Why does the Minister of Culture not want to improve the state of knowledge?
i-USLdSnESMaNsLo9d3GRfdP	Madam President, I would like I stress this once again: the objectives of cultural policy state that culture should be a dynamic, challenging and untying force based on freedom of expression. The most fundamental thing in Sweden's cultural policy is freedom of culture. The principle of arm's length is important to establish and protect, and also to strengthen and develop. Discussions and debate on the limits of freedom of expression must be allowed, and it is important for me as Minister of Culture to follow them. My task is to create good conditions for cultural activities and artists to operate throughout the country and make sure that the art comes to more. In order to work on this issue, it is important that we see it in all its complexity. It is of the utmost importance that the government's governance of cultural policy is designed in such a way that we do not control the artistic content.
