i-498166b210c97e6b-37	Madam President, I would like Niklas Wykman has asked me what concrete measures, including through fiscal policy, I intend to implement in order to ensure that Sweden does not continue to run the risk of being among the countries with the lowest growth rate in the European Union, but rather strive for a higher growth rate, and what I intend to do to prevent the tax burden on Swedish companies from increasing during the term of office. A lesson from previous crises is that fiscal incentives should not be phased out prematurely. Research shows that the most effective way to stimulate growth and employment is public investment and consumption. For this reason, the budget for 2022 proposed major investments in, among other things, green conversion and more jobs, increased general state subsidies to municipalities and regions, and targeted efforts to improve quality and bring forward new jobs in welfare. The starting point should be that we in Sweden charge as much tax as is necessary to meet the social problems that exist. There is ongoing work in the Government Office and at the Ministry of Finance to investigate proposals that can help strengthen Sweden's competitiveness and increase growth. A competitive and dynamic business environment is the basis for economic growth and job creation. The competitiveness of the Swedish economy is confirmed in many international comparisons. For example, the report produced annually by the World Economic Forum, where Sweden last placed itself in an eighth place. In addition, over the last two years, a number of specific actions have been carried out to address the pandemic's impact on jobs and businesses in Sweden. The actions consist of both extensive direct payments and various measures within the tax system. One example of the latter is the extensive possibility of deferment of payment of taxes and charges that has so far resulted in a liquidity supplement to the companies of SEK 56 billion. Another example is the tax reduction for investment in inventory, which gives companies incentives to increase and bring forward investments. These measures have been possible because we entered the pandemic with the lowest public debt since 1977. In turn, a low level of public debt is linked to a well-functioning and stable tax system and an orderly budgetary process. The conditions for entrepreneurship shall support fair competition, be internationally competitive and contain predictable regulatory frameworks. The government is constantly working to ensure that tax money is used effectively. F herb rice for the Swedish tax system should remain high. Therefore, the government plans to allocate a total of SEK 39 million up to 2024 to combat abuse of welfare systems and tax evasion. It is important to emphasise that far more than precise levels of taxation affect the conditions and competitiveness of companies. The Swedish model with broad tax bases and low tax rates has proved beneficial over time. Proper use of tax revenues is crucial for increasing employment. For example, a good business environment also requires well-functioning institutions and a well-trained workforce, which requires a tax-funded general welfare.
i-498166b210c97e6b-45	Madam President, I would like It was nice to welcome the Government to the Riksdag with the re-formation of the Swedish Environmental Party's parliamentary work. Whether the party is lacking in the government or not may not be answered during this debate. This is a debate on an urgent matter, and I still think that Minister of Finance Mikael Damberg admits in a straight and honest way that there are problems in Sweden. There is something that does not work very well, and it has not done so in the last perhaps ten years. Sweden has fallen behind when it comes to economic growth. Some time after 2008, something happened to the Swedish economy and to many of the other developed economies in the European Union and around the world. It is not only Sweden that has found it difficult to assert its competitiveness, but the EU has also found it difficult to assert its competitiveness compared to the US and many countries in Asia. Something has stagnated in our economic development. This would have had to be met with political measures and reforms, Madam President, but this has not been the case. Not only is the EU worse than the US and most of Asia, but, as the Minister for Finance said, Sweden is one of the worse countries in the EU in terms of economic growth. Sweden is in place three or four from the bottom. The question is, of course, what to do about this. A situation where the USA and Asia are better than Europe and where Sweden is among the worst in Europe is of course not desirable in the long term. Whatever the ambitions of the Finance Minister, they are difficult to fulfil if the economy is not performing, if our companies are not doing well, if people do not get jobs and if there are not new, broad tax bases to which the Finance Minister referred. The question is what the Minister for Finance or the Government intends to do about the Swedish economy having stalled. This is not only a cyclical effect or a crisis effect, but we in Sweden also perform worse than other countries affected by the same crisis. There is something about the Swedish economy that is not quite right. What measures does the Minister of Finance intend to take to this end? Attention is the government good at creating. It has been about everything from white power environments to cocaine and other kinds of scandals. It has been about security scandals and whether there have been collective agreements and other things. But that must not be allowed to dominate the political debate in the long term. The political discussion must focus on reforms, measures and improvements – on things that will get Sweden moving. A concrete issue that arises when you talk about taxes and growth – for growth issues, as the Minister for Finance points out, is broader only the tax issue – is the quadrupled price of electricity. Mikael Damberg has with frenzy and commitment strangled the Swedish electricity supply. Mikael Damberg has been eager to phase out Swedish nuclear power. Now it has ended with quadrupled electricity prices for households and that several companies may refrain from expanding or hiring. Many even refrain from starting at all. The question is whether Mikael Damberg, in retrospect, is satisfied with his strong commitment to phasing out Swedish nuclear power. Regardless of nuclear power, the question is: What measures does Mikael Damberg intend to take to increase Swedish growth and employment? We cannot reasonably be satisfied with being third or fourth worst in the European Union.
i-498166b210c97e6b-54	Madam President, I would like I note that this interpellation was almost verbatim in 2020, if I understand it correctly. It will be a little unlucky for Niklas Wykman if we look at developments during the pandemic and take this as a comparison year. I had a press conference some time ago where developments in Sweden were compared with developments in Europe. It turned out that Sweden has not only made up for the bnp phase caused by the crisis, but Sweden is also above the start of the crisis on the growth curve expected in 2019, before the crisis. Sweden belongs to the few countries that have actually recovered all this and which are on the growth curve. Several large European countries are lagging behind the growth they experienced as they entered the crisis. To describe this as completely pitch black, as the Moderates want to do, has very little to do with reality and with the data that has been presented in terms of development since Niklas Wykman last wrote the same interpellation. I have been following competitiveness issues for a very long time, since I was the former Minister of Enterprise and Innovation and was responsible for trade policy. You can measure competitiveness in many different ways; it is not a single thing, but you often need to look at different things. Three of the absolute largest indices available internationally to measure competitiveness in slightly different ways give a slightly different picture than that that Niklas Wykman wants to give in this interpellation. The World Economic Forum placed in 2019 – there was no index in 2020 – Sweden in place 8 of, I believe, 140 countries on the global list when it comes to competitiveness. I guess that's a variation. Above all, we in Sweden are distinguished by the fact that we are well equipped for the fourth industrial revolution. As Minister for Enterprise and Innovation, I worked very hard with Swedish industry's digitalisation and sustainability work. This is what drives much of the big investments, not least in northern Sweden, today. In Bloomberg's Innovation Power Index, Sweden is placed 5 globally. In the World Bank's Business Climate Index, Sweden has gone from place 12 to place 10. It gets a little strange when the Moderates, because it's election year, have to paint everything in dark colors instead of discussing what it is we need to do to get through this pandemic in a powerful way. Judging by comparisons of economic data on this pandemic so far, we in Sweden seem to have made it through in a completely different way from the way we got through the financial crisis in 2008-2009. Then a number of strategic mistakes were made. The incentives were withdrawn far too early; the overall economists agree that this contributed to Europe's failure to deal well with the financial crisis. It took out a lot of companies and jobs. We have not seen this in Sweden so far – touch wood. We are certainly not going to make that mistake again, and it is in order that we do not end up in that situation again that a large budget – of 74 billion – has been voted through in Parliament. We saw that long-term unemployment rose very strongly between 2008 and 2009. We have seen that long-term unemployment has also risen during this crisis, but the dimensions are not at all the same – it was twice as high as long-term unemployment that increased during the financial crisis as compared to the one we have seen now. However, this remains one of Sweden's major challenges. We presented a number of additional measures to repress long-term unemployment. I believe that this is important for the long-term functioning of the labour market. Unfortunately, the Moderates chose to adjust and withdraw some of these efforts to combat long-term unemployment. There is a lot that needs to be done in order for Sweden to continue to have high growth.
i-498166b210c97e6b-68	Madam President, I would like Many people look at this and heard that I asked Mikael Damberg what he wants to do to increase Swedish growth. Many people pointed their ears to hear the answer but were disappointed – there was not a single proposal or reform to increase Swedish growth from Mikael Damberg. Instead, there were a lot of rather strange statements. I respect that Mikael Damberg is not an economist, but if you see it as a success that Sweden has reached its previous growth curve and then compare with other countries, you must also expect that it is more difficult for these countries to get back to the curve if they had a higher growth curve from the beginning. Sweden has long had very low per capita growth. The Minister of Finance shakes his head at this, but it can be compared. Sweden is third or fourth worst in the EU in terms of per capita growth. Of course, getting back to being third or fourth worst is easier than coming back to being among the top ten. I'm not going to deal with any sports metaphors about comebacks – that's not my strong point, and that may not be the strong side of the Minister for Finance either – but if we talk about this more carefully, we can certainly agree that it's not a brilliant comeback. A major growth barrier should be the high electricity prices. I also asked Mikael Damberg that question. He has with passion and passion decommissioned nuclear power in Sweden – closing Swedish nuclear power has been one of the priority tasks for the government. Six reactors Mikael Damberg has been involved and closed. Now there is no electricity for Swedish industry, and Swedish households suffer from very high electricity bills. Does the Minister of Finance see that this is causing some kind of problem? I do not even need to mention the security aspects of buying gas from Russia and so on. Has Mikael Damberg so hard-won proposals to in various ways make it difficult for and then to phase out Swedish nuclear power, seen only in the purely economic aspects, been successful for Swedish growth prospects? Mikael Damberg referred to a number of indices. In the vast majority of such indices, Sweden has belonged to top 10 or top 15 for a very long time. However, one cannot just go on the rankings of different newspapers of different kinds, although this obviously matters. Mikael Damberg says that Sweden has managed this crisis better than the previous crisis. But to make an international comparison, Sweden was appointed The Nordic Light during the previous crisis. Sweden was seen as an example and ranked as the best or second best country in the world to cope with the crisis. During this crisis, I have only noted that we in Sweden have received a single international award. I saw that we were named Europe's most dangerous country by a German newspaper. There is a little difference between The Nordic Light and the most dangerous country in Europe. There may be other awards that Sweden has received than just the most dangerous country, but that is what I have seen. In reality, however, growth is low, regardless of what is said in the various rankings referred to by the Minister for Finance. Mikael Damberg and his fellow party members promised that we would have Europe's lowest unemployment. Instead, Mikael Damberg has delivered Europe's fourth or fifth highest unemployment. Contrary to what was apparent in Mikael Damberg's speech, long-term unemployment is at record levels. We have among the highest youth unemployment rates across Europe. It is probably Spain and some other countries that have higher youth unemployment, but Sweden is in real trouble. If you look at reality, Mikael Damberg, you can see that the results are not so strong. But we hear that the Minister of Finance is very pleased. Among the things that worry us, apart from the fact that so many people are unemployed, is that Swedish growth is going so badly, that there are so high electricity bills coming in to households that they cannot afford to pay them and that Swedish industry cannot expand because the energy is missing or too expensive.
i-498166b210c97e6b-79	Madam President, I would like Niklas Wykman says I have not made any proposals. But in two posts he has said nothing about what the Moderates want to do to increase growth. I can only say that. Instead, it is a brutal black painting of Sweden that is presented. Niklas Wykman ignores all international rankings made by the business environment and innovation power. He also ignores how countries have regained capacity for growth after the crisis so far. Many countries are not up to the growth they had before the crisis started. Sweden has made up for it and is also in line with the growth path we had forecasted in 2019. It is a huge recovery of bnp and growth in a short time, something that is very good. This is also visible in the Swedish economy today. There is a lot of pressure in the Swedish economy. The labour market is doing very well. The Swedish Employment Service's statistics on Swedish unemployment show that we are back at pre-pandemic levels of unemployment. They are too high, but the forecast is that unemployment is now falling strongly in Sweden because we have pressure in the Swedish economy. It cannot be said that the Swedish economy has not recovered better than many other European countries linked to the pandemic. There are many parts to this, and it will be a description of reality rather than a political discussion. I can take nuclear power as an example. I remember when the Moderates had divisive images of our cross-block energy agreement. The Moderates presented divisive images that the Moderates had saved nuclear power by the agreement we made with the Moderates. It's strange. Well, that's the deal, isn't it? That doesn't really work. Swedish energy policy is hugely important for growth and competitiveness. We have low electricity prices in a European and global perspective, but at the moment they are very high. It is, of course, a short-term problem for the households and businesses affected. As Niklas Wykman knows very well, electricity prices are governed by the fact that we have a European market where, not least, gas prices have risen very strongly due to reduced deliveries and not least because Putin and Russia are using Europe's vulnerability in this area to push up prices. It is clear that it is a vulnerability and a problem for Sweden and Europe. That is why the government has taken a great many initiatives to expand the energy system with more production. We have a very strong expansion of wind power, not least. So far it has happened on land, but the next big step will be offshore wind power, where only applications for Swedish power grids in southern Sweden are on the double of Sweden's combined electricity generation. It is clear that not all of this will be approved, but we can have huge quantities of production over the next few years. Then we must also have portability in the electricity systems. Here we work very hard to increase the rate of investment. Swedish households and companies should not pay high electricity prices. It is therefore necessary to make the necessary investments in both the short and medium term to ensure that Sweden continues to have a green and cost-effective energy system that creates competitiveness. One of the major reforms we are planning for and working on now concerns the adaptability of the labour market. We usually say that we have black belt in conversion capacity in Sweden. There has been talk of komvux. Now we are talking about transition in the middle of life with the great agreement of the social partners, which will mean a huge amount for Swedish competitiveness in the long term.
i-498166b210c97e6b-87	Madam President, I would like It remains to be seen how things are going with Mikael Damberg's black belt in transition. Maybe there'll be more knockouts on the whole business community. But we will simply see what it lands in, Madam President. I don't think anyone has missed Mikael Damberg's and the government's enormous ambitions for wind power expansion. Many have been given wind turbines as neighbours, and there are many animals and lots of nature that have tasted, so to speak, the government's wind power expansion, which is now to be tenfold or a hundredfold. I guess everyone's gonna live next door to a wind farm, if you can believe the government. The question is whether the Swedish people want it that way. I think it is better that we build one or two nuclear power plants instead, so that we can manage our electricity supply in that way. Mikael Damberg accuses me of blacking out Sweden. I agree that a lot of the things I have raised are negative. It has been about the government's business – white power environments, cocaine, enforcement cases, Morgan Johansson's midday shopping against restrictions and so on. It has also been about the more concrete and factual things, such as the fact that we have the third or fourth highest unemployment rate in the European Union, even though Mikael Damberg promised that we would have the lowest, and that we have the third or fourth lowest growth rate in the European Union. It has not yet been about – but it is clearly worth mentioning – that Sweden, compared to Norway, Denmark and Finland tragically has had very many who died in covid due to lack of initiative and lack of action from the government in the beginning of the pandemic. And it is clear that it was negative when we mentioned that Mikael Damberg has decommissioned Swedish nuclear power, which has had devastating consequences. But if this is black painting, perhaps the Minister of Finance should consider who brought the brush and the paint jar.
i-498166b210c97e6b-92	Madam President, I would like When comparing growth, it may be useful to compare with average over a longer period rather than individual years. This shows that GDP development in 2014 to 2020 was stronger in Sweden than the average in both the EU and euro area countries. We can note that Sweden continues to be at the top of countries when you rank competitiveness, innovation power and business climate, which is good. But there's still a lot to do. Energy policy is definitely an area in which we invest strongly. I hope and believe that what Niklas Wykman said today does not mean that Swedish companies and households should wait 15 to 20 years for lower electricity prices. We need more energy now. It needs to be expanded now. It was a very surprising post from Niklas Wykman. When we talk about employment and jobs, we can see that international comparisons are interesting. We are at the top of the European Union, in number two, I think, in terms of employment rates. As far as youth unemployment is concerned, I must say, with all due respect, that the measure used by the European Union is not the most accurate measure I have seen. If you look instead at the young people who are neither working nor studying, we in Sweden are the best in the EU when it comes to youth unemployment. You can turn and turn statistics any way you want. We will continue to deliver a welfare policy that gives people the opportunity to educate themselves, study and even research and be world-class innovative. We will push for the green transition, so that Swedish industry takes the lead there globally. It will create a lot of jobs in Sweden, but also sustainability globally and large export income. We will take further steps in the transition capacity of working life by implementing the partner agreement on transition to working life. We will also expand the energy system, so that Swedish companies and consumers receive lower electricity prices. It is an important growth policy.
i-498166b210c97e6b-96	Madam President, I would like Kjell Jansson has asked me whether I intend to reintroduce the property tax. Niklas Wykman has asked me whether I intend to increase the tax on people who own their homes and whether, through measures in tax policy, I will work to increase or reduce the incentive to own and take care of their housing. I would like to reiterate what my predecessor has already announced to Parliament. There is no work going on within the Government Office to reintroduce property tax or reduce interest deduction. During the term of office, however, the government has made a number of changes to improve the efficiency and mobility of the housing market. For example, the government has removed the tax on housing deferrals and increased the amount of deferral in housing sales.
i-498166b210c97e6b-99	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. It is a bit reassuring that the Minister of Finance answers that the property tax should not be reintroduced, but there is concern among the many small house owners and homeowners in the country who know how felt this tax was. Sweden has the third highest tax burden in the world with tax revenues of around SEK 2,200 billion including the municipal property tax of SEK 35 billion. Many residents pay up to 70% tax, especially in the Stockholm region. They pay about 30 per cent in municipal taxes, 22 per cent in state income tax above the cut-off point and in addition all excise duties, not least the consumption tax VAT. Furthermore, we have the currently highly topical and re-debated energy tax. Every misused tax crown is a theft from the people, said Social Democratic engineer Gustav Möller. Why does the state have the legitimacy to levy taxes as high as it does? You can always think about that, and especially me as a moderate. Several heavy S-districts in Sweden have decided to reintroduce the property tax. This applies to Gothenburg, Skåne and not least Stockholm, with Anders Ygeman at the head of Stockholm's Social Democrats. The former cooperation parties and support troops of the Social Democrats in the Riksdag are very positive about re-establishing property tax. In the autumn there are elections, and then the door opens to the one who wins the choice to reintroduce taxes or remove taxes. Madam President, I would like Does the Minister of Finance consider re-establishing the property tax after the election in the autumn if the accident occurs and the Social Democrats are allowed to continue to rule Sweden? At the moment, there is probably no support in this House to do so. Does the Minister of Finance want to overestimate ordinary honest people who live in a right-of-occupancy or small-time residence with 30 000 – 70 000 annually on top of already high taxes on labour? If so, what is the purpose of this? Is it to redistribute the people's money according to the Social Democratic ideology, to a large extent arbitrarily? Or does the Minister of Finance think that it would be a good time to lower certain taxes in order to get more momentum on the economy and more room for consumption by our citizens rather than the state taking more money and reducing the citizens' freedom to consume and live freely? Madam President, I would like The property tax is a contentious tax which was largely abolished by the Reinfeldt Government. Previously, it was 1.2 per cent of the rateable value. In addition, there was a wealth tax of 1.5 per cent. Thus, many households previously paid 2.8 per cent in tax on their ownership, mainly on their houses. This was very damaging to both private individuals and the overall economy. In addition, property tax is confiscated as it is paid with already estimated money.
i-498166b210c97e6b-112	Madam President, I would like Mikael Damberg said earlier that we should charge as much taxes as necessary to solve social problems. It sounds sympathetic and perhaps even intuitively correct. But if you think about it for a little while, you might raise the objection that some taxes and too high taxes can create some of the social problems we have. If all social problems can be solved with increased taxes, as Mikael Damberg says, Sweden should be in third or fourth place in the world when it comes to having the least social problems because we have the third or fourth highest tax burden. The question many people are asking is whether it is possible to solve the country's problems with even higher taxes. If higher taxes are always the answer, as Mikael Damberg says, Sweden, which has such high taxes, should not have such serious problems. There are other things that cause problems, but, and it is an important one, taxes also create problems. Mikael Damberg and the Social Democrats have pushed up the tax burden in Sweden for many years, which means, for example, that it does not pay for large groups to work. This increases exclusion, and in exclusion other kinds of problems such as crime, school failures and other things that cost people and their quality of life are created. The property tax was reformed and abolished under previous governments, and it has been lamented loudly and often by the Minister of Finance's representative Magdalena Andersson. She has not missed a single opportunity to point out how bad it was that the property tax was abolished. There is no work going on in the Government Office," says the Minister for Finance. Nah. But what does the Minister of Finance think about the property tax? I've been working at the Ministry of Finance and I've written a number of interpellation responses. There are probably many Swedes who think that there is far too little work going on in the Government Office with certain things and far too much with other things. I and many others believe the Minister of Finance when he says that there is no work going on to reintroduce the property tax, but what do the Social Democrats and the Minister for Finance themselves think about the property tax? Madam President, I would like The whole of this debate could be concluded here and now if Mikael Damberg says: a promise that, as long as I am a finance minister, property tax will not be reintroduced. ..................................................... Then I will delete myself from my other posts.
i-498166b210c97e6b-121	Madam President, I would like The discussion on taxes is important, and Kjell Jansson addressed the overall question: What is the purpose of taxes? It's about collecting tax revenue to manage the welfare commitments we have in society and to deal with some societal challenges that are traditionally not only linked to welfare. Let me take two clear moderate examples. Sweden has major problems with crime. We therefore need to hire more police officers and expand the prisons of the K. Penitentiary. We also need to expand Swedish defence because of a poor security policy situation. During the pandemic, we have discovered that elderly care in Sweden is not of the required quality. The quality needs to be improved, the link to health care increased and the skills of those working in elderly care increased. Better continuity and working conditions are needed. After the pandemic, healthcare is facing major challenges on the staff side in, for example, maternity care and in terms of the number of care places. These are challenges that we, also in view of the demographics we face, are likely to have to deal with together. This requires tax revenue – or large privatizations of welfare. The Moderates tend to privatise, and then it is important if you drive major tax cuts in the electoral movement that you report what major reductions you want to see or what privatizations you want to do in Swedish welfare. This is an overall discussion. As far as property tax is concerned, I clearly replied that there is no such work going on in the Government Office. Then you say: But there are Social Democrats who want to reintroduce property tax. Since I am a minister, I am not here to debate the inner life of the Social Democrats, but let me put it this way: we did not take a decision to impose property tax on our party congress. So, then, I do not know if there will be any further debate. However, a discussion can be held on how different tax changes have occurred, such as the property tax. Even the Moderates must feel a little uncomfortable in the fact that people living in rural municipalities – poor municipalities where there have been not so high housing prices historically – have been given increased property fees in recent years, while it has remained still for others. So we've had a property tax that's been regressive. All the arguments that were used against, for example, the stockholms automatically not paying higher property tax have been valid in rural municipalities around Sweden in recent years. I would just like to point out how the system introduced by the Moderates has hit Swedish countryside. With the answer that I have given, I do not know whether there will be any further debate. This is for the interpellants to decide.
i-498166b210c97e6b-132	Madam President, I would like The Moderates fully agree that we need to strengthen defence and justice, but basically we do not agree that we should send EUR 57 billion in aid, which largely fertilises corruption in the world. The money does not reach those who may need help and suffer distress and hunger. It is an item that should be reviewed, because it is more money than the entire justice system receives in Sweden. There are several government investigations, including one that Klas Eklund made to ESO in 2021, which proposes to introduce the property tax. That's why there's life in it-- there's sharp proposals. The gender equality inquiry prepared by the government also proposes to reintroduce the property tax and property tax. This is clear in the investigation. It's a question that's alive now that we're going into an election year. It will not be the time to introduce so many new taxes, whether it be a moderate or a social democratic government, but the question is after 2022. Ordinary honest people such as construction workers, nurses, teachers, police, firefighters and small businessmen will pay 30 000, 40 000, 50 000, 60 000 or 70 000 annually if the tax is reintroduced in the way it used to be. This would be a hit for the Stockholm region, where the property values are generally significantly higher for housing than in the rest of Sweden. The right-of-occupancy rights will also be heavily taxed. It is not a form of ownership, however, but with a right-of-occupancy property has been purchased. To then pay property tax is indecent already as it is in principle. Madam President, I would like For what reason should we have the courage to trust the Minister of Finance here? I would like the Minister of Finance to promise that the property tax will not be reintroduced as long as he is the Minister of Finance. In the 2014 election campaign, the Minister for Finance's representative Magdalena Andersson promised not to increase fuel taxes, but how did it go? We know that today. We have extremely high fuel prices, perhaps the highest in Europe. Dieseln is approaching 21 crowns (U.S.), and it is now rumored that with the reduction obligation it will reach 30 crowns (U.S.). This means that you will break the countryside and also large parts of Stockholm County that are car dependent and have no metro to get to work with. In a country that is exposed to competition and driven by exports and entrepreneurship, we need to travel more, not less. We have to fly more, we have to do more business with the outside world and we have to go more car to get to work. We can't sit at home thinking the money's gonna fall through the roof door. Then we need to review taxes and taxation systems, both for work, for fuel and the like, and for electricity. In the same election movement in 2014, Stefan Löfven promised that we would have the lowest unemployment rate in the EU. It didn't go very well either. We are currently in place 25 out of 28 Member States. It is therefore difficult to trust the Social Democrats. I read in Anders Lindberg's leader in Aftonbladet in the autumn that j ust property tax may be politically impossible right now, but the battle for fairer taxation of properties is far from over.
i-498166b210c97e6b-140	Madam President, I would like I offered the Minister of Finance the opportunity to close the property tax discussion. That offer remains. It is enough for the Minister of Finance to say that, as long as I am a Minister of Finance, the property tax will not be reintroduced. It is a rather simple sentence to say, but the Minister of Finance does not want to say those words. It's also a kind of message. What would the property tax cost to an ordinary Swedish household every year? 10 000 kroner, 20 000 kroner, 30 000 kroner or 40 000 kroner? For many, it would even be more. Mikael Damberg's manager Magdalena Andersson has also promised other strong tax increases for people who own their housing. It is a question of stepping down interest rebates. If they are removed, it will cost about $1,000 a month for every million borrowed. We know that the prices for living in Sweden are very high because of Mikael Damberg's mismanaged housing policy. Many who now establish themselves on the housing market have to pay 3, 4 or 5 million kronor for an apartment. If you are going to have children and houses, it can be even more expensive in large parts of the country. Then we are talking about tax increases only from the abolition of the interest rebates, to which the Social Democrats have opened up, of 4 000, 5 000 or 6 000 SEK per month for families working. In addition, Mikael Damberg's high electricity bills are, of course, due to the decommissioning of nuclear power. Added to this are the increased costs of driving. There is simply a lot less left in the wallet for those who work and toil. This, Madam President, is not a good country. Just as my party colleague Kjell Jansson pointed out, no country is moving forward, where jobs are getting more and where people are getting better. The property tax creates particular concern, partly because it is morally reprehensible. Almost all people, regardless of which party they vote for, think that the tax system should give the right impetus. To own your accommodation, to invest in it, to carpentry on it on vacation, to improve it and to take care of it is something positive and good. It is hardly in the harsh residential district that the Swedish problems are growing right now. Therefore, the tax system should not counteract the fact that you own, take care of and care for your dwelling, but that is exactly what a property tax does. The property tax is also concerned for practical reasons. The Minister of Finance wants people to live with these concerns, because he refuses to give a reply. The Social Democrats like this – the feeling that you have to look at the news to know how you are doing tomorrow. You may even have to join the party in order to make your voice heard, the Social Democratic Party, because it is in their meeting room that decisions about your future should be made, not around the kitchen table. If you have the possibility or threat in the air of a property tax of 30 000, 40 000 or 50 000 SEK each year, it is clear that you become a little more reverent to the Social Democratic Party and the decisions taken there. But is this right or good? It can drive people from house and home. The Social Democrats have already done this with property tax without a guilty conscience. Will it happen again? The Minister of Finance does not want to give a clear answer.
i-498166b210c97e6b-146	Madam President, I would like As Minister of Finance, I have replied that there is no work going on with property tax or the other issues that have been raised during the interpellation debate. I have explained that the Social Democrats are not pushing the demand to reintroduce property tax, but I can say that the Moderates live by growing concern. That is what this whole interpellation debate is all about. Despite my answers, however, it should continue to be said that there is a risk that the Social Democrats are now introducing property tax. The Moderates usually say that we have been running Sweden for so long, almost eight years, but we have not reintroduced the property tax. However, aside from this concern, one can also consider the moral argument about the taxation of housing. I find it a little interesting that the Moderates in this debate do not want to explain what is so morally right in that in the sparsely populated municipalities where you pay a property fee, you have had to pay a higher property fee in recent years. It is the households that have by far the lowest margins. They have the least value in their properties. If anything has increased, they have had to pay a higher tax. Is that morally correct? I will not go through the discussion on how to abolish property tax and how it contributed to the value development and levels of housing costs in Sweden. Most economists would probably say that the way they did it created a huge price development on properties in Sweden. I think this is part of the Moderate political problem. You don't come up with any new proposals. You repeat old slogans that you had in the 2014 election campaign and you think it will bear fruit in public opinion. But it doesn't seem to. You can continue to nag. I will continue to respond to what I am planning as Minister of Finance, and I am not planning to introduce a property tax. The Social Democrats have not taken a stand for any property tax at our Party Congress. On the other hand, we need tax revenue to finance the expansion of the police, the expansion of defence and the expansion of health care and care for the elderly as we grow older. We have major problems with the equivalence of schools, where we need to invest more in the schools that exist in the most vulnerable areas. We Social Democrats show that it is possible to combine a competitive economic policy globally with major efforts, not least now after the pandemic, to keep society together. I think this is the right way for Sweden. The Moderates will return to a debate on major tax cuts, savings and privatisations. We'll see if the Swedish people are really hungry for that medicine.
i-498166b210c97e6b-153	Madam President, I would like You can always discuss the level of taxes, the Minister of Finance. It's no secret that we think it's reasonable to have a little lower taxes. We believe that households and every person owns their lives in a stronger way than the state, and we see that the state takes over the power of people in Sweden. It is a fairly strong power that the state has over us individual people. I think it's too strong. I think the state should be strong when it comes to protection. When you're a victim of crime, get sick or fall on the sidewalk and get hurt – as I did last week – you should have a medical care that is there. That is absolutely the case. But there are other examples, where the state has been too strong, during the government years with the Green Party. They have annexed forests for landowners and said: You should have biotop protection on your land! Protection has been provided, land confiscated and a one-off payment has been made. That's not good. Last but not least, I'd like to warn you about offshore wind power. It will cost the households terrible money. There's no transmission lines out there, and the power's coming ashore. I've been doing some serious research on this and I've seen that the transmission lines are currently unfunded. As I understand it, this is to be put on the network charges for each consumer, which will allow the electricity bill for an ordinary villa to go up by 5 000 per month. I also think it would be reasonable to review this with energy tax and then VAT on energy tax. It is a double taxation of electricity, and it would be good to see if it is reasonable. Personally, I might think it would be reasonable to have VAT – but in that case no energy tax. Now there is double taxation, and it hits households hard. It does not help if you hardly spend any electricity, for subscription fees and network charges means that you at least have a high electricity bill.
i-498166b210c97e6b-157	Madam President, I would like Mikael Damberg thought that one should think about what the abolished property tax has done with price developments. It wasn't a real estate tax on condos. But it was on villas. Mikael Damberg can go home and see what has increased the most – whether it is the prices of flats or villas that have increased the most. Maybe it'll give you a clue as to what it's really about. It is not, therefore, due to the abolition of property tax. The abolition of the property tax was not an economic policy measure in this way. It was a question of respect for people who work, work and make an effort, respect for Sweden's pensioners who have worked a whole life, made an effort and built houses and respect for people who have inherited old fishing houses where they have lived for generations. It was simply a mark of where the limits of state power go towards the individual. It's not okay with a tax system that breaks up what generations have built or fucks with people who go to work, make an effort, do their best and make sure you offer your family a safe home. A good tax system does not, or should not, lead to those consequences. Madam President, I would like Nevertheless, I understand in the last speech that the Minister for Finance clearly states that he does not intend to reintroduce the property tax. It is a promise from the Minister of Finance that during his time as Minister of Finance the property tax will not return. That is a very good promise. The question is, of course, whether you can trust it. As my co-debater Kjell Jansson said, Magdalena Andersson promised not to increase fuel taxes and not to abolish the surplus target. Fuel taxes have been increased and the surplus target has been abolished. But if it were to turn out that Mikael Damberg is also in breach of the promises, we should almost say as in American detectives: see you in the Constitutional Committee!
i-498166b210c97e6b-163	Madam President, I would like I think it is an important discussion to take on the common commitments we see. I see we've been under-presiding in medical care. Staff deserve respect. This concerns their working conditions, more colleagues and the ability to develop skills in their work. We have care for the elderly, who have been grappling with major quality deficiencies during the pandemic. They need to be addressed, and we need to fund them together to ensure that older people who have worked for a full career have a good care for the elderly in the autumn of life. We have major problems with the equivalence of schools and schools that do not deliver enough. Young people who do not qualify for upper secondary school and do not make progress in life face major problems in society. It takes a lot of investment. We are facing the green transition, where we will have to make major investments in increased energy production and in transmission capacity. But it is also about innovation to turn our society into a green one. Both the welfare system, the green transition and the security issues that are important today – the expansion of the police, the expansion of the prison system and the increased penalties proposed by the government – must be financed. If you choose to go to elections again, da capo, from the Moderates' side with large and unfunded tax cuts, we know that there is someone who will have to pay that. Something has to go. It will be an interesting election movement where we will see if the Swedish people in this situation are really hungry for major tax cuts and privatisations. One thing we can say: we would not have managed the pandemic without order in the state finances so that we could make the big investments that have saved a lot of jobs and growth but also increased the security of people during the pandemic. This would not have been possible without strong public finances. Then you also need tax revenue for the state.
i-498166b210c97e6b-169	Madam President, I would like Boriana Åberg has asked me whether I intend to reintroduce any previously abolished tax and whether I intend to increase the capital tax. She has also asked me through which efforts in the tax field I intend to strengthen Sweden's competitiveness, increase growth and reduce unemployment. One important question is how to reduce the economic gap between low and high wage earners. The economic gaps are now large and have increased throughout the Western world. Several measures are needed to reduce gaps, including getting more people into work and improving the quality of welfare. Tax-funded welfare has a key role to play in social redistribution, and our tax revenues are therefore a key part in breaking the trend with growing gaps. One development we have seen is that the capital values and income from capital have increased very much in recent years and also become more concentrated in the richest percentage, while exemptions in the tax rules on capital taxation can be used to achieve low taxation. A fundamental principle is that tax should be paid according to viability. When society needs to become stronger, the wealthiest can contribute more to welfare than they do today. At the same time, it is important to maintain stable and predictable rules. This means that changes in capital taxation should be seen in the long term and handled with care. Having said that, I would like to reiterate what my predecessor has already announced to Parliament. There is no work going on within the Government Office to reintroduce property tax. There is also no work going on to reintroduce the wealth tax or inheritance and gift tax. Boriana Åberg has asked me through what efforts in the tax field I intend to strengthen Sweden's competitiveness, increase growth and reduce unemployment. There is ongoing work in the Government Office and at the Ministry of Finance to investigate proposals that can help strengthen Sweden's competitiveness, increase growth and reduce unemployment. A competitive and dynamic business environment is the basis for growth and job creation. It is important to point out that other elements of economic policy can also influence tax rates. For example, during the term of office, the government has increased the general state grant in order to create good conditions for well-being and reduce the need for tax increases in the local government sector. The conditions for entrepreneurship shall support fair competition, be internationally competitive and contain predictable regulatory frameworks. It is important to emphasise that far more than precise levels of taxation affect the conditions and competitiveness of companies. The Swedish model with broad tax bases and low tax rates has proved beneficial over time. The proper use of tax revenues is crucial for increasing employment. For example, a good business environment also requires functional institutions and a well-trained workforce, which is financed by tax revenues.
i-498166b210c97e6b-176	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. The reason I put this interpellation was the massive demands of strong Social Democratic votes for the reintroduction of harmful taxes, taxes that were previously abolished because they were counterproductive. Some examples: The heavy social democratic districts of Stockholm City, Gothenburg and my county of Skåne have decided to reintroduce the property tax, the same tax that drove pensioners and widows from their homes. LO wants to see increased capital tax and re-introduced inheritance and gift tax, the same tax that Göran Persson abolished with the support of all parties in the Riksdag. The Social Democrats' task force on distribution policy, led by the then Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson, concluded that tax increases and the introduction of new taxes are the way to equality and justice. The group's report received the highest attention from the so-called millionaire tax, which met, among other things, savings on investment savings accounts. As with a magic wand, people who for decades renounced consumption to save for their pension suddenly became millionaires to be taxed. Even the current Minister of Finance, Mr Damberg, has promised increased tax for the rich, someone he will return to in answer to my questions. "When society needs to grow stronger, the wealthiest can contribute more to welfare than they do today," says the Minister of Finance. Haven't the Social Democrats learned their lesson? Even 100% taxation of the richest can't change the situation for the better. And who are the richest? Sweden becomes stronger when more people take the step from grants to work. A broad tax base is needed, not the reintroduction of harmful taxes. Real jobs and companies are needed to offer them. It is investment and value creation in companies that create prosperity. It's not something the government can command. On the other hand, it has proved itself adept at hampering companies' willingness and ability to invest and create jobs and prosperity. A further step in this direction which is really worrying is when the Minister of Finance says that there are changes in capital taxation. Access to investment capital is crucial for both new and growing companies, and a lack of capital is often the most restrictive factor. Capital taxation is more than other taxes subject to comparison with other countries. If it is increased, investments are moved from Swedish companies to foreign countries. This leads to deteriorating conditions for Swedish companies and fewer jobs, at a time when it is very important to get more people into work. The immediate consequence of fewer jobs and reduced tax revenues is less money for public welfare – that is, just contrary to the effect that the minister claims to want to achieve.
i-498166b210c97e6b-186	Madam President, I would like I will not repeat the discussion on property tax. I think we have discussed this more or less. We're not preparing a property tax. Regardless of what various Social Democratic party districts have thought, our Party Congress has not taken a stand for any property tax. That question thought I was over. I share the view that the equality of a society depends on many different things. The most important thing is that people have a job to go to, that we fight unemployment and long-term unemployment. It is a scourge that not only affects society in terms of exclusion and reduced tax revenue, but above all affects people in their own economy, but also in terms of being left out and given a different identity, which can break down people. Unemployment is a scourge, and that is why it is so important to ensure that we have a high employment rate and that many people go to work. That is also why we have made huge investments during this crisis in order not to repeat the mistakes of 2008-2009. So far, it turns out it's been pretty good. Both public consumption and investment have made a very powerful contribution to sustaining the growth rate after the crisis. It is quite correct that investment is a key element in this. Sweden is very attractive for investments right now. When we look at the latest forecast for the Swedish economy, we see that Swedish growth, which is currently high, is driven by two things. One is consumption. People feel after the pandemic that you have more money in your wallet – perhaps you have saved some – and that you now want to spend it, and that is quite reasonable. But the second is that we have very high investments in Sweden. It is run by many different sectors, such as high housing construction, and not least the new industrialization we see in northern Sweden, which means that Swedish industry is currently taking the lead and changing climate direction. It will mean a great deal to Sweden in the long term. I think we can all agree on this. But if you look out into the world, you can see that there is not a country in the near future that does not have a discussion about the fact that the richest percentage in society, the percentage that has the most resources and income, has drawn away a great deal in the global economy. This can be seen in the debate in the USA, in Europe and in several countries. We have built up a system of taxation based on legitimacy. Our tax system should be based on the fact that, in some sense, tax is paid after viability. This is what I think must be able to discuss in a situation where we have quite major challenges – in the field of crime, in the area of security policy, in health care and care for the elderly, and not least in improving pensions in the long term so that people who have worked and worked hard for a whole career can have a worthy pension to live on. For me, it is a fairly important issue that the tax system is carried by legitimacy and that tax is paid after viability. This has not really been the case for a period, not only in Sweden but in many countries. I'm not so surprised that the Moderates don't see this. There's hardly a treasure you've ever defended. But I am a little surprised that you are defending precisely the richest percentage of society and do not think that these people can contribute a little more when we have so much investment. The alternative, if we are not to allow them to contribute a little more, is that ordinary people should pay more in tax for joint investments. I think that's wrong.
i-498166b210c97e6b-194	Madam President, I would like I would be very pleased if the Minister could repeat the promise that he will not reintroduce either the inheritance and gift tax or the wealth tax during his time as Minister of Finance. In addition to the need to create new jobs, it is also necessary to provide incentives for those outside the labour market to take the step and take a job. These incentives are lacking now that we have such high levels of subsidies. For very many people it is not worthwhile taking a low-paid job, because then they lose both leisure time and actually money. I would like the Minister to work more in this direction too. I understand that in the Minister's reply there are very ideological statements about the importance of taxes for the equalisation of income gaps. This seems to be the most important issue for the Finance Minister – more important than creating favourable conditions for entrepreneurship and job creation and more important than ensuring tax revenues to public-funded welfare. In fact, Sweden is one of the countries around the world that has absolutely even distributed income according to taxes and transfers. In the EU, Sweden is in the eighth place in terms of the most balanced distribution of income. The minister talks about the richest percentage, and those people always make it. It is people who have the opportunity to hire tax experts, advisors and others. Those I care about are people who suffer under the high marginal taxes that we have in Sweden. They're worried the Minister of Finance is going after them. When he talks about high wage earners, I wonder: Who are these high wage earners? How do you define a high wage earner? Is the nurse who works at night a high wage earner? Is the miner in Kiruna? Should it really be the case that the difference between those who do not get up early in the morning and who have their leisure time at their disposal and those who struggle hard and hesitate to take the step to take an extra passport or an intermediate manager's job will then change the tax from about 32% to 52%? It is extremely high compared to our neighbouring countries, such as Denmark. In addition, new reductions in marginal taxes are planned. The minister is talking about 1%. But he should also bear in mind that capital is needed for investments. Last time they attacked those whom the Social Democratic Government thought were the richest moved companies and investments abroad.
i-498166b210c97e6b-201	Madam President, I would like We put forward a budget of over 10 billion in tax cuts for ordinary households. It chose the Moderates to adjust and convert into a job tax deduction. You can think about that. We had suggestions that when the pandemic was over, we wanted to give people, ordinary income earners, more money in our wallets. We felt that they needed it, and that could mean even more now with high electricity prices and petrol prices. It was hugely forward-looking that we chose to put it in the budget as a tax reduction. But then the Moderates, together with the Swedish Democrats, chose to adjust the budget, and they adjusted it so that they removed the disabled, those who actually cannot work, so that they would pay a higher tax. Those who are cancer sufferers and can't work should also pay a higher tax. Was that necessary? We had added a tax cut that would go to everyone with decently low incomes so that they would be involved in taking Sweden out of the crisis. But then you chose to point out with surgical precision these groups and say that they should not be allowed to take part in the tax reduction, and now we have a funkis tax again. They can't work. That's the whole definition of this area. I share the same problem with regard to the fact that there are some who are good at avoiding paying their share of the tax. They've got advisors and maybe they're involved in aggressive tax planning and all that. It would be great if the Moderates were at some point involved in that discussion and made some suggestions on how to get to it. There is so much other crime in society that you think is tricky, but tax crime is very rarely a priority area for the Moderates. Why is that? I don't know. We have made changes, such as these tax rounds, so that it should not be easy to flip away capital and pay too little in tax. So we have made some changes. That is the discussion that I think we need to be able to have when we have quite large joint commitments that need to be financed. As a social democrat, I think it is perfectly reasonable to say that a tax system should also be borne by a principle of tax after viability. But the most important thing is that more people work and that people go from going on subsidies to paying taxes. Now I don't know exactly what it's going to look like after the pandemic, to be honest, but before the pandemic we had the lowest levels of funding in Sweden in decades because we have so many in Sweden going to work compared to many other European countries. That work must continue. I am provoked by the opinion of the Moderates that if you are going to widow the tax a lot you should also cut back on something, and then it is reduced unemployment again and further deterioration of health insurance, which has certainly not worked as an insurance for all those who have been affected by things at work or in their lives. The Moderates are also doubtful whether more money can be paid into the pension system to improve pensions for ordinary people who have worked for a full career. I think that is the wrong priority.
i-498166b210c97e6b-207	Madam President, I would like I noted that the Minister of Finance did not want to promise that he will not reintroduce any harmful taxes. When it comes to the high electricity prices and the high diesel prices, they are the result of the damaging policies of the Social Democrats which they have pursued together with the Green Party and which are hitting ordinary people and against jobs. A broad tax base is created when more people take the step from grants to work. I did not hear how the Minister intends to solve this problem. He says we have low levels. 700,000 foreign born are not self-sufficient. How does the Minister of Finance intend to create incentives for these people to move to the labour market? There are so many testimony from, for example, the restaurant industry and the taxi industry that you are looking for labour, but those who should be at the disposal of the labour market do not want to take the step, because they are losing money going from subsidies to jobs. You can stack contributions on each other if you have several children, and you need several jobs to get to the level that the benefits offer. Instead of attacking those who work and create value, the Finance Minister should work for a policy that creates the broad tax base that he claims to seek.
i-498166b210c97e6b-211	Madam President, I would like It is definitely the policy's focus that more people should work and unemployment should be reduced. We are seeing a very strong development in the Swedish economy right now with falling unemployment, which means a lot. We see that some of those who need to take these jobs do not have the right qualifications and do not have the right conditions, and then you have to work with both opportunities and requirements: language requirements and activity requirements to get to work. It is perfectly reasonable to make demands on people who are unemployed to be at the disposal of the labour market. But you also have to work with active labour market policies and more education so that people can actually take the jobs that exist. When it comes to the really low-skilled jobs in Sweden, we have had a system error for which the Moderates are responsible: the world's most liberal labour immigration system. This has meant that we have brought people to Sweden who work in assistance, as cleaners and as kitchen assistants. Instead of people who are unemployed in Sweden being able to take those jobs and move from contributions to work, we have a system that has also gone to crime and organised crime. It has been said that it imports labour into Sweden and has made powerful use of the people. Work permits have even been sold to some extent. It is a system that has undermined much of the Swedish labour market. I am glad that we are now about to tighten up and change that system. And it turns out that we Social Democrats were right all along; it was not the right system for our country. I will continue to pursue a policy of high growth and large investments, but also of combating unemployment. Public investment is sometimes required, but important cooperation with industry and their investments is also needed to drive the development of our country.
i-498166b210c97e6b-216	Madam President, I would like Mr Bergman has asked me whether I intend to pursue my predecessor's idea of abolishing the municipal veto against the establishment of wind turbines. Mattias Bäckström Johansson has asked me if the government intends to proceed with the proposal to abolish the municipal veto. Let us begin by stating that the investigation referred to by Ulrik Bergman and Mattias Bäckström Johansson, appointed by the previous government in October 2020, was tasked with examining whether today's criticised provision on the power of wind turbines in the environmental code could be replaced by a new regulatory framework that is more effective and legally secure while at the same time ensuring municipal influence. The mandate included identifying and analysing the objections raised to the provision and proposing how the identified problems could be resolved. The criticism of today's regulations is that it does not regulate how a request for municipal power of wind power installations should be handled. There are no criteria for what the municipality should base its decision on, no requirements for justification or for the municipality to provide information within a certain time limit. The municipality can change its decision at any time, even at a late stage in the permit process. Today's model sometimes leads to the municipalities' finding only after a long time. In some cases no decision comes at all. As a result of the current regulation, wind energy designers often spend resources on projects that are not in a position to get rid of them. Licensing authorities and other authorities deal with matters that municipalities later reject. Between 2014 and 2019, almost half of all permit applications for wind power were rejected after the start of the permit examination. Those who live close to or have other interests in an area where a projector wants to build wind turbines can live long with uncertainty if the project comes off or not. The shortcomings of the current provision have been highlighted for a long time. The provision was introduced in 2009 to prevent the establishment of wind power from being tested in accordance with both the Environmental Code and the Planning and Construction Act. The Swedish Energy Agency and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency stated in an evaluation in 2017 that this cross-examination in practice seems to have continued even since the new provision was introduced. In order to overcome the problems, the authorities proposed to remove the provision on the municipal strength. Let us also note that Parliament has adopted the target of 100% renewable electricity generation by 2040. The expansion of wind power is a central part of this development and of the ability to achieve the goal. It is therefore necessary that the licensing process is characterised by efficiency and predictability. That is not the case today. The investigation, which for this reason was tasked with reviewing and proposing an effective and legally secure permit process for wind power, submitted its report in June, A legally secure wind test. Among other things, it is proposed that municipalities continue to have the right to say no to wind turbines and that a new law should clarify that the municipality's decision should relate to land and water use. According to the proposal, the municipality's notification must be submitted within six months in order not to change thereafter. The report has been referred, and the referrals are now being analysed in the Ministry of the Environment. What I can see so far is that there is a widespread understanding among the consultation bodies that the current permit processes for wind power establishment need to be reviewed, with a view to a more predictable and effective review process. Stakeholders agree with the study's assessment that municipalities should continue to have influence over land and water use in their own municipality. I also see that the majority of the consultative bodies are in favour of a new model of municipal influence replacing the existing one and that the municipality's response should be given earlier in the process. There are, however, different views on the legal engineering solution proposed by the investigation. We therefore need to analyse the report's proposals and the views of the consultation bodies further. Finally, I can see that municipalities, wind energy designers, authorities, organisations and other stakeholders agree that municipalities should continue to be allowed to decide whether or not they want wind turbines, but that a clearer regulatory framework for the municipality's announcement should be introduced. As I mentioned earlier, the report still analyses the proposals of the investigation and the consultation bodies.
i-498166b210c97e6b-226	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister Strandhäll! The background to my question is the fact that more and more municipalities are affected by the rather extensive expansion of wind turbines. People living in the municipalities concerned often feel run over and powerless in relation to what they experience as predatory driving when it comes to the use of nature. Large natural values are affected. Above all, the sounds from the wind turbines are perceived as disturbing for many, both residents and visitors. Accommodation around establishments has testified that the sounds of wind turbines can at times be very disturbing, and they feel that their views have not been taken care of. Tourism in Swedish nature has, in recent years, literally exploded. In Sweden there are unique opportunities to take part in nature. One expression of this is that more and more jobs have been created in the tourism industry. The unique product is to enjoy nature's silence and tranquillity. It and thus all the jobs created in the Swedish countryside are now at risk. The long-term repercussions on animals and nature are still unknown. The extensive roll-out of wind farms, which takes place in a rather rough way in Swedish nature, is therefore particularly worrying. Sweden needs more electrical energy, but more planable ones. Not least winter's flashing electricity prices have testified to this. We're not valet of wind turbines standing still when it's cold. There is also a link between the local community affected and those behind the establishment. Many of the built wind farms are often controlled by financial interests outside the municipalities concerned, and they may not give priority to the negative consequences of the built-up plants. Local residents often do not see the immediate benefits as jobs after establishment or profits are not allocated to the local community. If the municipalities are no longer given the opportunity to stop plans that are clearly inappropriate for the municipality concerned, my fear is that confidence in democracy is also threatened in the end. Abrogation of the right of veto would be perceived as increasing the distance between the people and decision-makers, thereby reducing the acceptance of decisions taken. As I write in the interpellation, wind power has a number of advantages but also a number of disadvantages, and the disadvantages that the local community sees must be given space to ventilate. We have multi-level governance of society. Issues are dealt with at local, regional, national and European level. To cut off such a part of the governance of this issue would be deeply unfortunate in the light of the fact that this year we are celebrating 100 years of democracy through universal and free elections.
i-498166b210c97e6b-234	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by thanking the Government for the answer to my interpellation. In establishing environmentally hazardous activities, such as wind power, municipalities currently have a direct influence through the municipal veto contained in the environmental code. There is a requirement for municipalities to actively support the establishment in the municipality concerned. The background to this is exactly as the Government has described it. D is a simplification from a previous system where you would have a strength according to both the environmental code and the regulations of the Planning and Construction Act. The double test was abolished by the introduction of the municipal veto, which was a simplification requested by the wind power industry itself. This was and is an opportunity to arrive at a decision much more quickly than in a procedure under the planning and construction laws. At the same time, it should ensure that decisions on large wind power installations are taken in the elected assembly as close as possible to the citizens, which is urgently needed from a democratic perspective. Through simplification, thousands of wind turbines have been built around the country. It is a record expansion, which is often also highlighted by the industry itself. It has been very fast, and it has been possible to expand very much. This is understandable in view of the fact that simplification has made it easier and faster to make decisions and to get started with construction compared to a detailed plan procedure. Madam President, I would like Choosing the place you want to live in is a big decision for most people. You may have bought a house with a view to the surroundings, close to nature, forest or watercourses, and see that the specific surroundings may be affected very much against how you imagined it when you chose to settle in this place. Where you choose to live does not take place after an easy decision. In this context, a wind power establishment is a very unwelcome surprise that for obvious reasons gives reactions. The development of wind power since simplification came in 2009 has meant that the impact on the works has increased significantly, which has also meant that the height of the works has increased as it is the sweeping area that needs to increase. It's just the height you can adjust to get it. It will be a strange order and contrast when the state has demanded the most in the case of establishment when the wind turbines were small. But the bigger the works become, the smaller it will apparently be required in the planning of the community. Reasonably, it should be the other way around. Madam President, I would like One must understand that these are issues that involve people and also give a sense of powerlessness. The Government describes the background to the investigation that has been set up. The Committee directives state in detail that if the proposals contained in the report restrict municipal self-government, it should be explained why it is proposed. It is precisely that it is intended to make further restrictions on municipal self-government that concern the Swedish democrats. The Government says that it is currently reading and analysing the referrals received and thus unable to answer questions if it intends to proceed with the proposal. However, Madam President, the Government should reasonably be able to answer the question whether it intends to remove the municipal veto that is currently in the environmental code, regardless of the details.
i-498166b210c97e6b-243	Madam President and Minister Strandhäll! I did not intend to be involved in this debate, but I was curious. As far as the municipal veto is concerned, I say on the part of the Moderates that we will never ever be able to customs on it. The self-determination of municipalities is the basis for a functioning local democracy. The issue of wind power is something that arouses feelings in the municipalities, as the previous speaker also mentioned. It certainly does. There are many suggestions. I am not entirely against wind power, but many establishment seems unrealistic. Among other things, there is a proposal to add 250 works that are 330 meters high outside the Stockholm archipelago. They're 33 metres higher than the Eiffel Tower. It is said of them that they do not affect anything. Hey in the box! Of course they do. They'll give you huge silhouettes. They will lie between Svenska Björn, outside Svenska Högarna, down to Almagrundet. There are no transmission lines there. This raises the question: who is going to pay these hugely long lines into land? I have researched this and received the answer that it is the subscribers who will pay it through the network charges. There will be gigantic increases for each household to pay. Let me get back to establishment. It is important that municipalities have a veto right. But let's get one thing straight. If an answer is to be given within six months – an establishment can take much longer – there may be elections in the meantime. Perhaps there will be new majorities in the municipalities that make a different assessment. It may even have been an election issue in some municipalities, at least in smaller municipalities. I think we should respect democracy. Saying six months is going to be wrong. At the same time, we have county boards that review municipal building permits, beach protection issues, etc. They can be on a case-by-case basis for up to three years. I sit on the building committee at home in my municipality, and we have cases that have been with the county administrative board for three years. I don't think it's legal. For the poor individual who has applied for a building permit and has not received an answer within three years, it would have been better to get an answer earlier even if it was no. To have to wait for a no for three years is not legal. Madam President, I would like I agree that the municipal veto and self-determination remain untouched.
i-498166b210c97e6b-250	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the interpellants for important interpellations which, moreover, come at the same time as we are currently looking at the outcome of the inquiry presented. It is rarely interpellations are so accurate in time that we can listen to each other on an incredibly important issue. As the interpellants say, this is an issue that engages people throughout the country. At the same time, we note that there is a strong debate in the country on the increased demand for electricity. There is also a parliamentary target to switch electricity production to 100 per cent renewable to 2040. This means that there will be a continued need for wind power expansion. It will be an important part of the Swedish energy mix in the future. When I stepped in as Minister for Climate and Environment and started to get into the issues on my table that were highly topical, I was struck by the fact that there are very strong financiers and a great interest from wind energy designers. This interest has increased greatly. At the Ministry of the Environment, we even believe that we need to take in additional resources to deal with this in the coming years. There is therefore capital and a strong interest. We need to change, and there is a parliamentary case. It is against this background that we should see that we have set up an investigation that is about reviewing how licensing processes in this area can be made smoother. I think the interpellants are well aware of the fact that the previous system was extremely criticised and, on many points, not to the fullest. I would also like to respond to some of the issues raised by both Ulrik Bergman and Mattias Bäckström Johansson. We must remember that the wind power now planned and built is quite different, as was also said here, than much of what was built 10 to 20 years ago. Technology development has reduced the impact of the new wind turbines on the environment. It is more efficient, and they produce more electricity. We get the same benefit from fewer wind turbines. This means that, hopefully, conflicts of interest can also be gradually reduced. The benefits of a wind farm must always be weighed against the damage and inconvenience that an establishment can cause. A clear balance shall be struck between the individual and general interests in all environmental review procedures. Of course, we must also protect tourism, birds and insects. But we also need to look at coherence and scale. Effects on birds and insects may not be the main argument for not expanding wind power. We know, for example, that cats, cars, windows and electric wires cause far more deaths for birds than wind power does. I will come back to you in my next speech.
i-498166b210c97e6b-258	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Annika Strandhäll! As you mentioned, we are faced with a very radical and urgent shift in energy supply. Most assessors agree that electrification and expansion of electricity generation are a critical factor for a good conversion in this case. In the next ten years, we need to increase electricity production by almost double. That is what we now consider to be the need. The transparency indicators that are being put in place are: Should it go fast and wrong or quickly while maintaining democratic transparency? The Government highlights the investigation that has been set up to review the issue and propose a legally secure and effective licensing process. A report proposes that municipalities should provide information within six months, which should not subsequently be subject to change. The Government points out that the consultative bodies are in favour of municipalities continuing to have an influence on the process, and I welcome that. We are all valiant with clear regulations. We must not allow it to go out on the democratic processes in which the inhabitants of the municipality must not give their views on how the municipality concerned should develop. My question is: will the Government listen to the consultation bodies?
i-498166b210c97e6b-262	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the follow-up answer! I do not think I have a clear answer to whether the government has a clear idea of whether it wants to dismantle the municipal veto that is currently regulated in the environmental code. I may also have misheard what the government said. I thought she said that today's wind turbines have less impact on the environment. I think most people are of the opinion that it is exactly the opposite. Fifteen years ago, perhaps the tower height was 70 meters. You couldn't see it very far away. A grove of woods could almost obscure. Today they are more than three times as high. We have establishments at 250 meters in tower height. It affects the landscape and the natural environment that exists on very long stretches. It creates the very extensive emotions around the country. That's what makes the difference. For most other businesses that want to establish themselves in a municipality, it is precisely a detailed plan that is necessary for the operation. It provides stronger protection for those who want to operate. But it also gives the opposite to the person concerned who may have his place of residence in the area. It also has protection against the establishment that is intended and capable of operating it individually. Of course, it is important for decisions on establishment that there is a democratic foundation and that the elected assembly has an opportunity to influence the decisions. However, in a democracy, the conditions of majority may also change, which may result in other outcomes after an election than before an election. The proposal that has been examined and sent out for consultation also proposes that mandatory information should be provided in cases where a particular area has been identified, for example, in a master plan with accompanying documents such as a wind farm plan. It's gonna be a pretty strange order. The people may have decided the choice based on a local issue that could be, for example, a larger wind power establishment. It is important in an electoral movement and for the outcome of those parties who do not want it to take place. But they are forced to vote in favour of it because it is included in the outline plan and because it has not had time to amend the master plan. Madam President, I would like One might wonder what will happen in the cases that a council assembly votes against. Should the government and the Government then impose an establishment on the municipality concerned despite the fact that the elected assembly wants to be different? It is this type of restriction of municipal self-determination that we are opposed to. Several of the consultation bodies also point out that the problem is only being shifted from the municipal veto today to a question of social planning with outline plans and wind farm plans for establishments that become binding and where majorities can be changed. It's something you have to relate to. Madam President, I would like I'm a little worried. I wonder whether the Social Democrats are not concerned by the democratic aspects that arise. You can tie up the elected assembly and force it to vote in a certain way where you haven't had time, can't afford or have to make other priorities but where you interpret things that are in the overview planning. The Government may also clarify whether she really seriously believes that today's wind turbines affect the environment less, rather than more.
i-498166b210c97e6b-273	Madam President, I would like We are in a situation where Sweden, like the rest of the world, faces huge challenges when it comes to turning into a fossil-free society. The provision we are discussing here today on the municipal power has received a great deal of criticism from both county boards, courts and other authorities. Criticism has also been expressed from some municipalities and from the business community. The criticism consists, in summary and simple terms, in the fact that the provision is considered to be an obstacle to the review process. It is clear that the lack of justification, decision-making criteria and a longer deadline are problematic. That means exactly what you have lifted up here and which Mrs Bergman also raised. He pointed out the problem of whether, for example, it was in the joints of an election. I'll listen to it and take it back and think about it. At the same time, it is clear that the fact that the municipality has been able to change during the process on several occasions is worrying. As I have already mentioned, most people also agree that municipalities should continue to be allowed to decide whether they want wind power or not. Such municipal influence is in line with the municipal plan monopoly. The strong influence of municipalities is therefore not a matter for the future. That, too, is our assessment. The question, however, is about how that influence should be exercised. Here we see that a clearer regulatory framework can be something that will contribute to such clarity. We will, of course, listen to the consultation bodies. That is the work that is now going on. I also hope that in various ways we will be able to have a dialogue with parties in Parliament on how such a regulatory framework could be designed in order to also obtain broad support. What I also want to get into, which Mattias Bäckström Johansson raised, concerns the connection to the wind power that is now being built. I think it is completely different from the wind power built 10 to 20 years ago. The technological development has meant that these wind turbines affect the environment to a lesser extent because they are more efficient and produce more electricity. This means that we can get the same benefit with fewer wind turbines, and so hopefully conflicts of interest can be reduced in scale. Several of the interpellants have raised the issue of noise. Here, too, the development of technology contributes to the fact that the works now planned and constructed are less noisy than older plants. It is also an exciting development with offshore wind power. Sweden should be at the forefront of new technologies and innovations. I don't think it should go fast and wrong. We Social Democrats believe that nuclear power will be an important part of the Swedish energy mix for a long time to come, but we also need to get more gunpowder quickly. D is the wind power important.
i-498166b210c97e6b-282	Madam President, I would like It can be said that there is a great interest in entering the industry. There's a lot of money that wants to be placed in it. We can see that energy policy will also be part of security policy considerations. My party leader Ulf Kristersson pointed out this during the current People and Defence Conference. A state-owned Chinese energy company, China General Nuclear Power Group, has as its business concept to grow within the EU's energy system transformation, and the company currently controls six different wind farms in Sweden.
i-498166b210c97e6b-284	That's right. ) This is another dimension that is important to deal with. We must not allow companies controlled by dictatorships to exploit the need for energy transition in the country. Thus, through their right of veto, municipalities can help to stop such establishment. Social-critical infrastructure should not be owned by dictatorships. In addition to the right of veto, we should also tighten up legislation in this respect. Does the Government intend to come back with proposals for strengthened legislation in this part?
i-498166b210c97e6b-286	Madam President, I would like I am a little concerned about the government's view of the local impact of establishment. It may be that it is thought that the number of higher works will be smaller in terms of the impact to be taken out, and then there is an idea that overall there will be fewer conflicts of interest. However, I am quite convinced that it leads to more conflicts of interest locally with the high works being established. The Government can look around the country and hear what her party colleagues, those most closely concerned, think about the matter locally. The construction of large wind turbines has significant local consequences, especially when the altitude has increased. That's part of the development. The height affects the landscape in particular, but there may also be conflicts with other land use areas linked to tourism or green industries, which do not look positively at the power plants but want to see other places coming up. For example, it can affect neighbouring municipalities if an establishment is located close to a municipal border, as is often the case. It annoys that there are no tools to deal with these issues. There are also those who have the misfortune of getting works located near residential properties, and then there will be lower market values on the properties. The direction that the investigation points to is worrying. However, on the basis of this debate, we must hope that the government will come to its senses and take the democratic aspects of the proposal with it. What was explicitly promised in the previous simplification was that there would be no further restriction of municipal self-determination. In this debate, the Swedish democrats want to ensure that it is the local politicians, by extension the inhabitants of the municipality, who are best placed to make decisions in this type of establishment. With these words, I would like to conclude by thanking the Government for the debate.
i-498166b210c97e6b-290	Madam President, I would like I thank the interpellants for a constructive debate on a very topical issue. As Ulrik Bergman points out here, there is a great interest in entering the industry. He also mentions Ulf Kristersson's post at Folk och Försvar. I believe that, in the time we live in, we all need to be alert to various security policy threats and definitely not be naive. We see not only in Europe but also in our surrounding world how essential social infrastructure is bought up by, for example, China. Africa is one such example. It is, of course, a question of not being naive in that part. At the same time, I also heard that the interpeller asked whether the government intends to come back to this issue. I'll have to take that with me because formally it's not on my table. I concluded my previous speech by saying that I think it would be very good for the citizens, the municipal decision-makers and the business interests that exist in this area if we could discuss ourselves on a solution that is widely supported by the Swedish Parliament. It will then be clear and clear rules for those who want to invest and contribute to strengthening the Swedish electricity supply and for those who want to ensure a democratic influence that everyone can feel satisfied with. I would like to thank Members for a good debate, and I look forward to continuing the debate.
i-498166b210c97e6b-295	Madam President, I would like Marléne Lund Kopparklint has asked me how I intend to act in order to facilitate hunting and sports shooting in Sweden by maintaining Sweden's ban on lead and not encouraging the implementation of the proposal of the European Chemicals Agency. Marléne Lund Kopparklint's question is based, among other things, on a concern that the proposal has consequences for the use of lead ammunition in police, customs and military service weapons. The European Chemicals Agency has been mandated by the European Commission to develop a proposal for restrictions on the use of lead in shooting, hunting and fishing. In summary, the proposed restriction aims to address the risks to human health and the environment arising from the use of lead in ammunition, i.e. hail used in areas other than wetlands, bullets and pellets (diaboles) used both in wetlands and in areas other than wetlands, as well as lead in fishing gear The proposal concerns exclusively civil outdoor use and complements the existing restriction on the use of lead hail in wetlands. It is therefore not true, as Marléne Kopparklint claims, that the proposal could have consequences for the service weapons of the police, customs or military. The European Chemicals Agency considers, in the comprehensive risk assessment underlying the proposal, that the use of such ammunition poses an unacceptable risk to wild fauna, livestock, the environment and human health and that the risk needs to be addressed at EU level. The proposed restriction prohibits the use of lead if there are technically and economically feasible alternatives. This applies to the sale and use of lead hail for hunting and shooting. For other uses, where alternatives are less effective, such as bullets and outdoor air rifle ammunition, the proposal aims to limit their use to those sports shooting courses where measures have been taken to efficiently collect the lead ammunition used before it can pose risks. The proposal has been published on the European Chemicals Agency's website and stakeholders have had the opportunity to comment on the proposal or to provide information during a six-month period. The proposal is currently under consideration in the Risk Assessment Committee and the Committee for Socio-economic Analysis under the European Chemicals Agency. Once the Committees have given their opinion, ECHA will submit the opinions to the Commission. If the Commission considers that the European Chemicals Agency's proposal meets the conditions of the Regulation for decisions on restrictions, it shall draw up its own proposal within three months and submit it to the Regulatory Committee for a vote. The government will then take a position on the Commission's proposal.
i-498166b210c97e6b-300	Madam President, I would like A total ban on lead in all ammo is currently being prepared by ECHA. The aim of the ban is to reduce the presence of lead in the environment. However, Sweden already has a good ban on this. It has been investigated in the past carefully and on a scientific basis. If a total bid comes into force, it will have devastating consequences, not only for Sweden's hunters and shooters, but certainly also for several professionals who use lead ammunition. We should not forget our important hunters, who need to kill animals with immediate effect. When hunting, you should do it without unnecessary suffering for the game. It's good hunting ethics. Then we need ammo that results in instant death. ECHA has now proposed a total ban on lead ammunition and, in the case of sporting activities, a total ban or use of lead is proposed under strict conditions. The arguments for these proposals are very interesting, as it is presented that 1 million children in the EU are at risk of getting lead every year from the consumption of game meat and that lead can spread in the environment on shooting tracks and cause damage to the soil and groundwater. These are purely illogical arguments. There's no question about it that lead is a dangerous substance. But you have to have knowledge in your back when discussing the issue, Madam President, and the government has so far not flaunted. As I said, this is now for preparation by two committees before it is proposed to the European Commission on 1 June 2022. It is extremely important to present Sweden's position right now and ensure that we have knowledge-based and sustainable arguments on the part of Sweden. It is important to set foot in the EU at an early stage. This should have been done much earlier, especially in view of the fact that over the years we have seen other examples of Sweden taking a more waiting position and being overtaken because it has become too late. Madam President, I would like I also think that it is a very relevant question to ask the Minister for the Environment if it is the government or parliament that should decide on this issue. My view is that it is the parliament that should decide on this issue, and there we already have a clear line to follow. Basically, this is about making it easier for Hunting and Shooting Sweden by preserving Sweden's ban on lead and not encouraging the implementation of the proposal that lies with ECHA today. If it is the case that the government considers metallic lead to be a problem, I would like to ask whether all lead lines and lead-insulated cables that are in the ground today should be taken up. Or is lead dangerous in ball form but not in tubular form? If we are going to go into the knowledge-based part, I wonder if the Minister for the Environment knows how much lead ends up in the woods and stays there because of hunting. How many bullets does the minister think this is about? One bullet per square meter? Ten? This, of course, in relation to the size of Sweden. It is also a relevant question to ask the Minister for the Environment. Does the Minister of the Environment know how big Sweden is?
i-498166b210c97e6b-309	Madam President, I would like I thank Marléne Lund Kopparklint for the interpellation. I hear that there is a very strong commitment to this issue. It is true that REACH, as we are talking about here, is a harmonised regulatory framework which is directly applicable in all EU Member States. The overall aim of the REACH Regulation is to ensure a high level of protection of human health and the environment, but also to allow substances to circulate freely in the internal market while improving competitiveness and innovation. In principle, all substances are covered by the REACH Regulation. It is also the case that there is very little or no possibility for Member States to introduce national bans on this issue. REACH has two levels of harmonisation of the conditions for placing on the market and use of substances: almost fully harmonised and fully harmonised. Substances that are limited in REACH are fully harmonised, which means that Member States cannot introduce national rules on these substances. Since certain uses of lead are already limited in REACH, there is in this case full harmonisation. I think it is important for the continued debate in Sweden on this issue that we are aware of the real scope for movement. As the interpellier points out, this issue now lies with two scientific committees. It is an incredibly comprehensive scientific-based process that has led to the presentation of this proposal. I am absolutely convinced that we in this House agree that lead is extremely toxic even at extremely low concentrations. Lead also has the special feature that it has not been possible to find a minimum threshold for effects. Therefore, it is assumed that every molecule to which humans or animals are exposed can have harmful effects. It must therefore be said that lead by far meets the REACH criteria in order to be regarded as a substance of particular concern. That's how it is. At the same time, we are obliging them to show that alternatives are available on the European market. In the case of lead ammunition in wetland, it was Echa who developed the substrate. They could show that the risk of seabirds, for example, is totally unacceptable. They could show in the evidence they submitted that the ban is socially justified. They also carried out a very thorough review of the availability of alternatives and showed that there are alternatives available on the EU market. The proposed restrictions do not restrict the possibility of hunting, either geographically or in terms of the game to be hunted. What is limited is the possibility of using ammunition containing lead.
i-498166b210c97e6b-317	Madam President, I would like It turns out that the Minister for the Environment is actually wrong, because there is room for manoeuvre in this matter. I also believe that the Minister is not really up to date on reliable alternatives, but I spoke about this in my previous speech. What I think is important now is that I do not get answers to the questions I have asked. I did not get an answer if the Minister for the Environment knew how big Sweden is, and that is remarkable in itself. I can tell you that Sweden's area is 445 000 square kilometres. And how many bullets does the minister think this is about? An overstatement indicates that it is about one bullet per million square meters that stays in the woods when it comes to hunting and sports shooting. In a debate at almost the same time last year, the then Environment Minister put forward almost the same arguments as our new Environment Minister. It seems to have been the government's strategy on the lead issue to use the EU to impose restrictions that it would not have been possible to obtain a majority in parliament. It was also shown that the government did not have any scientific support for its line that the current Swedish regulation is inadequate. Otherwise, it would have been easy to answer the questions I then asked to the government in this debate. I must say that this is a very strange argument on the part of the government, both then and now. Both the Green Party and the Social Democrats have actively pursued a line in the EU that is about extending the ban on the use of lead ammunition and thereby putting sticks in the wheels of Hunting and Sports shooting Sweden. Sweden's line has been, by a large majority, not to extend this ban. That is also the line that the government had to follow in the last vote in the Council of Ministers. It is certainly not good when the government first pursues a certain line in the talks and deliberations taking place in the EU and then has to change its mind. The government should of course have checked with the Riksdag before, but they did not. It should have complied with Parliament's wishes as to what line it would take in the talks with the EU. All power in these matters is handed over to REACH. That is completely unreasonable, regardless of when these decisions have been taken. You should protect Sweden's hunting and sportsmanship. Although Sweden today has a functioning system with reasonable restrictions on our wetlands, it is clear that the government is now running other lines in the EU, in the hope that the tougher rules will then force Sweden to tighten the requirements further. I am also amazed at the ignorance that is actually at the root of saying that there is no room for manoeuvre. Nevertheless, I would welcome this issue for Hunting and Shooting Sweden if there had been a will. The Commission has opened the way for Member States to have national definitions of what is wetland. This is because Sweden already has a ban on lead hail when hunting in wetlands or over shallow parts of the open sea to reduce the presence of lead in the environment. Surely the Minister must understand here that action can actually be taken.
i-498166b210c97e6b-325	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Marléne Lund Kopparklint, for the post! It is clear that we have diametrically different views on this. Our absolute position and picture are what I have just explained, linked to the REACH Regulation and, in this case, also to a possible proposal on lead and what this means for our ability to go another way. Marléne Lund Kopparklint is welcome to meet our experts in this field at the department to get a review of this, if that would make it easier. Then I'm a little stunned, to be honest. We're standing here talking about one of the most toxic substances in the world. It is extremely toxic already in low concentrations. The risks identified to humans are mainly affecting the brain development of foetuses and children in, for example, hunting families. There are several studies showing that the ammunition is split and spread in the animal and that the usual recommendations to remove meat from the bullet hole are not enough to remove lead contamination. So the children will get lead through the umbilical cord when they eat contaminated game meat. ECHA has estimated that there are more than 1 million children aged 0-7 in hunting families in the EU who are therefore at risk. Of these, approximately 7 000 per year are at risk of impaired IQ due to a particularly high intake of lead. The socio-economic loss of this reduction has been estimated at around EUR 70 million. In addition, it has been estimated that approximately 1 150 adults are at risk of chronic kidney disease every year, with a socio-economic loss of between EUR 7.5 million and EUR 75 million. The risks in the environment, as in the case of the use of lead hail in wetland, are that birds can be poisoned when they miss lead hail for food or pebbles. In hunting with bullets, there is a risk that birds of prey may be poisoned when they eat contaminated prey. For sportsmen, as we are talking about here, a health risk is identified with the shooters being able to inhale lead dust during the shooting. In sports shooting there is also a risk that lead can leak from the ground and contaminate drinking water sources and food. The question then may be asked: Is there any better alternative than lead ammunition? And the answer is yes-- there are better options. Well, there are plenty of options. It will continue to be possible to practice both hunting and shooting with alternatives to lead ammunition such as steel, copper or brass. The options are available. They are technically feasible and pose a lower risk to human health and the environment. In addition, steel ammunition costs about the same amount as lead ammunition, and as the demand for alternatives increases, the price of these options will be reduced, with the fixed costs also being allocated to a larger number of goods. I find it hard to understand this vurmand for lead hail and lead ammunition.
i-498166b210c97e6b-335	Madam President, I would like There is now every opportunity to act differently. When I listen to the Minister for the Environment, I'm amazed, too. Unfortunately, I cannot respond to all the arguments listed by the Minister for the Environment, but then there is reason for me to come back in another debate so that we can discuss these arguments. What we are talking about here is protecting Hunting and shooting Sweden. We agree that lead is a dangerous substance, but we must also have facts in our backs when discussing it. We have had this in Sweden when we developed the ban on lead that has previously been carefully investigated on a scientific basis. It has been concluded that this is precisely what is justified in real wetlands. It is good and well-motivated from an environmental perspective as well. That is what we should be defending, and that is what we are discussing. We should not impose additional restrictions that put sticks in the wheels when there are not adequate examples to show why this should be done. This is where our sentences differ. There are no clear and adequate arguments for extending these restrictions in Sweden. Now there is room to work for Sweden to have an exception on the grounds that we already have balanced restrictions today. Now it is up to the government to actually do as Parliament has said and to say that we do not want these increased restrictions from the EU but that it is already working well in Sweden as it is.
i-498166b210c97e6b-339	Madam President, I would like I thank the honourable Member for his speech, and I am in no way mistaken for the commitment that exists. I am also convinced that we will debate the issue further. I have developed, I think, the arguments concerning the room for manoeuvre that we have as a country in relation to this issue. I have also described that there is a very strong scientific basis behind the proposal that is now on the table. In fact, it is estimated that every year around 100 000 tonnes of lead are distributed in the environment within the EU as a result of the use in hunting, sporting and fishing activities. That's 79% from the sportsman, 14% from the hunt and 7% from the fishing activities. I think there is every reason to take the studies that exist on the harmful effects very seriously. To be honest, I also think that when there are adequate alternatives, we should change things. A number of transitional periods are also proposed in the proposal now on the table. They are very generous to have an opportunity to switch to other ammunition in a good way. I will stay there and look forward to further debate.
i-498166b210c97e6b-343	Madam President, I would like Ulrik Bergman has asked the Minister for Civil Affairs what assessment the Government and Government will make of the future investment needs for water and sewage networks over the next 20 years. Furthermore, Ulrik Bergman has asked whether the Government intends to introduce any investment aid, through targeted state subsidies, for example, to ensure that water and sewage services will work in the future. Ulrik Bergman has also asked whether the Government intends to enable the activities to be carried out with profit, in order to fund funds for future investment needs. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. The government has no reason to question the assessment made by Svenskt Vatten, i.e. that there is an extensive investment need in municipal waste water and that investments in the existing va-infrastructure may need to be increased in order to ensure the function of water and sewage services. According to the Act( 2006:412) on public water services, it is the municipality's obligation to arrange water and sewage in a wider context. The government does not intend to review the legislation in this regard. However, there are a number of circumstances, such as declining population and labour shortages in some municipalities as well as climate change, which may hamper the necessary maintenance in va. As access to water services is a primary need and a prerequisite for a satisfactory standard of living, the government follows the question. According to Svenskt Vatten, the municipalities' costs for water supply and sewage management are approximately SEK 20 billion per year. This represents 3 per cent of the cost of municipalities' compulsory activities for 2018. Municipalities have the right to charge fees to finance water and sewage. Under certain conditions, funds for future investment needs may be allocated to a fund in accordance with the Public Water Services Act. The government does not intend to review the legislation in this regard. In order to improve the long-term prospects of the local government sector, the government has made significant efforts. D a general government contribution to municipalities and regions has been permanently increased by 32.5 billion since 2014.
i-498166b210c97e6b-349	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister Strandhäll! The background to my questions is the fact that we are now beginning to see the end of the economic lifetime of the va networks established in the 60s and 70s. Having functioning va-system is one of the major social functions that have a major impact on public health but also on our environment. It is one of the important factors that creates good access to water that is a basic food and provides good management of drains, preventing groundwater from being destroyed and diseases spreading that could endanger public health, especially taking into account densely populated areas. In my interpellation, I point out that there are significant costs that the plant owners, mainly municipalities and municipal-owned companies, now face. The regulatory framework is so designed that va-services cannot benefit from the tariffs set. This makes it even harder to handle accumulated maintenance needs. The Swedish Water Industry Association has estimated that it is in the order of SEK 23 billion over the next 20 years. This will involve a considerable effort, both in terms of work and in terms of economy, for plant owners. We also have a new drinking water directive in the EU that must be implemented in Swedish law. The focus is on introducing a more risk-based approach to ensure good access to good quality drinking water. Seen in this perspective, it is therefore important that we have a national strategy for managing investments in the water networks so that the quality of drinking water is maintained and, in some cases, improved. Specific investment aid could be one way of helping to ensure that the transition does not lose momentum and that we get good momentum in renewing the current va systems. Many municipalities have been hit hard by declining population numbers and thus toll collectives, which ultimately risks delaying the necessary investments. This fact runs the risk of imposing shock increases in tariffs. Leaked va-nets also create negative environmental impacts. It risks damaging the quality of groundwater and therefore also human and animal health. We've all seen how the oceans are polluted. Sweden has in many respects been a pioneer in taking responsibility for the aquatic environment. If we do not have va systems that deal with these emissions responsibly, lakes, watercourses and the status of the seas are at risk. Eutrophication, drug residues and plastics are things that we may see more of in our seas and lakes. How does the Minister view the fact that we are now in danger of losing momentum and the advanced position as a country that takes responsibility for water and sewage?
i-498166b210c97e6b-357	Madam President, I would like I can only stress that even this interpellation feels very urgent and topical. I also said in my reply from the government that we will not review the legislation in a few different respects, but that we too can see the concerns that the interpeller paints up in his interpellation and in the speech he is making now. So we are following the issue and are in complete agreement on the seriousness. Water services are a primary need and a prerequisite for a satisfactory standard of living, and the leakage that we see today due to poor maintenance can affect the environment and groundwater and contribute to other problems. This also lifts the interpellant up. There is no reason to question the figure that comes from Swedish Water, but what I understand when we have drilled ourselves a little bit into this is that these 23 billion covers the total need for investment in the whole va sector. Then there is an estimated need for an increase in the maintenance of the va-network. As I said, I do not want to reduce in any way other problems relating to the need to invest in the long term, but when it comes to the maintenance of the va-net, I understand that the increase required is approximately SEK 2.7 billion per year. It is an increase from 4.1 billion a year which is now being set aside for the maintenance of the va-net to 6.8 billion, which may make it a little more manageable. These 23 billion include, in addition to maintenance, measures relating to, among other things, population growth and urbanisation with the expansion of new housing. It is also a major item for the forthcoming need for va-investment. I live in a property that has my own water and sewer, unlike 90 per cent of the other Swedish people, so there is also a need that needs to be met in different ways. One problem with the va-maintenance that the municipal inquiry highlighted and which the interpeller also points out is that smaller municipalities find it difficult to acquire the capacity and skills needed to run this type of large investment project. There is also a staffing problem in this. According to Svenskt Vatten, a base of approximately 50 000 inhabitants is required in order to be able to run va-business in the long term and strategically. As the interpellier says, we have wiring networks built in the 50's, 60's and 70's, and they are now approaching their lifetime. At the same time, this is the responsibility of municipalities, and they have also received large contributions in the form of general state subsidies. I will come up with a few more such points later and develop the reasoning.
i-498166b210c97e6b-364	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Another issue that I raise is the fact that the va-tariffs in general should go plus minus zero. The question arises as to whether the networks are considered from a life-cycle perspective. Replacing a large network built in a relatively short space of time with a great deal of effort is now in danger of becoming a brake on the municipalities concerned. Why not allow a funding of surplus in the same way as, for example, a tenant-owner's association does for regular change? That should make the situation a little less dramatic. The sense of responsibility that the municipalities had when the networks were built has gradually swelled, one should remember, and there is an investment need in schools and elderly care that is growing and competing for the investment funds. Should municipalities be forced to choose between clean water and responsible sewage management and the construction of a new school?
i-498166b210c97e6b-367	What do I want to say about this? Well, the preparatory work says that what is meant is a specified investment need in the next five years. The problem is that the very large investment needs that exist go beyond that, and this may also be difficult to specify well in advance. Let us assume that the country's plant owners want to replace two decades of accumulated investments in five years, as the law is designed. Then it should lead to shock increases in charges. Moreover, as the Government was concerned, it is not practically reasonable for this to be done within five years, but it is a work that should take a long time. How does the Government think this can be solved? If so, is there a plan? These provisions should perhaps have been made during the life cycle of networks for 15 to 20 years of implementation, but they have not been allowed to do so under the current regulatory framework. It was the S-led government Persson who presented current legislation that seems more and more dated and does not address the challenges that we now have both in terms of plants whose life span is running out and plants that do not withstand large amounts of precipitation based on climate change. Would it not be good if a certain surplus were allowed to be used exclusively in the reinvestment of the plant and that it could be claimed over a longer period of time than five years?
i-498166b210c97e6b-371	Madam President, I would like It is correct, as the interpellier says: with the current regulation on funding, it is in this case a question of future new investments, whether there is a fixed investment plan or whether it is a specific measure. This is not the case today for unspecified maintenance work. However, since the renovation needs of the va-nets are behind schedule and Svenskt Vatten believes that the rate of renewal needs to increase already now, there are formally no obstacles to increasing the va-tax to finance ongoing maintenance and investments for maintenance. What I thought was quite striking when I got more into the question is what the municipalities' planning for maintenance of these networks looks like. One can see that it is a very low proportion of municipalities that even have a renewal plan. Only 15 per cent of the municipalities that participated in the Swedish Water Survey have a timetable for the renewal of the network based on an established need. That there should be long-term planning is something that we fully agree on. But if you want to talk about how acute the problem really is that the va-nets are not maintained today, the grids do not show any deterioration in status in recent years, according to Swedish Water. The number of supply breaks of drinking water and the estimated discharge is also at a fairly constant level. However, Svenskt Vatten believes that the rate of renewal on the wiring networks is alarmingly low and that it would need to increase slightly. That there should be planning for this should perhaps be something that is more noticed in the municipalities around Sweden. The interpellant has also asked me if there are any other funding options and any planning other than that the government is following the issue. There I can be quite honest and say that it does not exactly today. We have thus made quite large increases in the general state contribution to the municipalities. At the same time, it is quite correct that Ulrik Bergman says that there is a lot to compete for that space. We know that the needs are great when it comes to many different initiatives around our municipalities. On the other hand, there is an opportunity for the regions to apply for funds from the European Regional Development Funds in order to contribute to the financing of water activities. This is something that even stands as an example of what the funds can be sought for. That has not been given priority, which is a contribution we should perhaps do in a slightly different way. There are other funding options, but they have been chosen not to give priority to them.
i-498166b210c97e6b-376	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the answers from Annika Strandhäll! In conclusion, I would like to highlight the example of Gävle this summer, where large amounts of precipitation in a short time caused a district to overflow. There was very extensive damage to buildings, and many property owners will not have the houses repaired until the coming midsummer. This shows that we must take the problem very seriously and ensure that plant owners are given better opportunities to resolve the future challenge wisely. We have seen that the electricity grids need to be strengthened. It is about the climate change and on this issue of the va-nets. All of this has a bearing on civilian preparedness for major crises. I am raising this now because it is high time the government took this seriously. To conclude, I note that water is a vital food that we must look after well for now living but also for future generations. A very great long-term approach is needed to this important issue of society.
i-498166b210c97e6b-380	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr President, for your speech. As I have said, I think we are very much in agreement that this is an area that should not be left behind. We have a situation now where these wiring networks have reached their technical service life, I was about to say. From the government's side, we are absolutely following the issue and taking it seriously. I very much appreciate that the seriousness that we see in terms of the climate impact this has and the impact that the climate crisis already has on Sweden. Gävle is a clear example. It is clear that, in line with this, we need climate-proof Sweden in a number of different areas. Now we were talking about torrential rain. We have also seen heat waves that have led to the death of older people and so on. We've also had fires. So in many different areas we will have to rethink our policies and find new political solutions to the new needs that arise. I thank you for a good debate on a rather technically complex issue, as I thought. I have certainly had reason to get into it in depth, and I look forward to further discussion.
i-498166b210c97e6b-384	Madam President, I would like Lars Beckman has asked me whether I intend to work towards the removal of the dumped toxic tunnels from the Baltic Sea and what government missions I am prepared to give to the responsible authorities to take up and identify the toxic tunnels. Furthermore, Lars Beckman has asked me whether the government has instructed the responsible authorities to begin work on the identified poison tunnels before 2022. Finally, Lars Beckman has asked me what the government thinks it will cost to take up the poison barrels and what budget the government has set aside for this in 2022. Decontamination of environmental toxins both on land and at sea has been a priority for the government for several years, and major efforts have been made to speed up the clean-up work. The decontamination grant has never been as large as it is today. For 2021, the clean-up premium amounts to over SEK 1.1 billion. The decontamination appropriations and state subsidies are available to ensure that highly polluted sites are decontaminated if there is no one to be held responsible for the costs. However, I would like to emphasise that it is primarily the one who has carried out the activity and caused the pollution that will pay when a polluted area needs to be addressed. In some cases, it may also be the property owner who will pay, and sometimes responsibility can be shared. Unfortunately, there are over 1,100 contaminated areas around Sweden that pose a very high risk to human health and the environment, i.e. risk class 1. This is therefore the same risk class as the dumped poison barrels. In addition, we do not know how many contaminated sediment areas exist in the Swedish sea and water. The Government has therefore commissioned several authorities to work for better knowledge of contaminated sediments during the period 2019-2023. This is also expected to contribute to a better understanding of the pollution situation in the Baltic Sea and of the dumped toxic tunnels. A basic principle is that the polluted areas that pose the greatest risk to human health and the environment must be addressed first. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has therefore developed a national plan for the allocation of state resources to ensure that after-treatment measures are implemented in the most priority areas and that the grant can be used as efficiently as possible. There are other contaminated areas in Sweden and within the county that are prioritised higher than the barrels based on the risk to human health and the environment. In this context, I would also like to make it clear that studies must be carried out before there can be a question of when or how the poison tunnels should be addressed. Anything else would be irresponsible. It is also not possible to estimate the cost of the measure before the investigations have been carried out. The County Administrative Board of Västernorrland is working to ensure that investigations are carried out.
i-498166b210c97e6b-390	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. As everyone knows, we have had a Social Democratic-led government since 2014, although it has reappeared in different guises. What the government has done in the environmental field is unfortunately the most symbolic policy. You talk plastic bags. We have received a tax on plastic bags, which means that Swedish households can now not carry their food home in the environmentally friendly plastic bags. Instead, they carry it home in paper bags and buy Chinese plastic bags that they use for their garbage. E-bikes have been subsidised, which was a billion - dollar roll, and attempts have been made to ban straws. But, Madam President, 23 000 venom barrels containing 10 tonnes of mercury have unfortunately been ignored by this government. Now we have a new minister in place – a new minister who could see the nasty thing in that every second this debate is going on, 23 000 concrete barrels, which no one knows where they are, are crumbling. That is the only thing we know: we know that there are 23 000 dumped poison barrels somewhere between Sundsvall and Gotland containing ten tons of mercury – one of the very worst toxins there is, Madam President! This is, of course, noted in Västernorrland. The investigation that the Government is talking about has been going on for about twenty years. A year ago, on 5 January 2021, the Svealand Coastal Water Conservation Association wrote a letter, a petition, to the Swedish government which writes about the 23 000 barrels. The problem is described, and the poison barrels are described. It says: The area in question is so geographically large and the consequences of a trigger are so great that Svealand Coastal Water Conservation Association therefore appeals to raise this issue higher up the agenda before the disaster is a fact. Before the disaster is a fact, Svealand Coastal Water Conservation Association writes. I am a little surprised by the answer, Madam President. I am amazed at the lack of interest in ten tonnes of mercury lying in the Baltic Sea, something that many authorities, individuals and others are warning of may be the largest environmental disaster in the Baltic Sea. Madam President, I would like There are quite a few who do not have outdoor baths, as I have read that the Government has. Many people want to swim in clean water in the Baltic Sea. Many people want to fish and eat nontoxic fish. I would therefore like to ask the Minister, although I have heard the answer: Is not the Minister concerned about what the Svealand Coastal Water Conservation Association calls a possible disaster? It is a rather strong word, but it is also one of the most toxic substances that is dumped somewhere between Sundsvall and Gotland. Unfortunately, we don't know where. It should be the duty of every decent government to ensure that toxins are removed from the Baltic Sea. For what is the alternative cost if 10 tonnes of mercury leak into the Baltic Sea?
i-498166b210c97e6b-398	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lars Beckman, for your commitment to this issue and of course also for an important interpellation! Västernorrland County has an extensive industrial history and therefore also many contaminated areas. With regard to mercury discharges in Sundsvall, there is information that between 45 and 130 tonnes of mercury have historically been released into the Gulf of Sundsvall via factories' sewage pipes, this before any environmental legislation was in place to regulate emissions. Of the 1,100 contaminated areas in Sweden that pose the greatest risk, approximately 100 are located in Västernorrland and Gävleborg County. The county of Västernorrland has also chosen to create a separate list for contaminated sediment areas, which shows that there are other contaminated areas and sediments that are prioritised higher than the toxic tunnels. Does the honourable Member really think that the toxic tunnels should be given priority even if there are other areas that are deemed to pose greater risk? I think that is something the expert authorities should decide. There are about 26 000 risk-rated contaminated sites across Sweden. As I said, around 1 100 of them pose a very high risk to humans and the environment, so-called risk class 1. We do not yet have enough knowledge of what it looks like in the sea and water from a national perspective. At the same time, it is up to the authorities to decide which of these is the most important priority to address and in what order of risk this should be done. Therefore, it is only after investigations that the County Administrative Board can assess what possible measures may be taken. With regard to the barrels we are discussing today, there are pictures from the seabed showing that they are in bad shape. As I said, the County Administrative Board places this pollution in the highest risk class and notes that it can present a very high risk. At the same time, very high mercury concentrations have not been measured in the dumping zone. But there are also other sources around Sundsvall Bay that have released mercury. For example, the levels are four times higher when you get further into Sundsvall Bay. According to studies, these emissions also involve considerably more mercury than is expected in these barrels. In other words, there are many other sources and contaminated areas of environmental toxins. The tunnels are part of this. It is important to remember, as well as that the priority and assessment should be made after careful studies. For example, taking up the barrels directly could pose a risk to the environment. They can break, and there is a great risk of spreading pollution. I don't think we're really supposed to make this priority. It's for those who are professionals at this.
i-498166b210c97e6b-405	Madam President, I would like It's usually said that empty barrels rattle the most. It is perhaps a symbol of government policy. But these barrels, Madam President, are not empty. They contain ten tons of mercury. It is just as the Government says: When the barrels were examined last several of them had severe rust damage, according to Expressen's article from 2006. It was also warned that the concrete mixture had begun to crumble. And so there were pictures – there are also in investigations and other things, but just this happened to be Expressen's article. So the tunnels, with ten tons of mercury, crumble. That, of course, is why the Svealand Coastal Water Conservation Association made this petition to the former Social Democratic-led government on 5 January last year. Now, Madam President, I am sure a great many people are curious about what the government has been responding to the Svealand Coastal Water Conservation Association, which warns of a disaster that may be a fact if these poison barrels start to leak. Well, Madam President, at least until an hour ago, the government had not responded at all. There has been no sign of life from the government, except that it has been confirmed that it has received the request. Then nothing has happened in over a year. It's usually called this government that you didn't see it coming. On this issue, Madam President, of 23 000 poison barrels containing 10 tonnes of mercury, we have indeed seen it coming. The county administrative board's responsible officials talk about that it can be perceived as a 22nd step with difficulties all the time in terms of liability. Although it may not have been clear from my question or from the Government's answer, the companies did not do anything wrong. They had permission from the authorities. Unfortunately, this was the way it was done back then. Then you can spend the time trying to point the finger and ask who is going to pay, or you can take responsibility for whether we have to cover the poison barrels or pick them up. However, we cannot deliberately allow ten - ton concrete barrels to crumble. That, of course, is why the Svealand Coastal Water Conservation Association is also deeply concerned about this possible future environmental disaster. Here the newly appointed government could have come up with a completely different answer. This is, of course, the same answer that her predecessor has read out, or about in the same direction. Maybe it's the same officials who helped write the answer, what do I know? But the minister could have come up with a completely different approach here. The minister could have said, "I'm taking care of the children." I'm concerned about the children's health. We can't let children eat poisonous fish. We cannot pollute the Baltic Sea with ten tonnes of mercury. We have to take this seriously. That would have been an answer. This is exactly the same answer that your predecessor Per Bolund has given – the same old government, the same old policy. I regret that, because I think that the children, the families, the fishermen, yes, everyone deserves clean water in the Baltic Sea. And the least you can ask from the government is that it responds to Svealand Coastal Water Conservation Association's request to confirm that the government thinks the issue is important.
i-498166b210c97e6b-412	Madam President, I would like I am trying to find my way back to the feeling that we had before the debate was interrupted. We are in a situation where it is actually so, Lars Beckman, that the government has created better conditions for a higher rate of clean-up. We have, among other things, set aside special funds since 2018 for the clean-up of environmental toxins in the sea and water. With this, several of Sweden's most polluted areas can be addressed. We have also decided on assignments to gain better knowledge about contaminated sediments in the Swedish sea and water, and not least the issue we are discussing today is something that the County Administrative Board Västernorrland has been working on for several years. But there are some things I would like to press here. First of all, of course, it is primarily the polluter who should pay. State subsidies can only go to areas where there is no one to hold fully or partially responsible. The liability investigation is intended to investigate who should bear the costs. The honourable Member is quite right that this has been a long process, but it is also the case that the County Administrative Board is currently in the final stage of work on the responsibility investigation to make demands on those who the authority considers responsible and to investigate the risk of the barrels. Secondly, it is not possible to remove the toxic tunnels without the necessary investigation work being carried out. It is necessary to have a better basis to assess, for example, whether there is a risk of leakage if you pick up the barrels. Right now, the county administrative board is working to get an investigation work on the poison tunnels. That is one thing that is absolutely crucial for us to be able to assess what measures are appropriate to take. You can't skip this step of work. In conclusion, yes, it is a complex matter, and it has taken time, but there is also active work on it. Then it is also incredibly important for me to stress to the honourable Member that we as politicians have a responsibility, of course, for the clean-up work to get rid of the poison that is in our sea and in our waters to be driven on with full force, as it does. To say that the government has done nothing in this matter is not really true. I very much appreciate the protection that children should not have to be exposed to poisons, and I also welcome the commitment to ensuring that we have an environment, not only in the seas and waters, but in general, that we can hand over a planet to our children that is sustainable and a sustainable future.
i-498166b210c97e6b-420	Madam President, I would like The government's involvement in this question has been so small that it has not answered the petition to the Swedish Government made on 5 January 2021 from the Svealand Coastal Water Conservation Association, which has as its slogan: For cleaner water along the coast of Svealand. A petition was made to the Swedish Government on 5 January 2021, which wrote: The area in question is so geographically large and the consequences of a trigger so large that Svealand Coastal Water Conservation Association therefore appeals to raise this matter higher up the agenda before the disaster is a fact. Madam President, I would like In this matter one can say that there is a large and broad commitment from many actors, not least in my own county of Gävleborg, where many municipalities are concerned. Also around Sundsvall and in Västernorrland there is concern, as is Svealand Coastal Water Conservation Association with all municipalities. The only one who doesn't seem to be concerned and committed is the government. Not responding to a petition to the Swedish government for a year shows disregard. In this case, we know that there are 23,000 barrels. We know that there are ten tons of mercury. We know that. We know that at this moment and every time we debate this – we will certainly debate many more times in the spring – the concrete mixture crumbles. These are all facts. We know that. Then it does not help that the Government says in its answer that an investigation has been set up that will last for four years. These investigations have been going on for 20 years. I think it shows a lack of interest and commitment that we have not responded to a petition that came a year ago. Just show your commitment and move from words to action! It is the act that counts, Madam President, and not fine words here in the speaker's chair. Thank you for the debate.
i-498166b210c97e6b-424	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Lars Beckman for his great commitment to this issue. It really shines through. I also know that you have raised the issue on several occasions. The answer is that it is a complex matter and that it has taken a long time, but I have also ensured, in the run-up to our interpellation debate today, that there is a very active work going on on on this issue. What I am also taking with me from this debate today is that I will of course ensure that an answer is given to this request. I will. The main rule, and I know that Lars Beckman knows, is that state resources should only go to the clean-up of areas where there is no one to hold totally or partially responsible. There has been no application for state resources as the county administrative board is still working – it is a long time – to impose requirements on those that the authority considers responsible. I know that the honourable Member knows that in certain emergency situations where this process cannot be waited for, it is possible to initiate action and then demand payment from the operator at the expense of the wrongdoer. However, this is a measure that can only be initiated by the supervisory authority in such cases. In this case, the County Administrative Board has not taken such an initiative. I cannot see that there is now any reason, given that I have been familiar with the matter and know that it is working actively, to precede that process. I appreciate the commitment that exists on this issue and look forward to our further debates, and I will also ensure that this request receives an answer.
i-498166b210c97e6b-429	Madam President, I would like Lars Hjälmered has asked me whether I intend to take a decision on the Kallak mining project in the near future and whether I believe that more documentation or preparatory measures are needed, and if so, what, before the government says yes or no to a Kallak mine. Madam President, I would like The application for processing concession for Kallak K nr 1 contains a comprehensive basis that reflects the complex issues involved in the case. It is of great importance that the Government evaluates its affairs in all aspects and ensures that decisions are taken as quickly as possible after proper processing. Swedish mining and mineral industries are of great importance to Sweden as a country, in the regional and local perspective and beyond Sweden's borders. It is about jobs, welfare, the development of new technologies for green change and taking into account that ensures a good and healthy environment nationally and globally. The preparation of this case will be dealt with as quickly and efficiently as possible, while ensuring that legal certainty is not neglected. Preparation in the Government Office is under way, and I look forward to returning to Parliament on this matter.
i-498166b210c97e6b-433	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Economic Affairs, for your answer. It has now been 13 years since a new mine was opened in Sweden. At the same time, we see an increased need for minerals both here in Sweden and in our surrounding world. The conditions for carrying out mining operations in Sweden in a sustainable way are getting better and better, but it is becoming more difficult to just start the business. Today, Sweden is becoming increasingly dependent on important minerals from other countries. These are countries where respect for human rights and freedoms is neither well known nor the conditions of employment of miners are reasonable. At the same time, the Swedish business community is developing. Initiatives such as Hybrid, H2 Green Steel and Northvolt show how Swedish industry can take the lead in the transition to a sustainable society. The problem is that there will not be enough minerals to enable Sweden to meet the needs. Kallak is the site of an iron ore discovery in Jokkmokk municipality in my home county of Norrbotten. Since 2010, the company Beowulf Mining has carried out test drillings and excavations in the area. Beowulf first submitted its application for processing concession for the Kallak project in April 2013. Since then, the matter has been sent back and forth between Bergsstatet, the County Administrative Board Norrbotten, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, the National Antiquarie Office and the Government. The question has been on the government table for the second time since 2017. The Swedish Parliament's Constitutional Committee, KU, has examined the application for a processing concession for Kallak. It was concluded that for almost three years no apparent procedural measures were carried out in that government case. It is a delay that is not acceptable, according to the KU. In the middle of KU's review in November 2020 as to whether the government's handling of the mining case was too slow, the Ministry of Industry decided to send a letter to the head of UNESCO World Heritage Centre in Paris. In this letter the Ministry asked for advice and recommendations on how an iron ore mine in Kallak would affect Laponia's status as a World Heritage Site. In an interpellation debate just over a year ago, on 18 December 2020, the then Minister of Economic Affairs said that the government could go to a decision on the matter after the UNESCO opinion had been received. On 7 June last year, the Ministry of Industry received the answer from UNESCO. It has now been just over six months since the answer came; the government has not yet taken a decision. The Minister for Industry says in his interpellation response that the preparation of this case will be dealt with as quickly and efficiently as possible, while at the same time ensuring that legal certainty is not neglected. Preparation in the Government Office is under way, and I look forward to returning to Parliament on this matter. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like This response concerns me because that is exactly how the two predecessors of the Ministry of Economic Affairs have expressed themselves when they have received the same question. So the question remains: Is it the Minister's intention to give a ruling on Kallak in the near future?
i-498166b210c97e6b-440	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mattias Karlsson, for the question! I can easily answer yes to your question. I think we should be simple and straight in Parliament. We are in the middle of the final stage of the preparation of the matter. We have given two Sami organisations the opportunity to express their views on UNESCO's action this summer. One of them, the Sameting, asked for a delay until the first week of February to reply. I have found it reasonable, because it is a fairly comprehensive material they should answer about. After that, I intend to take a decision on this issue in the near future. The matter has taken a very long time. I do not think that these matters normally take that long, Madam President. I also think it reflects the complexity of the issue a little. Mattias Karlsson also knows as a Norwegian resident how much emotion this stirs up. This is mainly a conflict between two national interests. One national interest is the reindeer industry. As Mattias Karlsson knows, the location of the mine in Kallak is controversial. The preparation has been ongoing for several years. We felt it was important to ask UNESCO about their position because the mine is in close proximity to the area called Laponia. This is why UNESCO has given its opinion. We also felt that it was reasonable for the Sameting to have a chance to make a statement about it. Mattias Karlsson otherwise raises an important question for the Riksdag and for the Government's work: how to extract more and more minerals in Sweden in the future. The EU has pointed to a great, increased need to mine minerals, not least for the green transition. We should not forget that Sweden is already a great power when it comes to mines. For example, over 90 percent of all new iron ore used in Europe comes from our lovely mines in northern Sweden. We have 30% of zinc, 30% of lead, 20% of silver and 20% of gold. These are a little rounded figures, but around there is our mineral handling. However, Mattias Karlsson is absolutely right. It has been a long time since we opened new mines, and many of those today we opened in the 19th century. They are, of course, in danger of getting less mineral in them. We must open new mines to ensure iron ore production and new minerals that come in its tracks. A gratifying news story – it is also Luleå-based – is that LKAB is looking at going through and using material from already broken mines. They have enormous results from their investigation of the mines LKAB has in Gällivare and Kiruna. This may be the way that we in future mines get the main out of the mineral Sweden needs, for example rare earth metals, of waste that we have used since the 1800s. It would be a win-win win-win for everyone if we could succeed in that. Mattias Karlsson! I am convinced that the Moderates and the Social Democrats have a great deal of agreement on this issue. I look forward to a good cooperation when it comes to the establishment of new mines in Sweden.
i-498166b210c97e6b-448	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Parliament has repeatedly announced to the Government that it needs to take measures to make the process for various permits for mining operations in Sweden both more transparent and more clear. To date, the Government has taken concrete steps to meet Parliament's instructions: the establishment of an investigation into review processes and regulations for the sustainable supply of innovation-critical metals and minerals. The mining and mineral industry accounts for large export revenues and employs many people in Sweden. When the government is unable to provide any information, the investments cannot be completed either. Jobs are not available, and the benefits to the environment are not realised. In addition, long processing times and uncertain processes make Sweden less relevant to foreign investments. The result of the latest annual comparison index for the mining industry from the Canadian Fraser Institute can almost be described as a global distrust of Sweden as a mining nation. From a position on the top-ten list as late as 2016 Sweden has collapsed to position 36 in the ranking. Scratch diving in the ranking will have major consequences for the future. The capital-intensive mining and minerals industry is fully dependent on investment in the very long term. The case of the ranking indicates that the international interest in Sweden is falling, and quickly. The fact that Sweden as a nation is considered attractive for mining investments is central. I therefore appreciate the Minister for Enterprise's response and the debate we have today. Global rankings are reflected in the market. As far as Sweden is concerned, investors have been expressing concern for several years about the application of the legislation in this country, and here a great shadow must fall on the government. Mining is a future industry. Existing mining companies are ready to invest in the future and make the billions needed. Sweden's rich bedrock offers unique opportunities to sustainably extract the metals that climate change so badly needs. Our mining companies are world leaders. I think, therefore, that many have wondered what the government has really been doing. However, as I said earlier, I appreciate the Minister's view on this. But what is the plan in the future to regain investors' confidence in Sweden as a mining nation?
i-498166b210c97e6b-455	Madam President, I would like Mattias Karlsson again points to a very urgent problem, namely how long it takes for the investigation that takes place in the cases to establish new mines. I personally find it very unsatisfactory that it takes so long from someone applying for a concession until you get a green light or get a no. I am absolutely convinced that it is possible to combine the world's toughest environmental legislation with opening new mines in Sweden. It is not appropriate for the Social Democratic Government to touch on environmental requirements. That's where we used to be, but that's not where we're gonna end up again. Madam President, I would like I share Mattias Karlsson's view that it is important for the government and parliament to be very open to changes in the coming years regarding mineral law and permit testing. This applies not only to the mining sector, but also to a very large part of the transformation that Sweden is facing. We know that we have to electrify large parts of our industry. We need to make a great deal more hydrogen. We must have better electricity supply throughout Sweden, in fact also in Norrbotten. If it takes as long to get permits as it does today, Sweden risks falling behind in the green transition. We have an amazing starting point. The ability to innovate in Swedish companies has, I believe, never been greater than they are right now. There is a will in the Swedish companies to switch faster than the 2045 target. But it feels like the state has not really been involved in the rapid reversal with the environmental legislation that has been in place and serviced Sweden fantastic. We must not forget that this summer we have an anniversary here in Stockholm. It is 50 years since Olof Palme invited to the first UN summit on the environment. We have since turned our industry into better and better at both producing and taking environmental considerations. We do not want this to be lost in the transition that we now have to make. It concerns, among other things, investments in county boards. I very much regret that the Moderates in the budget took away the resources that would be used for this. I also regret that we do not have more resources to provide for these trials. In fact, sometimes it's just that there are too few people who do the trials. Madam President, I would like I welcome close cooperation in Parliament to speed up the legislative work that needs to be done on speeding up environmental testing. I also welcome the fact that a balance can be struck between how the green transition should fit with the faster transition that Sweden is facing. If there is to be a little debate, I must remind Mattias Karlsson that it is not so many years ago that his then party leader, Fredrik Reinfeldt, said that the Swedish industry was basically gone. I welcome the fact that the Moderates are back as a party that believes that industry is an important part of our transition. With them and with good legislation and good government work, Sweden can take the lead from the green transition with a lot of new jobs that are created throughout Sweden, with secure employment and with a continued very good environmental development.
i-498166b210c97e6b-463	Madam President, I would like It is clear that the government, led by former ministers of industry, has not been able to deliver on the mining issue. This is something that became apparent when the Constitutional Committee dotted the former Minister of Economic Affairs to deal with, among other things, the application submitted for mining operations in Kallak. This is nothing more than a disaster for a country with high climate ambitions and a world-leading mining sector. This is a country that could play a key role in what the Minister of Economic Affairs described earlier about the EU's ambitions to increase the important degree of self-sufficiency of raw materials. On the basis of the UNESCO opinion, it can be concluded that a possible mine in Kallak will not threaten the World Heritage Site. However, this was already known by the government in October 2017 when the then Minister of Economic Affairs Damberg said: ..................................................... It has now been almost five years since the matter of Kallak landed on the government table, but nothing has yet happened. It is this kind of slowness that has caused us to lose so much reputation as mining nation. I have great hopes that the Minister for Economic Affairs will be able to deliver what he has said to be delivered. But just so that it is not as in previous answers and that there are only words in this House, I would like to finally ask: in what way will the Minister of Economic Affairs work differently on these issues than his representatives?
i-498166b210c97e6b-467	Madam President, I would like Perhaps one condition is that the Minister for Economic Affairs likes mines. I think it is a great advantage that the Minister for Economic Affairs thinks this is a good business. I have been a bit of a mining fan during all my years as LO-chairman and have visited many mining operations. We're an amazing mining nation. Mattias Karlsson must not think that we have gone down and that we are not an amazing mining nation. Although we have been bad at starting new ones, the ones we run in Sweden have been very successful in contributing to large export revenues and have created many jobs, not least in the region Mattias Karlsson himself. This is a very nice development. I remember the time in the 80's when Norrbotten was always described as a crisis county, and we had to go there with a crisis package. We would build longer flight paths and everything possible to solve Norrbotten's problems. Today Norrbotten has Sweden's lowest unemployment rate and Västerbotten Sweden's second lowest unemployment rate. Much of the industrial development has contributed to our having confidence in the future in the whole of northern Sweden. Much of this depends, Mattias Karlsson, on the mines. Mines not only involve taking up a mineral to the surface in one place, but they mean an amazing number of other jobs around. There are even those who claim that the whole reason why Sweden is so leading in other industrial activities, such as trucks and cars, is our fine mineral supply and that they early saw the need to process the minerals into finished products, such as trucks, drilling machines and everything we do in our large, fine companies. You can judge me eventually if it's near-time I mean when I say near-time. But when I say the time, I mean the time.
i-498166b210c97e6b-472	Madam President, I would like Ali Esbati has asked me whether I intend to take any initiative in relation to the actions of the SAS leadership and the criticism that the Swedish Pilot Association and the Union are making against the management and what measures I intend to take to ensure that state-owned SAS does not pursue a personnel policy that undermines the Swedish collective agreement model. Madam President, I would like S taten has an ownership policy and corporate governance principles that describe the expectations and requirements of the state for the companies the state owns. The State's ownership policy states that state-owned companies must act in an exemplary manner and act in a manner that ensures that they enjoy public confidence. However, the corporate governance principles of the ownership policy are applied in companies with government majority ownership. SAS is not a majority-owned company of the Swedish state, but the government's ownership policy obviously reflects the expectations the government also has for SAS. The Swedish labour market model also means that wages and general conditions of employment are negotiated between the parties. It is important for the parties' autonomy in the labour market and the Swedish model that the state does not intervene in the negotiations. SAS and other companies with State ownership are subject to the same laws as privately owned companies, such as the Companies Act(2005:551). The Swedish Companies Act provides for a division of responsibilities between owners, board members and management. The company's board and management are responsible for the company's organisation and management of its affairs and the day-to-day management of the company's operational operations. The company's staffing and management of employees are operational questions for SAS's management and board of directors to handle and are not ownership concerns. Furthermore, SAS is a listed company that, like everyone else, must comply with applicable laws and regulations, and Jag assumes that SAS complies with the laws and regulations of the countries in which the company operates.
i-498166b210c97e6b-476	Madam President, I would like Thank you and good evening to the Minister for Enterprise! Unfortunately, since the answer in no meaningful way touched upon the problems that I have raised in the interpellation, I may initially need to repeat or summarize some of them. The Minister for Industry did not at all touch on the background to the issue we are discussing here today. More generally, it is a development that has been quite remarkable in the aviation sector where the working conditions of different categories of employees have been under pressure for a long time. Not least, it has been about the introduction of different types of atypical employment, fragmentation and outsourcing of tasks. This applies, again, not least to the use of agencies of different kinds to carry out the same tasks and core activities as before, but with a structure that weakens the position of employees and their ability to influence. In this case, we are discussing specifically whether it is reasonable for a company like SAS, where, in the Minister's own words, the government's ownership policy reflects the expectations that the government has, not only keep up with these developments, but is at the forefront of what I want to describe as an anti-union and system-mind employer act. Simplified here is the fact that SAS is trying to circumvent basic labour law rules on re-employment protection through rather intricate company structures based in other countries. It simply means that people can apply for their own jobs but under worse conditions. A large part of Swedish labour law legislation is designed precisely to prevent this kind of behaviour. It is an act that the trade unions have rightly characterised as unreasonable and unethical. It also encounters compact dissatisfaction among different staff groups, and it has given rise to legal proceedings. I recently saw that labour law expert Tommy Iseskog pointed out that the answers SAS has given to the criticism sound like good day axe shafts. That is what the question is about. The Minister, as part of the Swedish Government, has more specifically overall responsibility for the management of the State's participation, and I call for his and the Government's position and actions. My interpellation was prompted, among other things, by the Minister for Economic Affairs who recently declined to comment on Swedish Radio by saying that he would otherwise have nothing else to do but talk about the working conditions in each individual company. Now he answers about the same thing, but with somewhat more boring words: a company's staffing and handling of employees are operational issues and so on. Madam President, I would like With all due respect, this has never been about the Minister for Economic Affairs being asked to participate in job interviews and wage discussions or to have views on fitness and coffee. It is about the political approach to a certain type of development within the Swedish labour market and whether it is reasonable that the state's ownership is used to strengthen rather than counteract that development. The Minister himself again mentions that the companies should act exemplaryly and in a way that enables them to enjoy public confidence. What I am calling for here is an answer to whether it is Mr Thorwaldsson's position that the employer action that I have described here and which has met with a lot of trade union criticism is to be regarded as just exemplary and as a good way of acquiring and maintaining public confidence.
i-498166b210c97e6b-485	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ali Esbati, for the question. I think you need to broaden your perspective a little. At first it is a bit fun to be lectured in the Riksdag about the Swedish model. They feel good and forward-looking. The whole sector raised by Ali Esbati has been under enormous competitive pressure. There has been a big change in an industry that has previously been a well-paid and very stable industry for many years. Due to low-wage competition from other companies and a fragmented aviation market, Europe has completely failed in its way of controlling the aviation industry. I have a good illustration of that. I found an ad for a flight with SAS from Malmö to New York from 1955. Then it cost about SEK 2 600 to fly round trip Malmö– New York. In the middle days of this year you could fly between Copenhagen and New York for SEK 2,000, which is less than 1955. If the price had followed the price trend, it would correspond to a price of approximately 130 000. That is where the big problems of the aviation industry lie. I know that Sweden in the EU has pushed the issue to try to get control not only of air transport but of transport in general. Mr Danielsson has not least worked very hard to regulate the transport industry in terms of lorry transport in Europe. That's a very big question. So to the point. The least I can say on the subject raised by Ali Esbati here about the state's attitude towards wage formation and conditionality in SAS, I am dealing with something that SAS has to negotiate with its counterparts. I was also in my previous role as LO President very careful not to involve the state or anyone else in the negotiations that are on the labour market. It must be the social partners who solve it. The least I can say about this makes me take a stand on the subject that has nothing to do with state ownership. We assume that the companies operated by the state follow the owner's instructions we have. It's a little more complicated when it comes to SAS because we're not the majority owner. Even together with the Danish State, we are not the majority owner of SAS, but it is a company that acts on the stock exchange with a great opportunity for influence from Sweden and Denmark. We have approximately a common understanding between the Danish and Swedish governments in writing to the companies we own when it comes to how to behave in the labour market. I believe that the transport industry and the entire aviation industry will continue to have a rather difficult time until we find better regulation. I am very keen, Madam President, that we are looking for the kind of regulation at European level that does not allow the exploitation of people that we see, not least in the aviation sector, to continue. I also know that Johan Danielsson is also looking at the transport industry as a whole in his work to prosecute cheating and bad behaviour towards employees in Swedish companies. It is also still in Sweden one of the areas that is facing quite a lot of problems. Then, however, you can ask Ali Esbati how your approach to the terms and conditions of the SAS employees rhymes with the fact that you were not prepared to add additional funds to SAS during the pandemic. I know you finally did. But you questioned the government's efforts to help SAS make it through the pandemic. Conditions are important, but not that we can keep a flight in Sweden.
i-498166b210c97e6b-495	Madam President, I would like These things are connected. This makes me think. I sat the other day a little unplanned and watched the classic film Men in Black from the 90s. It's about some special agents who will deal with intergalactic travelers to Earth under great secrecy. Everyone comes to Manhattan for some reason too. The agents have a thing they use on unauthorized people who have happened to see the aliens. After a certain period of time, their experiences disappear from memory as they continue to live their lives. I think about it now that I hear the Minister of Economic Affairs speaking in his new role as Minister of Economic Affairs. Roles in all honor, but that cannot be the purpose of the mission in the government that Karl-Petter-Petter Thorwaldsson should be expected to erase all his positions and positions, but also memories, thoughts, experiences, feelings and knowledge from the time as LO-chairman. I believe that we are in a situation where it is a very far-reaching undermining of the Swedish model and of Swedish trade union rights that Swedish trade union representatives have fought against and are fighting against trade unionism and politics. I do not demand from the Minister for Economic Affairs that he resolve in detail the conflicts that arise between trade unions and employers. But this is not a situation where Karl-Petter-Petter Thorwaldsson is powerless, and he absolutely does not need to be wordless and visionless either. It is a question of having an idea of how to want the Swedish labour market in general and the conditions in the industry in particular to develop. There you can act in different ways to support or counteract a particular type of development. I fully agree with the Minister that this is an industry with great adaptation needs, and so are the trade union representatives. You know that, as you have done for decades, you need to adapt and be flexible. In this case, however, we are dealing with action that really goes around what is supposed to be the system that exists to manage relations between employers and employees, that is, the regulatory framework that is to guarantee certain types of rights. This applies, among other things, to the right of re-employment. It is, of course, essential, and I hope that we agree on that. This has not prevented, for example, the Norwegian Government – party colleagues of the Minister for Economic Affairs – from being clear when they have spoken on the matter. The SAS management has been asked how it is that it has ended up in, and is repeatedly in conflict with, hundreds of employees. It has been said that one should look again at strengthening the right to re-employment, including on the basis of the current situation. I would like to remind you that when the issue of ownership support came up, this rather underlined my point. Multimillion-dollar subsidies came to SAS. With that ownership addition, it should reasonably come with some idea of where the company should go, more than just surviving. In addition, the company has acted in such a way that it has gone around what it has received support for, to use layoffs to save jobs, to terminate staff and thus also to demand that they be reinstated via staffing companies. This underlines my point, not the nutrition minister's point.
i-498166b210c97e6b-503	Madam President, I would like The SAS trade unions, Ali Esbati, are very upset about what has happened because of the pandemic. They have also entered into negotiations with SAS on this issue. If it is as the trade unions say in their lawsuit to the company, the trade unions will win the battle. But it is the Swedish model that it is the trade unions that conduct the negotiations, not the Minister for Economic Affairs or the State. We cannot take over issues in companies that we conduct and say exactly how their wage development or employment terms should be. Nor do I think that Ali Esbati wants to see such a development in which the state in 45 different companies will negotiate wages and conditions with each employee or with the employees' organisations. I don't think Ali Esbati is asking for that. On a larger level, I believe that Ali Esbati and I agree, namely that the aviation industry has been exposed to unhealthy competition. In the beginning, for many travelers, it was a great joy when air fares began to decrease. In the 1960s and 1970s, many people were able to make their first trip abroad when mass tourism began and the cost of a flight fell. It is only in recent decades that the over-exploitation of low prices and new competition companies in Europe – I am thinking, above all, of the Irish company Ryanair – has made the stable European airlines, often linked to one in each country, take enormous beatings. Finally, many of them have also started to tubba on the terms and conditions for employees to join the competition. Today, in Europe, there is a plethora of models, for example, where Lufthansa has started completely new airlines alongside, where states have had to merge their airlines, and yet they are in serious deficit. Sweden needs a competitive flight. SAS is a company that we have always been eager to have. We must continue to be, because it is the airline that takes many people out into the world and, not least, is needed for the development of business. We depend on a good airline in SAS. But I can't, and I don't want to, get into a union conflict in that company. Ownership is not such that we can say what is right and what is wrong. It is currently a negotiation between the parties in SAS. The Union and the Swedish Pilot Association have sued SAS and said that they have done wrong. And it must have its test. In that examination, I shall not be a judge, but it is the Labour Court that raises the matter. Eventually, it will turn out whether the Swedish Pilot Association and the Union are right or whether SAS is right in its claim, and then the court will judge by it. It's not something I'm supposed to decide. So I abstain, however well the honourable Member says – I understand the point, Madam President – that there is a former LO president here speaking against having the exact governance of a company. But that's how our Swedish model works, and we should be anxious not to destroy it in the long term.
i-498166b210c97e6b-508	Madam President, I would like I attach great importance to the fact that there is a functioning business development on the airfield. I'm saying SAS has a central role there. That is precisely why I think we should look at the trends that exist. Of course, industries are developing by employers trying to find ways to squeeze prices and innovate, but this is also taking place in a dynamic manner in relation to trade union demands and government regulations. It is in such a situation that we find ourselves. If the Minister for Economic Affairs is to build straws in the argumentation, it would be good if he did not use exactly the examples that I said at the outset that he would certainly not use; no wage development and nothing about regulating the exact working conditions of anyone via the Ministry of Industry. I was so clear at first, and I'm so clear now. I believe that it is fully compatible, and is important, with the Swedish model that SAS employees and other taxpayers should be able to expect greater involvement in matters relating to the Swedish labour market model and a sound employer policy. That is what we are discussing. What is reasonable for different types of employers to have access to? Could it be that, on a horizontal level, one can have views when the state owns companies? I think that's obvious. Ownership policy should also mean something, more than being words on paper. I had hoped this would be done by a government representative. But let us return to the debate.
i-498166b210c97e6b-512	Madam President, I would like I thank Ali Esbati for a good debate this Tuesday evening. The conditions in the industry are too competitive, and travel prices are too low. It does not take the cost of airline development, and they find it difficult to renew their fleet and cope with their costs. It strikes the entire aviation industry, at least in Europe, with worse conditions and perhaps also reduced opportunities to have in the future the amazing access to flights that we have been used to over the past 20 to 30 years. However, it is not possible to draw such a line that we should have a point of view on this particular issue and not have a point of view on all other issues. It doesn't work like that, but you have to have the same line all the way. Another point raised by Ali Esbati is that of legislative work in the Swedish Parliament. It is also on one of the points that SAS is sued. It is re-employment protection, which is a piece of legislation here, and where, of course, it is possible for Ali Esbati and others in the Riksdag to write proposals so that we can legislate on matters that apply to all companies in Sweden. I think the government could welcome this in many cases. Although we like the parties to settle matters themselves, we obviously have a law at the bottom of the conditions that also apply to the labour market. Madam President, I would like I can also say that in recent years the parties have moved forward positions and taken increasing responsibility for taking decisions on the labour market autonomously from the state and from others. We have had long discussions between the state and the social partners about further strengthening the parties' influence in transition and in better wage conditions and better working environment for the future. I think that's the way to go. Giving the parties responsibility and influence and allowing them to negotiate solutions, including in SAS, I think will be best for everyone.
