i-Y1Vw67ehEMCvspTaBBXDft	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats asked for this special debate on Easter weekend's Koran riots for two reasons. Firstly, we did so in order to be able to hold the other parties to account for what Sweden they created – a Sweden in which there are parallel societies outside the control of the majority society. These are areas in which Swedish culture and Swedish values, norms and laws not only shine with their absence but are also despised and opposed. Secondly, we did so in order to be able to call for proposals for real change from the other parties. The Swedish Democrats have presented a 30-point programme, while other parties have wanted to restrict freedom of expression or content themselves with wishing more police officers and making old proposals on water cannons. That's not good enough. If we are to succeed in countering back the revealed evil, real political change is required, and so far we are alone in proposing it.
i-C7hEi9jMLUnTQkuXWTRj7W	Madam President, I would like The riots during the Easter weekend were unprecedented in terms of the violence suffered by the police in office. Both me and the chief police officer visited several of the different places immediately afterwards to talk to the police and the residents and to clarify what really happened and get their own picture. We were in Linköping, Norrköping, Örebro and Malmö. It was shocking testimony from police officers who told me about how stone rained over them. Several of them were convinced that they would not come alive from the scene. It was a good thing it didn't end up in dead cops, killing civilians and killing children. It could very well have been so. Let this be said once and for all: this can never be accepted in any way. We also find it an abominable act to burn a book that many consider sacred for the sole purpose of hurting, harming and humiliating. That is what this Danish right-wing extremist is doing. He comes from outside, and he just seems to be trying to hurt Sweden. Why do I not understand; I do not know why he seems to hate Sweden and why he wants to get to Sweden and push these contradictions forward. We didn't do anything to him. Of course, you may dislike this behavior. But even if you do, it is still the case that we live in a democracy, and in a democracy you have to say things that others find offensive, ridiculed or offensive. It's part of living in a democracy. That's why there's only one way to face this kind of provocation, and that's turning your back on it. This was done in Denmark, and that is why he cannot go on there any longer. There he is just a marginalized right-wing extremist that nobody's talking about anymore. So of course you can be provoked, but you never have the right to resort to violence. You never have the right to burn up and resort to violence against, not least, your own residential areas. It's also completely destructive. There's only one way to face these perpetrators of violence-- those who resorted to this violence-- and that's to prosecute as many as possible. We'll make sure they get the punishment they deserve. Here we have good conditions. We have a uniquely large film material, partly from all the 450 fixed cameras that we now have up, partly from all the uniform cameras that we have acquired and that are now being carried by more and more police officers in external service. We have also had drones up in several places and have films from them. Not least, films from the general public, from residents who have tried to help the police and who may have filmed from their balconies and who have been there. These people dislike these violent men just as much as all of us. For that is the case, and it has to be said: these perpetrators of violence are by no means representative of the thousands of people living in the affected areas. Most people there just want to live their lives in peace and quiet and continue to go to work and raise their children. In Rosengård, for example, which I visited, it was perhaps a couple of hundred violent men who were out there. There are 20,000 people living in Rosengård. These proportions must be clearly understood. Now they are helping the police to catch those who stood behind the riots, and that is, after all, encouraging. That's how it has to be done. Those who resorted to this violence must receive the punishment they deserve. But it should also be said that there will always, in all societies, be extremists of various kinds – right-wing extremists and Islamists – who are just trying to incite groups against each other. In that trap, we'll never go. We can't let them win.
i-Da7R7jd2suTuK1D4K6VGZw	Madam President, I would like Thank you to the Swedish Democrats, who have asked for this debate! The events that occurred during the Easter weekend, I think, have shocked everyone, regardless of political party affiliation. These people, who threw stones at the police and who behaved so horribly that it is difficult to get words to do, had no political message. They were not looking to improve our Sweden and make a difference. They were looking for one thing: to hurt our police officers and even kill police officers. It was their only purpose. These people are not protestors. They're thugs. They are criminals, and they must be prosecuted for the very serious crimes they have committed. All support for our officers out there in the field! They have done just everything and a little more of what you can expect of them. They have stood up in situations that have been almost warlike in some places. These are scenes that we never again want to have to see in our Sweden. All support to them! At the same time, it is regrettable that the police out there have been far too few, that they have not had the right tools, that they should have to use their own mobile phones to film the thugs and that they still do not have access to body cameras. I've been talking to police officers who have described that they didn't even have shields where they stood, in the middle of the rain of rocks that ended up on them. It is anything but reasonable for it to be that way; it is, in fact, a scandal that it is still so. Nor does our police have the right legislation to protect themselves. There is now an investigation, and we hope that it will be successful. But we also know from previous times when it has been such riots that far too many of the criminals are not being prosecuted. Very many times, too, the punishments for such abominable acts have been at a disadvantage. Many people have a responsibility here. Of course, the police authorities, the authorities, have a responsibility for how to use their resources. But let us remember one thing: ultimately, responsibility for the entire judiciary falls to the government. It is ultimately the government's responsibility to ensure that the police are sufficiently numerous and that the judiciary is dimensioned to be able to cope with its tasks. Now it is important to learn from what has happened and make sure that this never happens again. There must be more policemen, and the equipment must be improved. Of course, the Swedish police should have access to water cannons, just as they have in so many other countries around us. Of course they should have shields and access to body cameras. Of course, the penalties should reflect the seriousness of the crime in a completely different way from today. In our Sweden, the judiciary will never have to back down for such thugs. You should always be able to take a step forward.
i-ALyNNwAqdpDGZkeCN8LAC4	Madam President, I would like During the Easter weekend, Swedish police were subjected to hatred and violence at a level they describe that they have never experienced before. There were no occasional troublemakers who took the opportunity to fight with the police. These were domestic terrorists of all ages who attacked not only Swedish police but Sweden as a whole. Sweden was attacked – not only our police but also our freedom of speech, our values, our way of life and basically our nation as well as our state. The police testify to how the perpetrators of violence tried to murder them. We have over 400 wounded police officers. There are many of us who have taken note of terrible testimony. One that is stuck with me especially touches the way a female police officer was hit by a stone in the head and fell to the ground. The successful mob then began exulting and throwing stones at the injured policewoman while she was still on the hill. Madam President, I would like Many are the politicians, thinkers and journalists who talked about all the alleged benefits of large immigration to Sweden and what enrichment it would entail. I hope that all of these, many of whom are guilty in this House, feel a responsibility and a debt for the Sweden they have created – a Sweden in which senseless, bloodthirsty barbarism can erupt at any time and thereby turn Swedish policemen into free game. All it took to bring out this slumbering evil from its parallel societies this time was a Danish-Swedish provocateur who said he intended to burn a book- according to Muslims a sacred book, for the rest of us nothing more than a book. And books you own, you have to burn. Nevertheless, some seem to have become more enraged by Paludan's attempts to burn the Qur'an with varying degrees of success than by the successful burning of police vehicles by domestic terrorists. The focus has been deliberately shifted from the latent security threat to various pseudo-debates. The government has not accepted its guilt in making the riots possible, nor has it taken much-needed measures to ensure the control of the majority society even over vulnerable areas. Madam President, I would like It is clear that a new government is needed to address the problems created by the previous ones.
i-C3xDHbQ4XAdRfP6z4XfjFz	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by expressing my full support and deep gratitude for all the brave heroes who stood on the right side of law and history during the terrible events of the Easter weekend. Serious crimes were committed by ruthless perpetrators of violence, and it could have gone even worse if you had not been there. Of course, I'm talking about the police officers who, at the risk of their lives, went in and did their best to ensure order. But I'm also talking about all the good forces in our local communities that in different ways tried to pour oil on the waves. Because those powers exist, too. It is forces that run out of the good in us – the desire to live in peace and freedom, the desire to build a better life not only for ourselves but for society at large. This type of event is far from a new phenomenon in Sweden. Not far from here, in Berzelii Park, riots and violence arose in 1951. Up to 3,000 youths took part in riots, and the police only managed to overcome the serious disorder of order that took place almost every night during that summer. Even closer, in Kungsträdgården, where the cherry trees are now in bloom, we had what we called the Kungsan riots where young people and police came together when the police tried to stop damage and serious disorder of order there. Perhaps the most serious situation in modern times arose in connection with the Gothenburg Summit, where the situation was completely derailed and a large number of young people committed serious crimes, committed acts of violence and committed enormous damage. The police got some criticism of how they handled that situation and started a development work that, in my opinion, has been very successful – at least until now. If the police are right in all directions, the horror-filled scenes we saw on Easter weekend should not have to take place. If the police do a proper risk analysis and then dimension the operation, the perpetrators of violence will never have the chance to create these dangerous situations. But with that said, Madam President, people are people, and we humans can make mistakes and mistakes. We may be mistaken when assessing the risks. We can also make a proper risk assessment but still not be able to properly dimension the effort because there are simply no resources available. There may be a shortage of equipment or the wrong type of equipment and, of course, a lack of available policemen who can be deployed. In all the cases I mentioned before, the causes have been boiled down to variants of just such flaws. In 1951 there had been a police strike, and too few police officers were available. In the analysis work after the Gothenburg riots it was found that the police had poor equipment. For example, they had difficulty communicating with each other via their radio system. Now development work must be done in which the police have the opportunity to analyse what can be done better. They have already announced that they need funds to put in the medium distance, that is, 40 to 60 meters. Finally, a word on freedom of expression. It is a cornerstone of any liberal democracy and must be defended, even when it means that many people feel deeply violated.
i-2641ZvZojGgrYehYJs2vWJ	Madam President, I would like I stood and looked at the cars burning and the police who drove with blue lights during Easter Day – in my Navestad, Norrköping, where my son's swimming school is located and where we were at open preschool. The same unacceptable violence took place throughout Sweden's cities. The individuals who committed these terrible crimes are to be arrested, investigated, prosecuted and sentenced. The police, who made a huge effort, should have our great thanks. There are no excuses for committing crimes. When a very well-known criminal right-wing person seeks permission to create chaos, permits that are sought only in vulnerable areas, the Police Authority should have the competence and experience to resource the right number of police officers with the right skills to ensure public security. The police authority must make better use of the law of law by taking more account of who applies for a permit, where the permit is sought and at what time. There are no excuses for committing crimes. Over 300 injuries have been reported by police officers. The police union, the police union, is planning to file a criminal report on violations of the OSH Act against the Police Authority. There were too few policemen called in to secure the population. There was a lack of management and control. There was a lack of protective equipment. Of the police officers on duty, too, a great many lacked proper training to deal with violent crowds. Special police tactics are lacking in four out of seven police areas. This means that the police in Norrköping, Linköping and Örebro did not have the right competence to act in an evidence-based way against aggressive crowds. The police authorities have received enormous resources over the last few years. Yet police officers are missing throughout Sweden. The police have a huge education debt. There is a lack of good and efficient technical equipment. It is not possible to get a passport today in Sweden. The police are unable to secure the population when a right-wing person wants the suburbs to burn. This is not an authority that works very well. In addition, the police's working environment must be significantly improved. The left side is so far alone in lifting both the inner and the outer working environment. The most important thing now is to create safe areas again. It is an enormous job that must be done by the police, the municipality and voluntary efforts. It is not the time to call for quick and simple solutions, but it is time to stop leaving the police alone in vulnerable areas. Now the rest of society must also be equipped.
i-UJdu42oeJ7RMeS3mi1xoKq	Madam President, I would like It is time to evaluate Morgan Johansson's time as Minister of Justice. Since the police started producing detailed statistics, there have been over 700 shootings in Sweden. 250 people have been shot to death in the Sweden of gangster wars. This spring is by far the most deadly ever. From January to April, 27 people have been killed, shot to death. When Easter arrived Sweden was shaken by riots in several cities around the country. City after city was put in fear. Sten was thrown at the police for the purpose of killing. The local police said they'd never met anything like this before, and 400 policemen were injured. Look again in this rather empty Parliament Hall today! Imagine that the 400 police officers would be here... all of them wouldn't even get a seat. We were supposed to meet cops with broken teeth, cops with broken bones, cops with traumas that they're going to carry for the rest of their lives, cops with head injuries and cops who were going to tell us that they were absolutely sure they were going to die under the rock rain. We all remember the picture of the crushed and bloody police helmet. This is not how it should be in Sweden. This is an attack on all the police officers we could meet in this House, and this is an attack on our whole legal society and ultimately on our democracy. Among the thugs who subjected all these policemen and cities to this were extreme Islamists who the government and Morgan Johansson failed to fight. There were criminal leaders who were not imprisoned because Morgan Johansson had not made sure that there are enough police officers to cage them or punishments that are hard enough to keep them in. There were young boys who saw the events as an audition for criminal gangs who are not broken despite the recurring promises of Morgan Johansson, and they have been repeated as a mantra in every government declaration. There were mothers who cheered on their children to attack the police because they hate Swedish society and live in a parallel society that Morgan Johansson failed to fight. Madam President, I would like The Prime Minister has said that Sweden can do better. I agree, and it is time to replace this government where Morgan Johansson is Minister of Justice. This is not how it should be in Sweden.
i-Gzr94YJorEin8FDVKc9Yqg	Madam President, I would like We should not ban criticism of homosexuals under Pride, we should not ban criticism of women on 8 March and we should not stop criticism of Islam under Ramadan. Abominable, offensive opinions, whatever our opinion, we have a right to express them. The cornerstone of our liberal democracy is spelled freedom of expression. Freedom of expression is the foundation of our open and free society. Sweden introduced freedom of the press in 1766. At that time, citizens were given the right to write what they wanted and to receive letters from the authorities. Madam President, I would like This is not self-evident. Reporters without borders' freedom of the press index rate the situation in 28 countries as very serious, and journalists risk their lives when the free speech is held hostage. Free speech must always be defended, and freedom of expression applies to all of us. It applies not only to those you agree with, but to everyone in Sweden and cannot be made conditional. Mrs Justitia's blindfold should therefore remain firmly seated. The police must not take a stand on the content or, for that matter, engage in reasoning as to the purposes of a demonstration. When considering an application for a demonstration permit, the police should only consider objective factors such as disruption of traffic, interference with other authorised demonstrations or failure to maintain order or safety. That does not mean, of course, that you can do anything within the framework of a demonstration. If crimes are committed by protestors, for example if right-wing extremists chant slogans that are incited against ethnic groups, the demonstration can be immediately interrupted. Similarly, if the demonstration degenerates in a riot. But as long as the demonstration remains within the legal framework, it is the duty of the police to ensure that it can be carried out while maintaining order and security. Every time this does not happen, we have failed. Madam President, I would like Let me be very clear: I hate everything Paludan stands for. The fact that the Easter riots led to large-scale violence, riots and a three-digit number of injured police officers is extremely serious. But we must also see the seriousness of the fact that demonstrations could not be carried out. Civilisation is not limited to all the civilised. It involves all of us. Every time a demonstration has to be interrupted because it is attacked by perpetrators of violence, it is a failure of democracy. If we act like something else, we'll let the violators win. Liberals stand up for freedom of expression, for the right of demonstration and for the police to have sufficient tools to defend it in every situation.
i-MZVYtJ4tLyJp4vWqBiRcyX	Madam President, I would like Easter weekend scenes were terrible. Unwitting violence met the Swedish police and also rescue services, public transport and others. We got hundreds of wounded police officers, and we could have had several killed police officers. Thus, men and women could have been murdered simply because they have chosen a profession that is about helping, protecting and correcting. I'm a cop myself. My and the Green Party's thoughts and sympathies go to the extremely vulnerable colleagues. There is no excuse whatsoever for these disgusting attacks. We hope that the perpetrators are faced with very severe punishment. Another perspective of the incident is that it can only be seen as a huge social failure when the police, who are to maintain the monopoly of violence, are forced to abandon police cars which are then vandalised and burned. Order and security are among the most fundamental responsibilities and tasks of the state, and this was a failure. The police should never have to back down. The police must have the resources, tools and conditions to maintain the monopoly of violence everywhere on behalf of citizens in all districts and at all times. Of course, no shadow should fall upon colleagues who gave everything and more. However, there is every reason to consider decisions and preparations from the management. There is also ultimately a political responsibility here. The police must have the right resources and tools for specific events such as Easter holidays riots. But you also need to have the right conditions and the right resources for the important police work in everyday life. It is a question of the police being continuously present in all our vulnerable areas. One should be able to intervene without having to back down, one should be able to build relationships and trust and one should be able to interact with the local community. I myself have many years of experience as a police officer in Rinkeby of that kind of collaboration. Good forces that I have collaborated with were out there helping to stop the violence. A united society is stronger than the violent. There's a need for more police officers as a matter of urgency. The Green Party wants to reinforce the police with 500 million. We want to hire civilians and release police officers for police work. Although the perpetrators of violence were in no way representative of the areas from which they come, we also see a failure that goes much deeper than police and order enforcement measures. This is a symptom of segregation, an exclusion, that society needs to address. This requires long-term, preventive measures: a strong school, cities that are built together rather than separate, reducing unemployment and reducing poverty. We need to build an inclusive and socially sustainable society that gives people hope and participation. This is the first way we can vaccinate ourselves against violence in the long term.
i-9S8LC3WCd1ExFvqp2851GB	Madam President, I would like I thank you for your contributions so far. I will say that I think it is very important that the chief of police and the other police officers review what happened this weekend and make an independent evaluation of the actual operation. The Head of the National Police has opened up not only to make an independent evaluation but also to look at what opportunities you need to have in general, such as more material. For example, we know that tear gas was now used in Malmö. In fact, it was the first time that tear gas was used that way, and it was very effective at that time. Now you also look at water cannons, beanbags and any other equipment. I welcome that evaluation and review. I've had a dialogue with the chief of police. So far, he has not requested anything extra from the government. The efforts that can be made, so far in any case, he considers that one should be able to do within the current framework and regulatory framework. Should there still be an issue where government decisions are needed and additional resources, we will of course have a dialogue on that. Swedish police should have the resources and equipment needed to handle such situations. At the same time, I think it is important to point out that it is the police that make the operational decisions. They're the professionals in these situations. You can't sit in the gallery, side by side, telling the police that they should do this or that they should do that. Then it will be very wrong. It is the police who decide when and how to use violence, understood within the framework of the legislation in force. It is not up to politicians who often don't really know what they're talking about handing out pickets for when the police are going to use violence. That is why the Polisförbundet was clear in her criticism of the KD leader's statement in which she questioned why the police had not fired more and sharply. The Police Association reacted very strongly and said that such statements do not belong in the rule of law. I agree. It is important to distinguish between the roles here. The police have their role and make the operational decisions. We politicians must ensure that the police have the necessary resources and that we have the necessary legislation to deal with these situations. But you should not interfere in the operational decisions. Then it'll be very dangerous. We changed Swedish criminal policy when we took office in 2014 in a direction that has led us to have more police officers than ever before. They have more resources than ever before, they have better tools than ever before, they have more cameras than ever before and they have better listening capabilities than ever before. We will continue to strengthen the Swedish police in the coming years. It is one of our most prioritised tasks.
i-HreyAd6P6apg663j6dXEW	Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, there have been several such debates in this House in the past. After the riots in Husby 2013, for example, a debate was held on these riots. Morgan Johansson took part in this debate and expressed himself as follows to the then Minister of Justice: The longer you go on, the worse it gets. Then you can't blame yourself on someone else, that something else should solve the problems. ..................................................... Now Morgan Johansson himself has been Minister of Justice for not just seven but almost eight years. My question to Morgan Johansson is: What responsibility does he think he and the government have for the obvious shortcomings that exist in our judicial system?
i-iHPwfWEi5Rt8WG9ungW1H	Madam President, I would like It's nice that Johan Forssell brings up the riots in 2013. Then he himself worked in the Government Office, for Fredrik Reinfeldt. Johan Forssell was co-responsible for reducing police training by 90 per cent in two years, in order to be able to scrape together money for the tax cuts that were made. What we did when we took office in 2014 was to change Swedish criminal policy. When we took office, we made sure to increase police training and put more money into the police. We have made sure that they have better tools than ever before, we have made sure that the penalties are tougher than ever before and we have made sure to set up cameras in a way that has not existed before. This does not mean solving all the problems in a flash. But we have turned the development around for the Swedish police. It is no longer cut back on police training, but more police officers are being trained than ever before. Over 3,000 people go to school.
i-Vx3axAGWXRMGFEtCQ7fgpA	Madam President, I would like In 2013, I served on the Swedish Parliament's Defence Committee for several years. Morgan Johansson doesn't really know the facts, even on this point. I will gladly repeat my question. Morgan Johansson felt in 2013 that the then Minister of Justice had a great responsibility and that one should not hold on and blame others and argue that others should solve the problems. How, then, does he view his own responsibility for the obvious shortcomings that exist? The cops were too few. They still do not have access to what should be a matter of course, such as water cannons. We also have legislation to protect them, with flagrant shortcomings. Morgan Johansson cannot imagine that only bourgeois governments are responsible for the results or the absence of the results, but that in some magical way Social Democratic governments have no responsibility whatsoever for what the country looks like? Can't Morgan Johansson answer the simple question?
i-8bpY3ie5PFbAPzfBAcn3fV	Madam President, I would like Johan Forssell says: No, it was not during the period I worked for Fredrik Reinfeldt, but it was the period earlier, 2010–2014 in that case. It just makes things even worse. ( Johan FORSSELL(M): I was in Parliament then, 2010– 2014. ) You were in Parliament then. But at least you admit that you worked in the Government Office, was in charge of alliance government policy and was involved in cutting police training by 90 percent in two years. My point is that if we pursue a policy of constantly prioritising tax cuts rather than extending the judiciary, it will eventually be wrong. That is exactly what we have turned around. When we took office in 2014, we changed the policy. Instead, we are investing in the entire judiciary and making sure that the penalties are tightened, which you never did. You always have to bear responsibility for what you have done. But what we have done in our time is to ensure that the police and the other judiciary have more resources and better tools than ever before.
i-UWVFuotyUyqguhZbzb2JD3	Madam President, I would like In the aftermath of Easter holidays, Morgan Johansson has chosen not to speak clearly about the reasons, not to admit his guilt and not to propose political measures. What he has actually done is unclear, more than blaming the riots on gang-criminal individuals and claiming that the police certainly have all the resources and tools they need. Sweden certainly, much because of Morgan Johansson, has major problems with gang crime. But the riots cannot be blamed on that alone. Both children and old people participated. Mothers cheered for their stone-throwing children. Violence against the police was in some cases a family activity, seemingly as normal as for a Swedish family to have a picnic. Will Morgan Johansson acknowledge his guilt and take action as a result of the Koran riots?
i-v57UE42kGcXqxg1A7DmKZ	Madam President, I would like The Swedish democrats are concerned here with what they always do: trying to break a wedge between Swedes and immigrants. They try to pull everyone over and say that this is because the immigrants are as they are. It's not like that. First of all, it is extremely dangerous rhetoric that the Swedish Democrats are engaged in. But it is typically right-wing extremists to do that. That is extremely dangerous rhetoric. The wedge does not exist between Swedes and immigrants, but the difference is between those who commit this violence and those who do not commit this violence but rather try to keep society together. As you now go through these events and do preliminary investigations, it is important that you get help from the local community. And that's exactly what you get. It is now streaming in films from those who have been in place. They're helping to settle these crimes as and when they're done. But do not try to exploit these terrible events to drive wedges between Swedes and immigrants. It'll be dangerous.
i-6ZuBUFZ58AShrV87PQRrYX	Madam President, I would like I note that Morgan Johansson chose not to answer whether or not he intends to acknowledge his guilt for having done so and whether or not he intends to take any action. I take it that the answer is no to both questions. What if Morgan Johansson had chosen to spend as much time taking action against the dangerous elements in our country as he does on what he calls my dangerous rhetoric? What if the focus had been on actually dangerous individuals in Sweden instead of on what rhetoric I or others use to us? What if Morgan Johansson had spent time strengthening the socially vulnerable areas, which in these cases were affected by the Koran riots? What if he had dealt with the parallel societies in our country? Instead, Morgan Johansson confines himself to spewling over what choice of words I use or what rhetoric I use to do. That'll probably be how we remember Morgan Johansson's time as Minister of Justice when it's almost over.
i-PKxiDai8vu7h17TJeW3FJU	Madam President, I would like The problem is that in all societies there will be extremists of various kinds trying to whip up groups against each other. We have the right-wing extremists on one side and the Islamists on the other. That is exactly what we have seen: two evil forces triggering each other. For those of us who stand for something else and have a democratic view of society in which we try to create security and cohesion, it is extremely important to continue to fight those outer edges, but then we must also see that they are outer edges. The Swedish Democrats want to say that it is a problem of integration, but I think it is a problem of democracy. We have Islamists on one side – those who stand for something other than that of the majority who live in the affected areas – and on the other side we have the Nazis, who are campaigning. Now it is about continuing a policy that holds Sweden together and does not help to divide the country.
i-NDh35LJay3oAPQs7TA2HxJ	Madam President, I would like Unlike all other Members, I was going to ask a question about Easter weekend riots and the work of the police. As I mentioned in my speech, there was a lack of police officers during the Easter weekend, of which we are all fully aware. But there were mainly police officers with the right kind of training about the special police tactics. It is an education that only exists in the big cities of Sweden. That's why four out of seven police areas lack policemen who are trained. This training includes a package of protective equipment, vehicles and the management and control of interventions of the nature of the Easter weekend. There must be more police officers in the right education. I want to know how Morgan Johansson will ensure that the Police Authority removes its educational debt, which has grown enormously.
i-FcXzxRTRaVYoGTYz1vMtff	Madam President, I would like As I have several times been in the past, the police now have better equipment, more resources and more employees than ever before. It is a total of well over 30,000 employees. We have also reversed developments in the number of people leaving the police. Fewer leave the police, and more are re-recruited. We also have a record in terms of the number of people trained as police officers. Only last spring, some 600 policemen went out, and another 800 will now be leaving police training. For every six months that go by, new cops come out into the field. What equipment should you have? It is mainly the police who own such questions. I therefore welcome the evaluation that the Head of State Police is going to make to see what further action can be taken with regard to materials and equipment and what training is needed to improve in these situations. Then we see the result. The Head of State Police and the Police Authority have so far not requested any further information from the Government. If they want it, we'll just have to deal with it.
i-8XCX2xf5hqHFbLGofSFKJG	Madam President, I would like It is obvious that the police are not a learning organisation. If it had been, the Minister of Justice would have replied to me that there is a method that the police can use that includes protective equipment, the right vehicle and the right direction for events such as Easter weekend riots. There are methods in the police today that are developed based on what happened at the Gothenburg riots. It's called the special police tactic. This training is currently available only in the metropolitan regions of police regions. Four out of seven police regions lack police officers with this training. Yet the chief of police and the minister of justice are talking about new tools. There is no need for new tools, but what is needed is that enough police officers are trained in the method already in place in the police. The police must become a learning organisation.
i-QWvKKukyCCHzsH2quMh4up	Madam President, I would like That is precisely what the initiative for the evaluation is a sign, that is, that the police are and should be a learning organisation. Then you cannot say in advance that they must not look at new equipment or at new things to be bought in. You have to make an overall evaluation and look at what kind of training, crews, intelligence – Is that where you have had problems? - and materials you need. Then you go through this systematically, just as you should always do. Now you're going to take a little more grip on this. However, one cannot say that they must not look at new materials but only at the issue of education, which Linda Westerlund Snecker seems to be looking for. That would be the wrong way to go. A broader assessment must be carried out in situations such as these.
i-TWscEhcpaLNnQeV9fMjn4D	Madam President, I would like I was going to give Morgan Johansson another chance to answer the question that Johan Forssell asked and that Morgan Johansson a little unwieldy wrangled away. It was about his own responsibility. In 2017, the Minister of Justice said that Sweden was about to crack organised crime. Developments have only gotten worse since then. When Morgan Johansson was not Minister of Justice, he said about Beatrice Ask that she had been Minister of Justice for six years and could not blame anyone else. Which Morgan Johansson is right – the Morgan Johansson who is standing in the Chamber today twisting himself or the Morgan Johansson who said that a Minister of Justice cannot blame anyone else? I expect an answer to that.
i-JmeBBxsnhFFfyXWmjMVzwn	Madam President, I would like The answer, of course, is all that we have done over these eight years. We rescheduled the policy in 2014 from a policy under the alliance government when police training was cut by 90% over two years to finance its tax cuts. Instead, we changed the policy and said: now we are investing in the judiciary, the police, the courts and the prosecutors, and now all the judicial authorities have more money than they have ever had before. We now have more police officers training than ever before. Over 3,000 are in education. We have two new police training courses. We have more severe punishment than ever before in modern times. We also have more detainees than ever before in modern times. It is not only the minions but also the gang leaders who are in prison. Why are the shootings continuing? Well, that's because for every guy we take, there's one behind that's ready to step in his shoes. In the future, therefore, it will be even more important to invest in preventive work, such as school, social services and leisure activities, in order to break the new recruitment process.
i-PK55ZtagRSp1TLWQKFUNfp	Madam President, I would like The fact that the gang leaders are in prison is thanks to the French police. Morgan Johansson can't take credit for that in any way. The question was: Which Morgan Johansson is right? Is it the one who said that a Minister of Justice cannot blame anyone else or the one who wriggles out of the question asked by Johan Forssell, among others? There were two clear options to the question. Is it Morgan Johansson then or Morgan Johansson today who is right? The answer was, everything we've done. Morgan Johansson's gonna get another chance. Which Morgan Johansson is right? Is it the one who says that a Minister of Justice cannot blame anyone else or anyone who tries to wriggle out of the issue? Has it gotten better or worse? The situation has become much worse, and I ask again: Is it the words of Morgan Johansson in the past or Morgan Johansson in the present? You get another chance, Morgan Johansson.
i-5Px9kP1DpL44tCXU998MgH	Madam President, I would like Of course, everyone should be responsible for exactly what he has done. What I stand for is all the efforts we have made. Over 70 penalties have been imposed in eight years. More than ever – over 7,000 – are in custody, and it is not only the minions but also those who are higher up in the layers. It's not just about French police, it's about Swedish police doing the preliminary investigations. Although it is based on cooperation with other countries, it is the Swedish police who, with the help of the resources that we in Sweden have joined, have made sure to put these in prison. As I said, the answer to the question is all that we have done in these years. Have we managed to reverse this? It's obvious there's a long way to go. What I'm saying is it's not enough just to put these people away. Care must also be taken to break the new recruitment to the criminal gangs. That's where the difference to the right is. There you have no policy at all, but rather only cuts in welfare and division to offer the Swedish people.
i-7vD34q5YXRB6gYKbice1W1	Madam President, I would like We all seem to agree that there were far too few police officers out under the riots. I would argue that it was not only during the riots but also in the important everyday work, the preventive work out in the local communities where you draw boundaries and work relationship-building. I have with many years of experience as a police officer noticed that lack of resources over the years. It is present in external and investigative activities. The Green Party sees an urgent need to get more police officers on duty. At the same time, as group manager, I have sent colleagues to the reception and police at the PKC, the contact centre, due to an acute lack of money. I would like to ask Morgan Johansson again: will the Social Democrats support the committee initiative that the Green Party has launched to release money to the police and ensure that they employ to fill civilian vacancies so that police officers can engage in the important police work where they are far too few?
i-DBaEKcEsun5SVfm61FCZYE	Madam President, I would like We are in a situation where the police have more money than ever before and have grown tremendously. If I look at the ten-year period 2014– 2024, we almost double the resources for Swedish police from just over 20 billion to almost 40 billion SEK. It is not primarily a lack of resources that we are talking about now. What has been the problem is that it has sometimes been difficult to recruit people and also to ensure that we can fill all new places in police training. I have asked the chief of police about this very thing. Is there anything else we need to do now with regard to money, any specific measures or special government decisions? So far, this is not the case. But it is clear that we have a new budgetary process which is approaching already in the autumn. Then we'll have to look at it further. Do we need to strengthen the police even more so that they can do their job in the future?
i-EwvB8bQG9Uk6JjceCuCBWc	Madam President, I would like Unlike Morgan Johansson, I have been in the business and forced to send police officers who have expertise in the preventive work that Morgan Johansson highlighted as well as in the repressive work to sit at the reception. The explanation has been an acute lack of money. This is in the Stockholm region. No matter what Morgan Johansson hears, it's the reality and the situation on the floor. So it is not a problem to recruit. There are people in the civilian market who can sit in passport offices and reception. There has been a question of there being no money. There is an acute problem here and now that the Green Party wants to solve here and now. It is not enough to increase gradually through recruitment via the Police College. If only the Easter riots would show that. Swedish police need to be strengthened operationally and preventive here and now. Then resources need to be made available here and now. The Social Democrats have put nothing in their budget. However, there is still an opportunity to support the Green Party's committee initiatives in order to urgently ensure that the police officers who are in fact already present in the operation are brought to police work.
i-7kGW8hRkphLpK9DESWL4yE	Madam President, I would like All in all, police funds nearly double in ten years. I can't imagine any other authority growing as fast as the police during these ten years. In that case, it would be the defense. I guess that's about the same size. It has gone from just over 20 billion to nearly 40 billion in ten years. It is also true for this year that the police have received not only the money they wanted but actually more money than they requested. Then, of course, we will have to follow this gradually. There will be new budget negotiations in the autumn. So far, however, no additional resources have been requested for this particular situation, but it is believed that you will be able to cope with what you have. Which regions of the police get what money the police decide over themselves. It's their responsibility. But we will ensure that we continue to provide the money that the police need to carry out their task.
i-B3nZ5UWsgro3tijRNYgCr	Madam President, I would like We are discussing a very serious subject today. In fact, however, it becomes almost comical to hear the highest responsible for the judiciary in this debate. Madam President, I would like When Morgan Johansson himself was in opposition, he was very clear that the then government would not blame for it. He was crystal clear that it would take responsibility and that it was responsible for the shortcomings that existed at the time in the judicial system. It's in countless chamber records, so we don't have to discuss that. But today, when the same person himself has been Minister of Justice for a longer time, for almost eight years, than those he then criticized, self-criticism shines with its total absence. Morgan Johansson does not seem to be responsible for anything at all. All the flaws seem to be someone else's fault. Or they'll be investigated. Perhaps the police have done something wrong, and of course the former bourgeois government. I'm just waiting to hear that Bildt government probably also had some responsibility. We can be sure of one thing. The person who has been the Minister of Justice since 2014 seems to himself to have no responsibility whatsoever. It has gone so far that you even go with untruth. In 2013, I was a Member of Parliament and was a member of the Committee on Defence, in fact with the President, and had been so for several years. Madam President, I would like It is clear that there are major shortcomings in our judicial system today. We've got hundreds of wounded police officers after the riots. There were too few of them. They did not have the right legislation to protect themselves. They lacked obvious tools, such as water cannons and beanbags. It was that kind of thing that had been needed there and then. It's quite obvious. Now it is important to learn from this and change it. We Moderates have allocated funds to this in our budget so that the judiciary can always take a step forward.
i-GN38vS9qSaGYaUmErpsWkR	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats and the Moderates have in recent years had good cooperation on justice-related issues and been able to agree on many different substantive policy proposals. In the aftermath of the Koran riots, however, Johan Forssell chose in an interview in Expressen to criticize and reject the Swedish Democrats' proposals on how to curb the riots. We now agree on water cannons and rubber bullets. Of course it would be good if we could wet the rioters and hit them with one or another rubber ball. But their hatred of Sweden and their contempt for what we stand for will remain even then where the Moderates' proposal for action ends. My question to Johan Forssell is whether he and the Moderates are ready to go further and follow the Swedish Democrats here too. It is a matter of reviewing the conditions for pursuing issues of citizenship, custody judgments and other measures to truly re-establish the dominance of the majority society.
i-3EYUitqgKsBeojKNw4Gkfd	Madam President, I would like We Moderates are prepared to do what is necessary to maintain law and order in our society, to prosecute criminals and to make society safe and secure for citizens. But what you do must also be feasible, and it must also have an effect. Tobias Andersson is absolutely right that I am not a supporter of the idea of sending Swedish military into various alienation areas. In the interview I did, I was addressing that very question rather than what has come from the Swedish Democrats. It is possible that the Swedish Democrats have a different idea. The question that was asked me there and then was: In with the military, they can quickly solve this. Get in with city shooting battalions, or be where it might be. Then I pointed out one simple thing: The Armed Forces are trained for armed combat. That's something other than what the police do. It shall maintain law and order. I don't believe in the easy answer to send in the military. On the other hand, it is not trained for it, and on the other hand it has not at least in the environment we now have completely different tasks. Instead, let us strengthen the judiciary.
i-4rMoCwe5ohhJeiGKwJe8Gf	Madam President, I would like Johan Forssell has described the Koran riots in terms of warlike scenes. When it resembles war, it is likely a situation for which the military is better equipped than the police, one might think. But Johan Forssell seems to think it was warlike scenes but it is still better that the police work there. I think we can work together, and we want to look at how this could be done. However, we have also presented a number of other proposals. We advocate a retention sentence for individuals who we believe are not fit to return to society. We want to see expulsion even if you are connected to Sweden. We want to review the conditions for revoking the citizenship of this type of domestic terrorist. We want strict parental liability. We want withdrawn social rights and much more. All in all, we have presented 45 political proposals since the Koran demands took place, so there is much for the Moderates to draw inspiration from. I ask Johan Forssell if he can approve any of that now.
i-Muug1HUTQcASTMQLPeU1p	Madam President, I would like I think we all feel the same frustration about what has been, and it is important to do more. More needs to be done. But you also have to be gentle so that things don't get wrong. I maintain that the Armed Forces are trained for armed combat. It's something completely different. This is about maintaining law and order, prosecuting 16- and 17-year-olds. I haven't met any military people who think this is a good idea. I haven't met a cop who thinks it's a good idea either. Instead, let us strengthen the police themselves so that they have the right resources to operate. With regard to some of the other proposals, I can see that many of them are things that we Moderates have been pursuing in the Committee on Justice for a long time, perhaps not with the same solution that comes here. We have pointed out lowering the deportation limit, as well as removing the connecting parts. To tighten up parental liability we presented two years ago or something like that. So we have a very offensive package. We intend to do what is necessary to maintain law and order, but it should be done in the right way and have the right effect.
i-ThbknNzDJS8PZZ6WjvoJVw	Madam President, I would like The Moderates are leading a bloc where more and more moves are now directed at people and groups rather than against crime itself. This was shown not least in the shift in line here with the Swedish Democrats. These are search zones, evicting and expelling families, putting in the military, curfews, shooting sharp. The Swedish Democrats Dick Erixon, who is editor-in-chief of their newspaper, talks about the police shooting to kill and to avoid sharia laws. As a police officer, I know the importance of having the local community with me when you try to work for change and work crime prevention. You need to build trust. You need to build collective ability. There is a need to ensure that public authorities and society interact with the local community. How do Johan Forssell and the Moderates think they can succeed in this when the block has proposals and rhetoric that increasingly polarise and increase distrust between society and housing?
i-EYPgxieywRTf6MaRdWdSam	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question. Of course, several parts are needed to make this effective. Here and now, which I think Martin Marmgren has also been into, law and order must apply. Then it is a question of the police going in with the resources and tools needed to prosecute the criminals. In stage two, it is about building trust in these areas. This is why, for example, we Moderates have been pointing out for so many years to expand the police. We have a goal that Sweden should have the same police density as the EU average, and the emphasis should be on the local police areas. You should not just go on blue lights, which unfortunately is often the case today because you do not have time for other things, but you should be there, present, have time to be in the schools etcetera. I also note that many of the proposals mentioned here, such as search zones, have worked very well in Denmark. It's really just the extreme left there that's against it. Sometimes it is good to learn a little from how it works in other countries and dare to try new ways here in Sweden.
i-5iK8e7DTixqk3yarLeUEfC	Madam President, I would like As far as search zones are concerned, I, as a police officer, know that we have every opportunity to search everyone we need with today's legislation. It's done, too. I fully agree with Johan Forssell and the Moderates on the need for law and order. There we stand united. It's basic. Similarly, the need to build trust. I am happy to strengthen the police and make sure that they have better resources to work confidence building out in the local community, just as I have done for about ten years. But the question remains. There is a rhetoric and full of proposals from the bloc that Johan Forssell leads from a legal policy perspective that targets groups of people very hard. You're talking about evicting and expelling families, about curfews and putting in the military. Very often, the cape is strongly targeted against immigrants as a group or Muslims as a group. I know – I notice when I'm out in the local communities – that this polarizes. It makes it very much harder for me as a police officer to work preventively and build this trust in local communities. It makes work harder.
i-Y4KaEjCBVFAJwXuwmirveX	Madam President, I would like So, the groups we see are as follows: it is a small group of criminals who take the law into their own hands and destroy too many people. Then there are all of us. We can be born in Sweden or in any other country, we can be long or short, dark or bright; it doesn't matter. But that's the division we see, no one else. When it comes to polarisation, I think that if you are going to attack an opponent with that argument, it makes it easier if you yourself sometimes sweep your own door clean. In this respect, I note that the spokesperson of the Green Party has expressed himself, for example, on moderate proposals for search zones in a way that actually has only one purpose, namely polarising, to blow under a two-tiering society that I believe is harmful. It has worked in Denmark, and the parties there are united. I note that many of Martin Marmgren's own colleagues have pointed out the shortcomings here and that there are not enough opportunities today. Then it may be worth trying, for one thing we can agree on: it does not work well enough today.
i-RHzejfhYGffyBfSFkFe1Sm	Madam President, I would like Sweden is faced with a choice of routes. Either we choose the simple path, which most parties already seem to have chosen, and find ourselves in that there are parallel societies in Sweden. We accept that there are criminal and culturally burdened areas, independent from the Swedish majority society in terms of language, values, legal systems, loyalty and more. We let Sweden pay the bill for the contributions pumped into the parallel communities and the damage they cause. We offer them to enjoy all the rights they can imagine without any obligations. It's the easy way. The difficult path, which only the Swedish Democrats seem to be ready to walk, is to regain control, to subdue parallel societies and the darkness within them in order to re-establish the domination of the majority society. The Swedish Democrats understand that it will not be easy and have therefore since the Koran riots presented around 45 proposals. Future riots will be fought back through more police officers, emergency legislation and curfews, water cannons, rubber bullets and, if necessary, military support. The growth of parallel communities will be halted by preventive measures. More children will need to be taken care of. Muslim schools should be banned. The school will raise in Swedish standards, and rowdy students will end up in duty school. The existing parallel communities will be repressed by a national census, mapping and dawn raids within parallel communities, immediate expulsions of illegals and more. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats are ready to take the necessary measures. The question is whether the other parties are ready to take any at all.
i-KtJBEpMsgNPLqHTLHPGWZT	Madam President, I would like We have just had a test of how this debate can be conducted by the right. While the rest of us are trying to keep society together – not divide society, do not divide it, do not point out and do not incite – the Swedish Democrats are doing exactly the opposite. It's a war rhetoric and a kind of heat. It is the only thing you have to offer the Swedish people, Tobias Andersson. I heard your line shift with the Moderates here. My question to the Swedish Democrats is this: do you think you will be able to bring your Moderates into this policy, that is, systematically try to break a wedge between immigrants and Swedes? Do you believe in the Swedish Democrats that you will? Is it your purpose to try to do that? If so, and if you were to win the election, I believe that Sweden is in danger. Then you will push forward a policy that will lead to worse things, more violence and greater problems.
i-J5TMPEftdzhWZp1jV9x6Ty	Madam President, I would like My purpose, of course, in being a legal spokesperson is to establish security in our country. When it comes to the influence of the Swedish democrats on the politics of other parties, it has been good over the years; it applies both to the moderate party and, not least, to the Social Democratic party. There are two parties that have often tailed the Swedish Democrats and taken after our politics. I therefore judge the conditions for influencing others as good even in the future. But the question is how well Morgan Johansson himself managed to keep this country together. He claims that the Swedish Democrats stand for division while he has been a minister for eight years without being able to get a coherent Sweden in place. During his time, we have seen parallel societies continue to grow and cement, areas which are in no way part of the majority society. The segregation is complete. I believe that anything other than Morgan Johansson and this government would be an improvement for the cohesion of our country.
i-GPKsV4UwKSJrpKdmu7hJh7	Madam President, I would like I think most people who see this from outside see what it actually was like. It's about two evil forces triggering each other. With regard to this Danish right-wing extremist, who is doing everything he can to promote violence and harm Sweden, I have not heard Tobias Andersson say a single evil word about him – not a single word of criticism against the Danish right-wing extremist. You'd almost think you were in cahoots. I don't know if that's the case, but you'd almost believe it. In any case, he has exactly the same purpose as the Swedish Democrats, namely to promote contradictions between Swedes and immigrants. When I say that those who committed the violence are in no way representative of those who live in these areas, the Swedish Democrats respond with the opposite and bring all the people who live in the areas over a head. The Swedish Democrats have, says Tobias Andersson, good conditions to have an impact on their politics in relation to the Moderates. That, too, is an answer. It shows that, as I said, if you were to get a majority this autumn, Sweden would be in danger.
i-CweDS71VxUgbeYTvGRzNuH	Madam President, I would like Morgan Johansson continues to be seemingly more upset about someone who claims to want to burn a book than those who burn police vehicles on assembly lines. I am clear about where I make my criticism: it is against the perpetrators who were there. I agree with Morgan Johansson's claim that we should be in collusion with Rasmus Paludan. Even Swedish Alternatives for Sweden do not want any association with him. But if we're going to do that, if we're going to put one lot together with the other, then we can look at where this has happened. These riots have taken place in social democratic vulnerable areas. There are electoral districts in these areas where even Lukasjenko would be jealous of the support of the Social Democrats. The question is who is most colluding with Rasmus Paludan or whether it is the Social Democrats who are colluding with their own voters, who seem to have largely stood for the riots.
i-2P4awpJnLZMTTgUT7zYZnt	Madam President, I would like I share the Minister of Justice's concern about the way the Swedish democrats tend to lump people together. They talk about immigrant-tight shadow societies and about putting the tough on these cultures. We are constantly moving in a direction not only towards criminality and perpetrators of violence – where we agree that tough efforts are needed – but also towards groups of people. When Dick Erixon in the Swedish Democrats' newspaper writes that we are at war and that they want the police to shoot to kill to avoid sharia laws, it is an extreme version of that rhetoric. For me, these are extremely dangerous thought figures. I wonder if the Swedish Democrats really believe that we are in a war where we need to kill Muslims in order not to become a religious dictatorship. Is this the world view the Swedish Democrats have? As I said, I have worked and worked in these vulnerable areas for about ten years and know what small part of the people are causing problems and how much community there is between the authorities, the police and the rest of society in these vulnerable areas.
i-bDJSXTEHqwGidUZ8XxFtq	Madam President, I would like I know Martin Marmgren has worked in these areas. It hasn't gone well for the police there. These are areas where crime has continued to deteriorate. Of course you can say: I have been there; I have seen what works. But it hasn't worked. It's just getting worse. Then Martin Marmgren should also consider whether there are other measures to be taken. I do not think that one should stand in Parliament's Chamber and go after individual journalists and what they have written. I'll bet on it. It stands for Dick Erixon. What I and the Swedish Democrats, as a political party, advocate is, of course, that we should deal with the parallel societies that have emerged, as Martin Marmgren has seen at close quarters but has not succeeded in curbing. We must ensure that the majority society regains dominance in Sweden and that we suppress the parallel societies that have emerged. To succeed in this, new tools are needed, and the Swedish Democrats are ready to advocate that.
i-FAJDf5PZ1SHvL5ofx4b3GM	Madam President, I would like If we are going to talk about the area where I have worked, Rinkeby, they succeeded there quite well thanks to collaboration with civil society, with the very same people that I have collaborated with. We did not lose control in Rinkeby; the demonstration could be carried out. In Rinkeby we have had considerably fewer riots. Compared with the 2013 Husby riots, where the police could not intervene themselves, the situation for the police has become much calmer today. If one can Rinkeby one should probably not say that we have gradually failed with everything. Other things are also coming up. The school results are much better. It also says that cooperation with district police has been a key factor in creating security. Unemployment is on the way down. We still have huge problems, which we're working on. But it's good to have the right facts. Then, as I said, we have a social problem, and we need to work together. This is something I know from my role as district police. We cannot succeed if we oppose the citizens of our areas. We have to work with them. Then you can't keep pointing out whole areas and polarizing.
i-B2dKHr7kF1Ad4vaVJWuP6z	Madam President, I would like I'm of the opinion that when someone throws stones and tries to kill a cop, the time for reconciliation and handshake is over. This requires that the Swedish police have the tools and the number of colleagues needed to strike down on this, strike back against the perpetrators of violence. Then the time has passed when dialogue and reconciliation can be sought. Then it's necessary to push hard. The big difference between the Swedish Democrats and the Green Party is perhaps that the Green Party seems to be satisfied with the development in areas such as Rinkeby. One does not think that Rinkeby has major social problems and is of the opinion that this may even be something we can be proud of. It is not me and the Swedish Democrats, on the contrary. We want to ensure that areas such as Rinkeby and others, where parallel societies have developed, actually become part of our nation, which they are in no way today, in some cases.
i-NDzdEtJx7VwKuToHpD7CTw	Madam President, I would like It is perhaps not so incredibly surprising that the Swedish Democrats are taking the opportunity to pursue their anti-immigration agenda. It exploits and exploits the fact that communities have been on fire and 400 police officers have been seriously injured. With a language that causes the propaganda ministries of dark history to fade, Easter's serious events are dressed in a costume obviously designed to suspect Muslims and immigrants. Let us then, Madam President, look at the links between the various factors and how they can be linked to the tendency to develop crime. It is a long-known fact that foreign background represents an over-risk. Historically, it is about two and a half times more likely to become a criminal if you have a foreign background than if you have a Swedish background. For violent crimes, the figure is even higher, a little more than three times the risk. Nevertheless, the risk is only half as great as the risk to the person growing up in a family that has at some time received support. And there is one factor that carries even greater risk. The risk is twice as high compared to this, about twelve times greater, in the case of school failures. It is estimated that those who finish the ninth grade without a full grade are 12 times more likely to become a criminal than someone who can pass the school. But, Madam President, the greatest risk seems to be to those who are elected as Swedish democrats. During the last parliamentary term some kind of bottom record was set when about one-tenth of the members of the Swedish Democrats' parliamentary group were convicted of serious crimes. Nevertheless, Madam President, it would never occur to me to accuse Tobias Andersson of being more or less a criminal just on the basis of a group that I might consider him to belong to. This is something that I refrain from, not for being good-looking, but because it is right and because it is the decent thing. That decency, Madam President, does not show Tobias Andersson the hundreds of thousands of hardworking Swedish Muslims who every day in their lives and their deeds contribute to a safer and better Sweden – as leisure leaders, as midwives, as parents, as fellow humans, as doctors, as police officers.
i-Hj4Y8ezuGhX6qXQCH1fX4B	Madam President, I would like I note that Johan Hedin had two minutes to present the Center Party's proposals for solutions to the Koran riots we have seen and the parallel communities found in our country but chose to dwell on the Swedish Democrats as a party. I guess it'll have to stand for him. I think the important thing is to come up with proposals for action in this debate, as the Swedish Democrats have done regularly since this took place. The only solution I have heard from the Center Party came from Johan Hedin's party chairman Annie Lööf, who advocated that during the Ramadan they should not have Islam-critical demonstrations and that they should not be held in vulnerable areas where many Muslims live. We see a center party advocating special solutions for Muslims in Sweden – a party whose judges have previously judged from sharia in Swedish courts. It may not be surprising to many, but it is undeniably serious. What additional special rights does Johan Hedin believe that Muslims should receive in Sweden, in addition to those that you already advocate?
i-HmmzH2soL456q6dsSPr9NC	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Tobias Andersson for the opportunity to correct a possible misunderstanding about this. If you hear the whole interview with my party chairman, it is absolutely clear that we do not intend to change anything in the legislation that exists. On the other hand, we want the police to use the restrictions that exist to ensure that such demonstrations can take place without the police being put at the tactical disadvantage that would allow such situations to arise. Madam President, I would like This is a little interesting. It becomes so clear that the Swedish Democrats have a fundamental idea, namely anti-immigration. Everything else will be a means to that end, not least justice policy. It would also explain why we are proposing a wide range of measures that we understand and know are deeply counterproductive in order to overcome the problems that exist. Look at the science! Look what works. It's not shooting sharp or putting in the military. It's building trust.
i-C31L9gBboZpsMJc5Fpxyaa	Madam President, I would like In the interview Annie Lööf means that you would not get a demonstration permit, for example. The fact that it is the police that issue such permits is another issue, but the view was that Islam criticism should not be made in vulnerable areas and that it should not be allowed to do so during the Ramadan. Whether Annie Lööf then wants to implement this through legal text or by urging the police to act on certain principles is secondary, I would say. If the spirit is what Johan Hedin expresses, namely that Annie Lööf and the Center Party are of the opinion that Muslims cannot cope with Islam criticism or that such criticism is made in the area where they live, it could be perceived as xenophobic. One is therefore of the opinion that Muslims cannot perceive themselves and that the police therefore need to have a different application of the existing legal text when it comes to criticism of Islam. Is that so?
i-AUqZsA6uG1fA6JscqQv1bt	Madam President, I would like Tobias Andersson's argument is based on false premises. The Center Party does not want to change the order of things. Freedom of expression is a sacred foundation of liberal democracy and should be so. The alternative puts us on a sloping plane where it would go fast downhill. This is a very important principle to cherish. Madam President, I would like When I hear the rhetoric of the Swedish Democrats, I think of a fairy tale that I usually tell my children. It's about some pretty messed up pirates whose pirate ships are running a leak. Then they come up with the force that they have to drill a hole in the bottom to release the water, but it does not work. There's just more water coming in. Then they drill another hole and another hole. In the end, it's going so bad that the ship sinks. Madam President, I would like I pray to Gud that the Swedish Democrats and Tobias Andersson will never come to a decision on what the government's policy in the field of justice will be, because that would make Sweden a sinking ship.
i-EfhN3ehUTjUkNdRZ6B9MJp	Madam President, I would like The Center Party and the Green Party share many views on justice policy. We have the same attitude towards the police and the same view of relationship-building work, the same view of the need to interact with good forces and also the same view of the need for continuous development work within the police. We definitely share the reluctance to suspect immigrants as a group, as the Swedish Democrats often do here. I also hope for a consensus on the issue of police resources. There is a Committee initiative by the Green Party that is about strengthening the police and releasing all the police forces that are currently being forced to do civilian tasks at the police contact centre, at receptions and so on. I just want to ask Johan Hedin whether the Center Party will support this committee initiative.
i-CCcnkaKZ7zmv8V6FvCU2oK	Madam President, I would like This is primarily a matter for debate in the Committee on Finance because it is about money. But I'm going to tell you right now that I'm a little hesitant about solving a problem by making more money. We have spent a great deal of money to the police over the years, and we need somewhere to start thinking about what we get for the money. To steer through the budget is, I say, a little bit like steering with a rope. You can remove operations by pulling the rope, but you can't make business grow by pressing the rope. Something else is required there. It takes leadership. When I meet police officers, I am often struck by the amazing skills they have as individual employees, but that is something that does not fully work in terms of management culture, management structure and organisation. I would like us to address these problems and correct the possible leadership problems in order to make better use of the resources we provide to the police. They are considerable today, to be said.
i-4ipaLt1KrTGK2VMJyA94Gy	Madam President, I would like I do not rule out that there may be leadership problems and that action may be needed there. Then it should also be accompanied by some kind of claim against the chief police officer, because he is ultimately responsible. Then I would just like to point out that the consequences of the actual lack of resources, the lack of money, at the end of the operation, in the local police areas, are that police officers who are urgently needed in police activities to work on preventive work to strengthen relations and set limits cannot do so because they are forced into civilian services. It's an urgent need. We can solve this emergency. There is nothing to prevent us from solving the emergency here and now with a supply of resources, while at the same time putting pressure on the police leadership for shortcomings in management and control. As I said, these processes can run parallel. But if we do not provide resources now, it is not Anders Thornberg who pays, but it is the citizens who do not get a police officer present. Victims and police officers who do not get enough colleagues pay that price.
i-TDKgSKV81N7MqUZXmhDEgd	Madam President, I would like I do not doubt for a second that it is the greatest sense and the will to improve that lies behind the Green Party's initiative. But I'm not sure that would work. I'm not sure the money goes where it's supposed to go. We have seen many different examples, not least with regard to the child of mourning in the justice chain, the NFC. There we have been constantly pointing out shortcomings and problems, and we have tried to provide resources, but not enough has happened in this area. I am concerned that this would happen in this case as well. I had the privilege of meeting the American police officers who were here and talking to the Swedish police as experts in gun violence. They highlighted a few things. One of them was accountability, i.e. accountability when it comes to managers. And for that to happen, good evaluation is needed. These are instruments that are lacking in Swedish politics. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank and commend both the Green Party and the Moderates, who talk a great deal about trust and confidence-building, something that is absolutely essential for us to succeed in reversing the situation.
i-6P6JQ8btvu4AfyMMf5HAWN	Madam President, I would like The blue-brown parties – M, SD, KD and L – blame the Easter weekend riots for lack of integration. We hear politicians who say in the pulpit that they want to re-establish the dominance of the majority society. Other parties want the police to shoot sharp at their own people. This is done in countries that we condemn in Sweden. It is done in the worst of dictatorships. After two years of Corona crisis, the blue-browns have nothing to come with. They say that integration is too bad, but they do not put forward any proposals that strengthen vulnerable areas or create easier ways to enter the community. Had they seriously cared about the greatest protection factor, which we all know in this House is schooling, would it not have been about how school can be strengthened in vulnerable areas? Had the parties been serious about integration and worried that new arrivals will suffer from overcrowding, the conversation would have been about how we build away the housing shortage? Had they seriously worried that new arrivals would be affected by unemployment, the talks would have been about SFI from day one and how we create jobs across the country through aggressive labour market policies? Instead, however, the parties, from the Liberals to the Swedish Democrats, are inciting themselves to rubber bullets and water cannons and to the fact that it is unacceptable that they should not be integrated at the same time as the police should shoot at first hand. We need to build a more spacious and stronger Sweden by investing in society and people in it. It is the most important and efficient integration engine.
i-6n6xmAwiVPYsScgbA23yHr	Madam President, I would like When the stone is thrown at an injured, lying policewoman, I am of the opinion that preventive measures are too late to use. Linda Snecker focuses on unemployment and schooling while we could see people who have not even started their schooling as part of the riots, as well as people who have passed their working age. Both children and old people participated. It was seemingly family activities where the parallel society manifested its anger and hatred for Sweden and what we stand for by trying to murder police officers. The police had the right to use their service weapon. It was also done by warning shots. But, of course, under the emergency regulations, other types of violence could have been used there. Does the Left Party have any suggestions for solutions other than restricting freedom of expression?
i-5y44MPgYjxCzjxuUqTE8yk	Madam President, I would like The Left Party has in no way asked us to restrict freedom of expression. On the other hand, the Order Act should be used more effectively. Tobias Andersson talks about the Sweden we stand for. It is interesting that Tobias Andersson stands for a Sweden that means less integration and more differences between people. It is a heated and xenophobic rhetoric with which Tobias Andersson is concerned. If the Swedish Democrats had really wanted to correct the riots, the Swedish Democrats would have talked about the police's methods. But because there is no knowledge of how the police work, they can only talk about more weapons and about the use of water cannons. It's ignorance. I feel sorry for the Swedish Democrats for not knowing more about the police's work.
i-DvmJ1rXUMUMc5FbMj36Gd2	Madam President, I would like These are measures that have also been requested by police officers, not just politicians. It becomes clear that the left-wing party's so often shown police hatred shines through on this issue as well. The focus from Linda Snecker after the riots has been on hating the police, the Police Authority and its organisation instead of looking at what she as a politician can do to create better conditions for counteracting this type of riots in the future and, if they appear, actually fighting them. Instead, the solution of the Left Party has been to say that the law of order should be applied in a way that restricts freedom of expression to a greater extent. The Administrative Court has now ruled that it was wrong for the police to refuse a demonstration permit in Borås. Does Linda Snecker think she knows the question better than the administrative court, and does she intend to try to continue to work for a different application than that which the police and administrative court consider appropriate?
i-UqG19VK22m38915GyiT5zM	Madam President, I would like I am the only one in this House who has actually talked about the police method that the police are going to work on, the special police tactic, which is a method of protective equipment, with guidance and with vehicles to deal with such riots that took place during the Easter weekend. There has not been a word from the Swedish Democrats about this, not a word about how we can protect the people of Sweden when criminals come here to create chaos. The Swedish democrats have not raised a word about it. If criminals with far-right views are to manifest their views in Sweden, the police must be prepared. Otherwise, police officers will be injured on the streets of Sweden. That's exactly what happened. That is why the police must have better resources to deal with criminals who come here and want to manifest xenophobia.
i-Ez461d4cTFZk3EyeFoYywR	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank you for this debate, but I think it is appropriate to say: this is not how it should be in Sweden. As I said in my previous speech, I agree with the Prime Minister that Sweden can do better. On May 1 they had that text on banners in different places in the country. But it is the government – the Social Democrats – that is responsible for the situation we have. It's Morgan Johansson's responsibility – he can't blame anyone else – according to his own quote a few years ago. I would like to do something as unusual as quoting the Swedish Prime Minister from a press conference the other day. She said that integration has been too bad and that there has been too much migration, a weak society with too weak resources for social services, the police and the school and too weak laws to prosecute crimes and combat social problems and for weak efforts to break long-term unemployment. She's absolutely right. The Social Democrats are responsible for this. Morgan Johansson is responsible for this, which is why he should be replaced. The government should be replaced. This government has made Sweden worse, and developments have gone in the wrong direction in the years that Morgan Johansson has been Minister of Justice. Words are not enough. It is not enough to write in the government declaration that the gangs should be broken. Political action and leadership are also needed. We are now in the shadow budget from the Christian Democrats, with our budget friends, 500 million SEK more than the government to just equipment, to water cannons. But the Attorney General remains passive. That's not good enough.
i-6qWzF5SVXowsrKs3prnqnF	Madam President, I would like I wonder what the Christian Democrats and Andreas Carlson think about the Swedish police leadership being obliged to answer when it is not handled in a sharp manner during the riots. Do the Christian Democrats think it would have been better if we had hundreds of shots fired by the police during the riots? Do the Christian Democrats see a risk that this rhetoric can influence the extremists in both camps, as the Minister of Justice pointed out? They're Islamists and right-wing extremists. Do you see a risk when politicians seem to call for more shooting from the Swedish police? And do the Christian Democrats have any comment on the extremely powerful criticism that came from the Police Federation? I note that the Christian Democrats have written a new article – in a different tone, may I say – on the riots. Does that mean that you have looked over and backed a little from the tone of the Saturday interview? If so, will there also be an excuse for the police officers who were discredited by the criticism that they did not shoot sharply?
i-HKkMGZKcscLQWMG7efw2iN	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Martin Marmgren, for the questions! There were a few of them. I'll try to answer everyone. No, it's not about hundreds of shots. The police shot sharp in Norrköping. There were three injured. A local police officer described the situation as turning around. It was like turning a hand around. That's when it turned. That is exactly the effect that the police want to achieve once they shoot sharp. And it's a relevant question why they didn't do it in many other places and why it took so long in Norrköping. The answer that we ourselves have and which is part of the rhetorical question is that the police need more alternative weapons, more weapons between the gun and the baton. I don't really understand the question. Many people have misinterpreted this and mistranslated it into something completely different from what it is. But the fact that the police, when you're at risk of being killed, can shoot sharp is self-evident. It is the police who should have the monopoly of violence, not the thugs.
i-XKsbvUoavYLGunW9j9kzw9	Madam President, I would like We fully agree on who should have the monopoly of violence. It is also quite natural that police officers themselves can evaluate whether they should have shot or not in certain situations. They're the ones with the skills, they're the ones who've been in the situation. It is quite another matter that a politician criticises the police for not shooting. She does not have the knowledge, and there is also a dangerous rhetoric there that indicates that politicians want policemen to shoot more. It is the police who make those assessments, and it is the police who see the risks of shooting at a crowd. I wonder if Andreas Carlson does not see the difference between the police doing their own evaluation, that colleagues on the ground reflect on it and that a politician criticises the police for not shooting. We agree that the police need more tools. Such an investigation is also taking place, and as the Minister of Justice pointed out before, it is the police themselves who best decide what tools you need. I ask: does Andreas Carlson not see the problem with a politician criticizing the police for not shooting?
i-T8X8F6uQKWoFjBysEFW9Ex	Madam President, I would like I disagree with the question. To raise an issue that is fully relevant is not, per se, to criticise the police officers who were in place. On the contrary, it is to back them up and stand on their side. As the Minister of Justice, to give this a full interpretation of the fact that we wanted to bring about a massacre is much worse. Is it that the individual police could be accused of causing a massacre if he fires a shot that is the problem, and that is why the political leadership must back up the Swedish police so that they actually maintain the monopoly of violence that they should have. The question is who had the monopoly of violence in these places when the police back out and the law-abiding people see their territory taken over by thugs. This is an extremely serious situation, which is why the police must be backed up at all times. The questions that have been asked are fully relevant and need to be addressed in the evaluation to be carried out by the police.
i-Fvz82qh3WHdKHmBTRWZET1	Madam President, I would like It is interesting to listen to the debate. On the one hand, we have a crazy person with crazy values who wants to use freedom of expression. We have a police officer who is undersized and without the right tools and education, who is unable to allow freedom of expression to prevail. On the other hand, we have fantastic police officers who nevertheless stand in the front line and are injured when they stand up for our freedom and security. And here we have a debate that points to extremes. At this point, we need to do everything. We really need to make sure that the police get more resources. We have to make sure they get the right tools. We must ensure that they receive training. But we also need to work preventively. In these riots, we saw children with their parents. We have a campaign aimed at social services that wants to put the picture of social security in our country kidnapping children. It is incredibly worrying and a threat to our entire democracy when government officials should be afraid to make decisive decisions. We have talked far too little about parents' responsibilities and responsibilities. Parents' rights today prevail in absurdity. We have also talked far too little about the extremes in these areas being allowed to govern the broad masses, who want something completely different, because we have been afraid to talk about that there are forces that do not stand up for children's, women's and LGBTQ people's rights. In a secular state, one can actually live together if we ensure that these systems are maintained. In the situation we are in today, I believe that we need to do everything that is said in this House. It is about early, clear and strong action as well as ensuring that the police and the rule of law are strengthened.
i-VEpQh3dWxBgURck3vCQak9	Madam President, I would like I am seriously quite shaken by the debate here today. We hear words such as, subjugating parallel societies, and, re-establishing the dominance of the majority society. These are parties that want dawn raids, expulsions of everything and everyone and censuses. These are proposals that describe a fascist society, and I know that Juno Blom and I do not agree in any way with the words that are spoken. I think the post that Juno Blom gave earlier about freedom of expression was incredibly important and good. But what frightens me is the party that the Liberals want to cooperate with, the party that wants dawn raids, subdue parallel society and re-establish the domination of the majority society.
i-WAXvjsbkgpzTUvzR34wMeu	Madam President, I would like The social development that we have seen in Sweden and which has led us to see these terrible riots during Easter is a consequence of the fact that there has been a huge fear of touch to talk about the challenges that exist in our society. We have not stood up for the basic democratic principles that should apply to everyone, especially all the children of our country, but have allowed parallel societies to emerge. Liberals are clear that we do not believe in the continuation of this government. We are also aware of the parliamentary situation. We are also clear that we should be able to talk to outside parties such as the Left Party and the Swedish Democrats and settle matters where we think equally without negotiating away a single liberal valuation that we consider important to our society. We have that security and integrity as a liberal party.
i-2o8M3DVoE47T9xgdndjZbv	Madam President, I would like There will not be a single liberal evaluation left when the Liberals enter and cooperate with the Swedish Democrats. I would like Juno Blom, who has been party secretary to a party leader who has taken the step of legitimising the Swedish Democrats, to be well aware that everything that the Liberals are fighting for and of which I agree will be as blown away. We need to get rid of parallel communities. There should be no hate campaigns against social services. We must ensure that children and young people in our vulnerable areas have the right to education and life that they must have. All of this will be blown away, because you want to cooperate with a party that has no problem taking any fascist action. These are fine words from the Liberals, but they will only be words. When you work together with the Swedish Democrats, there will be nothing left of what Juno Blom so badly wants. I'm terrified!
i-2dK8KsFp1iAZ9DQkjmy7XB	Madam President, I would like Linda Westerlund Snecker can feel completely calm. To settle matters of substance policy where you think as much as other parties but based on the values in which you are deeply founded – that's how you develop a society. One of the reasons I went into politics myself was that I saw that the government that is now in power is not able to manage the development that has taken place and what it means for all the vulnerable children and young people with whom I came in contact in my role as responsible for the work against honour violence in Sweden. I am deeply concerned about the injustice of how we treat, view and judge children, and I am absolutely convinced that a clear liberal voice in a bourgeois government is a conscience when it comes to seeing each individual. On the other hand, I have no problem settling matters with other parties, regardless of which, in matters where we consider that we feel the same.
i-T6WxvLHp3PcK1tawWof8NC	Madam President, I would like Juno Blom from the Liberals talks about the parents' responsibility, that is, if you are a responsible parent, it will not go bad for your children. I've met a lot of parents out in Järva who are struggling with their children but where one or more of the sons still become criminals. At a meeting I arranged, Johan Pehrson attended. There, one of the parents who I know is fighting up Liberals' proposal to evict families. The translator didn't want to translate. Such strong words were used, and so strong was the anger against the proposal. It is these parents that we need to interact with, with which society needs to engage and build alliances, also in order to strengthen confidence in social services and for preventive work to work. With rhetoric and a policy that pushes those parents away from us, we will have more vulnerability to children, more crime and more vulnerability in vulnerable areas. I wonder how the Liberals think about these issues.
i-PLr5hKbs3z8d9aY1MvoiN4	Madam President, I would like I have also met these children in these areas. I have met girls and boys in the areas you have worked in, Martin Marmgren, who have never felt that they have been listened to or received the help they are entitled to and need. They are children who have been brought out of the country or who have had an upbringing of honour-related violence and oppression. At the same time, I have met parents who have really done everything they can, who have appealed to social services to get input for their children and who have been worried at night trying to find them. I understand the picture you express. Of course, there are parents who do what they can, and yet things are not going well. But I still stand by the fact that in our country it has been a far too strong parent's right, at the cost of not having the courage to make demands and to demonstrate the obligations and responsibilities of parents, and that we have had a fear of talking about the values in which we differ considerably from each other according to what the legislation has intended.
i-RigVmQayGmPqZ11mdvKgX1	Madam President, I would like Of course we should look after the children. Of course, the children's right is drumming the parents' rights. If parents expose children to crime – honour-related violence and oppression – society should be stronger and stand on the children's side. It does not change the question that we need, as much as we can, to build alliances with parents and local communities. We don't do that by saying we're gonna evict families. Nor do we do that in the bloc to which the Liberals belong, which wants to expel families and deploy the military. It is clear how difficult it will be in this context to have an impact on what the Liberals call liberal values. I also find it a little difficult to see, as Linda Westerlund Snecker was into, how the Liberals' slightly smaller party would be more important for the right-wing conservative bloc than what the Swedish Democrats' much larger party is. Promises that you can't compromise with any liberal values become mathematically a little harder to get to work.
i-NHHAzsNNGhbp6YF2iY5EcC	Madam President, I would like Personally, I am much more concerned about the policy that the Green Party has pursued during the period that I have been sitting here. Within the cooperation we had in the January agreement there were many sensible reforms that we considered important to implement. Time and again sticks were put in the wheel precisely because there is a concern to talk about a shovel as a shovel. There will be snow mash of issues that are important, which mean something to each individual child. If we are to dare change, we must also have a picture of reality. Sweden is a different country today than it was 20 years ago. If we cannot say so, we will not make sure to include all those who are to be part of the construction of society. Only then, as the honourable Member is concerned, can we build trust in each other. This cannot be done by being unclear about the work that has been done for so long in this country for the individual rights and freedoms of children and women.
i-9k2YVQr4jefqrDXb8pwJ4K	Madam President, I would like We all agree that the violence and crime that we saw during the Easter riots need to be vigorously combated. We need to strengthen the police. The police need the right tools and the right resources. But this is still symptom management. We need to reverse developments, especially in vulnerable areas. It takes a lot of effort over a long period of time. Since I am a police officer with a great deal of experience in these areas, I know the importance of having local communities with us in our efforts. It is when police, school, social services and civil society collaborate and create trust together with traders, associations, communities and not least parents that we reach. That's when we build resistance to crime and violence. I've seen this in Rinkeby, even if we're not in any way there yet. I saw it in Jönköping when there were no riots there. That is why I am also concerned about the rhetoric that comes from the Swedish Democrats in particular, but which also comes partly from the right-wing Conservative bloc. They're targeting groups instead of crime. The Swedish democrats tend to take the lead, as Tobias Andersson also pointed out. The others will follow. Udden often targets immigrants, especially Muslims. This polarises, fertilises exclusion, deepens gaps between citizens and authorities, and complicates crime prevention. If the police were to shoot much more, there would be massively increasing spirals of violence that would push our areas into escalating downward spirals. We don't want to go there. We need a policy that is hard on crime but which sees people, who are inclusive towards people, who focus on building alliances, trust and resilience in the local community. This is how we together build resistance to violence in the short term and in the long term.
i-TwRdf26fZDZXuUVRx6L5zY	Madam President, I would like I thank Martin Marmgren for his speech. I think that Martin Marmgren, based on his own experience as a police officer, describes a reality that unfortunately is not what we wish it to be. We have agreed with the Green Party on the current shortcomings. There are too few policemen, not the right legislation and not the right tools. The Green Party has presented a committee initiative with reinforcements to the Swedish police of half a billion SEK. We welcome that. Of course, they would have an effect here and now if that money went to the Police Department. One suggestion has been that the money should focus on maintaining law and order and recruiting more civilian employees. Now there is a draft budget from four parties in the Committee on Finance, which contains half a billion more to the police. Can the Green Party consider supporting the draft budget so that it will be a majority for the 500 million crowns?
i-EV8CN4fyGAMpbLe38QuMav	Madam President, I would like I thank Johan Forssell for the question. I am pleased that we agree on the need for a stronger Swedish police. I can honestly say that I am not familiar with all the details of the draft budget from your four parties. I dare to say that there are other things in the draft budget that are not just a question of strengthening the Swedish police. That's why it's gonna be a little bigger than just talking about a backup. Of course, I will vote for the Green Party's draft budget. However, the committee initiative on the table is in a parallel process. There is an opportunity to shake hands and unite and outside the budget process make sure to get the money that we agree that Swedish police need emergency.
i-AJPUMZiqzzjeDndir92VNa	Madam President, I would like I thank Martin Marmgren for his reply. The very process of the committee initiative has been postponed or rejected. In any case, it should be addressed at a later date – if I have understood correctly what has been done in the Committee on Finance. But the problems are here and now. The situation is worrying. And it is not only linked to Easter riots, it is also about passport handling and so on. The money is needed now. I understand that the Green Party wants to vote on its own draft budget. It's natural. But if you want a majority in favour of change, and that there really is going to be a real change, it is the draft budget of our four parties that can achieve such a success. It is precisely the case that we do not have a majority today. Nevertheless, I would like to call on the Green Party and Martin Marmgren to take an extra look at the draft budget so that the police can get their money now and not possibly at any time later.
i-87WgLn2kfMyxPohY5M3nGh	Madam President, I would like I thank you for the offer, Johan Forssell, and I would like to offer you a counteroffer. It is not only in the committee initiative that the half billion from the Green Party lies, but also in the Environment Party's draft budget. I therefore welcome and call on all four right-wing conservative parties to vote for the Environment Party's draft budget, because then we will get that half billion directly into the process.
i-XgQt7mKCHPzVxc7Zchyegu	Madam President, I would like Many of the Koran riots took place in what the Swedish Democrats describe as not only criminally burdened but also culturally burdened areas that distinguish themselves from the Swedish ones. There is another value base, other standards and – if you draw it to its head – other legal systems. Martin Marmgren has worked in parts of these areas, and the question I have to ask Martin Marmgren whether he has also experienced that these areas are not only criminally burdened but also culturally burdened. It was not only gang-criminal or previously active criminal actors who participated, but it was small children who accompanied their parents and old people who probably retired long ago, if they have now worked some time, who were involved in this senseless violence against the Swedish police. Then it is not just crime, it is also a cultural issue. Has Martin Marmgren experienced this?
i-JxXaoPYQLPwAK7Yw4Jmh84	Mr President, I would like to I thank Tobias Andersson for the question. As far as culturally burdened areas are concerned, this is a concept that I see stamping whole areas. As Tobias Andersson says, I have worked a lot here and met many of the people, and we have a great deal of common ground regarding the rejection of violence and crime, as well as the need for a strong democracy. I would therefore like to turn to that concept. However, Tobias Andersson is right that there are examples of children and old people having participated, and that is very worrying. It is sad and disturbing, and it suggests a social problem of segregation that has created a breeding ground for anger and hatred of society. This is extremely worrying, and we need to work long-term to get to it. We cannot sweep these problems under the carpet, and, as Tobias Andersson says, we cannot just blame it on crime. Instead, this is something we will have to work on for a long time to come.
i-DvSNv4oJKW6vEHxMsrpfCd	Mr President, I would like to From the environmental partisan side and from elsewhere it has at least historically often been hot that it will mean a so-called cultural enrichment if we receive many to Sweden. We have warned from the Swedish democrats that this might not be the case without people from cultures who in no way meet Swedish values and standards and that, on the contrary, people could be a cultural burden. We are now looking at the Koran riots, and while the majority of society condemns what has taken place, that is, the violence condemned by everyone in this House, we see how it is hailed in Arab-speaking Facebook groups. That is where you stand and appreciate this. Mothers boast that their sons threw stones at the police. It is at least a good start that the Green Party can now go from seeing mass immigration as culturally enriching to at least partially admitting that it has been a cultural burden.
i-RmTtF7aAxXgGG6bYgRLnAs	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I am aware that violence has been hailed in various places. It's disgusting. It is terrible that adults pay homage to the indiscriminate violence that befell our police officers. As I said myself, I have been stoned, and I have been debating and writing about violence against the police for some ten years. I still strongly oppose concepts such as cultural burden. These are people we're talking about. They are individuals, most of whom – an overwhelming majority – contribute to our society. You go to work, you maintain a large part of our welfare and you cooperate. They want a democracy, a free society and a peaceful society, as well as a society without crime. Of course there are problems, and of course there have been mistakes politically that have led to segregation. This applies not least to the housing and school segregation we have. However, stamping people, whole groups and whole areas and calling them a cultural burden is, for me, a rhetoric that is a dead end. I don't like it very much.
i-GDrqmftsznkvnNXnkkrLcB	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank you for the debate, which has, in a way, been illustrative. We will continue to strengthen the police with more resources, more equipment and more employees in exactly the way we have done so far during our period. We will also invest in preventive work, i.e. school, social services and leisure activities, to try to break the new recruitment to the criminal gangs. That's where one of the dividing lines to the right parties goes, because the right does not care about it. However, following this debate, I understand that the dividing line is worse than that, because the rhetoric we have heard from the right – the rhetoric of war, division and incitement – has taken a few further steps forward in this debate. What we have heard from the Swedish Democrats during the debate sounds like Donald Trump on steroids. Further steps are being taken to try to stamp and blame groups for the violence perpetrated by a few extremists. We can't have that. In fact, we must be able to have a discussion that is much higher than what we have heard from the right in this debate.
i-M9QnBoyz88RnkEZLfAw3xx	Mr President, I would like to Thomas Morell has asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure that a state-owned company complies with the legislation in force and that infringements reported by the Proffs newspaper are not repeated. It is working intensively to promote healthy competition, road safety and a good working environment in the road transport sector. For this reason, the government has introduced new rules in the field of road transport, including by strengthening client responsibility and enabling so-called "sticking". Sweden has also pushed in the EU to get through a so-called mobility package, which was adopted in summer 2020. As part of the implementation of the mobility package, in May 2021 the Government introduced new fines for infringements of driving and rest rules. It was then also possible to decide on an advance on the penalty fee, for example when the driver has spent the normal weekly rest period in the vehicle. On 1 December 2021, the sanction fee for unauthorised cabotage operations was increased from SEK 40 000 to SEK 60 000. This means that Sweden has among the highest sanction rates across the EU. The message is clear: G oda working conditions and fair competition should apply on the roads. Companies with state ownership are subject to the same laws as privately owned companies, such as the Companies Act. The Swedish Companies Act provides for a division of responsibilities between owners, board members and management. The company's board and management are responsible for the company's organisation and management of its affairs and the day-to-day management of the company's operational operations. I assume that state-owned companies comply with laws and regulations. In addition, companies with state ownership in accordance with the State's ownership policy must act exemplaryly in the area of sustainable entrepreneurship and otherwise act in such a way that they enjoy public confidence. I assume that this too will be followed. Postnord decided at the end of 2021 on new targets for sustainable logistics that extend to the middle of the decade. I look forward to following the company's work on the updated sustainability agenda. The Ministry of Industry is engaged in a continuous dialogue with Postnord on the challenges in the road transport supply chain and the importance of ensuring order and order and the fair conditions of all its suppliers. I take seriously the reports of non-compliance. These are issues that I will continue to prioritise in discussions and ownership dialogues with the company.
i-HApr9ZkTuQxL4sTFtMeKPw	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Here we are again. This is the sixth time in the order and the second time with the present minister; it was four times before that with the former minister. It is the same case: Postnord and Postnord do not comply with the legislation in force. In the answer, the Government said that the message is clear from the government: There should be order and order in our ways. I'm the first to agree with that. There's got to be order. It must be fair competition for the companies that are out there working. It shall be reasonable conditions for those employed in the transport industry. Then it must also cost money when you do wrong. Action must be taken by the State against those who violate the rules. Then it will be very strange that we stand here for the sixth time discussing Postnord and Postnord's part in this unhealthy business. They're constantly typifying in contexts where the police report crimes. For me, it is disturbing that a state company does not have better order. It's disturbing. The government issued a press release on 22 April last year. It stated that the government had decided that road hauliers who violate the rules of rest should pay fines and that foreign road hauliers should pay the fee immediately. Here it was a foreign haulage company that had the tractor itself; Postnord owned the trailer and what was on board. The press release also stated that in order to enforce fines against foreign carriers that violate driving and rest rules, the Government has also decided that foreign carriers should pay the penalty immediately in the course of a road check. If the company does not pay immediately, the police will take steps to prevent the continued journey, for example by pushing the vehicle until the fee is paid. This is introduced to ensure that foreign companies pay fees in case of non-compliance. ..................................................... Bang, it said, Postnord was there – again. The question is: do we have time to have another debate before the summer break? Postnord is a song out in the field in these contexts, and the question is when the police take the next transport. I have printed out all the answers I have received from both current and former ministers. It's the same text. You basically change the date of the answer itself and add some meaning somewhere, but otherwise it is the same text. The first debate in which I received a reply was on 6 February 2020. Today we have the month of May 2022, and it is the same. Would it not be better, instead of giving the same answer in every interpellation debate, to really ensure that there is order in the state companies so that they comply with the rules? I am disturbed by the constant presence of state companies in the context of crime. I realize that no human being is flawless, but that it keeps rehearsing bothers me. Most people who get fines try to do the right thing next time; that's the whole thing with fines. I look forward to an answer from the Government.
i-QmmPe66CSLp4HVdFFb4CVX	Mr President, I would like to This issue is important to me – perhaps as important to me as it is to Thomas Morell himself – although the issue is very complex for a company like Postnord. One should be aware of the complexity of putting the spirit back in the bottle. Thomas Morell also knows that the intention was good from the beginning when cabotage was allowed: to spare the environment empty transport and to be able to fill with cargo on the way back to the destination of origin. The problem was that the spirit was released from the bottle properly, and we got an enormous number of rogue companies into the Swedish labour market. Of course, this has also affected the state giant Postnord. In conversation Postnord emphasizes this, and they work very intensively to try to get the spirit back in the bottle, for example by signing code of conduct agreements with all suppliers. I think they have a fill-up where 84% of all transports are now signed with code of conduct, and they have great controls. There is also something positive, Thomas Morell, about the police discovering this kind of problem on a regular basis. Just a few years back, there wasn't even police control of the operation. With the new tools – on the one hand the new high fines, and on the other hand the possibility of classing – it seems that the industry is moving a little in the right direction. This is probably the first time we can say it in modern times. Last week I had a meeting with one of Sweden's largest construction companies. I was shocked by the fact that, in 2022, the company claimed something like Thomas Morell's firm in the construction sector. They warned that much of the labour force that comes from other countries and is not controlled means that today several construction companies cannot win contracts because they are simply out of competition. It is exactly the same thing that is behind the fact that we have many shipments in Sweden that take place illegally with people who would not be allowed to work under those circumstances. We have an ownership dialogue with Postnord. It has been mentioned earlier here in the speaker's chair; Thomas Morell and I have talked about it twice, but it has also been up with my predecessors. We raise this issue and follow it continuously. I have the impression that Postnord is taking this issue seriously as they are supposed to. At the same time, there is a major problem with the large fluctuations that Postnord has. As consumers, we order so much more transportation for Christmas, for example, when we send presents to each other across the country. I also understand Postnord's need on certain occasions to bring in a much greater capacity than it has. Although Postnord stands out with a lot of its own staff and many of its own trucks, they take in extra, and there it slips – just like in this case – through things that hurt Postnord's reputation. Postnord states to me that these are things that they lose out on because there is constant news that carriers within the Postnord system are not running legally and are to be trampled. It is very bad and gives bad reputation to both the state and the company. Mr President, I would like to I can promise Thomas Morell that I will continue to follow this issue very actively. I think we agree that this should not be on Swedish roads. We shall have Swedish conditions. We shall have Swedish agreements that apply when driving a truck. The police must have the necessary resources. We've had a special project. The police should now do more checks again, which I am very pleased about. More people get caught. I think, like the interpellier, this is a way to get the industry to self-sanction.
i-BYdeYa2dgCtd3cVcat23Jr	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The Government has a background in the trade union movement and has worked to ensure that there are nice conditions in all sectors of our labour market. It should reasonably disturb the Government as much as it bothers me to see this show up time and again. We could spend hours in this debate describing what is around these illegal vehicles in the form of arms, drugs, alcohol and people smuggling. It's a black trade that's completely indescribable. You buy people in a market that you go in and buy a liter of milk, and then you take advantage of these people the most. There are other things around this too. You bring in young girls who live as prostitutes. In this soup, Postnord shows up time and again. This should reasonably make the Government feel exactly the same as I do: this is not acceptable. The government has the power to question the management of the company. It is quite clear that they are not up to the task they have from the state. Repeatedly getting these answers is not good enough. The Government says in its interpellation response: Dismissed? We wouldn't have had six interpellations on the subject if it had worked. It is quite clear, given all these amendments, that the measures are not sufficient. The Government must take immediate action to bring about a change. We cannot stand here and have a debate after a debate about a state-owned company that figures in these contexts. You have to do something about it. Clearly, management is not working. There are Swedish haulage companies that comply with the regulations and are available to the market. How difficult can it be to order such a shipment? You don't have to buy in the spot market that exists-- that's what we're talking about. There are hauliers who offer decent conditions, where drivers receive their wages and where all social conditions are met. But Postnord insists on buying these cloudy transports. That's not good enough. I would like to comment on another interesting part of the interpellation response. What does the Government mean by the wording is that it is working intensively to promote fair competition? Can the Government describe what is meant by it and how it is expressed? What does the Government really mean about the government working intensively? As I said, we have the sixth debate today. If the work had been intense, we wouldn't be here today. Perhaps we could have stood somewhere else and talked about something quite different, but at least we would not have stood here and had this debate once again. The crux is that there can even be another debate before the summer break. But I hope we don't have to.
i-FiaNuFi5NoZjt1qvuGLaNQ	Mr President, I would like to I thank Thomas Morell for his follow-up questions. I have nothing against us continuing to talk about fair conditions on the roads in Sweden. It deserves to come up often in the debate. But it will be a little nudged by Thomas Morell not to see that this area is one of those that the government has paid the greatest attention in recent years. Making this whole change of law and starting to turn the clock back has been an effort that several departments have been very busy with. This is a regulation that takes place first and foremost at European level. That's where Minister Eneroth worked. Had it not been for Minister Eneroth, we would not have received the new rules and laws in force from the beginning of the year. And had it not been for, for example, the current Minister of State Danielsson and his work in the European Parliament, this would never have gone through Parliament. In addition, we have allocated extra resources to the police in Sweden, with SEK 75 million a year to train 400 new traffic monitors. We have also increased to the highest price for infringements across Europe. So I think it is rather nice to say that we have not spent any time trying to regulate the labour market. It remains a problem that much of what got out of the bottle when we released cabotage traffic is very difficult to push back there. It's a big problem. Now the police and the authorities are working. We are now setting up an office in each county to make more raids on rogue employers. This is part of Minister Danielsson's new initiative to work against working life crime. I am pleased, too, that there is no contradiction between the parties today. That was not the case a few years ago. The employers' side and the trade union side are today equally concerned that this must be regulated, as there will be unfair competition against Swedish companies. They lose their bids and cannot compete if the opponents of the other company have an activity where Swedish wages and conditions do not apply. This is very difficult. As far as transport is concerned, I myself, like Thomas Morell, have spent a lot of time visiting, watching and meeting people who are directly or indirectly affected. I told you last time about a shocking experience of a visit to the port of Trelleborg. This is one of the areas where very much fake cabotage is staying overnight. Between 75 and 100 drivers live their lives in trucks and meet their needs between trucks. They may sometimes borrow a shower space from the port authority, but otherwise they live in a way that no one else would accept in our country. This was done in front of an open curtain. Everybody saw it happen. The authorities were side by side, and the police had no resources to deploy. There was a lot of crime around. Diesel thefts in Skåne increased. There were many problems with theft, smuggling and prostitution, in which Thomas Morell understands. That is why the government has put so much effort into tightening up laws and rules. It is one thing to do it in one country, Mr President, another thing to make it valid throughout Europe. It's probably a little nifty not to see that this is a high priority for the government. I will ensure that what is stated in the interpellation response is indeed followed up in our ownership dialogues. But again: It is not the case that it is the ministers who decide how the business is run in everyday life on the companies, but it is done through the company boards and management. This is done in accordance with the Companies Act. It is not something that a minister himself sits around, but we have to hand it over. After all, we have 44 more companies, and we are trying to have a regulatory framework that everyone has to comply with.
i-LNyU35wTopZzBpz2rHdUHy	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government for its answer. I am well aware that the Government cannot go in and screw up the operations of Postnord. But the Government is responsible for the state companies. If it is obvious that a company does not comply with laws and regulations, the owner must act. Just as the Government itself said, Postnord figures in a context that is not good for their business. It even creates pages in Norway where you warn about Postnord as a robber company. If I'd been in charge of the business, I'd have pulled my ears. The fact that a company that the Swedish state together with the Danish state is the owner of gets the stamp assailant company on it is remarkable. I am pleased that the Government has been out looking at the situation in the port of Trelleborg. The government should take some more of its colleagues out and look. I've offered that position several times. Come with my old colleagues in the police and see what it looks like out there! It is a trafficking of people that is completely indescribable and a criminality that flows around this. Traffic police have been punished for many years. When I left in 2007 at the Skara traffic police, we had three lucky teams with nine men in external service in each. Today there are a total of five of them. Of course they don't have time. It's easy to figure out. One of the sharpest units in Sweden is the one in Västerås. But there are no more than seven of them when they're out. It is enough that they get in two cars so the business stops, because they are busy with the two. In the meantime, it runs past lots of vehicles outside. This is a business for the criminals that the state must put an end to effectively. I really hope that's the case.
i-NfB982sRXajrSwbKqVUnnt	Mr President, I would like to I thank Thomas Morell again for a very important debate on the future for Sweden. Road transport is important, and we know that road transport will increase. If we do not succeed in putting an end to illegal shipments in Sweden, we risk getting a wild West situation in an entire industry. Nevertheless, the impression I get is that the new regulations, the possibility of squealing, the training of police officers and the fact that the police are now again giving priority to this crime a little higher make the press now bigger in the industry than it was just a few years ago. Several of the companies are now adapting their suit to the new rules. As Mr Morell points out, the fine also has a deterrent effect. No one wants their vehicle creaked, because it costs a lot of money and gives a bad reputation for your own haulage company. I think these laws and regulations actually push the problem back. But as the CEO of a construction company said this week: It is a very long way to go before the basic rule that Swedish conditions should apply to the Swedish labour market has an impact in all industries. Because of mobility in this sector, the problem has been even greater. In a survey conducted by the Transport Workers' Association during my time as LO Chairman, signs were registered for ordinary members, and it was then estimated to be about 3,000 illegal shipments in Sweden every day. If the police do not give priority to this crime, it can of course last indefinitely. We have a special responsibility for our state-owned companies, and I will not take it lightly. It would be strange if I were to change my life attitude just as I became a minister and responsible for the area. I thank Thomas Morell for a good discussion on the future.
i-2NxVjZxsPQVNgo1evoTWCX	Mr President, I would like to Alexandra Anstrell has asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs if she thinks it appropriate for a non-democratic nation to own such a large proportion of important Swedish energy infrastructure. Alexandra Anstrell has also asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs whether she intends to take any measures to reduce the risk and the threat involved. The interpellation has been handed over to me. Initially, I would like to point out that Sweden has an open economy with a strong emphasis on free trade. Foreign investment adds capital, knowledge and competence that is important for Sweden. At the same time, the government is aware that foreign investment in certain activities, such as critical infrastructure, may pose security risks. According to the Swedish Security Service, strategic acquisitions and investments in Swedish companies are one of the ways foreign power uses to achieve strategic benefits. Security issues are high on the government's agenda, and the government has already taken a number of initiatives to reduce the risk of unwanted foreign direct investment in operations that are of importance to Sweden's security and other activities needed to ensure particularly important societal functions. Since 1 January 2021, the rules of the Security Act also apply to transfers of security sensitive activities, which means, among other things, that the provisions have been tightened so that it is now possible to stop transfers of security sensitive activities. In 2019, the Government set up a study on a system for reviewing foreign direct investment in areas of protection. The report was reported in November 2021 and has since been referred. The study proposes, among other things, that investments in energy infrastructure should be subject to an audit system. The proposal is now being prepared in the Government Office. In order to operate electricity or gas networks, anyone who wants to build a pipeline must be tested first by the Swedish Energy Market Authority or the Government, which will test whether the operator is suitable. Authorisation is also required for the transfer of concessional pipelines. In the proposal for the implementation of the Electricity Market Directive regarding network activities, the Government has also proposed that the operation of electricity networks should be carried out in Sweden. In conclusion, our basic position must be to have an open society that welcomes investments that benefit Sweden. At the same time, the government is constantly working to strengthen and improve the already strong protection that exists against malicious or rogue actors.
i-SPCga3aBgHRAP58BzUquMQ	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for his reply. The share of foreign owners of Swedish wind power has nearly doubled in just a few years, and according to the industry organisation Svensk Vindenergi, the single largest owner today is a state-owned Chinese company. Technological developments have made wind turbines significantly higher, and wind turbines of over 300 metres are planned. Of course, it takes billions of dollars to build modern wind farms, and this type of capital is often found in large international companies or large states. China often uses its economic influence to gain political benefits. In the media yesterday we were able to hear the China analyst at FOI, Oscar Almén, say that it is not good to end up in an addiction position. He also said that there was a need to distinguish between investors and authoritarian countries. The direct investment investigation is now being prepared in the Government Office, to which the Minister refers, but the question is when we will see some further proposals on this issue. If you are not prepared, you are unprepared, and during the eight years of government of the Social Democrats it has been clear that they have been naive, blamed that they did not see it coming and so on. Mr President, I would like to We cannot afford to be unprepared when it comes to the important electrical readiness. Electricity use is high in several sectors, such as industry, transport, housing and services, and electricity use is increasing. Swedish society is dependent on electricity, and interference can have quite significant consequences for large parts of society. It's about far greater interference than the fact that you couldn't make coffee in Vega this morning. Disruptions affect electronic communications, transport, municipal technical supply, healthcare and financial services. Today, hydropower and nuclear power are the basis of Swedish electricity production. These are needed, because we need lots of electricity when we electrify more and more, even when it does not blow. Mr President, I would like to In December 2017, the Government commissioned the Swedish Armed Forces and the Gotland County Administrative Board to start development work for collaboration and organisation within the total defence on the island. The report is now ready and submitted to the government. One issue raised is the importance of clarifying at national, regional and local level which party signs agreements with whom and how funding will be made to increase total defence capabilities in the energy sector. This is important. I agree with the Minister that free trade is extremely important for our democracy and that foreign capital naturally enriches Sweden. But we must not be naive. In the current security policy situation, it is important to decide how appropriate foreign ownership of essential infrastructure is. Mr Putin's actions in recent months, and with that of Russia, have shown that we cannot always rely on foreign actors and the possibility of buying socially important resources such as electricity from other countries. As a result of Russia's invasion and war in Ukraine, the EU has stated that it will make itself less dependent on Russian products, including gas used for European electricity production. We sometimes buy electricity from other countries. I did not really get the answer to my question if the Minister thinks it appropriate for a non-democratic nation like China to own such a large proportion of important Swedish energy infrastructure.
i-NWFMq316j6eYLbe6xDWaQ9	Mr President, I would like to Alexandra Anstrell, I and the government agree that Sweden's already strong situation when it comes to electricity generation will be further strengthened. However, I do not share the image that Alexandra Anstrell is trying to paint that we would be unprepared. I note that already several years ago, work was being prepared on the strengthening of the security legislation, which came into force in January 2021, and that the then government already set up an investigation into foreign ownership in sensitive infrastructure in 2019. Alexandra Anstrell and I are both free trade friends, but we should not be naive in this – and that is not the government. Energy production is, of course, part of total defence as well as energy supply. Here we need to work more hand in hand to make the system work better. However, there has been some change in the ownership structure, In 1996, Vattenfall, Eon and Fortum owned 90 per cent of electricity production in the country. Today, ownership is considerably diversified. By 2024, the five largest owners will hold 60% of electricity production. In 2021, i.e. last year, the Chinese company CGN, to which Alexandra Anstrell refers, accounted for 2.3 percent of total electricity production in Sweden. This share is estimated to decrease to 2 percent in 2024. We also see that the Chinese company's share of the installed power will decrease. Nevertheless, Chinese CGN accounted for 6 percent of the number of wind turbines in Sweden, but the figure is of course higher for the specific park they own – 100 percent. In Norrbotten, where ownership is focused, the number is 35 percent, but it is 6 percent of the total number of wind turbines. I think it is important that we are an open free trade nation. I think it is a good thing that many other countries and actors want to invest in our energy system and in this way ensure that we continue to have one of Europe's lowest energy prices, even in harsh and difficult situations such as that Europe is experiencing right now. However, we should not be, and are not, naive in this. That is why we have clarified the security legislation, and that is why we have an investigation. I was asked when it will hopefully lead to a bill or measure. I hope this will come soon, but I cannot give an exact date to Alexandra Anstrell today. We are doing all these measures to strengthen. I have made it clear in the past that I have no problem at all with tightening up the legislation further, because we need to create a distance between ownership and operation. It is one thing to be able to own a wind turbine and ensure that it produces electricity and thus provides an economic advantage so that one can take out profits and another thing to be able to influence the operation and maintenance times. This needs to be clearly controlled by the Swedish authorities so that it does not run the risk of falling into the hands of other countries.
i-XMWiryM5knft8YYLZ1zBtL	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for the developed answer! I believe that Sweden is not sufficiently prepared in terms of electricity supply. My question was not about free trade in general, but more specifically whether it is so very clever that a non-democratic nation owns such a large and important share of Swedish infrastructure. I also believe that this work should be speeded up in view of the worrying security situation that we find ourselves in after Russia invaded Ukraine on 24 February. We don't have time to wait or to be unprepared. If we look at the offshore wind projects under investigation in the permit phase, we can see that there are a lot of people waiting in line. Even more is planned later, shows a compilation that Svensk Vindenergi has done. Last autumn we were told that the government commissioned Swedish power grids to expand the core network to our maritime territory to facilitate the expansion of offshore wind power. As a result, it becomes a form of hidden subsidies to wind power, because in practice it is a type of subsidy in the form of reduced connection charges for offshore wind projects. One might wonder whether this is the right way to go about the situation in the last six months and the rise in electricity prices. The problem in this case is not that projectors find it too expensive to build at sea as the conditions currently stand. Then they wouldn't be in line much. The government's proposals depend on other ideas or ideologies. Wouldn't it be better if the government allowed the Swedish power grid to focus on the acute core network deficiencies that we actually have and that we have now seen in the transmission capacity from north to south, given the huge electricity price differentials? Now some consumers still get money back for the cost of electricity. I have a house in Jämtland where my daughter has lived this winter. There the electricity cost has been quite low compared to my electricity prices in Haninge. However, I got back a lot more for my house in Jämtland, even though I paid a lot more for the electricity in Haninge. I think this is fucked up – it is those who have paid more that should get more back. I am thinking of the pensioner in Dalarna who received an electricity bill that was larger than his pension. He should get more back, not the ones who paid less. If you draw a parallel to the reduction in the connection charges for offshore wind turbines, it will also affect the consumer in the end. Increased costs for Swedish power networks ultimately mean increased charges for end customers. When talking about this, it was not mentioned that a majority of the consultation bodies said no to the proposal. Mr President, I would like to In previous debates on wind power, I have raised the importance of doing the right things for our future and for our children and their children's future. I believe that we lack sufficient research into how wind turbines affect us humans and our sleep and health and how wind power affects wildlife, such as reindeer, predators and birds. I have been told that Boverket does not have a government mandate to develop a policy or guidelines to guide municipalities and other actors in how wind power expansion can take place without what is negative in terms of psychosocial living conditions, noise and other things. Nor is it clear at national, regional and local level which party signs agreements with whom and how funding should take place. It feels like it's a rather big advance that takes place on an ideological basis, not on a fact-based basis. If China owns most of our wind turbines, who gets the electricity if there's a crisis or a war?
i-NMbvgFh2zr9n6eYzjKw89q	Mr President, I would like to Let me give you some factual information. China does not own most of our wind turbines. Just as I reported, Chinese CGN owns 6 percent of the number of wind turbines in Sweden. As far as security work is concerned, which needs to be speeded up, we are in complete agreement. It's necessary, and it's speeding up. When it comes to offshore wind power projects and core networks at sea, I note that the answer will be guilty if you do not want the core network to be built by Swedish power grids. That's what we did when we expanded hydroelectric power, so we did when we expanded nuclear power, and that's what we do when we build out wind power at sea. If we are to treat wind power at sea negatively in this respect, with regard to the core network itself, we will be obliged to give the answer as to why we should do this. We see how our entire society is changing and how industries are lining up to get more electricity so that they can work smarter and more efficiently, hire more people, have more profitability and improve the climate. Then more electricity – a lot of electricity – needs to be put in place quickly, and electricity needs to remain cheap. On this point, wind power on land and at sea is difficult to beat in our climate, where 60% of wind power production takes place in the winter and where offshore wind power has 50 percent more full hours and is less weather dependent than other wind power because it has a more even production. It is not a single solution that will be needed in the future. We as a country cannot afford to lock ourselves in to individual solutions, but we need to work on several fronts. Over the next ten years, Swedish power networks have 100 billion SEK at their disposal to upgrade the electricity grid. Most recently, a few weeks ago, 8.4 billion will be invested in northern Sweden to upgrade the electricity grid for the industries that need it there. But the work continues throughout Sweden. Swedish power networks have started an office in Gothenburg to better cater for southern Sweden and the power transmission needed between the regions. At the same time, they work with the main grid. When it comes to the effects of wind power, I have to say that some of the discussion sometimes seems excessive. Of course there's inconvenience with everything we do. There may be an aesthetic aspect, that you do not like to see wind turbines. There may be noises. I visited Jönköping, which is one of the municipalities that have wind turbines just outside. I was under a wind farm just to understand about how much it sounds. Just to get an idea of what we are talking about: Today the sound level is about 50 decibels, but when you stand directly under a wind turbine and measure the noise you hear, it is 42 decibels. It is clear that there may be situations where there is wind and it sounds something more, but let us not tie rice to our industry's back by painting wind power as more dangerous than any other of the power types we have, because it is essential for us to get much and cheap electricity in place quickly, as our industry and our households need in the future.
i-GgfBpMVksXX8ebHAEEXzN	Mr President, I would like to The Minister said that part of the debate seems excessive. Yet the Minister has clearly stated in the media that no wind turbines should be built in the Minister's municipality of residence. Furthermore, the Minister said that the development in the north of the electricity grid is good for the industries that are there. What about those who live there? I would recommend the minister to go up to Ragunda and meet Torbjörn who lives between two wind farms. He had to camp all last summer because his house became like a resonance box. So it was impossible to live in the house. This is a problem, and it needs to be taken seriously by the government. Then one cannot say that the debate seems a little exaggerated. Tell that to Torbjörn. I don't think he'll be too happy. It's a matter of not just agreeing. If you agree to hurry up, you also need to take the leader's shirt for it. And that is the responsibility of the government, Mr President. Several experts have warned that what we have seen this winter is not a single phenomenon, but that with more volatile prices this is something that we will be drawn for a long time to come. We were told yesterday that it is not good to get into an addiction position. Furthermore, we were told that there is a need to distinguish between investors and authoritarian countries. I have still not received an answer to my question, but I have only received a general answer that free trade is a good thing. But what about the specific question of having a non-democratic nation that owns a large part of Swedish wind power? If you're going to do huge operations like building 300 meters high wind turbines in our nature, you need to know that you're doing the right things. Then you need to know that you're doing the right things for our future, for our children and for our grandchildren.
i-McWqC7McHqHi6EVXAZrYpg	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Alexandra Anstrell. We need to know that we are doing the right thing for our future. Yes, we know we're doing the right thing for our future. If we are to have a good future with more jobs, more industries and more people moving into rural exodus areas so that they become settlements, then more electricity is needed. What can be a realistic solution in the near future and that provides enough cheap electricity and that comes quickly into place is wind power. You can like it or dislike it, but that's the truth and the reality. I grew up in Norrbotten, and I note that the parents' home that I grew up in now has doubled in property value precisely because Norrbotten was one of the first counties to say yes to large-scale wind power, the power that now enables a large industrialization in Norrbotten with companies in line to establish themselves. People move in, and there's a belief in the future in the town. More jobs and more industrial jobs are coming. It's a green transition that's absolutely amazing. As a social democrat, I dare say, yes, we were right. Reality has shown us that we were right, while the Moderates, the Swedish Democrats and others have stood and said that if you are to have more jobs, you have to sacrifice the climate. But they were wrong. Those who have stood and said that if we are to have a good climate, we must sacrifice growth was wrong. We have always stood up and said that growth and climate change go hand in hand. That has proved to be the reality. I have not had to persuade a single industrial leader to increase his growth through climate change. They do it themselves. What they need for places like Ragunda and others to have more jobs, new properties, more people moving in and more faith in the future is more electricity. And realistic, wind power is the best solution they can have. Of course we should work on the execution. Of course, we will work with new technology so that the wind turbines sound smaller, less visible and less blinking. But to say no to the future is not the way forward.
