i-S37VwJ1jGHr9iNyWqvWicE	Madam President, I would like Three weeks ago today, Russia's unjust and inhumane attack on Ukraine began. We are only partially aware of the consequences. Among other things, thousands have been killed, both soldiers and civilians, as well as adults and children. Of course, it puts things in perspective. However, the war will also affect the world economy for a long time to come. Therefore, questions about our economy and our business climate are important at this time. Regulation, which is the issue for the day, is an essential part of the nutrient climate. The Enterprise Committee's report No 16 deals with regulatory simplification for companies. It may seem to be an issue that concerns only a few entrepreneurs, but that is not correct. Madam President, I would like The overall business policy objective is to strengthen Swedish competitiveness and create the conditions for more jobs in more and growing companies. Simplification policy is an important part of this work. Sweden is basically well equipped after the pandemic and will be well equipped when Russia's war in Ukraine is finally over. What is needed and will be needed forward is an active job creation and growth policy, for many of the companies that have overwintered these crises will want and be able to grow. Here, it is important to have a sensible cyclical stimulus, but also to have a sound structural policy. There I am pleased that Prime Magdalena Andersson has so clearly declared that we are going to drive the green industrial revolution with investments throughout the country, Madam President. That's how emissions are reduced, and that's how the jobs of the future end up in Sweden. In this work too, simplification policy is important to ensure that the important change is not delayed due to the rules. Around the country, the green industrial revolution is currently under way with fossil-free steel production, battery factories and electric heavy trucks. It reduces emissions and provides thousands of new jobs throughout our elongated country. This is a wise industrial policy that leads to growth, and in this, the simplification of the rules is a very important element. We know that four out of five new jobs are created in small and medium-sized enterprises – and we also know that they are the ones most affected by regulatory problems. Therefore, simplification is also part of an active job creation policy. I am pleased that the government is working actively on these very issues, and that is why I and the Social Democrats are calling for approval of the proposal in report NU16 and rejection of the motions. Basically, our business environment is important because it creates jobs and growth throughout our country and thus helps fund both our welfare system and our community building. Madam President, I would like As announced in the budget proposal for 2021, the government presented this autumn's new simplification policy objectives. They are now decided. I am pleased that there is continuity between the objectives set in 2012 and those now decided. Basically, the objectives are to: This is basically a very good policy, although these issues are usually not party separation. We must hold back the costs arising from rules. Industry ministers with different party pins have spoken here in Parliament's pulpit about simplification policy and that it must contribute to strengthening Swedish competitiveness. The government's objective is not just words, but is that a great deal is happening in this area at the moment. I am convinced that there is, for example, great potential in digitalisation when it comes to regulatory simplification, including through the development of aktivitet.se. Statskontoret is currently tasked with making the goal of digitalisation measurable, and authorities already have a mandate to work with digital transformation. Other proposals for better regulation can be found in the micro-enterprise inquiry, which has now been consulted. It contains several important proposals that are structurally important in order to improve the Swedish regulatory environment, inter alia linked to impact assessments but also linked to the Council's mandate. That is good, and it shows that the government has recognised the importance of regulatory simplification. I also believe that better implementation of EU rules is a key, because the majority of regulatory costs, or the additional regulatory costs, come precisely from EU rules. Here, too, there are suggestions in the above-mentioned inquiry that have been referred to. Finally, work is also under way to make it easier for entrepreneurs in contact with authorities and municipalities. I am pleased that the work on short-term authorities' processing times and improving municipal supervision is now being carried out with vigour. For example, there is also a study on environmental testing, and the county administrative boards are also tasked with improving the performance of their public authority. This is important for many entrepreneurs. Then we know that companies perceive that the rules are becoming more and more complicated and that the costs are increasing over time. We must take this seriously, while also having to accept that it is not an easy matter. I think that the alliance government 2006 – 2014 should have credit and credit for working so hard on these issues, including with Maud Olofsson at the forefront. At the same time, during that period, companies felt that the rules became more complicated and that costs increased. In short, I think there needs to be a political consensus here in the Swedish Parliament in order to really move forward on these issues. Various authorities have highlighted the importance of carrying out sectoral regulatory reviews precisely in order to remove rules that do not work. I am therefore pleased that, for example, the Government has commissioned the Swedish Agency for Growth to review the overall regulation in the food sector. This can make a big difference for companies operating in this sector. What the Swedish Agency for Growth will do is carry out ongoing analyses of the overall regulation of the food chain in order to identify rules that impair competitiveness or innovation capacity. They shall identify shortcomings in application and propose simplifications. There are very good reasons, Madam President, to work structurally on these issues and to work on structural reforms in this area. These include digitalisation, better regulation and sectoral regulatory reviews. We know that change in these issues does not come through classy formulations here in the Swedish Parliament, but through hard work deep down in the toolbox. It is more important than poppy proposals for sunset clauses. I believe that we should be satisfied with the reforms that are now being implemented. At the same time, we must accept that more needs to be done in the future. In conclusion, Madam President, a great deal is happening right now in the field of business policy. The first steps towards a green transition were already taken when we in Sweden went ahead with the green folk home. Our confidence in the world around us is strengthened when Swedish innovations and solutions are exported worldwide. At the moment there is a global climate race in which Sweden runs in the leadership. As you know, the industrial and climate life set out the direction and will develop, as our Prime Minister has said. Sweden will invest itself out of a possible recession in the future. This is done through a powerful green re-launch of the Swedish economy. Therefore, the work on regulatory simplification must remain a priority. It is important, correct and necessary to reduce regulatory costs, to speed up public administration procedures in general and supervisory processes in particular, and to speed up digitalisation so that companies can provide data digitally in one place. This is good for businesses, for jobs and for growth. In short, it is good for Sweden.
i-72mx8HCxPjZYMNTwYEzra3	Madam President, I would like When the war is going on in Ukraine, however, we need to continue with politics in everyday life, and that is what we are doing here today. We are debating a simplification policy for strengthening competitiveness and innovation capacity. It must be easier to run a business. A reduction in red tape and a reduction in the regulatory burden is necessary. These sentences certainly appear as clichés among companies in their daily lives, especially in the light of the fact that Swedish companies submit around 96 million forms each year to 90 different authorities. Some of these agencies are the Swedish Tax Agency, Boverket and Statistics Sweden. In addition, supervision is exercised by county boards and various special authorities. All these contacts create unreasonable burdens for our companies. Reform A door in, which involves giving information once and passing it on to the responsible authority, is a good step. We want this to apply to more government contacts and that the objective should be that it should be done everywhere. Digitalisation is something that also really facilitates the work of both companies and citizens. The Tax Agency is a good example of how, for example, declarations have changed over time. We see that there are countries in our neighbourhood that are good at this with digitalisation. In Denmark, almost all communication between authorities and companies takes place digitally. Estonia has a head start towards us in Sweden, and we are happy to follow them when it comes to regulatory simplification and digitalisation. They're worth watching. Sweden needs to switch up digitalisation to facilitate the development and use of computer systems for companies. At the same time, there must be first-class security. This is necessary. We know that we have socially important actors, such as the Swedish Transport Agency and the Swedish Enterprise Power Network, which previously caused what we call scandals. This can't happen again. We believe that the government can and should do more in this area. Companies also need to apply for permits and building permits and make registrations. Then it is a matter of dealing with the authorities. These processes can slow down, restrict businesses and prevent or make it impossible for them to move forward when they need to. We have made announcements along the way. These slow and lengthy processes become obstacles for businesses. While the government considers these announcements to be finalised, we believe that the fundamental problems of long processing times remain, including in relation to environmental permits. It could take ten years before it's done. This is costly, and it is quite unreasonable not to be told. In addition, it is not right for companies to have to go through processes that they put a lot of effort and time into without clear regulations. Yesterday I listened together with others to Karin, who has a company that wants to develop its operations in the forest industry. When applying to the County Administrative Board, her company would add 3 000 pages. The answer they received regarding what they had to do with their business was very fuzzy. It was about the need to change the environment. The company would find alternatives to location. Karin said they don't understand the answer they got from the County Administrative Board. She said they've tried and they've told me that they can't answer the question. The company itself, which is proposed to change location, has bought up properties in its local area to avoid affecting the environment. They measure all the time to keep the level that they need to maintain in order not to get over the measurable numbers that there is to compare with. This is a company that wants to work with sustainability. They finally got rejected. This means that the company cannot create more growth and that they cannot hire more people, as they would like. As I see it, there must be clear and clear directives to the county administrative boards on how to act. This is a typical example of how it should not be done. When you also get supplements to do during what is commonly called Christmas holidays or vacations, everyone can understand that these are organizations that are understaffed because people have time off. When you then need help to write these documents, there are fewer people who can do this. You shouldn't have to spend time on this. Supervision and licensing processes are also associated with fees. It is common for the total amount of the public to be used and for parameters outside the cost to be added to the companies themselves. One such example is turnover. Taxpayers shall not have to pay the amount of money that is regulated on the fee side and that is paid in as an entrepreneur. There is also a risk that caring companies pay a lot even though they have little impact, while other companies affect a lot but cause large costs for society. Therefore, we want to make it easier by having a cost principle – the individual pays for the supervision he or she receives rather than an average price. As we have heard before, supervision activities are carried out by municipalities as well as county boards and state authorities. There is reason to look at how they can work more closely together to jointly find quality and service for businesses. One such example is when several actors are involved in the food industry. The restaurant industry often gets to meet different government contacts. I know from visits to Växjö, for example, that they have a system with a way in – the entrepreneur hits all the government parts at the same time to facilitate the work. I also know that there are companies that have operations in municipalities other than Växjö and who talk about a completely different side where there will be long-lasting processes. We should use the good examples in our country to make it easier for companies to find jobs locally and to change up their businesses. Madam President, I would like Almost exactly a year ago, in April 2021, the Swedish Agency for Growth presented its final report on simplification objectives in central authorities. The report shows that the development of processing times and customer satisfaction does not go in the direction that one would like. It sends out signals that what is done is not leading right. Then you also need to take a look at the governance of the government. This brings me to the fact that it is important to provide services to our business community and it is important that it is predictable. Therefore, together with the Christian Democrats, we propose that governments work with predictability, so that companies face a service guarantee for a short, effective and legally secure application. We want it to be clear what applicants companies can expect when it comes to clearly defined and timed guarantees regarding processing and decisions. The Moderates want to counteract the over-implementing of EU legislation. That is why we want to see an Implementation Council or similar within the Government Office, which is tasked with reviewing and widely assessing the impact of implementing EU legislation and ensuring that companies do not have new burdensome regulatory burdens to deal with. We want this Implementation Council to also have the task of ensuring that EU rules impose minimal costs on companies. We would also like to see a common website where expert opinions from not least the Council of Governors are gathered and published. The benefit of this is that different stakeholders in society can be given the opportunity to more easily reach relevant materials and to give a better picture of new proposals that may have an impact on companies. At the same time, it may be a way for companies to exercise influence over the design of new legislation. Madam President, I would like Reducing the regulatory burden does not simply mean tabling concrete amendments. This also means that after some time it is important to evaluate the agreed regulations, so that there is a follow-up of whether they have a good and desired effect. It is therefore important to work systematically on rules and regulatory simplification measures. How this is to be solved can be different, but one aspect is that there must be control stations. Our business community does not need more heavy bureaucracy. We welcome the letter of simplification provided by the government, but it lacks direct action to achieve its objectives. There is a need to review this with process-oriented measures and ensure that it does not over-implement. These should be clear and measurable objectives. The aim should be to reduce hassle and costs. A single central coordination function at the Government Office would do this. Impact assessments and systematic work would strengthen ownership of the issue. Another measure would be that the government reports annually in a letter to the Riksdag, which will look at these objectives, on how the work is progressing. I believe that the sunset clause – one rule in and one rule out – has a role to play. It is not only populist, as claimed by a previous speaker, the Social Democrat Mathias Tegnér. We also want to look at regulatory greenhouses and sandboxes for new innovations and experimental activities with limited time and space. The idea is to develop technology and regulations in parallel for more secure and faster learning. This approach is used in countries such as Singapore, South Korea and Germany as a strategic tool. It has turned out that new technology gets stuck in the systems when it comes out in our country. One encounters patrols as new issues do not fit into the already designed templates. That is why, Madam President, it needs to be made clear that we can compete with an effective state apparatus which has contacts with authorities, municipalities and county boards. Our business community should be able to work with innovation. New things will become a part of everyday work. The business community and the public sector should both be able to contribute to and participate in the development of our business community. Of course, I support all our moderate reservations, but for the gain of time, I only ask for reservation 10.
i-C63KnWcoNu8CasewqHh7oh	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating NU16, a report focusing on regulatory simplification for companies. For a number of years now, we in the Swedish Democrats have taken on a leading role in the Riksdag in highlighting regulatory simplification issues. Among other things, we were first out with a pure rule-simplification exercise. Anyone who reads our proposals there can quickly note that we are making concrete and robust proposals. Linked to how highly the Swedish Democrats value the question of simplification and simplification of the rules, we have no less than ten reservations in this report, but for the benefit of time I choose to endorse only the Swedish Democrats' reservation number 11, which I intend to talk a little bit more about. Madam President, I would like If you want to create growth and strengthen the competitiveness of Swedish companies, the work on regulatory simplification is probably the lowest hanging fruits we have available. For the government, it is not budgetary impact at all to remove rules that have not proved to be sufficiently high in terms of the costs for our companies afterwards. Nevertheless, it is generally a strikingly slow pace of work on these issues. As previous debaters have mentioned, companies themselves feel that the regulatory burden is more in the opposite direction. Perhaps this follows the simple logic that what politicians are more fun to bring in things than to remove things. Another part of the explanation is, unfortunately, that many politicians are driven by an anti-growth agenda – they believe they are saving the world with the new regulatory burden at all. Rules for companies are a bit like arsenic – in small amounts rather harmless, but in larger amounts directly deadly. Despite this, as I said, many companies are having an extremely tough time, not least now linked to the pandemic that we are going out of and the war in Ukraine. This is where we have to tap up. This letter, which in any case forms part of the basis of the report we are debating today, sets out a number of objectives to promote the growth and competitiveness of Swedish companies, to reduce processing times and some others. These are very beautiful words, but they are just words until you put this into effect. These are also words that have been spoken by previous governments, in fact, regardless of color. Nevertheless, as has been said, companies themselves feel that developments are moving in the opposite direction as a matter of urgency. Then the question is how to move from words to actions. How do you really make a difference, so that it's more than these desktop products? For a number of years, I and the Swedish Democrats have been stressing a concept for systematising regulatory simplification. There, the business partners can clearly contribute to the agenda. Such systematic work should be based on the following three steps: Such a system I mean will be a big blowtorch against us politicians to really work on these issues. If you want Sweden well, this should not be a big problem. What are we really waiting for? This proposal could be introduced more or less immediately and would give substantial added value to the public purse. Once again, I commend our reservation number 11.
i-UDXMKu8yGZV91N2Z6DPnUF	Madam President, I would like I thank Mr Fransson for his speech. I have a couple of questions linked to the speech, and one or two comments. On the rhetorical question, what are we waiting for? The answer is that we are not waiting for anything. As I said earlier, the government is currently working at a high pace to bring about change. One needs to think about how change is created in reality. As I said earlier, our view is that what is needed are structural changes that really affect companies and not poppy speeches here in the speaker's chair. With regard to the objectives, which the honourable Member dismissed as a paper product, I would like to point out that if you believe in target management, the objectives are an important part of creating change. They will also not be just a paper product, because several authorities have been asked to make the targets concrete so that the regulatory simplification work can be continuously monitored. That's how real change is created. Why does the honourable Member dismiss this work which is important, correct and necessary? My second question concerns the home-made proposal by the Swedish democrats for a new regulatory process. As the current investigation has pointed out, the Regulatory Council needs more power, but with your proposal the Council will have less power and will be replaced by the Industry Regulatory Board. Do you not see the same risk as several investigations, that this is rather leading in the wrong direction and not giving the effect you want?
i-TZqWEY2fawsG15wL23yw73	Madam President, I would like Why don't I take the government's ambitions seriously and call them a paper product? I very much hope that it does not stop at a paper product but that it will be carried out. But like so many other times during election years, the Social Democrats promise a lot, and then there will be four more years when there may not be much going on. Don't hesitate to disprove me! I also got a question about our so-called home-made model for the simplification work. It's part of a reservation. As I said, we have ten different reservations in the report. Mathias Tegnér argued that NNR would gain more power – yes, absolutely, as a coordinating body. The Council has a completely different and more authority-like function. In fact, we have a reservation that says that the organisation of the Rule Council should be strengthened, among other things by adding the Rule Council to the State Council Committee so that the Council is at an early stage when new rules are to apply.
i-XCZxJpGVs7cpWEGJm1YNk	Madam President, I would like I think the answer partly shows the point I was trying to make that it is important that we work broadly and that we do not fall into populism. It is true that the Swedish Democrats have a reservation about the Rule Council. There is an investigation that has looked at the role of the Rule Council, and those proposals have been out for a referral. I think it is wise to use the expert authorities we have and to use the public investigations that are being carried out and then decide what changes we are going to make. There will be better politics, and there will be better changes in reality. As for social democracy being anti-growth or mostly talking, as I think the honourable Member said, I would like to go back to something I mentioned. In international indices, Sweden is always at the top of ten countries with the strongest competitiveness. Since the EU introduced a ranking of innovation power, Sweden has subscribed to the first place. If there are any who realise that there is a link between jobs, growth and success, it is the Social Democracy. Social democracy is a movement of freedom, and freedom comes with work. That is why these issues are extremely important to us. However, while we touch the EU and regulatory simplification, there is a major issue which at least touches on this area. It is about the wavering attitude of the Swedish democrats towards the EU and the internal market. We know that the Swedish economy is extremely dependent on our export market. Nearly 1.5 million Swedes go to work thanks to the export market, and 70% of our exports go to the EU's internal market. Do you not see that there is a problem with your wavering attitude towards the European Union and the European internal market? This leads to regulatory problems for businesses and unemployment.
i-UgnLGKYhsrmUiPdedFXtid	Let me point out that we are speaking through the President and we are not using you or you.
i-CVqAGGJGewu89JXoXUw36u	Madam President, I would like I do not at all share the honourable Member's view that we are faltering in terms of Sweden's participation in the EU's internal market. Perhaps we did so earlier, but after the last European elections we are clearly in favour of Sweden being part of the internal market. We're not faltering at all. In my main speech, I said that there are anti-growth politicians. I pinpointed no one in particular, but if anyone recognizes it, I'd be happy to take it to heart. It may be individual politicians, but it may also be parties that I have looked at in particular. But I do not know if I can agree that the Social Democrats are particularly pro-growth, at least not in these times. Now we see a long line of industries going on their knees, partly because of the war in Ukraine but also because of political decisions that pushed up fuel prices to 23 crowns for petrol and 28 for diesel. It is conscious decisions of the Social Democrats that make the transport industry kneel and have to raise its prices, which goes all the way to trade and affects a wide range of industries in a very destructive way. It also affects inflation, and we do not know where it ends. At the moment, I am not very impressed by the growth policy of the Social Democrats.
i-YDbP7s4ZqsWATbSFUMzHSV	Madam President, I would like I am in favour of reservation 39 under paragraph 18, although I am of course in favour of all the reservations expressed by the Center Party. Let me start with a local example from Malmö. Where I live is a garden center. It is a fantastic place that is included in a small book about the strangest places in Skåne, and it is worth a visit if you come to Malmö. In the garden center they have benches where you can sit and watch turtles, palm trees and more, so I asked them if they should not serve coffee. They replied: We tried, but we could not. It was too difficult. This garden center has worked well for many years, but since Sweden is so regular it becomes too difficult for them to serve coffee. All levels – state, region and municipality – have been involved in creating a world where it is so difficult to serve coffee that established entrepreneurs give up. This is just a small example of the fact that the fight for simpler rules is not over, and it is not enough for us to have rules, etcetera. A modern, effective and effective policy of simplification is needed in our country. It is good that the government is now finally presenting its updated regulatory simplification policy to create better conditions for companies, authorities, entrepreneurs, etc. to create growth in society. Basically, it is about Sweden's competitiveness and creativity. As far as the Centre Party is concerned, simplification is an absolutely central issue and has been so for a long time. As my dear colleague, Mathias Tegnér, said earlier, many have talked about regulatory simplifications in this House. But now it is not talk but action that actually makes a difference. During the year of the Alliance, we can see that it was at the Department of the Center Party, the Ministry of Industry and the Ministry of Rural Development that there were regulatory simplifications. About 30% of the rules were removed. In the other alliance-led departments nothing was done, and when the Social Democrats took over the Ministry of Industry, the regulatory burden increased again. This is the reality that Sweden's entrepreneurs need to relate to. As we heard before – I think it was Mathias Tegnér who said that too – comes freedom with work; it is very, very nice! Then I would urge that it is time to work a little harder for Swedish entrepreneurs' freedom by simplifying the rules even more. The five cases now presented by the Minister for Economic Affairs in the Government's letter are excellent, but that is not enough. We want to see clearer reforms that can quickly be translated into action. We have 15 proposals to make it easier for authorities and business in the exercise called Regulatory simplification for better governance, service and increased entrepreneurship. We know the government well; we are happy to copy the proposals! Reducing the regulatory burden on Swedish business is a priority for the Center Party. The service culture of Swedish authorities is in many places good but needs to be developed and improved. Of course there are role models. For example, the Swedish Tax Agency has been working on this with great success for many years and therefore also enjoys greater confidence among the general public and entrepreneurs, although there are things there too. Attitude, response and customer focus are as important as the regulations themselves, processes and management procedures. So it is not just a matter of rules, it is also a question of what kind of signals are sent out by the government when working. It is a matter of leadership, governance and enforcement, where the government must strengthen its work. I can say that I was pleased to hear that Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson shares the Center Party's view of the importance of digital communication between authorities and of both tightening up and improving it. Madam President, I would like Regulation is one of the most important parts that the government and parliament use to steer towards different political objectives in many different areas. State intervention in the form of regulations and other measures often takes place with the aim of either correcting a perceived problem, preventing problems from arising or achieving a societally desirable situation or development. The right regulatory framework can help to create a common ground, provide the conditions for desirable economic development and achieve long-term competitive advantages and sometimes a better market. A good market is not the absence of rules but the existence of good rules, and it is not always the case at present that the rules we create lead to a better market. Sometimes they actually make the market worse. It's also worth taking. Of course, the different objectives must be weighed against each other. The government's new simplification policy has long been in demand by industry. Simpler rules end up year after year at the top of the lists where companies tell about the obstacles to growth and efficiency. It is therefore a good thing that we have a higher pressure for reform now. Under the January Agreement, the Center Party also launched the investigation into micro-enterprises and a more modern accounting law, which also provides very important input into how individual laws can be reviewed and regulations improved. There are also, of course, comprehensive and in-depth proposals on how the process of simplification can be modernised. It is important that this investigation is included and reflected in the ongoing political reform work. That is also a small call. Mr. Old President! The Center Party has also clearly announced in its budget motion for 2022 that there will be money to pursue an offensive policy of simplification. It's important. It is not enough simply to say that you want it; you must also send resources there. We have done this as the only party, I think, in our budget motion. We want to see a strengthening of the Council of Governors, which is a special decision-making body within the Swedish Agency for Growth and whose members are appointed by the Government. The Council's task is to examine and express its views on the quality of impact assessments of legislative proposals that may have an impact on businesses – very complicated, but fundamentally, it is very important, because it is where it comes with input into how the rules can be improved and whether new rules are good or bad. It must be strengthened so that they have better resources. The Center Party also wants to see additional resources for the Government Office so that these issues are given priority. It's not that often the Center Party wants to send money to Social Democrats, so you can think about how important it is. It is also wise, we believe, to set a structure for what the processes of simplification should look like in the future. There is a lot of inspiration and knowledge to draw from the investigation I mentioned earlier about micro-enterprises, among other things. This involves strengthening advice and follow-up on regulatory simplification by the authorities – a broad analysis, compilation and evaluation of regulatory simplification reforms over the past ten to fifteen years. We need to see if it's actually getting better. Reasonably, the government gives the appropriate authority or other actor this task – a small tip to the government and its representatives. In conclusion, Mr President-in-Office, although we must devote time to the war in Ukraine, the pandemic and many other things that may feel very great, the issues surrounding the business environment and how we make it easier for companies are extremely important and central to our prosperity. It is in the small freedoms and simplifications that we are actually creating the conditions for a stronger country in everyday life, throughout the country. Strengthening the Regulatory Council, better regulatory coordination within the Government Office, a systematic review and follow-up of the work that has been done on the regulations, and obviously higher demands on both government and government work on regulatory simplification are some of the recipes to strengthen Sweden's competitiveness.
i-8HBSYvXxqa8Ad2mdfS7dc7	Mr. Old President! I do not think that any parliamentary group has experienced so many different global crises that we have experienced now. I got a question from a member if we work as usual. The answer is yes and no. On the one hand, we are actively working to stop the invasion of Ukraine, and on the other hand we are trying to continue to push Sweden towards the transition to stop the climate crisis and strengthen society so that it becomes more fair and democratic. It's not easy to talk about other topics when all of this happens in the world around us. But we must continue, and I am therefore moving on to the subject of today's debate. The main driving force for the entrepreneur is to develop and drive its business forward. An entrepreneur does not want to spend more time than necessary on administration determined by the laws and rules that society sets up. The existing laws and regulations will help companies to develop and expand, but also promote climate, environment and consumer and workers' rights. It is clear that this should not feel like an obstacle. It is the government's responsibility to make a systematic follow-up of the simplification work. The follow-up carried out so far does not show that the administrative burden has been reduced, rather the opposite. With this comes the costs. We can see that some of the administrative requirements come from the EU's requirements, which in some areas have increased over the years. Here I would like to draw attention to the situation of small businesses and single entrepreneurs. They have basically the same laws and rules to follow as the larger companies but less resources to spend on administration. One thing that has improved – and I think many people appreciate it – is the simplification of the submission of information. There, the digital services of the authorities have played a role. It saves time and money for both companies and authorities. I remember a farmer who described how the regulatory burden has increased, in some cases understandable, in some cases not fully adapted. But what caused the most trouble was the need to submit the same information to different authorities and that the authorities did not coordinate their audits of the business. It took time and in some cases could be exhausting. It can also be about the entrepreneur in the locality who works 24:7 to earn a living and must have time for the administrative tasks once he or she comes home. I think their experiences are consistent with the experiences of many small businesses in certain industries. And this is something we can certainly do something about. It is about the economy, the well-being of entrepreneurs and the ability to drive the business forward. In this respect, the government has presented five objectives for the simplification of the rules, which the Left Party supports. Firstly, rules should be based on proportionality and should be designed in such a way as, inter alia, to promote the competitiveness of companies and their ability to drive innovation and change. Secondly, the costs created by administration should be reduced. Thirdly, the duration of proceedings should be shorter and more transparent. Fourthly, the services and services of public authorities must be adapted to the needs of businesses. Fifthly, but by no means the most important: the proportion of services for companies' contacts with the public sector that is digital and the proportion of individual cases that can be handled digitally will increase with a view to simplifying companies' reporting and other government contacts. The long-term goal is for companies to leave a task once and to a place. It should be simple, and the digital should facilitate. We can find ways forward to simplify for entrepreneurs while driving forward environmental and climate laws. This creates the conditions for future business life. With this, I would like to call for the approval of Amendment No 32, which deals with sunset clauses.
i-PaChnioCcTCqrAMrAMCUVp	Mr. Old President! Today we are debating the report 'A simplification policy for strengthening competitiveness, growth and innovation capacity'. I would like to say that this report could have meaning for so many people. We have heard that this is aimed at all our companies, large and small. In particular, four out of five jobs are created by SMEs. And we must never forget that every penny of tax, which also goes to our common welfare, is created by companies. So we in politics really need to step up here. In the letter, we can see that the Government has adjusted the objectives of the simplification policy. It is good that it is comprehensive. But that's not good enough. There's a lot to be said for. There are no sub-levels, no benchmarks and no tools, and it is not specified how these objectives are to be achieved. The objectives need to be complemented by this. We have also been able to take part in the simplification journey that the then Minister of Economic Affairs, Ibrahim Baylan, completed almost two and a half years ago. At that time, the business community hoped that this would produce results. Here were solutions to come, and here there were politicians who actually listened. Two and a half years later, we see progress. It's taking too long. Life cannot afford to wait, especially during the pandemic. The regulatory burden is an obstacle to development and growth. There was probably much that could have been done much earlier. Sometimes you hear stories about what reality looks like. So I'm going to read an excerpt from a sender in Norrtelje Tidning just before Christmas. It is Linda Sandberg from Roslagens Helicopterflyg AB, who is also a member of the Swedish Enterprise's SME Committee, who has written it. 中 It paints against Christmas and certainly we entrepreneurs, as well as the children, write on our wish lists. On my list is a reduction in the regulatory burden at the top. Managing rules takes a lot of work hours and costs us a lot of money. ..................................................... She goes on to say that this is also an issue that we in industry have been pointing out for many years and most political parties agree that the regulatory framework should be better and simpler. Yet nothing is happening, at least not in a positive direction. ..................................................... The Minister for Industry also arranged a simplification trip in Sweden and would listen to the company's wishes, but nothing makes sense came out of it. Now there is a complete study of simplification proposals and so far we have not seen any trend towards improving the situation for us entrepreneurs. So, of the plot this year, I would like a proper cleaning in the regular discount so that we small businesses can celebrate Christmas with the family in peace and quiet. ..................................................... Should you have to wait for Santa to arrive before an improvement occurs, then you must arm yourself with a little patience. A better option, as we see it, is to work for a change of power. We can get that before Christmas. Our country needs a government that actually realises that business is an engine of prosperity. We believe that we need a coherent action plan with clearly measurable objectives and that the regulatory burden needs to be reduced. I'm going to go into some of these parts. When it comes to the regulatory burden, many often say: One rule in and one rule out. This is for us to reach somewhere. But the Christian Democrats say that in order to reduce the regulatory burden, we must have one rule in and two rules out. It must also be linked to cost-effectiveness – cost reductions. At the moment, it is far too expensive linked to the administrative costs that companies still have. Some Members have spoken here before me about service guarantees. It's an incredibly important part. Authorities must be able to assume predictable processes and also be able to respond when an entrepreneur calls or calls in another way and needs help and guidance to ensure that the permit application submitted is as good as possible. Often I hear a story after a story about sending in a permit application. Then you get it back and are asked to rewrite it. But you don't get a message about what's the problem. Again, it takes a long time. Besides, you end up in line again. Sweden cannot afford that. That is why we in politics must work with service guarantees on the part of the authorities. You have to leave a task only once. With digital tools, we're there. It must be possible, in fact, to pass on tasks to all our various authorities, so that we do not have to write this over and over again. Mr. Old President! Entrepreneurs spend ten hours a week on administration. It is ten hours that small businessmen could spend on realising their dreams and ideas and on the work that they have as their core idea to carry out. Six out of ten entrepreneurs experience rules as barriers to growth. I wonder: how many billions of accumulated growth and prosperity does this correspond to? We've seen some calculations, and billions after billions are just ticking away. There is a desire from industry to have a digital regulatory platform. The OECD recommended Sweden this already in 2018. I have had an interpellation debate in this House with the former Minister for Economic Affairs Ibrahim Baylan on this particular issue. The answer was that it already exists. You can read about all this on the government website. I do not believe that this is what industry is calling for in order to be able to get to a digital platform where all regulation is found. This isn't enough. I don't think the Department's website can count on that. We've been into licensing processes. Swedish production and exports are necessary for Sweden. It's also good for the climate. But here there are an incredible number of parts to look at. The environmental code is one of these. It must have a review, so that climate benefits are actually taken into account more clearly when granting permits. A door is a way to reduce regulatory work and end this round of reporting where everything is just being threshed. Time is money, so let the companies spend more time doing theirs! We also look at Denmark. They have an implementation council to ensure that the over-implementing of EU legislation is countered. This is something that Sweden lacks. How often have we met entrepreneurs who are concerned that they do not operate on competitive terms precisely because they have their company in Sweden? This is something we need to work on further. We are looking at the whole haulage and transport industry and what it is being subjected to right now, just because we have a much higher percentage target in terms of reduction obligations that only drives up fuel prices. A lot of companies are being put into a situation where they scream for the help of politicians. We have to do something. Without companies, we have no welfare.
i-CrkBLr1Yg5vnNTFYFrRLfi	Mr. Old President! It may be a little strange to stand here and talk about simplification policy when we have a war about a hundred miles away from Sweden, a war that is being waged not only against Ukraine but also against our freedom and our democracy. However, I would like to say that the freedom and democracy of ours and of Europe are best strengthened by continuing democratic work here at home, with full force. I do not know how many times I have stood in this House talking about the importance of a business policy that allows more businesses to be set up or, for that matter, more companies to grow. More growing companies mean new tax revenues that finance our common welfare. If more people really are serious about us having the best welfare in the world, we must also create the right conditions for our companies. I am also an old entrepreneur myself. Much has, of course, become easier since I started my first company in the early 2000s. But if we are to be honest, politics has also been reasonably good at creating new barriers rather than tearing them down. Four out of five jobs are created in companies with fewer than 50 employees. It is small businesses that are the backbone of the Swedish economy, which creates jobs and also ensures that the state apparatus works. Now that we are debating the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on a simplification policy for strengthening competitiveness, growth and innovation capacity, I would therefore like to highlight some elements that are important to us Liberals. Mr. Old President! Let us begin with what should really be the easiest and closest to the responsibility of the government, namely our authorities. I do not know how many times I myself as an entrepreneur or friends in my neighbourhood who are entrepreneurs have encountered authorities who would rather see the problems than actually help. It cannot be the intention that the task of the authorities should only be to check and stop errors. I may think it is quite obvious that the authorities should also help people and businesses to do the right thing. It would therefore be appropriate for the government to formulate promotion missions to state authorities to promote entrepreneurship. It should also be made clear in government management that our administrative authorities have a great responsibility to protect the business climate in Sweden. In line with this, it is also important for the authorities to analyse the regulations and general advice they decide on in order to see the impact and cost impact of the proposals on businesses. Mr. Old President! Every year, Swedish companies submit approximately 96 million forms to 90 different authorities, including Statistics Sweden, the Swedish Tax Agency and the Swedish Companies Agency – 96 million forms! In addition, supervision is exercised by county boards and various specialist authorities. And for those of you who are looking at this debate, I can tell you that a form you submit to the Swedish Tax Agency, for example, may also require – but these two authorities do not always talk to each other. You could compare it to a very bad relationship between some friends. Instead of talking together, you have to inform each one of your friends. Maybe it doesn't even have to be a bad relationship but more laziness. The authorities and politics clearly need to do more on this issue. Remove the workload from the company! It must be sufficient to inform an authority in order for other authorities to receive the same information. That's why the Liberals want the government to develop the concept. We believe that the reform is a step in the right direction, a platform where entrepreneurs only submit the same data once and to a recipient. Mr. Old President! In the speech by my colleague, Mr Tegnér, there was a lot that I think many of us could endorse. But if we had agreed and had a common understanding on these issues, had we had the same picture of reality and had we thought that the government had been on the right track, we would probably not have had to have the debate we have today. It is a matter of actually acting and not just saying what you think. What you say should also lead to action. As I began my speech, politics has been reasonably good at creating new barriers rather than tearing them down. I want it to be easier to start and run a business. It's supposed to be easy. As early as last spring, a Skop survey commissioned by the Swedish Business Authority showed that more entrepreneurs and business leaders experienced that it had become more difficult to comply with the state rules compared to how it was a year earlier. About 29 percent thought it was more complicated. If Mathias Tegnér and the Social Democrats think they are doing a good job, I can inform them that 2% thought it had become easier. So we are going the wrong way. In 2013 – 2020 alone, the annual administrative costs resulting from changes in the acquis have risen by SEK 4 billion. In order to prevent an increase in the regulatory burden and administrative costs, we need to introduce a rule in, a rule out, in legislation affecting entrepreneurship. The principle means that when introducing a new rule that imposes a burdensome administrative burden on companies, the State should also remove a rule that imposes a corresponding burden. This should ensure that the overall regulatory burden on the person concerned by a new rule does not increase in any case. Mr. Old President! Jobs are not created by inefficient subsidised employment, labour market policy programmes or regulatory burdens. Jobs are created in Swedish companies. Since 1993, SMEs have accounted for more than 80% of total net employment growth and four out of five jobs are created in enterprises with fewer than 200 employees. We can see that being an entrepreneur is complex. Complexity particularly affects smaller companies, which are generally less able to navigate in the regulatory bureaucracy. Unfortunately, developments in recent years have gone in the wrong direction. In order for Sweden to be at the forefront of entrepreneurship, a number of reforms are needed. A liberal policy is needed for a stronger climate for our companies. Mr. Old President! Of course, I agree with all our reservations, but in order to save time for the House, I only support reservation 4.
i-YMQ92tE7tXkzAbYcP5LHpo	Mr. Old President! I thank Mr Teimouri for his speech. One of the honourable Member's points was that if we were to look at the reality and the development of rules in the same way, we would not have needed this debate. I believe that this debate will always be needed. Rules will always come from different directions, such as from the European Union, and we need to ensure that they get better all the time. So I would just like to start by reporting a disagreement. I simply believe that we always, continuously, need to work on improving our rules. Two points made by the honourable Member were, on the one hand, that entrepreneurs perceive that things are going in the wrong direction and, on the other hand, that costs are increasing. As I said in my earlier speech, this is the case. Then we need to take these tasks seriously and not use them as political bats. That is my opinion. As I said, throughout this period, even under the alliance government, entrepreneurs have seen that the regulatory burden is increasing. So we have to admit that this is a difficult issue. This is an issue on which we need to work together and not an issue that we should use as a political bat. As far as regulatory costs are concerned, it is also right that they increase, but mainly they increase because of EU rules. Some of these rules are reasonable. For example, one of the biggest additional costs is that people like us, the PEP, that is, people in politically vulnerable positions, have special rules linked to our banking transactions. The reason for this is to create a safer society and reduce the possibility for politicians and other powers to make errors and simply be corrupt. These are important rules. They involve costs, but we have to agree that this is the biggest single reason why regulatory costs are increasing right now.
i-MmZuX8rnzRvtKatQNf7tYq	Mr. Old President! I did not get a direct question, so I can continue to reflect on what Mr Tegnér said. It is clear that we must continue to work on regulatory simplification for companies on an ongoing basis. What I mean is that if the Social Democrats had really been serious about this, they would be doing more. I do not believe that we share the same picture of the importance of companies for society. As a liberal, I believe that entrepreneurship is the backbone of Swedish society. By having more companies growing, we are creating new jobs. It is the new jobs that create tax revenue, and those tax revenues go to our common well-being. Having said that, that is where we need to focus and create the right conditions. That we continuously work to create regulatory simplifications for companies is important, but then we must have a government that protects the business climate in Sweden. It's supposed to come automatically. We should not have to stand in this House and debate this. If one had had this attitude, it would have been easier for companies. It would have been cheaper for companies and created more jobs. This is how we strengthen Swedish competitiveness.
i-ZAoRphjhz3tUa6xBepxgz	Mr. Old President! Mr Teimouri is right that I never came to my question. It was a real rookie mistake, but now I'm gonna make sure I don't talk so much that I don't get to the questions. Before doing so, I would just like to point out that a number of things are being done in terms of regulatory simplification. What seems to separate the government from the policy advocated by Teimouri and the Liberals is that the government is currently making a number of structural changes, which means, for example, that the Rule Council will have better opportunities to highlight rules that are harmful. Sectoral reviews are being carried out to remove harmful rules to facilitate business. Such measures, as research shows, actually make a difference, take the government instead of the kind of measures that I perceive to be of a more populist nature: one rule in, two rules out and sunset clauses which, in any case, have not proved to have any major effect in any other country. As far as the image of entrepreneurship is concerned, I think that Mr Teimouri quoted what I said in the speaker's chair, so I think we fully agree on the importance of entrepreneurship and on the fact that entrepreneurship also leads to growth and provides the conditions for prosperity. On the other hand, we should be honest and say that the state also has a role to play in creating the conditions for entrepreneurship. This is why we see that Sweden has one of the best industrial climates according to the OECD ranking, and we have the best innovation power in Europe. This is because there are links between the social model that social democracy, for example, has created throughout the Nordic region and what creates growth. Research shows it clearly, and if you look around the world, it is clear. My question to the honourable Member is: why are you proposing mainly populist reforms instead of supporting these important reforms that make a difference?
i-TZT55fB1LxnZZdtwJrQsWK	Mr. Old President! Thank you for the question, Mrs Tegnér. I do not think I would like to say that the proposals are populist. If you just have your ear to the rails and talk to our companies, I think you realize that if anyone knows what it would have to look like. These are quite obvious things, and they should be self-evident to the government represented by the honourable Member. It's not about populism. It is about creating the right conditions for companies. If you do not share that picture of reality, it will not be better overall. The honourable Member says that this is what he raised in his speech, but here is also one thing: saying one thing and then not acting accordingly does not provide the right conditions. The honourable Member also points out that we are well placed in entrepreneurship rankings. Yes, but I can also see that women's entrepreneurship, for example, does not look brilliant from a Swedish perspective. Some have to do with rules, while others have to do with the view of women's entrepreneurship. We have quite a long way to go when it comes to creating the right conditions for business. Then you have to have a perspective where you also want to protect the business community. It lacks this government, and that is also why we need a liberal change of power.
i-Cr54V17RiYZuyFSR3gzUbJ	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. I met an entrepreneur the other day who has had his firm for about 20 years, who is really passionate about sustainability and work environment issues and who has worked with it for a very long time but who now feels that the regulatory burden is increasing significantly and is worried that the company will not be able to remain. This place is really going wrong. We can't have that. Rules exist for a reason – we want to combat the climate crisis, we want to ensure that there is a good environment and we want to ensure labour law and, not least, security issues. Many people have started their speeches here by talking about the Ukraine and Russia crisis that is imminent for all of us, and security issues are incredibly important. In the case of the entrepreneur I told you about, the purpose has been lost. She simply drowns in administration. Then something really doesn't work. Unnecessary rules and incorrectly constructed rules we cannot afford. There are many different things that need to be done and that have been highlighted here today. I would like to look to a word, and that is the word endurance. We all need to have a proper perseverance and work systematically, structuredly and constantly on this issue. It must be a more or less cross-sectoral culture throughout the work. Much work is under way that was initiated when the Green Party was still in government. There are assignments to different authorities to work with regulatory simplification and with better treatment. We also need to back up resources for the authorities here. It is not only possible to lay down mandates and service guarantees and so on, but there must also be money for these authorities so that they can actually fulfil this and have those hours to spend meeting the companies. It is also very important to have a way in and to simplify. There's also a lot going on here, but you need to get back to work. For example, there are things going on linked to Active so that you only have to submit once and not several times. This is a very large project – it needs to be digitised, and it needs to be coordinated. Here, then, there is also a need for perseverance in continuing to expand this. Mathias Tegnér mentioned the inquiry into micro-enterprises. It is very good that it has come, and we very much hope that this will make things easier. Then I think that every time we create new rules, we really need to think about it and do it wisely. There is systematic work here, but it needs to be strengthened and tightened up. The Council will have a clearer role now, but it needs to become even more workshop and more perseverance. It is also important to have big ears, to meet and listen to companies and really see their conditions. We should not reduce the quality of the usefulness and purpose of the rules. We must work on labour law issues, on climate and environmental issues and with certainty. But we're not gonna do it the wrong way. So we need to constantly listen, lay our ears to the ground, meet people in their everyday lives and make sure to work in a systematic and structured way. I'd like to round off by saying that we need perseverance. We must continue to work on this and seek as much consensus as possible across party boundaries.
i-29oGztxLiiCyCMkAcZUuPm	Mr. Old President! I am a Christian Democrat, and the idea of imperfection is part of our values. Last time I was in the speaker's chair, I just forgot to agree to a reservation. We are, of course, in favour of all our reservations, but for time to come, I am only in favour of reservation 13 on horizontal issues of regulatory simplification.
i-Td3jZsdjwoAx6MU1RjzMBD	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered today by Minister Matilda Ernkrans, Minister Lina Axelsson Kihlblom, Minister Khashayar Farmanbar and Minister Johan Danielsson. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. The Government Matilda Ernkrans answers both general policy questions and questions within its own area of responsibility.
i-KJXQyAknVsRet7bitxotcK	Madam President, I would like A terrible war is taking place in Ukraine. People are dying. People are running. Many have come to Sweden, and more will come here. That will require a great deal of effort from us. There may be tens of thousands of Ukrainian children going to Swedish schools quite soon, but we do not know how many. At a committee hearing earlier this week, the Minister of Education was unable to account for how many children she and the Government estimate will come to Sweden and will start school in the coming period. If there are no record plans, it will be much more difficult for both individual schools and individual municipalities to deal with the situation before us. Therefore, I would like to ask the Minister for Education if she can present today her and the Government's picture of how many Ukrainian children will come to Sweden to join Swedish school soon.
i-2qBHWruwdrNqM416Sjcu7j	Madam President, I would like There is a difference between having a clear and good plan and being able to guess what the future holds. We have learned a great many lessons since 2015. The National Agency for Education has many efforts in this area. What we know since 2015 is that we received 70 000 children and young people. 35,000 of them were orphans and came here as teenagers. These are the figures we have today. We can all read on the Migration Agency's website that in the worst case scenario there are about 200,000 refugees and 40% of them are children. But I am not going to speculate on those numbers, but I want a school that is prepared for all eventualities.
i-LijiqZCRpaRPQPmSFAxigW	Madam President, I would like If we are to do this, various efforts will be required – Swedish education in Ukrainian, employment, perhaps new employment of retired teachers and a wide range of other solutions. If individual schools in Sweden are to do this, individual municipalities should do the job, you must have a proper plan. In this, even if it is difficult with different scenarios, you have to work with the best information you have. How many kids are there? What are you planning from outside? In committee hearings, the Minister of Education could not say so, so I wonder: How many children are expected to go forward? What are the scenarios?
i-6ioidxYta4Xdr4Yn9vEixM	Madam President, I would like No one in the world can talk about how many will come to Sweden tomorrow, next week or within a month. However, we must work on the plans that already exist and make all eventualities available to us. Therefore, we have made decisions and given the Swedish National Agency for Education extended opportunities. We will make more decisions. Above all, we have an ear to reality, where we can actually make quick decisions and meet the challenges we face.
i-BV8i1DTNMZGXNuuH8L1Pnz	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Education Lina Axelsson Kihlblom. In December 2020, a study was set up with the aim of creating the conditions for a state headship for the school. The report was due to be presented in May, i.e. in just over two months' time. But the investigator has been assigned a new assignment. Instead, the focus is now on investigating how the school can be strengthened without a government headship. The investigation will also be presented in October, i.e. only after the election. The Swedish Democrats share the view of the National Association of Teachers that this seems to be an attempt to patch and fix in a system that basically does not work. It is also a betrayal of both teachers and students. Could it be that this is only an attempt to sweep the problems under the carpet in order to avoid in the election movement the debate on how the Social Democrats completely failed with the Swedish school?
i-3UwtryQGmdXpqSAXKoLZ7r	Madam President, I would like It's not a modified mission that we've given to the investigator. It's an extended mission. All questions will be included from the past, and we are giving another assignment where we increase the breadth of the investigation so that it also includes adult education. We want the investigator to focus on the management problems with the marketing school so that we can overcome the lack of a coherent school that we have in Sweden. Instead of writing the answer in the title – state school, which we have never really had – we want the investigator to also look at other solutions to the problem.
i-KURjSMfN8qtMwZZQCE9Tbq	Madam President, I would like Many of the problems we see at school today and have seen for a long time can be traced to the municipalization of the Swedish school, which the Social Democrats pushed through with the Left Party Communists. That's why a government headship is needed. For example, this allows for a fairer allocation of resources but also clear national guidelines, which is a must if we seriously want to create a calm and secure school environment for both teachers and students. Why do the Minister for Education and Social Democrats not want to see a school with a fair distribution of resources and with a focus on knowledge and order?
i-QZYNCEJyozvtbzCNYHhpGe	Madam President, I would like That is precisely why we are going forward and want to remove the marketing school, this market chaos that we have. We like to see much more government responsibility for the school and order and order – a Swedish school with a focus. It is the students who should be in focus, not profit hunting and not market share, so I like to see increased state influence. But a huge government organization that deals with things that affect people in the country is a shared responsibility.
i-DgYJoMA8hsi3xpbvodrjMG	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Khashayar Farmanbar. In the coming years, more than SEK 1 000 billion will be invested in the new industrialisation in the north. The world's eyes are directed at us in Norrbotten and northern Sweden as we take the lead in the green transformation of the industry and not least the efforts to produce steel without coal. In order to succeed in these amazing opportunities and challenges when complex processes such as housing construction, community planning and permit testing are involved, it is a matter of coping with something entirely out of the ordinary. Swedish power grids have now announced that the expansion of electricity grids along the Norrland coast will not be able to take place at the pace required by industry. This means that planned investments in the sustainable green industry in Norrbotten are now at risk of being postponed or in the worst case when the capacity continues to be limited.
i-YSYgVWSaigjMa8D2v23Riv	Madam President, I would like I thank Linda Courage for the question. Swedish power grids have left an advance notice. The final message comes before the end of the year, at best, so this is an advance notice. Swedish power grids are also clear that it can change and that the situation can be significantly better than it is now, which I very much look forward to it being. Let me say that I am proud of the Swedish power network's work so far. It is easy to say that it is not enough, and we are in complete agreement on that. But the Swedish power network's advance notice means that the cities in Norrland get the equivalent of ten Örebro in power grid capacity within the intended time. Then I know that one of the players would have liked to have the entire main grid capacity of Storstockholm in an area corresponding to a residential block. I understand that is difficult and will take time to expand. But I am prepared to take a great many steps to get there as quickly as possible. Maybe I'll tell you in the next post.
i-14XjtwaWCcaftSwDGoZLSQ	Madam President, I would like It is very important that the municipalities in Boden, Luleå and Gällivare, who will host these huge investments, receive planning conditions and that we meet this challenge. It is absolutely true that the needs are great in northern Sweden, but it is because we also have great opportunities there. That is where green industrialisation is taking place, and it must certainly not be jeopardised. I would really like to hear more about what the Minister for Energy is prepared to take action to ensure that this fantastic opportunity does not pass us by.
i-Jp6qjXNxWRhoMNMpiLeaVW	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Linda Modig, for the supplementary question that gives me the opportunity to answer the questions. There are a number of concrete measures. It's about the queue signal – how to line up to get electricity. Right now it is the first person to get in line who will also get electricity first. When we enter an expansive phase, we need to look at whether there is a socio-economic responsibility that is more important than just waiting time, just as we do in school. This is about regulatory changes – a work that the Riksdag has decided on. We are in the process of shortening waiting times. But it is also a matter of ensuring that Swedish power networks have enough employees to carry out this work.
i-23KnXbTjH6afgf8v93owHf	Madam President, I would like I, too, have a question for the Minister for Energy. Russia's war of aggression against Ukraine is unacceptable and absolutely terrible; it must be stopped. We know that it is the export of oil and gas that fattens Putin's war. If we strangle the imports of oil and gas, we will also remove the economic base of Putin's war machine. We in Sweden are also involved in this. Eight per cent of Swedish imports of oil come from Russia. One third of our imports of liquefied natural gas come from Russia. As one Ukrainian representative said: The payment for oil and gas is draped in the blood of the people of Ukraine.
i-2xAXcQ8MdrwcwjdAzy7pUW	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jens Holm, for a very urgent question! We all want to stop trade with Russia. Let me be clear: there is no doubt whatsoever about that will. What I am pleased about in the current misery is that Europe and the Western world, the free world, have stood side by side. There are countries in Europe that are significantly closer to the totalitarian regime in Russia than Sweden does. Those countries have also endorsed the sanctions package. Just as Jens Holm highlighted, the impact of imports from Russia on our import-dependent energy sources for Sweden is small. This applies to nuclear fuel, oil and gas. For the Swedish part, we can quickly stop it. But I am not prepared to do such a thing, which would mean that we are violating the one form of sanctions that we have together with the rest of Europe, because it would also open the door to those countries that want to do more with Russia to say: now we can also violate the one form of sanctions. They could thus increase their trade. I think the road is cohesion.
i-3VmjUDMByNvYqrjhQfTupj	Madam President, I would like Now I would like the Minister for Energy to tell the Parliament which country in Europe would oppose Sweden going ahead and stopping our imports of oil and gas from Russia. We know it's the oil and gas that fattens Putin's war. I think all the other European countries would welcome if Sweden went ahead and said: Let's put an end to these imports – we solve this differently. We can do that by switching to 100% renewable energy. What's stopping you, Khashayar Farmanbar?
i-4B8QZ2uUGhks1ZADZQ5w6J	Madam President, I would like I am not sure that any country in Europe would oppose what we are doing. But I believe that there are countries in Europe, such as Hungary, that would look at what we are doing and say: See, Sweden is doing something other than the overall EU effort; thus, we will also do something else. And perhaps you should increase your trade with Russia. That is the effect I do not want to achieve by stopping our marginal imports of nuclear fuel, oil and gas from Russia. Russia is one of the world's largest suppliers of nuclear technology to many countries. This is also a large part that we need to deal with.
i-SEXxqpxWEfjs6egif5wf7h	Madam President, I would like If we are to manage to receive the Ukrainian refugees in a good way, civil society must be involved. My question therefore goes to Minister Ernkrans and concerns the government's inability to coordinate and quality-assured civil society's efforts to assist Ukraine and not least the Ukrainian refugees. Last Tuesday I visited with my party leader Ebba Busch City Church, which is located in the State Council and my home county of Örebro. Already today, lorries have been down to assist, and more than 20 Ukrainian refugees have been accepted, who have been given shelter, food and care. Amazing! But they stand alone. They don't get guidelines, and there's no coordination. Congregations and associations are simply forced to invent the wheel themselves. Only yesterday did the government conduct a so-called round table with civil society. The task was to examine the need for support. This is not good enough! Why don't you coordinate and put on your leadership shirt so that civil society knows what to do?
i-6auxabPQ9fKZdZQUDNbUuY	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Eklind, for the question. Civil society is extremely important in these contexts, really in all contexts where we talk about meeting people on the run. Civil society is important in Ukraine, in and around Ukraine's neighbourhood and here at home in Sweden. I think it is a very good initiative of our Minister for Culture to gather civil society in Sweden and listen to what civil society can and wants to contribute, not least here at home in Sweden, where we are already receiving Ukrainian refugees. We know that we will have to take joint responsibility for this. The public should take their responsibility, but we will also need civil society. I think it was a wise decision by the Minister of Culture. I think it is good that she gathered civil society as late as this week. We are ready to assist civil society on this issue.
i-7JxBjTqHkzXC7iTdkpUwZR	Madam President, I would like But when no one controls, the risk of double working becomes obvious. Even the care that exists can be misdirected. The fact that young women and children are now left in the hands of people who should not be allowed to be around them is something that, for example, UNHCR and the organisation Carita warned against. There is therefore a need for coordination and quality assurance. We have raised this issue. I have lifted it with the Minister for Migration, and we have formally lifted it with the government. But nothing happens. Why do you not do anything to lead these efforts?
i-K5tjPDMNjfFjv1sPWXKBZ3	Madam President, I would like I'll try to answer the question again. With regard to actions taking place on the ground in Ukraine and in and around the region, it is the responsibility of UN organisations, not least the UNHCR, to coordinate what concerns people on the run. They are also reinforced by, for example, the World Food Programme, which has a logistical responsibility for this. Both these organisations and several others are giving Sweden a lot of assistance, and we are not giving it earmarked for assisting new humanitarian organisations. I'm trying to answer that question this time.
i-4PzAxeKRgYd4RurqskjPdU	Madam President, I would like "Show me the money" – to quote the Minister for Energy himself. Khashayar Farmanbar has used the only argument the opponents of nuclear power have left in their argument box and never thought that the industry would come back with money in their backs. Now there is a Swedish player, with capital, who wants to build new nuclear power. For Sweden, this is good news. We will need new nuclear power. Sweden's electricity consumption looks at least double in 20 years. We will not solve this without electricity production that works regardless of the weather. Liberals have long warned that obstacles such as S, C and MP set up for nuclear power are a threat to Swedish energy supply. Now it's serious, and it's up to you to prove it. Now there is one player who wants to build. Will the government be an enabler, or will they be stopped?
i-CYVbmfd8j9qwPArFZqVXvL	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question, Arman Teimouri! Show me the money remains. It remains to be seen whether there is even an application. I've seen articles in the media, yes. I've heard business representatives talking in the media, yes. For ten years it has been perfectly possible to submit an application and show the money. It hasn't happened yet. I have said several times here in the speaker's chair that this government will not put a stop to such an application. But I still haven't seen any application. So far, it's just talk. But who knows, it might be something more than talk. That day, we'll have to look at it. However, I note that the excise duty introduced in 2000 was abolished by Stefan Lövven's government in connection with the 2016 budget. Since then, no distinction has been made between wind power and nuclear power. Despite this, no applications have yet been received to date. But if they come, they're welcome.
i-XdFtQjwgefDBeizhazvUYL	Madam President, I would like It would have been a good thing if the Minister for Energy had had as good a tone against nuclear investors as against wind energy investors. There is much we need to do in politics. Among other things, we must change Parliament's energy policy objectives. It needs to be changed. At the moment, it is really a no to nuclear power. If the government is serious about the full possibility of building nuclear power in Sweden, it also needs to act accordingly.
i-35kKLwmhyZSBT2Z7obbwMW	Madam President, I would like I note that for wind power developers there is an opportunity to get no at all from any municipality in the country, without any reservation or warning whatsoever. There is no such thing for nuclear power. There are three places where it is quite possible to build. There's no difference when it comes to the treasure. There are no other differences. Yet companies are in line to build wind power, but not a single company has put itself in line when it comes to nuclear power. If you want to talk about equal terms, please, come in with the application!
i-GkT9cmzD2c3pLqpbsK9FYF	Madam President, I would like If Putin did not need Europe's money, he would already have strangled Russia's fossil exports. A ban on fossil energy imports would be an effective blow to the Russian armed forces. But instead of this, the government is presenting several proposals that make Sweden more dependent on imports of Russian oil for petrol and diesel. It goes directly against what Volodymyr Zelenskyj is appealing for. For every litre of Russian gasoline and diesel that is refueled in Sweden, a piece of the profit goes to Putin's war fund. Right now, Europe is buying fossil energy from Russia for EUR 600 million a day. Sweden and the EU should immediately ban these imports and invest in the alternatives. When can we expect a total ban on energy imports from Russia?
i-VG5rYxbDP95zoafRwGpQ8n	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Annika Hirvonen, for the question! The concrete answer to the question when is, of course, as soon as possible – as soon as we can also ensure that we do not break a coordination where we risk more EU countries rather increasing their imports from Russia. I'm incredibly concerned about this. For the Swedish part, energy imports from Russia are low. It's zero when it comes to nuclear fuel. Nuclear fuel imports are completely stopped. As far as natural gas is concerned, we are down to 30%, perhaps 35%, and within a month it is expected to go down to zero. As far as oil was concerned, last year it was 8%, and it is constantly falling. For the Swedish part, our authorities, our companies and our people take a great responsibility, but I am keen that we take equal responsibility for the rest of Europe, because that is where the great unhealthy dependence is.
i-XmbuJKRbo5L35gKKLY2SEK	Madam President, I would like We need a European energy solidarity in which we save energy here so that those who are more dependent today on Russian energy can close the gas taps. We in the Green Party propose a 20 billion aid package for electrification, energy efficiency, support for agriculture and support for those with the least in their wallets. But from the government we see the opposite. When can the government instead come up with proposals with a fair distribution profile that reduces our energy use?
i-L2VTamPZTqHcSf3pzBUS3e	Madam President, I would like As early as Monday, the government and my colleague, Minister of Finance Mikael Damberg, presented a comprehensive package that provides more support for pensioners, more support for families with children, more support in the form of housing allowances and more support for those who own vehicles. This applies to both electric and fossil fuel vehicles, for vehicle owners should be able to have a better economy even while they are in the process of switching to electric vehicles. This support package has already been put forward, and I look forward to this noble Assembly voting through it.
i-Y6hXmVa5vvjKMUq9DrAiwq	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Deputy Minister of Labour Johan Danielsson. We receive regular reports from the media and from people who work in the workplace. It is rather sad testimony that wages and social security contributions are being cheated, and they tell us about employees who sleep on mattresses in the workplace doing dangerous work, etc. It is of course very important here that we are active and act quickly. The government has done a lot in terms of so-called work crime, but there is certainly more to be done. My question to the Minister for Labour is: what is the next step in combating unhealthy labour crime?
i-A9hPmJjPCdL731zvXuXq3x	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Johan Andersson, for the question! First of all, the fight against labour crime is a priority for the whole government, from the Prime Minister to all responsible ministers. According to the government, this should be done by making it harder to cheat and easier to get caught, but also by making it more difficult once you are punished. The decision we took a few weeks ago on the establishment of regional centres in the fight against labour crime is the next step to ensure that the supervision and control activities that exist work better. The establishment of the centres means that we will have dedicated staff from the nine incoming authorities that are physically co-located. According to the government, this will lead to more and better controls. It will also lead to increased visibility and better interaction with local trade unions, employers' organisations, municipalities and the local business community, who know what problems exist in the regional labour market.
i-N9gtHN3RGsV1NcfGYgz5Q8	Madam President, I would like I have a supplementary question. If you, as a private individual, experience or pay attention to cheating in a company or a workplace, in what way do you come into contact with the regional authorities?
i-8qzWWaRWtFS3ZS9w1NgRMA	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Johan Andersson, for the question! One of the advantages we believe we will be able to see with the regional centres is that there will be easier contact than today with the authorities regionally. We are also looking at the possibility of having a common entrance linked to the issue of working life crime. We will have to come back to exactly how it will be done, but it will be easier to get in touch with the authorities, and above all we will also get proper feedback when contacting the authorities. It's part of the job.
i-Un3gYBkrxsUKkgF3GwjorE	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Matilda Ernkrans. According to the Finnish Immigration Service, 4 000 Ukrainian refugees now arrive in Sweden every day. If the scenario strikes, the number of refugees in 2022 will far exceed the number that came during the record year of the Syria crisis in 2015, when we received more than 160 000 people in Sweden. That's a record we're going to break by the end of the six months. Despite the experiences of 2015, reception centres and border controls are now lacking, and responsibility is being dumped at Sweden's municipalities. My question for this reason is: What support can Sweden's municipalities count on from the government to solve the acute crisis and to plan to help long-term Ukrainian refugees who are now knocking on the door?
i-XB2Bn3ay3S27fgwaXytAW7	Madam President, I would like We in Sweden should take our responsibility for the refugees from Ukraine, but it is important that it is not as in 2015, when we took disproportionate responsibility over many other EU countries. We have given the assignment to both county boards and municipalities and regions. We are already in the process of preparing for how we can scale up and receive more refugees from Ukraine. We have also heard the Minister of Education report on how to prepare to accommodate Ukrainian children in our school. It is important that we learn lessons from what we went through in 2015 and try to find ways and ways to solve this together as an entire society. But it will be based on our taking responsibility together in the European Union. In particular, the mass refugee directive that we have put in place in the EU is a good help – that is my opinion anyway – so that we can get greater responsibility from all EU countries, so that we can support Ukraine, strengthen Sweden and impose sanctions on Russia, so that we can stop the war.
i-Yc8Vvj75nqyaV5cZnCUSuD	Madam President, I would like In contrast to the UN Declaration on Human Rights, Sweden has, strangely enough, chosen to ignore political views as grounds for discrimination. This means, for example, that trade union organisations have free leeway to exclude a significant part of the population from the trade union arena. The fact that one of the world's most equal countries in this way devalues, excludes and treats citizens differently shows a lack of ethics and morals, which unfortunately often characterises the government party.
i-KnJB3E7DaZRPMe5VJKPbmR	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mrs From Utterstedt, for the question. To begin with, I do not feel that the trade unions in the Swedish labour market today discriminate against people. The trade union organisations are independent organisations operating on the basis of the existing statutes and the political decisions taken at their congresses. Of course, people who have positions of trust within the organisation can be required to act in accordance with the principles agreed in the organisation's highest decision-making bodies and at its congresses. I think we should be careful not to restrict their ability as independent organisations to act in this way.
i-U1VwX8m9ozP98TnYFPskCW	Madam President, I would like Minister for Housing Johan Danielsson can remain in the speaker's chair. Although the risk is not imminent at the moment, the situation in the world around us has caused many of us to ask ourselves the question: Where is the nearest shelter, and where should I go if preparedness is raised or if, g ud forbidden, there is a sudden attack? Many property owners wonder what is expected of them if and when preparedness is raised and shelters must be set up within 48 hours. In addition to this, we need to consider how, with the support of the Planning and Construction Act, we can be prepared for rapid and safe solutions for temporary hospitals, schools and evacuation homes in case of war. Where should food and other supplies, for example, be stored? One might ask: What is such a building permit process like with today's regulations? Then my question to the Government is: What measures will the government take within the Planning and Construction Act to quickly increase access to and knowledge of protection and premises in one's residential area?
i-9ak2NZtbxgRDXZDaqh5kqQ	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr President, for the question. In terms of total defence and crisis preparedness, the government has implemented the largest investment in crisis preparedness and civil defence in modern times. It is also an important part of the agreement that prevailed in the Defence Committee. Then the Swedish Civil Protection Agency has a supporting role, which includes analysing particularly serious vulnerabilities, threats and risks in society in collaboration with municipalities, authorities, companies and so on. It is also about having a dialogue with the property owners and the tenant-owner associations and so on who have shelters. We also have a special investigation looking at the issue of shelters. It is about the importance of the current stock but also about how we can gradually upgrade this. This is indeed an important issue on which the government has worked in the past, and it is a work that will have to be intensified as a consequence of what is happening in Ukraine.
i-MnZeP8LvArEvkm18qXZ7bi	Madam President, I would like SVT News Stockholm had on Monday an article about apptaxi drivers who organize themselves for better conditions. This element referred to the Swedish Work Environment Authority's report, which states that gig companies are not to be regarded as employers and therefore have no responsibility for the work environment. This feature interviewed Johan Danielsson, who concluded that it is particularly serious when the Agency also points out that the risks to the working environment in the platform sector are higher than in other workplaces. And he referred to a sitting investigation that reviews these conditions. But Danielsson's response did not impress these app drivers very much. It doesn't impress me very much either. In fact, something has to happen right now. My question will be: What measures does the Government intend to take here and now to improve for platform workers in the Swedish labour market?
i-5NCsSPHsHrQUacwcdwtSf2	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question. I share the view that the picture given in the report – and the picture that is actually a reality in the Swedish labour market today for these workers – is not acceptable. After all, it takes time to change legislation. As far as the Swedish Work Environment Authority's study is concerned, it did not by definition show that not all gig companies are to be regarded as employers. However, in some specific cases, the Court has come to that conclusion, and as a result, workers today do not have the protection of the working environment that they are supposed to have. A measure to which the investigation I referred is concerned is an increase in the responsibility of the Council, which will make those who actually have control over the working environment of these workers responsible for the working environment, whether or not they are, in the technical sense, employers. That's a step forward, isn't it? At the same time, there is a debate at European level since the Commission presented a proposal linked to the platform economy in December. It will also have consequences for the rights and opportunities of these workers to have a good working environment.
i-6f6SbCaMJjKGb4Lwuf7cDf	Madam President, I would like Too many children are betrayed by Swedish school. In the series Alpha children in SVT's Mission review we met Ture. Ture gets anxiety when he goes to school. When he stays home, he gets anxiety because he's not in school. We have to deal with the school of uniformity which means that too many children are taught the same way in the same classroom, even though it goes out over the children who have the greatest support needs and their families. Is the Minister of Education prepared to make demands that there should be special teaching groups at each school?
i-XqCZ7wGfR36ERjEqWFnYSb	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Christian Carlsson for the question. Today, as you know, we made a bill dealing with the ability of all municipalities to open resource schools, so that it should not be a matter just for larger cities or just for independent schools. It is also a question of resource allocation. We clarify what resources it is and how they should be distributed in an equal way across the country. It is also important to remember that we have put together a bill about student health. It's about students being able to be detected early and so on. Then we have put together a bill that is about an equal choice of school. These students have been removed for many years because they are not profitable in a school market.
i-HKpoF1kNs1SQE4qtV8qYYt	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Johan Danielsson. Following the refugee wave in 2015, a new law was introduced that gave the government the opportunity to introduce emergency rules in the event of mass flight to Sweden. The emergency clause enables municipalities to quickly develop different forms of modular housing or other simpler housing. The Migration Agency has announced that we have a great need for housing in the future. The Minister for Migration has now announced that the government will review the reliefs in PBL but focuses only on temporary and simple accommodations in the form of tents. We have a housing shortage all over the country. Where will these people live then? Tent camps, of course, are not worthy of living in the long run. As the responsible minister, are you prepared to use the entire emergency clause to create the conditions for simple housing for up to three years in our municipalities?
i-VbombtrjEupgvVJUfVHgU3	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jakob Olofsgård, for the question! It is true that we have a housing shortage in Sweden. Since 2018, the government has managed to reverse this trend, and the existing housing deficit is decreasing for the first time in a very long time. That is not to say that this will not be a challenge in the current housing shortage. This means that we must prepare for any possible scenarios. We have presented a memo which we have now referred with extremely short consultation time. The referrals have until Monday to reply. It will be about changes in the Planning and Construction Act to enable the opportunities associated with asylum immigration to also be linked to those coming to Sweden through the mass refugee directive. It will be about municipalities having the opportunity to set up temporary housing in premises that are used for other purposes but also to establish simpler accommodation centres. It's about tents, but it's not just about tents. Tents are not the first measure, but we need to prepare for all scenarios.
i-7QTXJUv3Q5ighxe42V4Y11	Madam President, I would like Since 1 January this year, we have new legislation in place. There are climate declarations for the new buildings that are being built, but with a wide range of exceptions that we can hopefully remove in the future so that all buildings are covered. It is simply a question of building owners being obliged to make declarations about the climate impact of newly constructed buildings. Recently, I was pleased to note that the government, even without the Green Party, has chosen to move forward with speeding up the process of including limit values in climate declarations. My question is that the mandate to Boverket states that the process of introducing limit values should be accelerated but also that the application should be extended. I am thinking a lot about how the government wants to continue working on the important tool climate declarations and how this application could be extended so that we can really reduce the climate impact of the construction sector.
i-Jjyn88FFbenVyRPYgezz3K	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Emma Hult, for the question! It is true that the government, including the current government, sees the introduction of climate declarations as an important instrument for speeding up the transition in the construction sector. This is important because it accounts for a large proportion of our emissions. The mission to Boverket is to review whether we can speed up the introduction of limit values and whether we can extend the application. Among other things, it is a matter of looking at whether climate declarations can also be introduced in the case of conversion and extension. The assignment will be presented by May next year. The government has also, a little in the same case, commissioned Boverket to propose measures for how circular construction can be promoted. It is clear that we should ensure that we do away with the housing deficit that we have and that we build housing that ordinary people can afford to live in, but we must also ensure that what we build is sustainable.
i-7HWQnhX3wm2MLSYM3QNRdu	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister Matilda Ernkrans. The large influx of refugees from Ukraine affects the whole of Europe, but above all the neighbouring countries, such as Moldova. Moldova is one of the poorest countries in Europe with a population of 2.6 million people, and they receive the most refugees per capita. Sweden and Moldova have had good bilateral relations for decades, and Sweden provides comprehensive and long-term assistance to the country. My question is: what does Sweden's support for Moldova look like, and will it change in response to the war in Ukraine and the refugee flows from there?
i-6YedN7Yta6eE6FYeFyfkDT	Madam President, I would like It is absolutely vital that the Swedish Government and the EU support Ukraine but also its neighbours, who are now taking a major responsibility for the reception of refugees. As far as Moldova is concerned, it is a country in Europe but not an EU country. We are there with Swedish aid funds but also with EU aid funds, mainly through international UN organisations, such as UNHCR and UNICEF, but also UN Women. I visited Moldova myself earlier this week. They have taken a great responsibility, but they are also very clear that they need international support to cope with the flow of refugees. We have replenished the aid directed directly to Moldova, and I believe that the more we can do from the Swedish side with Swedish aid to UN organisations in place, the better Europe will be able to deal with the refugee crisis that we are now facing.
i-RoTAvM32WjfMpWKCwdZUwP	Madam President, I would like Lantmäteriet's real estate development activities are inefficient, with long processing times and high, unpredictable fees. This is how the Swedish National Audit Office's stinging criticism in a report from 1 March this year can be summarised. The report confirms what we Moderates have been pointing out for a long time, namely that inefficiencies and monopoly positions impair property formation and thus construction in Sweden. Waiting times have grown longer, and fees have risen at a high rate. Projects run the risk of being greatly delayed with rising costs resulting from a time when we have widespread housing shortages. The Social Democrats have been in government for almost eight years, but nothing has happened. My question therefore goes to Minister for Housing Johan Danielsson. When can we get a message from the government to get the Lantmäteriet's processing times and the property development in Sweden in order?
i-XtLEBJjsSTfLfLq2JFBF8E	Madam President, I would like Many thanks for the question, Viktor Wärnick! The government is well aware that the time for obtaining a building formation decision is not satisfactory. I understand that this leads to frustration. I also understand that it leads to a willingness to form municipal surveying authorities as a solution for individual municipalities and regions. The government has done things during the time it has held government power. In 2018, we appointed a brand new board and a new Director General of Lantmäteriet. We have given the agency several assignments regarding governance and follow-up, and much of what we have done was a reaction to the report that came from Statskontoret. We have now received a report from the Swedish National Audit Office, to which the honourable Member referred. We are looking at all the proposals made by the Swedish National Audit Office, and we will return to the Riksdag in the usual order regarding the recommendations of the Swedish National Audit Office. I share the view that we need to reduce further the length of proceedings.
i-PNhpf1SPG2XTVehwjgbhQS	Madam President, I would like Well-functioning transport and strong domestic food production are also central parts of our preparedness in civil defence, among many other things. Despite this, the government has deliberately suffocated the Swedish agricultural sector and the haulage industry through extreme fuel taxes and reduction obligations. Farm after farm and company after company is now closed. Swedish fuel prices are well above the levels in neighbouring countries such as Denmark, and the lavish krona recently launched by the government in its crisis package does nothing to change that relationship. Nor is the additional $2 in relief that agriculture may receive far enough in the extreme situation that we are now in. The Swedish Democrats want to see reliefs of up to 10 crowns a litre. In view of this, I would like to ask Minister Matilda Ernkrans: why is the government not prepared, even in this crisis situation, to give Swedish farmers and hauliers the relief they need to be able at least to compete on equal terms with our neighbouring countries?
i-Adfs5EkhLcgHD4RmFK3dZb	Madam President, I would like It is interesting to see the commitment of the Swedish Democrats to the Putin prices for petrol, diesel and other things that affect Sweden and Europe. The Swedish Democrats are probably the party in this parliament that has the closest contact with that particular regime. The government has presented a package of measures to meet the price increases for fuels and electricity. We'll lower the tax on diesel. We provide fuel compensation of SEK 1,000 and another SEK 1,500 if you belong to an assisted area. We freeze the reduction obligation, and we also replenish the bonus malus system so that you can continue to buy electric cars. In addition to this is the spring change budget, 1 billion, which is directed directly at rural areas and agriculture. It may be that we need to make further efforts, but the government takes responsibility for strengthening Sweden also through this crisis.
i-FzDBMTL2DXe3NvHH3z9Svy	Madam President, I would like The government wants to introduce ID controls in the Öresund region despite the fact that it is known to destroy traffic and integration in the region. Neither Region Skåne, the County Administrative Board nor the business community in Skåne understand how the government thinks and neither do I. In 2015, ID checks were introduced to prevent asylum seekers from coming to Sweden. The refugees who come are now visa-free in the EU and are not stopped. Denmark released all refugees to Sweden in 2015. Today Denmark has sharp border controls. ID checks only check if people have an ID, not who they are – even though the Minister for Migration says otherwise. What's with ID checks? Can the person who has no ID simply take the car instead of the train? Ordinary passenger cars are not checked. JK has questioned whether the controls in 2015 were legal. Since then, the Court of Justice of the European Union in 2018 has concluded that ID controls between EU countries are illegal, but the government ignores all of this.
i-TBb9NihEpWq5QcknoEaaMb	Madam President, I would like We should remember that the basis of the ID controls is that there is war in Europe where not least the Ukrainians themselves suffer terribly and people are forced to flee because of Putin's invasion of Ukraine. At this point, 3 million people have already moved beyond Ukraine's borders, and 2 million are on the run within Ukraine's borders. We need to find a way to prepare ourselves so that we can take our share of responsibility for the reception of refugees in Sweden, but it must not be like 2015 where Sweden took a disproportionate responsibility compared to other EU countries. We should also remember that when people move on the run, all people move. It can be a wise idea with ID checks to still have a check on the people seeking asylum in Sweden. That's the reason for the ID checks. I understand that this will be a test for the Öresund region, but I believe that the Öresund region also understands why.
i-AviFLZLCy4bAUfji9qjVcK	Madam President, I would like My question is also addressed to Matilda Ernkrans. About four weeks ago I was in Kiev and met politicians, entrepreneurs, the Home Guard and a lot of others. Today, many of them are active in battles. They fight for their lives, and they fight for women, children, and the elderly not to be bombed. From the Ukrainian side there has been a strong desire for more help. It is grateful for the financial resources it has received, and it is extremely grateful for the military resources it has received. However, more help has been asked to clear the airspace, above all, to cope with the situation in which Russia is now bombing cities. Will the government take any steps to help Ukraine clear its airspace with robots, for example?
i-ptQwwiKiqYkc4HxgG9uT8	Madam President, I would like I was also in Kiev about four weeks ago, and I visited Moldova just a few days ago. Russia's invasion of Ukraine is truly terrible for the people of Ukraine and for those who are now on the run. Here in Sweden, we are working hard to extend the sanctions against Russia so that they will be effective so that we stop the war. We support Ukraine, including humanitarian aid. We continue with great efforts with Swedish aid. We have also provided the country with weapons, which is unique. We are now looking at whether it is possible to do something further, not least through the EU peace mechanism. It is quite clear that Sweden and the European Union, together with the United States, must stand together to support Ukraine and put an end to the war.
i-BiaMtBLptzev88BxYDCzGh	Madam President, I would like On Monday, the Minister of Education, as is known in this House, announced that the investigation into state leaders, which, among other things, we Liberals have been pushing to increase equivalence in the country, will take a different direction. On that day I visited Åsele Central School in Västerbotten. Social Democratic local government has spent only 3.7 million on school activities. It doesn't sound like a big sum, but for Åsele it corresponds to two whole preschool departments. Such a sum is an example of how a change in headship would mean better conditions for teachers and principals. Instead, the investigation is given a different direction, and the government wants to increase governance. What's the message? Is it a 79th state grant that will solve the problem?
i-EbvbBR6jqNVAvBdtvGxAtX	Madam President, I would like I would like to take this opportunity to thank Roger Haddad for the question. I have already pointed out today that this was not a change to the mission, but an extension of the mission. The mission we have given in the past is solid. Let's look at other solutions as well. I think that all Swedish municipalities should bear in mind that it is difficult to manage the school today when they want to lower school money. We know that there are billions lost in wealth gains in connection with the establishment of independent schools. That's something to consider. We want it to be an increased responsibility and increased governance of the school, and we want a Swedish school with a mission. The focus should be the students, nothing else. No profit, no market share.
i-CvV6D5kcSPfSE9hEqPVBFi	Madam President, I would like After a judgment in the Administrative Court of Appeal in 2019, it became clear that free schools' statistics on student composition, throughput and grade results should be classified, i.e. not released by Statistics Sweden. According to the judgment, the data should be classified as business secrets – hear and be amazed – because they can affect parents' choice of school and the extreme amount of money the free school company earns. Nor did the judgment provide an opportunity to monitor how free schools allocate their resources. The Swedish National Agency for Education concluded that information on municipal schools must also be classified as the same conditions apply to all schools. A temporary legal solution came in place so that the Swedish National Agency for Education and Local Authorities has been able to get some information, but now a long-term solution needs to be developed. Should free schools, the Minister of Education, be subject to the principle of public access?
i-2cwzcbk5GB2HtoDsGbWEhJ	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Pia Nilsson for the question. For me as a social democrat, it goes without saying that they should. We spend tax money on independent units to carry out the important task of taking care of our students and teaching. It is also the exercise of authority. Yes, the legislation is temporary, but to me it goes without saying that the principle of public access should also apply to independent entities. It is about what you are doing, and it is about the responsibility you have. And it is strange that we can send money out into thin air without the ability to follow up how it is used. This is what means taking back democratic control. It is we politicians who are responsible for the tax funds, and we should also take responsibility for how they are used.
i-YBfeDzNzRijK3Ej7AKZ9K2	Madam President, I would like Right now there are many and long queues to renew their passport. In many parts of the country, there are several months' waiting time. In Skåne it is not even possible to book an appointment at all, but you are directed to click on the police website to see when the September times are released. The situation has led to the sale of passport times on social media, and this is, of course, a completely unacceptable situation. In addition, the Constitution regulates that Swedish citizens should be able to travel out of and into the kingdom, but it is now limited by the fact that people cannot renew their passport. This situation has arisen in the light of the coronap and that people want to travel. At the same time, it is a problem that has existed for several years.
i-8QtLUPxMHtqkiUAfvEiFNv	Madam President, I would like It is absolutely very bad that times for renewing passports are sold on Ebay. That, of course, should not be the case. I can assure the honourable Member that this is something that the government takes very seriously. Of course, we have initiated work to see how we can tackle the problem. This applies not least to talks with the Police Authority, which, of course, must give priority to people's ability to renew their passports. It is important to feel that it works as a citizen. But we should also be a little clear that there is a responsibility of our own. After all, the information has gone out to citizens for a long time to keep track of what the passports look like and when they go out too in good time to be able to prepare for the renewal of the passport. I therefore believe that there is also a responsibility of its own for the citizens to take.
i-4GagaCxDDipqUrsE6GK18r	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Danielsson. The Government has commissioned Boverket to come up with proposals on how climate declarations can also include renovations, and then also with established limit values. This increased bureaucracy, the planned introduction of limit values and the increased costs of renovations, will of course result in energy-saving renovations being missed or postponed. Renovation which is important for keeping energy consumption down and which would otherwise be economically advantageous risks being completely absent.
i-2wsK9FBUUrPRDThvC6f1Lc	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question. We have commissioned Boverket to see how these climate declarations can be extended and whether they should be extended to include renovations for extension and new construction. It is clear that the climate benefit should be weighed against what other consequences it might have, but I still have to allow myself to be a little surprised at this sudden buzz for energy efficiency. After all, the government had introduced support for energy efficiency in housing – a support that the Swedish Democrats, together with the Moderates, abolished in their alternative budget exercise last autumn. It is a direct blow to the necessary energy efficiency of housing in Sweden. To give Boverket a mission to ensure that we have climate-efficient housing would, on the contrary, aim to save energy.
i-DfAe7oavWG3MG8Ei1Mbppw	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Khashayar Farmanbar. According to the latest forecasts, Sweden's electricity needs will be doubled, and the government has just made a decision on Sweden's first Baltic Sea, Gulf of Bothnia and West Sea sea plans. The plans now allow for a faster expansion that would generate 20-30 terawatt hours, which is very important especially for those of us who live in southern Sweden. My question is: what is the potential for further expansion of offshore wind power?
i-H7CMjuhayHgyWy3aid2Lbt	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking, Monica Haider. We are moving towards a significantly increased electrification of Sweden. When we push fossil fuels out of transport and from industry, we will get away with two thirds of our greenhouse gas emissions and perhaps even double our energy consumption. At present, while I am facing this noble House, there are requests from companies to build offshore wind power equivalent to 350 terawatt hours of electricity in southern Sweden alone. That is more than two and a half times what Sweden consumes today. I think we all realise that exactly all that may not be built, but it shows the enormous potential and the confidence that is out there that our seas can provide us with electricity in the future. I think it's an important part of the puzzle. This, together with the existing nuclear power, hydropower and land-based wind power, will enable us to meet this challenge forward.
i-Xiqty9KF7B4bhTRxUZSc3f	Madam President, I would like The Digital Administration Agency, Digg, has been tasked with improving the digitisation of welfare. A number of previous investigations have all provided reports that solve some of the problems, but there is no overall picture. For example, the healthcare sector wants to get digitalisation started, not just drop the fax machine or solve small issues in an outdated structure. It is about the enormous opportunities that digitalisation can offer. I would like the mission to Digg to become holistic and not only tightened the bow to yesterday's needs but created a framework for what could come within a decade. Does the Government not also want to tighten the bow and not just solve small issues in a structure that really barely allows smart phones to be used? What does the Government really want the mission to lead to?
i-XVBw69nkN7hnuGcyqRRafF	Madam President, I would like Thank you for an exciting question, Mats Sander! I note that this is the first time I have been asked about digitalisation and not just about energy, and I am very grateful for that. I am also pleased with Mats Sanders's question, because we are in complete agreement on this. I believe that we in Sweden will have to move towards a more holistic approach to digitalisation. Right now it is only the public sector that the authority DIGG should work with, but to get to where all the benefits of digitalization opportunities come to society we need more holistic thinking. If I am to be honest, perhaps a seminar will be required to answer the question rather than 60 seconds, of which I have 18 seconds left, but I think we fully agree that in the long term Diggs' mission will need to be reviewed in order to be more comprehensive. It should not only be targeted at the public sector, but also about how society as a whole can be digitised.
i-HAKcq6zQ2RLXjBY3JrWcNg	Madam President, I would like When the government announced last week the welcome announcement that the appropriation for defence will be increased to 2% of GDP, questions arose about how this is to be financed. The Minister of Finance then said that tax increases are required – a contingency tax for Sweden to be able to afford. Perhaps the most important task of the state is to maintain a strong defence, and in a country with one of the highest tax pressures in the world, it cannot be the revenue of the state that is the problem. Sweden's development budget for 2022 is SEK 52 billion. It is money that would have done better in Sweden when the Social Democrats are unable to finance one of the core tasks of the state.
i-U9uytHE1tTNSBngmGSqjkQ	Madam President, I would like Surely there is almost nothing that a Swedish democrat cannot finance with half-assisted aid. But in the situation we are in now, with war in Europe and where we see how Swedish aid makes a difference for people in our neighbourhood, it is an extra challenging statement that it is the aid we are going to fund this with. It would be interesting, purely rhetorical, to ask what the Swedish Democrats think we should cut back. Should we no longer count on refugee costs from aid? Is this what we're gonna cut down? Is that the climate aid? Is it aid that goes directly to the UNHCR, which is now in place in Ukraine and neighbouring countries and ensures that the refugee situation is managed on the ground? Is it women's and girls' rights we should cut back? No, I would argue that the agreement reached in the Defence Preparation, which means 3 new billions for the defence already this year, the possibility of buying equipment for 30 billion by 2030 and an increase in the defence budget to 2% of the GDP – we are able to finance.
i-JzQzFEMLv7rdRKSJBFfrTQ	Madam President, I would like According to the Construction Market Commission, approximately 8,750 public procurements of construction services were made in 2019 with a total value of SEK 125 billion. As a social democrat, I am very keen that this money should not end up in the wrong pockets, for example, of companies that do not meet the demands for reasonable wages and working conditions for their employees.
i-M2cRBNnu9aFCKkLZKDmcPS	Madam President, I would like I naturally share this view. If we are to manage to put order in the labour market and push back the growing crime of working life, we must ensure that our tax money does not end up in the pockets of those companies and operators who are guilty of crime, do not pay their taxes and social security contributions, cheat with the working environment or have illegal workers employed. That is why I and the Minister for Civil Affairs have initiated a number of round tables with the construction industry and with the cleaning and transport industries. These are sectors where there is fraud in public procurement. It is clear, we think, that we need to look at how it can be easier for contracting authorities to see which companies have previously committed crimes and other infringements. Another issue that we have identified so far in the talks is the problems that exist with long chains of subcontractors and what this leads to in the form of cheating and exploitation. Let's talk and take in suggestions from the industry. Then we will come back from the government.
i-DWctKBQLpaLdkTtqjTHuL1	Madam President, I would like Markus Wiechel has asked me to what extent the equality perspective has in general reflected my decision and the government's decision to take action under the coronapndemin. Markus Wiechel has also asked whether I believe that the equality perspective should shape the decisions of the authorities and whether I intend to take any general action on the basis of my position. Furthermore, the questioner wonders whether I believe, on the whole, that the advice I have received from, among other things, the Public Health Agency has been satisfactory in order to achieve a positive result and whether I intend to work towards changing ways of dealing with possible future pandemics. Together we have made it through a difficult time in Sweden. Our strong economic position, our robust social security systems, our skilled health professionals and high confidence in the authorities have helped us through the crisis. The Pandemin has thus demonstrated several of the strengths of Swedish society. But covid-19 has also shown weaknesses that we share with many other countries. We still have health inequalities that covariate strongly with socio-economic factors and with how hard covid-19 has hit different groups. The pandemic therefore underlines the importance of more equality, not less. When the government and the authorities have taken various measures, including restrictions, to save lives and health, a starting point has been to give priority to constitutionally protected freedoms and rights, as well as to children and young people, as well as to public health as a whole. This has meant, among other things, that preschools and schools have been open during the pandemic. On-site teaching is important not only for children's learning and for the future but also for their health and well-being. Creating social conditions for good and equal health throughout the population also needs to be taken into account in the management of a pandemic that affects society as a whole. Another example where there should be a self-evident equality perspective is vaccination. In Sweden we have carried out vaccinations as needed. The greatest need has gone first. Special efforts have been made to increase coverage in areas with traditionally lower vaccination rates. When it comes to vaccination of children, the Swedish Public Health Agency believes that the best interests of the child are the basis for the Authority's decision not to recommend general vaccination against covid-19 for children under 12 years of age. Prior to the decision, the Swedish Public Health Agency has had a dialogue with, among others, the Swedish Children's Medical Association and the National Medical Ethics Council. I am surprised that the interpeller seems to want politicians to consider the state expert authority on disease control issues in medical matters such as which age groups should be vaccinated or in which situations certain protective equipment should be worn. It would be a dangerous development if such balances were made subject to party politics. With regard to the interpellier's question as to whether we are going to change our way of working for future pandemics, we are, for information, still in the pandemic. The Corona Commission has recently submitted its final report. However, the Government has already taken measures such as examining how medical skills in care for the elderly can be strengthened, carrying out a review of the Disease Protection Act and strengthening preparedness in health care. Finally, I note that the interpeller continues to try to black out Sweden. The Pandemin is not a competition, but the Corona Commission notes that, in terms of the outcome, Sweden appears to be a relatively good European country in terms of over-mortality in relation to the entire pandemic. Sweden belongs to the countries of Europe with the lowest excess mortality.
i-No2gherdzJmQmr3echUjGo	Madam President, I would like The Minister of Social Affairs says I'm trying to black out Sweden. It's very ridiculous. Does the Minister think that it is blacking out Sweden when it criticises a so-called strategy that is deeply controversial around the world and has actually marked this whole country during the pandemic, a strategy that has led us to have around 18 000 confirmed deaths right now? What I'm doing is not blacking out Sweden. What I'm doing is emphasising the facts. I call a shovel a shovel. I do this out of reverence for Sweden and especially for the Swedes who have been forced to undergo this experiment. I wish the Minister of Social Affairs had shown the same awe or at least a little humility about what we have dealt with in Sweden. Furthermore, the Minister for Social Affairs believes that the pandemic is not a competition. Does the Government mean, in all seriousness, that she does not want to be the best, or how do you interpret this? Does she mean that the outcome of the handling doesn't matter? I would like to remind the Government that, as a result of this non-strategy, Sweden has come to be called "parialand" in large international journals. A former Nobel laureate in economics lifted up Sweden's strategy and said that the only thing we had got for it was a bunch of dead Swedes. Madam President, I would like Just as I write in my interpellation, the least our taxpayers can expect in times of crisis is that the government and the associated authorities will do what they can to protect the lives and health of the inhabitants. That is precisely why I have raised the equality perspective. After all, I and the Minister have stood here a number of times earlier during the pandemic and almost consistently had different views on things. We have disagreed, so there is nothing we need to highlight over and over again. But now I simply raised another aspect, and that is precisely the one about equality. There has been a recurring argument from various authorities during the pandemic, and in my interpellation I have given several examples. The first example is from March 2020 when the state epidemiologist was interviewed by Expressen and said that it was problematic to work for people to work from home, because it would be an equality problem. In November 2020, the current Director General of the Public Health Agency, Karin Tegmark Wisell, who was then Head of Department of the Agency, stated that it did not recommend mouth protection, on the grounds that it is a problem of equality. The third example I mentioned was a publication by the Public Health Authority in January 2022, which justified the Authority's resistance to vaccines on the grounds that it is a question of equality. I quote, ‘Not all children in Sweden have the same health and access to health care, because health follows parameters such as the socio-economic status of parents and the level of education.' Inequality can be increased if vaccinations against covid-19 cannot be offered and accepted by all children or all parents. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like Not in a single word has the Minister mentioned the examples that I am highlighting in the interpellation or these statements. I find that remarkable. Therefore, a concrete question comes to the Government: Has the government avoided any restriction or recommendation because it is thought that it would have been an equality problem to introduce this?
i-GWBhXNTH8F4zSwjNLn76Mv	Madam President, I would like I think it is reasonable that equality should guide us, whether we have a pandemic or not. It is my ambition as Minister of Social Affairs that we should have both equal health care and equal welfare. On the basis of the examples available, I believe that we as citizens have the right to expect equality as a starting point. Markus Wiechel asks why I have not commented on his example in my reply. The interpeller receives answers to the questions asked, and since the interpeller has asked quite a few questions, it should be quite clear. Otherwise he may ask quite different questions so we could in such cases talk about equality. What does the interpellant have against equality being one of the elements guiding us in difficult times? I'm having a hard time seeing it. I can, of course, in this oral reply do a little reflection on the examples that Markus Wiechel gives because, as usual, he is without context when he makes his loose quotes. When it comes to equality, I think it is not particularly remarkable to discuss the fact that working from home does not have all equal opportunities. This does not mean that we did not recommend people to work from home. That's exactly what we did. That is why the Swedish people more or less worked from home for almost two years. Some hope to keep some of it. But it is obvious that whether we know it is a good measure, not everyone can work from home. This has been the case in Sweden, and this has been the case in those countries that have had more pronounced lockdown principles. Surely there is no one who believes that bus drivers should be able to drive buses from home, that nurses should be able to change wounds from home or that police should be able to arrest criminals from home? Some can work from home, and doing so will help those who cannot work from home. With the spread of infection that we had then made it easier for people to be in public places, travel collectively and so on. This is important to understand when Markus Wiechel in his interpellation refers to what Karin Tegmark Wisell has said about mouthguards, which I obviously had to check out. There is much said by both myself and by the authority and finding a quote from these two years' time is not too advanced. But what Karin Tegmark Wisell does is she talks about the effect of mouthguards. That doesn't mean you don't recommend it. However, the consequences of various disease control measures must be clearly understood. You can choose to see only the upsides and benefits, or you can also see the back sides. Then one must always weigh this to see what weighs the heaviest. However, Markus Wiechel also knows that only a few months later it became a recommendation on the mouth protection of public transport during congestion. Perhaps I can give you another example so that we can talk instead about equality that the interpellation is about. Markus Wiechel talks in the interpellation about the Authority's vaccine resistance. I do not even know where it would come from that we have a public health authority that would have a vaccine resistance. On the contrary, the Public Health Agency devotes as much time as I and many others to talking about the importance of vaccination. But there too it is always a question of weighing the individual's benefits against the risks. Above all, it concerns children and that we do not vaccinate children for the sake of anyone else, but that the benefits outweigh the risks for children. That's how it's described. It is, as I said, a government decision. But I still want to react when there is talk of vaccine resistance. I think that's as far from the truth as you can get.
i-PWLAkqu3PbBjnVaLLUEHX6	Madam President, I would like When it comes to vaccine resistance, I have not claimed that the Public Health Authority is against vaccines. What I emphasised in the interpellation is that Sweden has once again distinguished itself, in this case when it comes to vaccination of young children, for example. You will understand that if you look at the statements I have made on previous occasions. Like the Minister for Social Affairs, I think it is important to be careful and to keep looking at this from an individual perspective, especially when it comes to young children. But the fact is that Sweden is quite lonely when it comes to the handling that has been done with small children and vaccination. There they have distinguished themselves. What I reacted to above all is the statement that came from the Public Health Authority in the document that the Government has taken note of. When it comes to previous statements, which the Government is now highlighting and which I appreciate, they are, among other things, about working from home. Finally, such a recommendation was implemented. But the problem was that it was too late. What I have highlighted here is that the state epidemiologist referred to some equality perspective when this recommendation was not introduced, because not everyone could work from home. As the Government said, it is better that those who can actually work at a distance from home do so, just as it is good that those who can use mouth protection and have that possibility do so because it reduces the spread of infection. Again, this has been marked by slowness.
i-AhSkf3yxsjnrGSERDQTKPF	Madam President, I would like In his next speech, Markus Wiechel can say something more about how he himself discusses equality. For me, it's very important. And that, if I don't misunderstand it all, was the headline for pandemic management. Should I understand that Markus Wiechel and the Swedish Democrats find it problematic with an equality perspective in pandemic management? I would say that it is the opposite. It is very important to have an equality perspective in pandemic management. One question from Markus Wiechel was whether we intend to have a different perspective when dealing with possible future pandemics. Then I would like to say that I think it is important to have the equality perspective in all contexts, not least in crises. For it is often those who are at risk from the outset, socially or economically, who are even more vulnerable in times of crisis. That is why we have had an equality perspective. That is why we have not closed schools, because we know what the consequences would be for society as a whole and not least for those children who may not be able to study and cannot get help at home and who cannot leave an environment that may be filled with insecurity. I have to say that the image that Markus Wiechel gives of Swedish pandemic management is fundamentally different from the one that I myself meet when I meet colleagues in different countries and when I take part of publications where there will be more – there will be more – yet it is noted that Sweden has one of the lowest excess mortality rates in Europe and in the Nordic countries. I think it is worth taking along, given the description given by Markus Wiechel. I would also like to say that I understand that large parts of the Swedish people have appreciated that their freedom has not been restricted more than necessary and that we have not, for safety's sake, restricted people's ability to operate. Then, as I said, there are many who have worked hard and who have had their freedom limited. When the restrictions were released, they felt that they could start living again. But in essence, I think it has been wise not to do more than what we consider necessary and to keep in mind that there is a reverse to all the measures that are being put in place. Equality, I think, is a key word to have regardless of the pandemic.
i-Y9PMouyak5vMf9Sg3LAo6g	Madam President, I would like I'll start with the equality perspective. I think equality is very important. There is no doubt about it. But when it comes to a crisis, it's about saving lives. The only thing that's important then is to save lives as much as you can. We must ensure that society is protected, both financially and when it comes to life and health. And if we are concerned with the precautionary principle, it has not applied in Sweden, because the precautionary principle means that we actually act quickly and forcefully in the event of an unknown threat. And the corona virus was an unknown threat that came to Sweden. Speed is what has meant something to save lives. In fact, I will congratulate the government on one thing, and that was the use of the precautionary principle when it came to financial support for certain actors in society. I think that is a good thing, as the Corona Commission has noted. But when it comes to saving lives and health, you didn't care. Sweden has left as a pariah country, as it has stood in international media. It is no coincidence that Sweden has come to be known as the country that had a flock immunity, no matter what you say about it. And freedom is a truth with modification. For some there has been freedom. For a 20-year-old who wanted to go to the restaurant, it was a freedom, but not for the risk groups. Sweden now has some 18 000 confirmed deaths, and the number is still rising. And Lena Hallengren seems to be pleased with how this strategy has been handled. I think that, Madam President, is reason enough to replace this government.
i-HBZPcGxqLDuoJStg7qCzDn	Madam President, I would like However, I would like to say that when you talk about the precautionary principle, or what the Corona Commission chooses to call the principle of action, I think you should be aware that it would probably have – if you are going to act very quickly and very forcefully – meant, for example, closed schools. And I don't think we should have closed our schools or our preschools. I'm sorry that we still have students who have been forced to a lot of distance learning due to the spread of infection. You've got to close classes and sometimes whole schools. But we have had as our starting point to put the best interests of the children first. That is something other countries did not do at first. But they later followed and examined how Sweden had the work a t. I therefore think that Markus Wiechel should nevertheless be a little cautious and perhaps not use these upper words when evaluating the pandemic. With regard to what measures other countries have taken and which have proved to be so successful, I do not regret that we did not have a lockdown principle in the sense that we have seen in other countries. It has limited people's chances of living their lives, albeit limited. No one really knows what the consequences are in the much longer term, as the Corona Commission says. What happens to mental health? What happens to different age categories when you have not been allowed to have social contacts but have been more or less isolated? We have really tried to limit it, to enable people to live their lives, albeit limited, and to always weigh the measures taken and make them proportionate.
i-YZxei5KsaZUYcssCQ7cbgA	Madam President, I would like Margareta Fransson has asked me how I intend to work to ensure that the procurement of assistive devices to people with disabilities fulfils their function and gives needy access to innovative aids. The Government's disability policy is based on Sweden's international commitments on human rights. Disability policy is part of the work for a more equal society. M people's different backgrounds or conditions should not determine the possibility of participation in society. In order to achieve the national objective of disability policy, there is a need, inter alia, to support municipalities and regions in their disability policy work. The Government decided in 2021 on a strategy for systematic monitoring of disability policy for the years 2021 – 2031. The strategy means that the follow-up to disability policy will be carried out by a number of authorities. The Authority for Participation is responsible for providing support to these authorities in the follow-up work. Public procurement is a priority area of society in the strategy, and the procurement authority is covered by it. Aids and welfare technology come to patients and users in different ways. Aids are procured by the medical authorities and prescribed to individuals under the Health Care Act. Welfare technology is usually given to the individual by decision according to the Social Services Act of the municipalities' social services. It is not uncommon for the debate on public procurement to say that the lowest price means that there is a lack of quality requirements or a yield to quality. That's not true. It is up to the contracting authority to impose quality requirements. Only those companies that reach the level of quality determined can win the contract. The contracting authority has developed a guide to municipalities and regions, which concerns the procurement of aids and welfare technologies. The focus is on requirements, but also the importance of doing a thorough pre-work, carrying out a needs and market analysis to identify needs and take advantage of what the market can offer. And this is important! We need to make better use of the potential of public procurement. Procurement can be a strategic tool and act as the engine for the development and innovation of new tools. In this work, the Procurement Authority can provide effective support. The Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare has initiated continuous national data collection in 2021, on behalf of the Government, with the aim of long-term monitoring of the field of assistive devices. The assignment is a start of long-term work and will develop continuously over time. The results can provide a basis for the continued development of the regions and municipalities in the field of assistive devices. The National Board of Health and Welfare has also developed support for prescribers of assistive devices in municipalities and regions. Prescriber support aims to increase knowledge about the prescription of assistive devices and to increase the participation and equality of assistive device users.
i-6SEd7EoWFVxPNi6dFkBwBf	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking Minister Lena Hallengren for her answer to this interpellation. One might wonder why I am asking this question. I put it because it is so important that all people in our society have the opportunity to participate as much as possible. Many times access to aids is a crucial condition for individuals with different types of disabilities to be able to work, have active leisure time or be able to complete their schooling in the same way as their classmates, to name a few examples. My interpellation can be said to be concerned with three different questions: disability issues, aids and procurement. These areas overlap, interact and are interdependent. I feel that the emphasis in my interpellation is more on procurement than on disability policy itself, perhaps even more specifically how access to innovative tools can enable participation in society, employment, active leisure and schooling. According to the Patient Act, the patient should be informed about the aids available to persons with disabilities. If there are different alternatives, the patient should be allowed to choose according to needs and whether the costs appear justified. When I talk to different people with disabilities, the flaws they raise are not primarily that there is a lack of tools. Rather, why can't I have access to these aids available on the market? I can't afford to buy them myself. Or: How do I really know what is for me? One thought that struck me when I thought about this with innovative tools was: Think about unemployment, which is significantly greater among people with disabilities, perhaps much more than we think has its background in the lack of personalised aids. It's not really a question, it's more that I think out loud. I agree with the Government that we need to make better use of the potential of procurement. It benefits individuals but also innovations. The question to the Government will then be: What does the Government think is further needed to ensure that individuals have access to the innovative tools that can be developed and increase participation and well-being?
i-4bd7CmBdyQNNNp819vnPqY	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking, Margareta Fransson! It is important to remember how important it is to have access to the right tools, whether it is for children and to be able to take advantage of school teaching and take part in leisure activities or whether it is for adults' everyday life and, of course, working life. The whole issue of innovation procurement is very interesting. We see this in many different areas: it is one thing to procure what you know what it is, but it is harder to procure what you do not yet know what it is. However, it is absolutely not impossible. I would like to make the record that I do not have the primary responsibility for procurement issues. It is the Minister of Civil Affairs Ida Karkiainen who has it. However, the government announced in the latest research bill, in order to stimulate the possibility of purchasing more innovative solutions, an effort to create an arena for innovation procurement, and that arena is set up. It's part of it. It is also a question of enabling innovation checks and so on to stimulate this effort. This is not just a question of being able to buy or take advantage of an innovative tool, but it must also come to the fore. It is also a step before the procurement can take on. There is no doubt that more can be done. However, I would really like to underline what I was talking about in my reply, namely that when you procure, it is important to know what you are buying and not just do it in the cheapest way. If you do not focus on clear quality requirements or on innovation, there is a great risk that you will have an old and proven tool. Sometimes it may be so good, but if that's not what you're looking for, you have to be careful in the procurement you do. With regard to the procurement of tools specifically, there is a specific guidance that the Procurement Authority has developed. There is a real focus on what I mentioned, that is, how to demand. Here too, it is important, it is stressed, that you have a really thorough pre-work and also know a little bit about what is needed and what is available so that you can try to ask for something that the market also has to offer.
i-GrA9TLpB8syc5ZYGMk3ALw	Madam President, I would like I am aware that the Government is not primarily responsible for these issues, but, as I said earlier, these are still issues that are adjacent to the Government's remit. As the Government says, the government's goal with public procurement is ultimately to promote innovation, and several steps are taken precisely to promote innovative solutions. As the Government mentions, the Procurement Authority has a great opportunity to provide effective support to contracting entities. I sat and looked a little on the internet yesterday, and then there appeared a whole new report from the Procurement Authority. It showed a model for what characterises appropriate purchasing organisations based on the mission to stimulate the establishment of appropriate purchasing organisations. This report describes the model as a good tool that can be used to estimate the maturity of the organisations in terms of procurement. I imagine it will be interesting to follow that work. It is also noted that the development of procurement is slow. One of the messages from the agency is that decision-makers have a great responsibility when it comes to responsible and conscious efforts towards more strategic purchasing in their organisations, but also when it comes to increasing the pace of development. I will now quote a paragraph from their report. 中 Extensive efforts will be required to develop Sweden's public affairs in the direction indicated by the government's policy. The contracting authority has an important role in supporting and developing the public market. It also has the management of contracting organisations as well as the Riksdag and the Government through national control of public purchases. ..................................................... When I read this, I felt that I was a bit worried that we risk not using procurement in the way that we could do and that it then affects individuals who are in need of innovative tools but are not allowed to take part of them. I also think that there is a risk that the innovative tools that are being developed will be more of a gadget for individuals in an already enlightened middle class or higher, if I can put it that way. Do you share the concern with me that these innovative aids do not become aids as intended for disabled people, for example, or that the pace is too slow?
i-GubwfAE4seYLFJx944Yjyp	Madam President, I would like In 2017, we received the report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. So there was an investigation that we got back, but since the investigator did not propose any other division of responsibilities – it was not proposed any change there – there was no reason in that case to go further. But there were a number of other missions that we have moved on with. Among other things, it is about that the National Board of Health and Welfare has a mission to both collect statistics and to monitor developments in this area because we know that there are differences across the country. To some extent, I believe that – that is my constant answer as Minister of Social Affairs regardless of which question we are talking about – there are sometimes differences, but they must not be unjustified, and they must not be too large, because that is not acceptable. So the National Board of Health and Welfare is going to look at that. The procurement authority has received a reporting requirement regarding how they have been working to disseminate their guidance to the medical authorities on how to procure tools precisely so that the user of assistive devices can have more choice. The interpellant was into it, that is, for whom are these options? Basically, it is health officials, relief centers or others who can offer various aids, and then it is important that you as an authority can ask questions correctly. I really don't have much more to add than that it is important to focus on quality in all procurement. This applies not least when we want innovation, when we have to think about it in particular, and where, as I said, the Procurement Authority has ongoing assignments. I would really like to call on municipalities, regions and representatives who may listen to this debate to think about procurement so that it is not made too easy. It is worth spending some time and effort and perhaps also asking for help from the Procurement Authority to make the best possible procurement. Then, of course, we can want technology development to go faster and that we had more of innovation, but that is another issue.
i-WngERJ9FXVvq1SFYo1b4d5	Madam President, I would like Thank you again, Minister Lena Hallengren! One challenge in public procurement I can experience is that there are a lot of actors involved, which sometimes makes it a bit difficult for everyone involved. I'm going to come back a little bit to why I put this interpellation at all. It is very much about participation and participation as much as possible. I would therefore like to conclude with a few thoughts. Are there thoughts in the government about reviewing whether it is possible to compile how many people could work if the people in question had personalised tools? This applies to people with disabilities, who are unemployed to a much greater degree than others. The second question is whether there are any thoughts on the part of the government to review the responsibility of the various authorities for tools for smooth and personalised management.
i-8uDfbbGnKGRZPUEZWB2Uzc	Madam President, I would like That sounds interesting, I think, but I would still like to refer the questions about the possible ideas to the Minister for Labour, whom I am convinced is thinking more about questions about how we should overall ensure that people have the opportunity to be active in the labour market and to reduce the unemployment rate of not least the disabled group. We know that a lot has happened in a positive direction when it comes to reducing unemployment, but we have not seen this development in the case of people with disabilities. There is, of course, every reason for thinking and thinking here, but the specific questions from the interpeller I think the Minister for Labour will have to answer.
i-2yG1QeiCotUmf5YfnEq9X4	Madam President, I would like Roger Haddad has asked me what new initiatives I intend to take to prevent early school leaving in general. He has also asked me whether I intend to introduce new tightening up on admission requirements, such as higher grade requirements, in order to reduce the drop-out rate. Furthermore, Roger Haddad has asked me whether I intend to present any specific changes to the subject teacher training. An early drop-out means that a student who was last registered for a teacher education semester one and two were no longer registered semesters three and four. Since the new teacher education started in autumn 2011, statistics from the UKÄ show that the share of early drop-outs has decreased on all teacher degrees except for the pre-school teacher's degree. Although subject teacher education has the lowest degree rate of teacher education, the rate of early drop-out has decreased from 35 to 30 per cent. To solve the teacher shortage and get more teachers in school, it is of course urgent that as many students as possible feel motivated to continue their studies and complete their teacher training. The University Office has investigated how universities work to reduce drop-outs. The teaching institutions provide a coherent view of the fact that teacher-led time and active participation in learning activities contribute to increased throughput. In order to strengthen the quality of teacher education, among other things, the Government has implemented a quality enhancement that from 2020 onwards is permanent and comprises SEK 250 million annually. Quality enhancement enables increased remuneration in education and training, as well as in humanities and social sciences, in order to strengthen the quality of subject studies. The goal is that there will be more teacher-led hours on the courses covered by the initiative. The government has also chosen to further develop, expand and permanently invest in training schools so that more students in all teacher education can benefit from the good results shown by the training schools. From autumn semester 2021, the state universities that want to make demands that an applicant for pre-school teacher, primary teacher and subject teacher education should be suitable for the programme. When it comes to the question of whether higher grades should be required for eligibility for the subject teacher education, the Swedish Council for Higher Education, UHR, was commissioned by the Government to investigate how a requirement for grade C in the subject of teaching could be designed as well as to describe the consequences. UHR has submitted a report with proposals, but also points to negative effects on individuals, higher education institutions and society. That report is now being prepared in the Government Office. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would also like to highlight complementary educational education, the KPU, towards a subject teacher's degree as an opportunity for students who may have previously dropped out of resuming their studies. The KPU is aimed at people who have knowledge of the subject in order to become a subject teacher. In all years, the KPU has had a higher pass rate than regular teacher training. The government has also invested in a pilot project with a new shorter KPU that leads to a basic or subject teacher degree for those who already have an academic degree to get more qualified teachers in the school. Ten higher education institutions are in the process of starting up the education, which is aimed at a target group with high study experience and is ready to switch to the teaching profession.
i-XH5p5dN7gwjHuPohqT2dkU	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Education, for your answer. Liberals have repeatedly and for many years raised the important issue of teacher education. The reason is simple. The teaching profession is by far the most important profession in society. This is crucial for students, Sweden as a knowledge nation and the quality of teaching in the country. It is therefore extremely worrying that we have had quality deficiencies in teacher training for a long time. The government has responded by sometimes facilitating access to education. And what may have been most common is just expanding the number of training places. One consequence of this is that even students with low grades from upper secondary school and elsewhere can get in. Madam President, I would like The University Chancellor's Office conducted a follow-up study just over a year ago concerning the drop-out from teacher education, which is the theme of the Liberals' interpellation. One of the most common explanations that the authority raised was lack of prior knowledge from the upper secondary school of the students. So you have formally approved grades on paper, but the grades do not always represent a certain level of knowledge. As a result, many people interrupt their studies. And a lot of people do it early in school. It's not good for the status of the profession. It is not good for teacher education, which is the country's largest education in college and universities. It's not good for society either. It is not economically justifiable to carry out such a large-scale activity with taxpayers' money that does not deliver better. Liberals have repeatedly raised a number of issues that we want to follow up again. How can early defections be prevented? Are there proposals for new sharpenings, in addition to those referred to by the Government? For three years I have been a negotiator for my party on the issues and have been involved in developing many of the liberal proposals. So far, we agree. But there are still problems with the flow of information and, in particular, subject teacher training. I do not see any new initiatives with regard to the gigantic, comprehensive and long subject teacher training. There it is still the lowest degree rate and large, extensive problem of defection. The Government mentions that it now stands at 30%. But that is the total figure, Madam President. There are enormous regional differences in teacher training and, in particular, the focus of subject teachers. At the university in Gävle, for example, 56 per cent of the subject teacher education jumps. It's serious and troubling. I had expected some new information about this in this interpellation debate.
i-bggFnFRZMhy6qbtzzvdLt	Madam President, I would like Increasing the attractiveness of the teaching profession and getting more teachers in school is a priority for the government, and it has been a priority ever since the Social Democratic-led government took office, from day one. That's the basis for a good school. I can quote an old expression from the Teacher Association: Nothing beats a good teacher. We have a huge problem with the lack of qualified teachers. That problem is solved by being able to do several things at the same time. We're strengthening the teaching profession. We increase the attractiveness of the teaching profession, for example through professional programmes. We're building up teacher training. And we make sure that the quality of teacher training is such that we avoid dropouts. The fact remains that the number of eligible first-hand applicants was record high in autumn 2021. There were nearly 20 700 qualified first-hand applicants for a teacher's or pre-school teacher's training. That's an amazing number. There are 20 700 people whose commitment, interest and willingness must be well managed at higher education institutions. This means an increase of as much as 84 per cent since autumn 2011 and that the number of adopted persons has increased significantly. Anyone who listens to Roger Haddad's first speech easily gets the impression that there is some sort of similarity between many admitted and many defections or between many admitted and poor prerequisites for passing the studies. I want to deny that connection. At the same time, we see that more beginners are adopted over time, that the number of graduates is more than before and that the number of defections is falling. This means that more graduates can go out and work in our schools and benefit children, young people and adult students. Madam President, I would like Yes, we have problems with subject teacher training, just as we have problems with teacher training and the attractiveness of the teaching profession. But let us rejoice that it is at least going in the right direction.
i-2yEceM8nzYtTWGzTNHxjAf	Madam President, I would like I regret that the Minister does not have a problem understanding of teacher training. The search pressure for teacher training is dropping. It does not help to maximise the number of training places if there is no competition for them. A couple of years ago, there was no competition for 50 per cent of all teacher training places in the country. This means that you indirectly lower the bar to be admitted to the teacher education, the most important education we have in the university. We also see that there are major differences. On the subject teacher program at Karlstad University, 46 per cent of those who attended the subject teacher training at a distance dropped out, while a mere 28 per cent of those studying on campus dropped out. Nevertheless, the government must admit that it is a quality problem, Madam President. This does not necessarily mean that the quality problem lies within the education itself, that the training is too easy. On the contrary, several follow-up reviews and studies show that many of these courses place high demands on participation, didactics, methodology and so on. But it is students' motivation, interest, activity, incentives and so on that they do not complete the teacher education. Therefore, the answer to the Liberals' interpellation is not really relevant. It is not the aptitude tests I am looking for; it is we who have made demands for suitability tests. My question to the government about this is what they are doing to encourage higher education institutions in addition to Jönköping University to introduce aptitude tests directly of all teacher educations, which they have in Finland. The government has been opposed to this for many years. I also wonder what has happened to the Swedish Council for Higher Education, UHR's, feedback to the government, which came a year ago, when it comes to setting requirements for the lowest grade C in the subject you want to teach in order to get into the subject teacher programme. Here it is very briefly stated, Madam President, that the matter is being prepared at the Government Office. It's been over a year now. We in Parliament are of course curious whether the preparation is moving towards a proposal or whether the government simply puts it in the famous box at the Ministry of Education. Certainly, according to the UHR, it has some negative effects, as the Minister wrote, on search prints and recruitment, but it also has positive effects. They have the Government, the Ministry of Education and the Government quite apart from including in their interpellation response. This would also reduce the drop-out rate and increase the throughput and how many points are scored. It is extremely important, Madam President, that if we are to cope with the flow of teacher education, cope with the shortage of teachers and raise the status, it is not enough for us to make things easier, increase the number of places and bring in more teachers. It is also extremely important that we ensure that even more are examined, take a real teacher's degree and enter the labour market.
i-4MCjdDdPk7k8Hn1PTs4mWy	Madam President, I would like I would like to remind Roger Haddad that I concluded my last speech by saying that we have problems with subject teacher training and teacher training. Making the interpretation with which Roger Haddad began his second speech, that is to say that the government is turning a blind eye to the problems, gives a false picture. There are problems with teacher training. We work actively with them. We have even worked together with the Liberals, much in the form of Roger Haddad himself, for a number of years. It was a collaboration that I thought was valuable. If the cooperation had remained, Roger Haddad and I would have continued to work with these products together. Now I'm doing it alone. Roger Haddad can be sure that we will work hard to ensure that teacher training has a high quality but also that we have good access to teachers. As I have already mentioned, we look over time at the fact that more beginners are admitted and that the number of graduates is more than before, while the number of defections is falling. Roger Haddad is repeatedly trying to make a point that there would be some kind of connection and that one would improve quality by assuming fewer, but I question this connection. Roger Haddad makes a point of the teacher training is good. He says that teacher training sets high standards and that it is not easy to pass teacher training. Then he gives a graphic description of the shortcomings of those who study the teacher training. I hope that the country's teacher students listen carefully and hear what image Roger Haddad has of their abilities, commitment and willingness to get through an education that they invest in years, time, money, heart and commitment to. I have a much brighter picture of the country's teachers' students. I hope that their commitment will be met by an education that continues to place high demands on them. Last but not least, Madam President, I would also like to question Roger Haddad's reasoning on reducing the drop-out. It is as if Roger Haddad thinks it is so important to reduce the drop-out that we should therefore reduce the number of beginners in teacher training. It is clear, Madam President, that if we had zero beginners in teacher training, we would have zero drop-outs, but then none of us would be satisfied. On the contrary, we will ensure that we have many teacher training courses that you can apply to for the many students who want to become teachers. We will maintain high quality of these teacher educations and would like to make sure that we do even more so that the study environment is so challenging, exciting, fun and educational for the students that they stay. We will also fight hard for more people to want to become teachers and for more people to remain in the teaching profession. It is a challenge worthy of our commitment.
i-DTpuUuiUJMaiYJ3EMPxSVa	Madam President, I would like It is the Liberals who, through the January agreement, have put the issue of teacher training on the table of the government. The points about it come directly from our school policy programme. The requirement for an aptitude test is our requirement. The requirement to increase the admission credits to C-grades on the subject teacher education is also our requirement. All of this has been opposed by the Social Democrats. The fact that we have not gone further and really implemented this, that is, down at the university level, is because you have delayed it all and have done your utmost not to implement these quality changes. The fact that the training schools we introduced have now been permanent was also a demand from the Liberals. I have no problem with half of these proposals because that is the policy of my party. These are requirements for better placement, the VFU, more teacher-led teaching on teacher education and increased resources for social sciences and humanities as well. But we differ radically in terms of the requirements for entering teacher training, Madam President. The Social Democrats represent quantity, and we are on the quality side. I still want to say that. It's not about bringing in zero scorers. Campus Gotland announced the other day that they do not fill the places in the teacher education. Several localities have this problem. As far as the subject teacher programme is concerned, I wonder whether it should be re-established. Should it be shortened? Is it to be reformed in any way? Is there going to be an investigation? I'm not getting any news of that at all. It is perhaps the individual focus where we have the greatest quality problems. There are, of course, many motivated, skilled and extremely struggling teachers, but we cannot accept that in several directions there are dropouts from 35% to 56%.
i-GhvCWsqsNbhqFu5477JQEn	Madam President, I would like We fully agree that we do not like defection. We don't want teachers to drop out. However, we differ in terms of quantity and quality. Roger Haddad seems to consider that there is a contradiction between quantity and quality. I strongly argue, Madam President, that there is no such contradiction. It is perfectly possible to ensure that we have a high-quality good teacher training that many people want to choose, which many want to go on and to which many are admitted. That, Madam President, is one of the many reasons why we have introduced more places and strengthened short educational education, the KPU, and that we have introduced a shorter KPU with the possibility for those who have attended a long academic education to undergo a KPU that is even more effective and even shorter. A pilot project has just started at several higher education institutions. I look forward to following this trial. My ambition is that Sweden should be a country where many people want to become teachers, where many become teachers, where the teachers stay and where the teacher education keeps such a quality that the dropout is few and that we see many teachers who come out in schools and do good for our children and students.
i-QuauTZKJFiS3bfCskfdayX	Madam President, I would like Lorena Delgado Varas has asked the Minister for Energy and Digitalization whether the Government considers that the investment agreements have lost the intention they had when they were created, and whether yes, what initiatives the Government is prepared to take in this regard, and whether the Government will work to put an end to the type of investment agreements that undermine the sovereignty of the people. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. As regards the dispute between the telecommunications company Huawei and the Swedish State, on the basis of the bilateral investment protection agreement between Sweden and China referred to by Lorena Delgado Varas at the beginning of her question, the Government has instructed the Chancellor of Justice to bring Sweden's action in the dispute. The Government does not comment on this ongoing dispute in substance. In principle, however, I can see that investment protection agreements are an important component of Sweden's and the EU's trade policy. Our prosperity depends on foreign trade and that Swedish and foreign actors can invest in each other's countries. Sweden and the EU have therefore concluded over 50 bilateral investment protection agreements aimed at protecting investors against being treated unfairly or discriminatoryly in relation to their own investors. This also means that there must be a rule-driven mechanism for international dispute resolution. Thus, investment protection agreements have not lost their fundamental intent. However, the Government believes that there is a need to modernise the approach to investment protection and dispute resolution in our agreements. The EU and its Member States have therefore implemented a number of important reforms in their new investment protection agreements with third countries. An important reform is about clarifying the right of states to regulate and legislate for general purposes such as the environment and health. The EU Joint Investment Agreement negotiated with China is an example of such a modern agreement which, in addition to clear wording on the right to regulate, also includes robust commitments in the area of sustainability, among other things. Against this background, Sweden has welcomed the agreement of principle reached in 2020 between the EU and China on the content of the agreement. Furthermore, in their new bilateral investment protection agreements, the EU and its Member States have had an impact on a global innovative reform to resolve disputes between investors and states that abandoned the traditional system of ad hoc arbitration committees and instead set up a system of investment courts and permanent paid judges and an appeal body that ensures a high degree of transparency and legal certainty. So to answer the questioner's second question, the government will not enter into any investment agreements that undermine popular sovereignty. On the contrary, Sweden will continue to push for modern and progressive agreements that guarantee states' right to regulate and also contribute to sustainable development.
i-3DhA4iMNvxFrFxE8KGzZWo	Madam President, I would like The new system has its positive aspects. But the basis of the system is still deeply problematic. After all, the investment court systems bypass the national justice system in any form. In the new Commission proposal, only investors can prosecute when they see their profits shrink or otherwise see themselves as victims of discrimination. The state sits on the bench of the accused and can be convicted and pay huge amounts of taxpayers' money. The basic problem with these investment agreements in all their forms is that they maintain a parallel court system which largely ignores existing laws and international treaties, with the exception of the Trade Agreement. Even when an appeal is made, it can only address what is formulated in the trade agreement. It has now been introduced to some extent that certain laws should be respected. But it still provides the opportunity for a company to question democratically established laws. It can no longer be said that this is in order to provide some form of stability in investment when it comes to countries that are legally insecure. Because it is true that legally insecure countries treat foreign companies at least as well as, or even better than, domestic enterprises with similar activities. These countries are usually dependent on foreign investors. It gives legitimacy to dictatorships, countries with corruption or whatever it may be. There is a need for bodies to be able to get a fair process and, in the event of injustice, companies should be able to be compensated for the costs. But it cannot be a precondition that a company is given the opportunity to demand any future costs when countries make changes. For example, there are investment insurance policies that could be used much more. Perhaps we should also demand that companies carry out proper risk analyses, just as companies do when they invest locally. Therefore, I would like to repeat the question and perhaps get a little more breadth in it. When does the Government consider that the investment agreements have gone too far? Is it right that companies can sue countries when they change laws based on their sovereignty? No matter how you look at this system, it opens up the possibility of forcing us to go to court.
i-YDp6pdzNYYmwtjfYAazwSY	Madam President, I would like I am pleased that Lorena Delgado Varas and I agree that a system is needed to regulate this. A system is needed to regulate both the investments made by companies in other often difficult countries and the risk-taking that companies make that they need security and a system to do so. There is also a need for security for states to be able to look at the welfare of society and the necessary changes for the good of society that need to be made in those states without feeling that there is legal uncertainty in what companies can demand. Let's start with the first part. Basically, it is like that investors from a country should be treated fairly and fairly and not discriminated against in relation to their own investors. Let's start with the leg with the investors. Say that it is a Swedish company that invests in a country where you feel that there may even be a legal uncertainty. It should be able to rely on the right to claim some form of fair financial compensation, for example in the case of pure expropriation or if the country tries to take over the assets of the company. There must be a rule-driven mechanism for international dispute resolution. I mentioned earlier that we are advocating it. We from the Swedish Government have pushed for this dispute settlement mechanism to be modernised. Investment protection agreements are requested not only by Swedish companies investing in other countries but also by investors who come to Sweden to feel that security. I would also like to point out, before we move on to the other leg with the need for countries' security in this, that for companies it can be crucial that they choose to make an investment, for example, in a country like Sweden. Although it is a legally secure country, we still do not know where to go. It is also a question of welcoming investment. 700 000 jobs in Sweden depend on foreign owners. We want to see more investments coming to Sweden. It's supposed to be the right investment. They should be sustainable and benefit our society. But we welcome both international capital and international competence. Madam President, I would like I would also like to comment on Lorena Delgado Vara's claim that investor sentiments could develop into some form of threat to progressive legislation at national level. We do not really see any evidence of this. On the contrary, the case-law of a large number of arbitrations shows that states have acquired far-reaching rights to regulate protection for general purposes. From the Swedish Government we see that we want to strengthen this. I also agree with Lorena Delgado Varas that we need to see a more modern investment protection agreement to better reflect today's challenges and the policy development that has now taken place in this area, not least in terms of sustainability, human rights, the environment, climate and so on. The EU has therefore pushed forward in the latest investment protection agreements negotiated with Canada, Singapore and Vietnam, for example, to bring about a number of important reforms by the Swedish Government. Such a reform is precisely about the right of states to legislate. It needs to be regulated more clearly. This applies even if it has a negative impact on the investor's expectations of profit, for example. In this case, public safety, security and well-being must take precedence over the individual company's claims for profit. It is an important modernisation of the investment protection agreements that the government has now been involved in working out within the EU framework.
i-Lx9sSLoSvPh7gpxqvS94Aa	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by saying that there is really no evidence that it is precisely the investment agreement that makes companies choose to invest in a particular country. They may as well invest in a dictatorship as in a democratic country. Often it is that the dictatorship or the legally insecure country may have the raw materials that you need. If you were to invest here in Sweden it might be because of the innovation we still have and the stability we have as a country. If you look at the trials before the courts that have been, companies have used it to pressure on the introduction of progressive laws in different countries. It's not all black or white in that sense. Earlier today we had Säpo visiting the Committee on Economic Affairs to talk about security and companies. Sweden's decision on Huawei has a security policy basis. More and more voices are being heard that perhaps we should be more responsible when it comes to socially important infrastructure, for example. And this is not just about China; it is about many other countries. If we are to be responsible in terms of socially important infrastructure, we can certainly expect more situations where we are being sued. Madam President, I would like We are facing a climate crisis. While some raw materials are becoming more and more desirable, we are moving away from others. This will mean, on the one hand, that more and more countries will hopefully introduce tougher environmental and climate requirements and, on the other hand, that more and more companies will be without future. They have to keep up with developments. At the same time, we have great powers whose industries are based precisely on this. Russia is such an example, and it has enormous interests in fossil fuels. This also applies to China to some extent, but they have managed to be at the forefront of renewable technologies. To this equation we can add that transnational companies have a structure in order to avoid responsibilities at different levels. I believe that we will see more companies who will want to take advantage of every opportunity to secure future investment, although the risk should lie with them. We will also see companies that want to slow down the democratisation of countries in order to secure the supply of raw materials. How does the Government relate to what is coming in the future now that we are facing this situation?
i-7AayH3WJXwLU1Ffw56W2nr	Madam President, I would like As regards just how crucial the investment protection agreements are in order to make an investment and make a decision on it, I agree with Lorena Delgado Varas that this is not the only crucial component. There are, of course, many other components that govern: innovation, the ability to find the right skills in the labour market and so on. It is therefore not always crucial, but in the absence of an investment protection agreement, it can be an incredibly important component for daring to make an investment. I will come back to what I said earlier about not discriminating against a foreign investor at the expense of domestic companies. I would like to answer the very last question now, and I come back to other parts of Lorena Delgado Vara's speech. The last question was about how I see the future. I look at the future so that we really need to make sure that Swedish companies and European companies are useful when they are in place with investments in countries where democratic development has not come as far, where there is a lack of human rights and so on. For example, we can take the mining industry. The need for minerals and raw materials is now being redirected, just as Lorena Delgado Varas says, from the old, a little more outdated and unsustainable industry to the new minerals needed. How is mining done in the countries from which we now import these minerals and raw materials? There are major questions about this. What I want to see from the Swedish Government and as Swedish Minister for Trade is that Swedish companies and EU companies are there, doing good on the ground and feeling confident that they can make an investment and not be discriminated against by less sustainable companies in that country. I have said this many times in this House, and I say it again: trade is an enabler for us to also contribute with social and climate sustainability. I think that the mining industry is an excellent example of areas where there are major shortcomings in terms of social sustainability. In order for companies to dare to do this in countries that they do not fully look like well-functioning rule of law, we want the government to see us sign investment protection agreements with these countries. And it's supposed to be modern investment protection agreements. It should also be agreements that safeguard these states' room for manoeuvre when choosing to move towards a more sustainable technology and when choosing to replace the fossil energy industry in the country with a sustainable energy technology. These states should not be locked up in old technologies because of the need to compensate foreign companies in an expensive way. That is what I mean by a modern investment protection agreement. States' right to regulate also robust commitments in areas such as the environment, climate and workers' rights must be fundamental to investment protection agreements. That is why I come back to this: it is not a contradiction to be able to have progressive development even in countries that have a slightly longer way to go in terms of sustainability. If these countries choose to take the sustainable path in their development, investment protection agreements should not prevent this. In fact, we do not see any evidence of this either, but we see that the agreements need to be modernised and that they must be able to guarantee these countries that opportunity and that right.
i-2G9ZjaRHUe6zmGUmoP81tC	Madam President, I would like I also believe that trade is enabling in many ways, and I think we could strengthen this much more. We have not done so so far, but it has been the economic interest that has been the primary. It has not exactly been the case that efforts have been made to strengthen democracy and to ensure that companies take more responsibility for their investments. It is coming a little bit now, but there is a rather long history of companies not taking on this responsibility, nor these countries. I would like to point out that Huawei has appealed the decision in two Swedish courts and lost both times. But through the investment agreement they will have another opportunity to sue the Swedish state. This scenario repeats itself a little wherever there are investment agreements. I do not think it is reasonable for some investors to have so many opportunities to try their case, if you say so, especially when it comes to legal systems in legally secure countries, as Sweden is anyway. It may not be necessary to take the decision again in a very long and costly process, which the Investment Courts mean, as a form of pressure to change democratically taken decisions.
i-Ea7zX6EAMH41xuZZcXKyUU	Madam President, I would like As I said, I am not commenting on individual legal processes. However, it can be said that this shows what Lorena Delgado Varas describes: we need a more effective dispute resolution mechanism. It must be effective, transparent and predictable. That is also what we proposed in the more modern investment protection agreements, which I mentioned. Nor should we confuse the different legal processes. One is about procurement, and the other is about investment protection agreements. And it is not always a question of investment protection agreements when you run a legal process, but it may be that you have an appeal in a procurement procedure. Madam President, I would like Having said that, I would like to thank Lorena Delgado Varas for raising the issue in this important debate. I believe that sometimes it may be difficult to see how incredibly important it is for investors to feel safe when they go beyond their borders and that states also feel safe. There should be far-reaching rights to regulate for protection for general purposes. It is this balance that I see that we can now enter into the new investment protection agreements that the European Union is signing. The government has been driving the EU and its Member States in their new trade investment agreements with third countries to modernise our investment protection agreements. It is a matter of ensuring that investment protection rules are designed in a way that removes any scope for interpretation that has existed in the past as regards the absolute right of states to regulate for general purposes. It is also about the right to launch – which we want to do – a transparent and effective dispute resolution system. The government will not stop or dismantle the agreements, but they must be modernised. We will push for this to also be the case with the EU's future investment agreements.
