i-Ws6WXHHFnx9QzKoGBKCrAB	Mr President, I would like to Nowadays you can get reminders on your phone about what happened a certain number of years ago. The other day I was reminded that two years ago I was in Sälen skiing. It felt almost unreal to see the pictures, not because I was hanging out at some bar with my kids or something. Nevertheless, the children were involved in activities where they sat closely with other children, albeit outdoors, and we had lunch on a famous hamburger chain. We had no mouthguards, and there were no contamination - resistant distances in the shops. It almost felt like a reminder of a completely different era. It was, too. It was just before the spread of infection took off in Sweden. On March 6, two years ago, the first person infected within our country was reported. For two years now, we have taken great responsibility for reducing the spread of infection. We've kept our distance, we've cancelled and we've reset. Government and parliament have also taken historically comprehensive measures to reduce the spread of infection, secure welfare and mitigate the consequences for Swedish jobs and companies. We have taken measures for almost SEK 400 billion and have decided on more than 20 amending budgets. The measures have had a major impact. Never before have so many companies and private jobs been saved by taxpayers. Mr President, I would like to At the end of 2021, the worsening of the contagion situation required the introduction of additional restrictions. A long-compressed healthcare system saw a large influx of patients with covid-19. Since then, the spread of infection has increased. Although this particular variant of the virus seems to produce a little milder symptoms than previous variants, the widespread spread of infection means that many suffer from serious disease. In order to reduce the spread of infection, the government took a number of measures before Christmas. New restrictions were introduced, and the government announced that it intended to reintroduce many of the support previously provided during the pandemic, so that they could apply retroactively through additional amending budgets at the beginning of 2022. These are the ones we have on the table here today, thanks to the fact that many civil servants have worked hard, during the Christmas and New Year holidays, but also, of course, during other times, to get this in place as quickly as possible. But there is also a strong will among all parties in the Riksdag to get the support in place and that they can be paid out as quickly as possible. I think the voters appreciate that very much. Many thanks for that cooperation! A total of SEK 19.2 billion is added to emergency measures through today's parliamentary decision. Firstly, measures to reduce the spread of infection of SEK 2.4 billion are introduced. It is about compensation for the abolition of withdrawals, compensation for risk groups, infectivity benefit, temporary parental benefit in the event of school closure and for the parents of some recently seriously ill children and the abolition of the medical certificate for the first 14 days of the sick pay period. Secondly, we are shooting at 5.8 billion to secure health care resources for testing, detection and vaccination. In this decision, we are also increasing the funding for urgent healthcare transport and abolishing the free amount of student funding, so that students with no risk of reimbursement can contribute by taking up healthcare and care. Thirdly, we are providing EUR 11 billion in support to affected companies in order to alleviate the consequences for Swedish jobs and companies. It concerns the reimbursement of sick pay costs above normal, as well as an increase in conversion and turnover aid. In addition, additional deferred tax payments and tax-free benefit for free parking at the workplace are introduced. There is also support for sport and culture and a strengthening of event support, which is also extended. Mr President, I would like to The tourism industry, cultural life and, not least, cultural workers have been severely affected by the pandemic. Restrictions to reduce the spread of infection have meant that public activities have had to be cancelled. It has affected theatres, concert halls, cinemas, arenas, festivals, meeting places and all related employment. The limited security of cultural workers has been further weakened and the sector's recovery will take many years. This is confirmed by the re-launch of culture in the report from crisis to force. The Pandemin has highlighted the tough conditions that art and cultural creators had before the pandemic. The economic conditions under which art and culture creators live are often different from other industries, which means that support that suits other industries does not suit cultural practitioners as well. This applies to emergency aid, but it also applies to other systems. We need to get back to work on this. This is one of the reasons why the government has set up an investigation to review sickness benefit-based income for self-employed workers, which includes many art and cultural practitioners. Through today's decision, culture receives more support than was included in the government's original proposal. Since the government closed its work on the bill, the development with restrictions has continued. As a result, the need for increased support for culture has also become increasingly clear. Through the discussions we have had in committee, we have agreed not only on more support but also on a distribution of cultural funding that allows the money to come out quickly to the relevant actors through the Arts Board and also to come to assembly rooms, regional cultural activities, film support and performing arts institutions. Thank you very much for that cooperation. Together with the cultural crisis support of over 6.4 billion that we have previously allocated, the enhanced event support and the resources set aside for re-launching the autumn budget, I believe that this money makes a big difference, although the situation will continue to be tough for many in the sector. Mr President, I would like to The government has so far, under the covid-19 pandemic, taken very comprehensive measures to save Swedish jobs and viable companies. The crisis measures have made a big difference. The economic impact of the pandemic has been mitigated. We have also seen how parts of the economy have recovered strongly as more and more people have vaccinated themselves and the spread of infection has decreased. But it is important to bear in mind that the historically large amounts of aid that have been provided in the last two years have been made possible by Sweden entering the pandemic with strong public finances and the lowest public debt since 1977. This demonstrates the importance of keeping public finances in order so that we can also be equipped to face the challenges and crises of the future. That is why we Social Democrats are concerned that the committee, on its own initiative, is changing the state budget and increasing state expenditure. Although we agree in principle with the rest of the committee on the addition to culture and welcome the readiness to listen to parts of the Government Office's views on how best to design the support, we see major problems associated with abandoning the coherent budgetary process established by Parliament in broad agreement. Both the preparation and the balance that needs to be struck between different measures suffer, and we set out this further in our specific opinion. Mr President, I would like to It is clear today that the spread of the omikrona variant has resulted in a historically high spread of infection. There are many of us who hope that we will soon be out of the pandemic and be able to return to a somewhat more normal existence. But we also know that new variants of this or other viruses can occur and cause us to find ourselves in similar situations again. We are therefore, of course, following developments and are still prepared to take the necessary measures. I would therefore like to support the committee's proposal. Before thanking me for the floor, however, I would like to draw attention to the fact that this will be Ulla Andersson's last debate as an economic-political spokesperson. I saw that she wrote on Facebook yesterday that she faced her first economic-political debate was a little nervous to meet the people she had seen debating on television. I can tell you that I have seen Ulla Andersson debating on television, and when I had my first budgetary policy debate, it was also tingling in my stomach. Thank you very much for your cooperation, Ulla. You have made great efforts for Swedish democracy and politics. Good luck with what you do after the end of the parliamentary mandate!
i-Y6LHjDyF73LRG8p33xeztK	Mr President, I would like to The pandemic has primarily been about life and health. Healthcare staff, care for the elderly and in many other places have done and are still doing a fantastic job to ensure that people both get relief and cope with life. Many have also lost loved ones. This pandemic has tried both Swedish society and a large part of the world. We're hopefully at the end of it, but we don't know that yet. All of us who do not work in hospitals and in care for the elderly can also do our part to get out of this crisis. We can go and vaccinate ourselves, because that's the way out. That is the solution to how we can reopen society. After two years of pandemic and recurrent restrictions, tens of thousands of companies and employees are in an urgent situation. It is people who risk losing their jobs, their businesses and indeed many times their dreams. They have mortgaged houses and homes and are now under a lot of pressure. That is why the emergency aid that we are deciding on today is so important. The government has repeatedly announced restrictions during the pandemic without at the same time announcing that there will be crisis support, and it has tried these companies a lot. As a result, staff that might not have had to be laid off have been laid off uncertainly, for it has taken far too long before support has arrived. And the industries that have been most affected are, as in the past, places where people meet. It's restaurants and hotels. The Moderates and the parties in the Finance Committee have taken over much of the role that the government should have played, that is to say, to provide crisis support. We have talked to each other and come to good conclusions about how we can save jobs and companies. It has been about everything from conversion aid to turnover support, event support and so on. Our finance candidate Elisabeth Svantesson was clear with us Moderates at the beginning of this pandemic: We would work as if we were in the government. We would engage constructively with all parliamentary parties and do everything we can to save jobs and businesses. We would make suggestions and do everything we can – not sit on the side, whining and complaining about others not doing their part. This approach has guided us moderates throughout this pandemic. Mr President, I would like to Today we have two additional amending budgets to decide on. They are largely the result of a committee initiative that the Moderates took just before Christmas, about which the parliamentary parties have discussed and which we have supported. Already when the government began to talk about the problems and possible future restrictions, many companies began canceling Christmas dinners and many other things, and that affected the companies. Then we said that we could not just sit and wait, because it would take a while to get the support. It has, too, but today we are going to decide on them, and it feels very nice. The companies and employees that have had to bear the greatest burden of the restrictions are, as I said, companies where people meet. I would particularly like to highlight one of those sectors, namely the cultural and event industries. A lot of people from that business are in the stands here today. You should feel cordially welcome to the Riksdag! Many of you have been here before. Crisis support has not reached companies in the cultural and event sectors for many different reasons, but the restrictions have, however, almost prohibited businesses of this type. Theatre productions where you can fill only a small part of the salon simply don't go together financially, and you have practiced for a long time before the production itself is to be put into effect. This means that you have had large costs, and there will be none of the revenue. That is why this type of support is needed. The seriousness of the situation became clear about three weeks ago, when parts of the cultural and event industry were here in Parliament listening to the party leader debate. Here I would like to thank Camilla Grönvall, who is sitting in this Chamber today as well. She is a moderate party colleague who quickly and skilfully managed to gather both the Moderates and parts of the cultural and event industry so that together we could get a picture of the situation. It also allowed us to start thinking about how we could improve the support that the government had already announced to the industry. Then one might ask: Why should we save jobs and businesses? Yes, first of all, it is a moral obligation. In other words, if the policy closes down the possibility for individual companies and employees in those companies to reasonably obtain the income they had previously, there is a moral obligation to ensure that they receive some form of support. Then it is that much of what the cultural and event industry stands for is what we want to keep after the pandemic. It's theaters and musicals. It's exercise runs and sports arrangements. All of this is what we will want to keep even after the pandemic. It is therefore important to ensure that all those parts remain. All these companies in the event industry and culture also account for a great deal of tax revenue. I will come back to this, Mr President. They are an important part of the Swedish economy. Mr President, I would like to I have received comments on why we Moderates want to invest more money in culture and why we increase the funding from 0.43 billion proposed by the government to 3 billion. Why do we not spend that money on health care instead, where it is needed better? Let me be clear with all of you who are listening. This is not opposed to each other, not in any way. If these companies do not survive the pandemic, they will not contribute tax revenue after the pandemic, Mr President. Then we have less money to invest in health care, care for the elderly and the school. It's connected. It is not one or the other, Mr President. Having said that, we in this House have decided on major investments in health care and care for the elderly, because the money has been needed there. But it is not opposed to each other. Then I want those of you who listen to me to understand that emergency aid is not aid. There's a very big difference between those things. It is a greater cost to society if viable companies go bankrupt, because then they cannot contribute to the future. It is a much greater cost to society if not everyone makes it through this crisis. Mr President, I would like to I would also like to say to those of you who listen that it is actually possible to influence both politicians and political decisions. If you have good arguments and are able to fight for your cause, you can get very far. The government had proposed SEK 0.43 billion for crisis support for culture and events. Here I would like to mention artist Lisa Nilsson, actress Sara Sommerfeld Unger, Emelie Löfmark who is chairman of Sweden's Producers and Private Theatres. Thank you! You are some of those who have spent a great deal of time explaining the situation of the cultural and event industry. It also led to the Moderates being able to come up with a proposal with more money in crisis support. It was also supported by the other parties in this House. I hope that your colleagues in the industry will thank you properly for the work you have done. Without you arguing for your cause, we would not have had more money for crisis support for culture and events. We had little time. We had to work quite long days to get it in place. I would like, on my side and on the side of the Moderates, to thank all of you who have contributed in various ways, answered on the phone late evenings and sometimes nights, for getting this together. It's been incredibly valuable. I would also like to thank the other parties in the Committee on Finance who have helped to ensure that we finally got a unanimous proposal. It is much thanks to the work that was done by you, by the event and cultural industry, to talk to all parties so that we all got a good picture of how it looks. I would also like to say thank you to the government and above all to the Ministry of Culture for good conversations and for how this is to be paid out quickly so that it will be where it should be. For my part, I have understood during these weeks that the cultural and event industry employs 123 000 people. There are tens of thousands of hardworking small businesses. One of these I know a little more than others, a singer from Umeå. I won't mention her every time here. There are very many small, hard-working entrepreneurs behind this. Together, all of them, they have a turnover of SEK 84 billion. It's like I said both soul care and gold edge on life. There is also a great deal of tax revenue that goes to things that we all care about. Mr President, I would like to I would like to conclude by saying that I am very pleased today that we can make a decision in Parliament that will make a huge difference to a great many people. This is also the most amazing thing about the parliamentary mission. Having said that, I would like to thank Ulla Andersson very much for her excellent cooperation, particularly over the last two years. It has surprised me and certainly others that we have together been able to get more money for care for the elderly, and we have done a lot of business support together, the Left Party and the Moderates in good cooperation. The event support was Ulla Andersson very involved and made sure that it was also good. It is with great loss that we will see you move towards other challenges in life. Many thanks for very good cooperation during these years! I also welcome your successor, who is now sitting next to you in the Chamber. I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-BHcv2vSzLyA63H3BeQfoCw	Mr President, I would like to Now it is many times that we have stood in this House debating supplementary amending budgets and reports focusing on the pandemic. It's almost hard to keep track. Like my colleague Åsa Westlund, I also got a memory on the phone. However, I was not in Sälen two years ago. On the other hand, I was in Australia with the Labour Market Committee to study their labour market policies. We would improve how they work with the matching to take advantage of it when we work with the reform of the Arbetsförmedlingen. Then the corona was on everyone's lips. The Public Health Agency had some time before said that the mysterious virus from China probably would not reach Sweden. Unfortunately, they were wrong. Now two years later we know that Corona has really hit our society hard. Now two years later we really see the consequences of the pandemic. Hopefully, however, we perceive the light in the tunnel. But that is not something that we should charge in advance. We still do not know how it will develop. In fact, many companies, not least in the tourism industry, have had it very difficult for a very long time, and they have continued to have it very difficult. It's boring. It is entrepreneurs with whom I really sympathise. Cooperation has been good in these years in terms of aid. However, we in the opposition have had to set fire to severe criticism of the government in a number of areas where it did not work. This has concerned, for example, the lack of clarity in how to apply for aid. There has been total confusion about the reference months and who can benefit from the aid. We have often debated the processing times and so on. One year ago, in February 2021, we debated Report 77 on another supplementary amending budget. At the time, it was also the support and deferments that were debated. I then highlighted the limbo that was going on with the various requirements for the turnover step that went from 30% to 40% and to 50%, then going back to 40% and finally landing at 30% again, in order to benefit from the conversion aid. Probably it was not just me but many of us in here who were contacted by a lot of entrepreneurs. They felt an enormous confusion over what was and a despair over the rules that they had to get through in order to even seek the subsidies. For large companies, it is of course easier when resources and skills are available in-house in large financial departments or similar, which greatly simplifies the application process. Small businesses often had very big problems and had to solve it in other ways. I know that it was a fairly large proportion of small businesses that did not even apply for aid even if they were entitled to it, precisely for fear of what the consequence would be if they did wrong. They chose, for example, to lend themselves privately or something similar. It is appalling that the state could not offer more clarity and understanding at a time of crisis. How could a small number of people keep track of any changes in these regulations and be able to apply for them? That is the question I asked a year ago. Today, I am still talking to entrepreneurs who have not received compensation from aid that they have been applying for for years. The reason has been, among other things, that the Swedish Agency for Growth has not been aware of how wages are paid in the industry. This has led, for example, to errors in the reference months for short-term aid. That is something that has also been highlighted in this House on several occasions. It is only to be regretted that no more is being done to assist in these cases. Mr President, I would like to Companies working in certain particularly vulnerable sectors will also need help in the future. In order to tackle the recovery, it is important that policies are adapted to get the industry back on its feet quickly. Otherwise, we risk losing innovation, growth and job creation. It is serious for our economy in the short term but also in the long term. To take a concrete example, I would like to highlight the lack of competence in the tourism industry. When the restrictions were the hardest, most people had to reluctantly alert their staff. As the restrictions later eased last year, there was a need to hire new staff. But listen and be amazed: I've been talking to companies that can't even get job seekers to come for a job interview. And then you should know that today there are 46 000 people enrolled at Arbetsförmedlingen who have a direct connection to the industry. Of these, even 15 500 people are enrolled in the hotel and restaurant union's unemployment fund. At the same time, there are 7,000 job vacancies in the industry. In addition, as everyone knows, more than 400 000 people are enrolled in the Employment Service. And then relatively simple jobs are available on the Swedish labour market. It says a lot about the shortcomings that exist today in labour market policy – a political area for which the government is responsible. Perhaps this is a subject for another debate. But the problems in the Public Employment Service have been going on for so long, and they will become increasingly evident in a post-covid period, which we are now entering. These are problems that we will have reason to deal with further in this House. Mr President, I would like to We welcome a large part of the proposals in the report. It is about support for culture and events. The extension of the reporting periods for deferred payments is, of course, absolutely necessary for the companies most affected. In proposal 2021/ 22:65, the Government proposed to extend the repayment period for tax deferrals by 15 months. The opposition in the Tax Committee felt that this was far too short a period. Then the government chose to withdraw the bill in order to return with a better proposal. We think that's great. Do it again, do it right, as they say. It is important here that the deferral of the tax should not be regarded as financial support. It is a government loan with an interest rate of l, 25 per cent and a grace fee of 0.2 per cent of the deferral amount. It is important to include this in the discussion. The loans are to be repaid, and it is important that the State offers the right conditions for repayment. For aid is aid, and loans are loans. The way in which the regulations on conversion aid are interpreted and how the 30 per cent rate of compensation is designed continue to pose some problems for some companies. It would have been desirable to align aid more closely with those companies which, in certain months, have great and far-reaching needs but cannot benefit from the aid. However, the report does not weaken businesses, and that is what is important in the precarious situation that we continue to find ourselves in. Mr President, I would like to For this reason, I would like to call for the committee's proposal for a decision to be approved.
i-HxkG8mSu38oTXRptmcgRgm	Mr President, I would like to The way to the speaker's chair is sometimes rather narrow here in Parliament. In view of this, before I come to the very serious subject we are facing today, I would like to begin my speech by making one of those internal things that we sometimes do in Parliament, namely to thank. I would like to thank a political opponent after countless debates – I think there must be more than twenty that we have had together, Ulla Andersson from the Left Party. I remember from earlier, when I had a whole other profession and was in another world, that one of our top economic professors said: There is a very smart, sharp and knowledgeable debater in the Left Party. You should meet her in an economic debate for which you are responsible. You should listen to her! I thought already then, Ulla Andersson, when I was not yet your opponent of the debate, that he was right. I am sorry, Mr President, that I am addressing Mrs Ulla directly here! Even if we feel as terribly different as we actually do, you can feel that there is a warm heart clapping there. It's your heart clapping as strongly as mine for these questions. Although we feel completely different about the way there, we have the same goals and the same basic hope for people who are having a difficult time. So once again, thank you, Mrs Ulla, for all these debates, although we will never agree either now or after you have stopped – except in certain matters! Of course, there are many of them too. Thank you very much. I have now devoted some of my speaking time to this, and I will try to turn clearly to the subject that is so serious. We are now hopefully in the last wave, but we do not know. Pandemin cuts like a sword through the Swedish economy. One company and one workplace are flourishing and growing, and the other is inexorably subject to restrictions. One index – if you get to be so cold – goes up, and the other collapses back to the bottom where it used to be. In these debates, I would like to thank the companies I am talking to. They are the ones who have opened the restaurant at eight o'clock in the morning and closed it late in the evening even though they had only one customer throughout the day and almost no money in the cashier. Thank you to all of you who are able to keep people on the payroll in your hotel even though the hotel is empty! I understand that we have visitors from the cultural sector here in Parliament today. Thank you – all of you who have put up a performance and persevered even though there is no audience! You have kept your life's work afloat at the cost of enormous stress and, as many have mentioned here, a private economy on the verge of collapse. I also want to say that I am sorry that we cannot do more in politics. We believe that we want to do more than the government. The government believes it wanted to do more than it could. But I'm sorry we didn't manage to do as much as we could at this time, even if we tried! Therefore, my first simple appeal to the government and to all the authorities concerned now that we are in the four hundredth, and more, the billions of aid to save the Swedish economy: above all for the sake of all these people, do not keep the restrictions and recommendations one day longer than necessary! And then I mean necessary, because the pandemic continues to reap victims and many are struggling so hard in so many intensive departments around the country. But we know that restrictions also cost lives when life's work is destroyed and people are allowed to leave long-term jobs. I appeal to you in all the ways available, and on behalf of many people, to lift the restrictions as soon as possible. As far as subsidies are concerned, we are truly grateful that we, and many others, who brought this forward have been heeded by the government. Aid is now granted retroactively from the beginning of the restrictions. You really should have got it before they started, but still. All these aids are being activated, even specifically for all those who are most affected at the moment. It's about event support and the like. It is good that there is testing and infectious detection and money for the health insurance area as well as support for tax deferrals. I would like to thank all my colleagues in the Committee on Finance for sometimes putting aside our differences in order to do so. Nevertheless, I would like to make three points that are not as good. The first is that, after all these efforts, there are still tens of thousands of companies that have started against all odds over the last two years and that have in principle received nothing, except rent support, of all these aid packages. The reason is that the EU acquis is not considered to be able to stretch and the reference months are wrong. All of this is true, but I would like to remind you that we in the Center Party have been thinking of removing the employer's contribution for the first ten employees in start-ups after the pandemic. Then even those who have fought their way in and sometimes have taken over companies, which are still regarded as a new company, may have a chance to be part of the re-start. They are also in the midst of the deep crisis. This is particularly true of many small businesses and many in rural areas. The second is something that many have pointed out – I will say it very briefly – namely that there is no point in a support that no one dares to seek. There is no point in a support that you are looking for, and you think that you are doing everything right when you are looking for what politicians have said in the speaker's chair, but you are not allowed. This has been the case for a lot of people – often afka-like situations. These have been mentioned here, so I will not repeat it. But one example is the hotel located next to an arena. There, the authorities interpret it, because the government has not written the rules well enough, as because the stadium is closed, it is not the hotel that has a restriction but the arena, and thus the hotel gets nothing. We are making a real appeal for change here. We also know that there are many tens of thousands of cases that have not been dealt with, not least at the Swedish Agency for Growth. It cannot, of course, be the resources at the Swedish Agency for Growth and the huge backlog of cases that will make people's life's work out there unsavable. I would also like to point out that, due to the lengthy process of deferment of taxes and charges, many companies have ended up in a liquidity situation which puts them in serious difficulties before we have even reached a decision on repayment. We are pushing, as has been mentioned here in the debate, to ensure that delays are made at the end of the year and that the repayment period is longer than the 15 months currently in force. I would also like to mention a third point, apart from the fact that the start-ups have nothing in principle and that aid is so difficult and so on. In parallel with this, in the Swedish countryside we have a terrible fourfold bang for Swedish agriculture, which has extreme cost increases on diesel, fertilizer, feed and electricity. Remember that many of the companies in the green industries are neighbours with or even within the family working with the tourism industry at the same time. So it's actually a terrible five-fold bang with huge cost shocks. Here we are very grateful that so many parties are now beginning to listen to the call of the Center Party for an emergency billion to agriculture and hope that we can get it out as soon as possible, given the many billions in cost increases that agriculture has now suffered in parallel with this deep crisis. We also want long-term conditions for these farmers who are struggling right now, long-term agricultural deductions and premiums for bio-interventions not just here and now. This also applies to all small businesses so that they dare to continue to invest, dare to hire and dare to own their businesses and believe in them. Four out of five new jobs in Sweden continue to be created by small and growing companies. So thank you for holding out! Thank you for fighting and creating! Now these subsidies must be released and restrictions must be phased out as soon as possible. Now the wounds in Swedish society and the Swedish economy must begin to heal again so that we can create a better continuation.
i-YNV9KmYueee5njvgrXYSNv	Mr President, I would like to During this pandemic, democracy here in Parliament has worked very well. We have done what we have been able, often together, to get through the pandemic in the best way possible and to get as many people as possible through the pandemic. I guess we're starting to see a light in the tunnel. You feel a certain hope. We'll see if it holds, but I'm gonna carry it with me. It has been heavy in many ways. I understand the concerns that many entrepreneurs have felt during this time. I understand the concerns that many associations and organisations have felt during this time. Above all, I understand all those who have worked hard and fought in health care and care for the elderly and all those who have been worried about loved ones. It is difficult to feel security when we have a virus that is not visible, that you can carry with you and that can make those you love actually get sick. It is a great and unpleasant feeling of insecurity. Now we are standing here again, I do not know for what time in order, and we are going to discuss an additional amending budget. And tomorrow there'll actually be another one. This should be the case when the pandemic continues, because these subsidies and proposals are needed. As far as the Left Party is concerned, during the pandemic we have tried to put our energies into improving the proposals that the government has made, but we have also tried to find cooperation in various ways to get new proposals and develop policy. We have ensured, among other things, that those companies that can make use of short-term support should also include family businesses. We have done so that you cannot have a dividend if you have support for short-term lay-off or other support. Together with the Moderates and Christian Democrats, we have ensured that care for the elderly is given more money, that efforts are being made to increase job security, ensure that more retirement homes are built and that medical skills are increased. We have pushed for a relaxation of the regulations for entrepreneurs around the unemployment fund so that you can get unemployment benefit if you have to during the pandemic. We have also pushed for employees to have the same conditions to be able to get unemployment benefit, i.e. eased the regulatory framework. Together with the Christian Democrats, we have pushed for individual traders to be included in company support, and together with the Moderates we have run the event support. We have done a lot together between different parties and in different ways contributed to this. Now we are here again with another amending budget. What really surprises me, I think, is that despite two years of pandemic, health care has still not received long-term support – to make sure that we can actually get those who have quit health care to come back, to make sure that those who struggle there are able to cope and want to continue working in health care, the profession they have actually trained for and spent a lot of time and commitment on, to make sure that they can get more colleagues and we more care places. There is still no such support. This supplementary amending budget adds resources to compensate the regions for increased costs of vaccination and detection and more in connection with the pandemic. It is good and important, and we are of course behind that. But we need a long-term approach to health care for all of us. Older people would also need more resources in the long term. There the need for better working conditions is very clear – more time and less stress with the old ones. Mr President, I would like to It is also the case that, unfortunately, the money paid out by the government in many regions is being spent centrally. The staff are working out there, but the money's not coming out. The pace increases and increases, and eventually you can't stand it. We need a tightening up of the regions, not least here in Stockholm with the blue-green governance. Mr President, I would like to We have a very high unemployment rate. We also have an employment agency that doesn't work. There's an alarm report on the alarm report. Staff resigns and says, "We don't believe this; this isn't working. The last day before yesterday, I think it was, the Swedish Agency for Participation came out with a new report that showed that a group that pays a very high price in the neoliberal experiments with Arbetsförmedlingen are the disabled. They have been squeezed by subsidised employment, traineeships and work-oriented rehabilitation. Employees who have worked with disabled people have been assigned to other tasks or quit because of this experiment. In this budget there are no changes to the employment agency's mandate or any addition of resources. We regret that, because it would have been necessary. This budget also changes the rules on health insurance, and that is a good thing. You shouldn't need a medical certificate, you should get a carer's allowance as it is called, and so on. What can be said, and I think most people have realized during this pandemic, is that it is not so good when people carry some infection and go to work even though they are ill. You infect others. But a lot of people don't have the option of being home. You can have insecure employment or a very low salary, and you have to go to work, because otherwise you don't have money for the rent. That reality lives in very many people. I've been in that situation myself. What do I choose? Does the rent pay and make sure that I have food on the table for my daughter or stay home from work when I feel that I could go to work but really have a cold and should be home? I find it regrettable that we have not abolished the Karen Day, as it is called in the people's mouth, but continue to keep it. Our Nordic neighbours do not have it. They can handle it, but we're not gonna make it. I deeply regret that. Mr President, I would like to In this budget that came from the government, it was extra money for culture and sport, and we are very happy about that. Culture has a value in itself, its own value, and is a central and important part of everyone's life – including sport of course. That is why it is so important that resources are provided, that we enable culture and sport to be there and that we can continue to enjoy them as active or as an audience. That the Moderates took the initiative and increased the funding we welcomed and supported. We have also felt it was very important for the event support to be given more funding so that you can plan for the longer term, because there is a great deal of uncertainty and insecurity in the current situation. We have also lifted the special conditions of the meeting industry, and we know that there is likely to be a call to the government here in due course to review the support available to meet the conditions of that industry. We also think that family businesses should be covered by the short-term lay-off aid that is now in place. We welcome the Christian Democrats' initiative to this effect. Mr President, I would like to During the coronapendem, the gaps in society have increased sharply. The rich have become richer if you look at what it looks like in general, and the poor have become poorer. The task of politics should, of course, be to balance the income gap and build a more robust and stronger society. We in the Left Party will of course continue to work for that. Mr President, I would like to This is my last budget debate as an economic-political spokesperson. I will certainly continue to wander around here and debate in different ways until the next elections. Then we'll see what happens after that. I would like to thank you for your warm and fine words. They did good in my heart. It was cold back in Gävle this morning. It was like a nice Christmas picture out there with many degrees below zero, but the temperature in my body rose significantly when I heard your fine words. Thank you for your cooperation, thank you for all the debates and thank you for all the differences – that is how democracy should work!
i-WxVGdexZHvdSBvWAhH6NjK	Mr President, I would like to This pandemic has cost life and health. It has challenged our way of life. It has deprived us of time with those we love. As a result, we have suffered from isolation. Some people who have worked in some businesses have suffered from exhaustion. Others have suffered desperation at seeing their life's work merge in front of their eyes. Some have suffered from apathy in the face of the new, difficult, perhaps also changing an already difficult situation. The hospital staff, everyone who works in the care of the elderly, everyone who drives our buses to where we are going, all those who actually get to work when motivation fails, all those who make a decision every morning to try to hold out a little longer with their business before putting what you have fought for, perhaps in a whole life, in a moth bag – all of them deserve a big thank you for all their efforts. There are many challenges also now that many of us believe that this is a kind of Advent time as we wait for this to be over and a light to emerge. We see this in continuing concerns in many parts of the business community while others are doing well. We see this in the case of children and young people who move less and who have lost many of the contexts where protection factors have been found, especially if you come from homes where you are more vulnerable than otherwise. They've fallen out of association, which means so much. Mr President, I would like to I am pleased that during the pandemic we have been able to work hard together in this House to do as much as we can to improve for business, sport, culture and to try to save jobs and businesses. Often we have been able to improve the government's proposals. I think the government has done a lot that has been good, not least in the beginning of the pandemic, but I also think there have been a lot of flaws along the way. It seems to me that, on some occasions, it seems to me that one has wished so much that the pandemic has been over that one has not taken heights for new concerns. This has led to unnecessary delays and too low and too poor support for business, which, unfortunately, I believe has cost jobs and businesses. Mr President, I would like to Now we are here discussing another supplementary amending budget. The Christian Democrats believe that several of the measures proposed in this supplementary amending budget are both reasonable and necessary. These include funds for increased work on vaccination, testing and detection, and compensation for withdrawals and high costs of sick pay in this very trying time for many workplaces. This also applies to what we Christian Democrats, together with others, not least the Moderates, have been involved in pushing forward, such as conversion aid for companies and turnover aid for individual traders. It has contributed to more companies having been able to overcome the crisis, and aid is now being reintroduced at substantial levels. It is also good that there are funds for culture and sport. I am very pleased that the Committee on Finance is now acting to strengthen support for culture and events. That is what helps to make life a little easier to live, to keep planning for cultural events, for sporting events and for an activity that brings so much joy to the rest of us and that brings together things that actually mean things in life. I am therefore pleased that this support can now be substantially increased. Thank you to the Moderates who initiated this! Good cooperation in committee has made this possible. Mr President, I would like to I believe that much more needs to be done at this stage too. When the government opens up to short-term work support again, it does so in a different way than has been the case during the pandemic. All of a sudden, family entrepreneurs, whom we in the Committee on Finance jointly saw across party boundaries come into support, are to be thrown out. Companies that normally receive their main funding from public funds, such as physiotherapists who cannot carry out group training during the pandemic wave, shall also no longer benefit from short-term leave support. In addition, aid levels fall from three quarters of the costs previously incurred by the State to one third. For many companies, this is the support they can use. This applies not least to companies that are more start-ups than others. This, of course, is not good enough, Mr President. That is why we Christian Democrats have taken an initiative in the Committee on Finance to try again, as we have done before, to change this. We also see that the Swedish Agency for Growth needs to be able to pick up on the long queue of applications that is now in place and which consists of companies that have not received payments of aid to which they are entitled for months, which naturally tempts an activity that is heavily burdened by a long period of crisis. I have great hope that on these points we can find a consensus, or at least a broad majority, in committee in order to change this again. We are not going to dismantle these subsidies until we know that the pandemic is actually over. We shall hope for the best, but we must act as if the pandemic is still upon us. Mr President, I would like to We have also proposed, as so many times before, that temporary workers should be included. We think it has been a big mistake through the pandemic that the government has chosen to exclude those people from short-term work support, who have been so important in saving jobs. The aid did not apply to all employees. It violates international crisis experience. This goes against the studies on which short-term work support was based. And this has led to an increase in unemployment. This has been stated by the Council of Finance Ministers, Mr President. I deeply regret that this has been the case. As a result, many have lost important contact with their former employers. Instead of keeping this contact with those with a lay-off, they have lost their jobs and have fallen further away from the labour market. This is not least what we can now see in certain sectors. Mr President, I would like to We have also submitted another initiative. It is about the fact that we now need to support civil society through the crisis. It is about supporting sport further, so that more children and young people can return to important sports and association activities. We have initially received broad support in the committee for this. The government has now also responded and will make more funds available for children and young people to be able to engage in sports in association activities. It is very welcome. But we see that more is also needed for other organisations that work for children and young people and not least for associations, organisations and others who work with help among the needy – alone, excluded, homeless and excluded. They are now wondering: Should we be able to continue our activities when our support runs out? Are we going to continue even though we cannot carry out regular fundraising and even though we are as limited as we are? They now need additional support, and I hope that the Committee on Finance will be able to agree on this. These organisations have consistently extended a hand to those who are vulnerable. We should not let them down at this point, Mr President. Finally, Ulla Andersson has her last debate here. We have been fighting in this House for almost eight years. In a way, it has been eight long years, but it is not mainly due to Ulla Andersson, although her speeches are often among the longer in the Chamber. Mr President, I would like to Ulla is an excellent person, a person you can trust. We have different views on most of the issues of economic policy, but when we have not, it has been easy to find common agreements with Ulla. When you hear Ulla in the speaker's chair, you don't always think it's the most pragmatic politician in the Northern Hemisphere. But Ulla sees possibilities. She's interested in achieving results. And we have been able to do this together in the area of money laundering and in the area of care for the elderly. We are now getting more trained nurses. We get fewer people who involuntarily work part-time. We're building more retirement homes. We have been able to work together for family businesses, small businesses and such things. I really appreciate a handshake with Ulla. I wish you every success in the future, Ulla. And remember, it's called cheesebows!
i-5KyHxVwvfSjvkW4uEdUnjZ	Mr President, I would like to The best thing about February is that it's a short month. It's a pretty common expression. February is the month when many people tie their hands a little extra in their pocket when they go to work or when they get up in the morning. It's the month when many people struggle to support themselves and their families every day go to work and feel that it's pretty tough. You need something to look forward to. That's when you usually book the movie ticket, the musical ticket, the fun trip or maybe a restaurant visit. The pandemic makes February even harder than February always is. With a few years' experience of the pandemic, it somehow begins to creep in and become quite difficult. I think there are many of us who know: Can't it just be over now? From my son's preschool at home in Lund, in Skåne, there is an e-mail every day saying that it is difficult to get the business to go together because a lot of people are at home. Either they're sick themselves or they're in so-called household quarantine. Can you leave a little later? Can you get me some early? Maybe you don't have to have your baby in preschool today, because the situation is very tight. Mr President, I would like to That's what it looks like in the whole welfare system. Look at the medical care! Sweden has had a shortage of care places for a long time, but now during the pandemic it becomes brutally clear. This shows that Swedish healthcare is not up to date. An emergency doctor may spend half his working day finding medical places, and there is a strong frustration that patients do not receive the care to which they are entitled. Mr President, I would like to This budget, which we are going to club this afternoon, is about support that is important when it comes to ensuring that Sweden goes stronger out of the pandemic. It is obvious, I think, that entrepreneurs and welfare are equally important in Swedish society. Without entrepreneurs, we have no money for welfare, and without welfare, which many feel strongly about, our society does not work. Mr President, I would like to Unlike any previous speaker in this speaker's chair, I think it is a strength that it is the Riksdag and the parties in Parliament that jointly formulate and develop policies and that ensure that these subsidies are as good as they can be and reach as many people as possible. It is clear that many of the support we have today is not good enough. It takes too long to find out if you get any money. These are long processing times. A lot of the support is not designed in a way that suits the restaurateur in Ystad or the entrepreneur in Luleå. It is clear that policy needs to do more to ensure that the money comes out faster. And it is obvious that politics needs to do more to ensure that there are cultural practitioners who can offer a musical, theatre or similar activity that we so much want to book a ticket for that grey day in February. Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Moderates very much for the initiative of the Committee on Finance. I would also like to extend a great deal of thanks to all the other parties, as we have now jointly ensured that more money is given to culture. Mr President, I would like to It is clear that the government lacks a plan for the pandemic. What is the logic in that 2,800 people on a day-to-day evening can watch Malmö Redhawks play ice hockey against Leksand but that my wife and I can't sit at the restaurant after 23.00? What's the logic of that? What is the logic of people sitting in household quarantine for five to seven days when preschool screams for staff because half of the staff are at home? The housekeeper makes them have to be home. Denmark and Norway are opening up. We now see that we need to do this in order for society to work and because we see the end of the pandemic. It is clear that the government lacks a plan to open up Sweden and that they lack a plan for the entire Corona strategy. What is the logic in that 2,800 people can watch ice hockey but that I can't sit with my wife in a restaurant after 11:00? There's no logic. Mr President, I would like to This budget is important at this stage in order to ensure that we have companies that survive, that welfare is strong and that we have a cultural life even after the pandemic. These are important steps that the Committee on Finance is now taking after we have taken these important initiatives jointly in committee. Last of all, Ulla Andersson, I would like to thank you very much for all your efforts. You and I do not often agree, and it is somehow the strength of democracy that we gather in here to fight instead of using weapons and fighting in a more nasty way. As I said, you and I do not always take the same view, but I have great respect for your work, for your knowledge and for your efforts in this House and in the work of Parliament. Many thanks for your efforts and good luck in the future! I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-XE3Ndk24neKvWMLcH9gDFL	Mr President, I would like to Pandemin's tribulations have been on us for a long time now. For two years, we have seen friends and relatives get seriously ill and even die, while society has been forced into restrictions to try to save as many people as possible. We have not escaped the pandemic and its harmful effects, but as a society we have managed relatively well. A government that has taken the initiative to prevent the spread of infection and support for industries affected by the restrictions as well as a parliament that has collaborated for the good of Sweden is a decision of strength in a crisis. Meanwhile, the vaccine has been developed and the variants of the virus have come and gone. Now, hopefully, we are seeing the last period of restrictions to prevent the spread of infection. The proposals presented in this government budget and in the culture of Parliament are good and much-needed. It should be easy to do the right thing in a crisis. The economy should not put an end to the possibility of being at home when it is necessary to prevent the spread of infection, and companies should be able to adapt their activities, thereby preventing bankruptcy and the risk of seeing life's work lost. Society also needs to continue testing and tracking. Medical care must continue to work, and I would like, when we talk about the pandemic, also to take this opportunity to thank all the health professionals who have done absolutely great things for a very long time. We must also ensure that you have a better working situation and more colleagues. The pandemic is raging as we know not only in Sweden. The fact that we are now providing equipment we do not need ourselves is also a way of showing solidarity at a difficult time. At the beginning of the pandemic, we saw that cooperation and concern for each other across national borders did not work. That is something we need to learn from in the future. But since a long time Sweden has donated its surplus. It is important that we do what is needed and what we can, even if it is not included in aid and international DAC rules. The government starts with supplies, but I hope that we will also act the same if there is a situation where we have surplus doses of vaccine. Sweden has donated a lot, both resources and doses, through Covax ever since vaccines were in place, and I hope we see a continuation of that. We are only fighting a pandemic together. In this supplementary amending budget, I am pleased that the committee has agreed on the Moderates' proposal for more money for the cultural sector, but we in the Green Party would have liked to have seen more and a different approach. We in the Green Party, with Amanda Lind and Anna Sibinska, quickly demanded crisis measures for culture when new restrictions came. What we then saw from the government was too low and without ambition to change, for example, the application procedures. In addition, they nabbed money that was meant to go back to the start and not to crisis support. But the situation is alarming, and so it is now gratifying that the committee has reacted and that more money is allocated to culture. However, we would have preferred to see a system in which the funds promised by the government in 2021 through the event support that came then could have been used to the full and to the benefit of all concerned. We believe that crisis support for culture should be increased by 2 billion, the bulk of which is distributed through the Culture Council. There is a good organisation, criteria that are well known to the sector and administrators who are used to dealing with crisis aid. The fact that the majority of the committee is still being put on the event support means that the criteria need to be reviewed urgently. After all, the current design has not been able to meet the need. It has been difficult and difficult to search, and the money is needed too much to risk that they burn inside. Since there is uncertainty as to how much opportunities there are to adapt the support for events and how long it will take, we would rather have seen a different approach. Mr President, I would like to Now we still think we see the light in the tunnel. Then money is also needed to invest in a reboot. That is why in our proposal we wanted to add another 500 million for the re-launch. This had to be announced now in order to strengthen the possibilities for long-term planning. Nevertheless, I am glad that there is more support for culture. I am also pleased that we have had a very good dialogue with the industry, which has clearly demonstrated what is needed to facilitate the crisis, and I am pleased with the commitment they have shown not only in dialogue but also by coming here to Parliament when we debate these issues. Thank you very much! With such clarity, it is easier for the policy to agree, as we have done here, and then it will also be an important part of the democratic work. Mr President, I would like to We see many industries on their knees of direct or indirect effects of the pandemic. We will need to look at further support to get out of this crisis as unscathed as possible as people and as a society. Several proposals are already on the committee table, including support for civil society and agriculture. For us in the Green Party, it is important that aid in the pandemic does not overturn the transition that must also take place. The climate crisis has not disappeared because we have a pandemic to deal with. We must find a way to support without compromising our efforts to achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement. It is possible to get us out of this crisis together without throwing the fight for a better world overboard. I also want to thank you, Ulla. It's been very fun to be in the Finance Committee with you... not as long as I would have liked this time. But I'm so incredibly impressed with your work. You have your heart in the right place, always on the side of the weakest and most vulnerable, and you keep the debate tight and the rest of us on our feet. It has been incredibly fun to do this with you, but now I also welcome Ali Esbati. It will be very good to have you on the committee to represent Left Party politics! As others have said, we do not always agree, but we have good cooperation. I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-F4zKdJEQDhY4JBBZAY9EvB	Mr President, I would like to Today, we would be debating the Swedish National Audit Office's report on the effectiveness of the Politigheten's work on information for criminals, but I am the only one on the list of speakers. It seems only the Moderates think that victim issues are important. The Social Democrats are not on the list of speakers, but I see that some have entered the Chamber. They may feel compelled to say something now that we Moderates have wanted the debate. We think that victim issues are incredibly important. I shall begin by calling for the proposal in the report to be approved. We Moderates believe that the victim perspective needs to be strengthened in Swedish justice. Those who have been victims of crime should always be able to count on society to provide strong support. Behind almost every police report is someone who has been subjected to violence, threats or violation of any kind. Someone may have suffered physical and psychological damage that takes a long time to process and recover from. Many suffer a crime: the victim, friends and relatives. The same applies to the families of the perpetrators, who find themselves in a difficult situation. Many times there are also children in the picture. The person who has been subjected to a crime should receive the necessary information about the crime and find out what support is available. The police already have a certain obligation to provide information and provide clearer feedback on the investigation. If a preliminary investigation is closed, the police shall clearly state the measures taken and the reasons for the closure of the case. The Moderates believe that greater focus should be placed on the victims and take into account the suffering they have been forced to endure, rather than having a primary starting point in the perpetrators today. That's why we want to strengthen the victim perspective in Swedish justice. The present report reveals several shortcomings which make the work less efficient than it could be. The lack of efficiency is largely due to the fact that the Police Authority has given different categories of employees important tasks that are not adapted to those who are supposed to perform them. These deficiencies may lead to the loss of the information to which they are entitled and may therefore affect their willingness and ability to participate in the judicial process. Each year, the Police Authority informs approximately 1 million individuals about their rights, the support they can receive and the progress of their cases. The review shows that the Police Authority has not evaluated important aspects of how the Agency informs criminals, and internal governance and support need to be developed in several different ways. The Swedish National Audit Office makes four recommendations. Regular monitoring and evaluation should be carried out to what extent and how employees inform the victims of crime. It is also necessary to evaluate whether employees receive the right support. In addition, the training of police contact centre operators and civil service receptionists should be reviewed to ensure that they are well placed to inform victims of crime. Finally, procedures for a clear division of responsibilities should be put in place to ensure that the information they need is provided to the victims throughout the case – from start to finish. Mr President, I would like to The Police Authority has taken note of the Swedish National Audit Office's report and considers that all recommendations are relevant. The agency has started to work on taking action. That is a good thing, but the work must be done urgently because it is so important that victims of crime receive support and protection. Why is it so important that they receive the support? The better information they receive from the police about the progress of their affairs, the greater the willingness to participate. It is a major problem already today that many plaintiffs drop out of investigations. So they drop out in the way that they do not want to participate. If they do not want to participate, it is often incredibly difficult to complete the investigation. If the victims do not receive the information and support they need and are entitled to, many will say that they do not want to be there anymore. Then it will be very difficult to make sure to complete the entire criminal investigation. In the end, they do not receive criminal redress, to which they are often entitled, and they feel betrayed by society. This also means that many criminals go free because they are not convicted of the crimes, and that is really bad. If they are not stopped in time, they will continue, and the victims will increase. It's very important that victims get information. It may sound a bit like a little bit of information, but it's very important. This will increase the possibility for victims of crime to obtain redress and for the perpetrators to be put behind bars. On two previous occasions, the Swedish Parliament has announced to the government that the police's information to victims of crime needs to be improved. The first time was 2015, and the second time was 2017. Despite these announcements, there are still major shortcomings. So it is seven years since the first announcement was made. In doing so, it is necessary to again address a notice to the Government that the Government should take steps to ensure that the Politigheten's work on information for criminals is improved in accordance with the recommendations in the Swedish National Audit Office's report. This work is important and must not take seven new years. It's been a long time. I look out into the Chamber and wonder if anyone from the Social Democrats would like to come up in the speaker's seat and say something about victims. It is apparently only us Moderates who think that the issues relating to victims are important. Is there anyone? Yes! I conclude by saying that we Moderates believe that the victim perspective is extremely important, and we will continue to work on this issue.
i-DbR3RmrH97khFFitpcqZN5	Mr President, I would like to The fact that victims receive the information they are entitled to is incredibly important. It is about the possibility of good support and protection. It is about improving the conditions for being able to participate in investigations in a good way, and it benefits both the legal process and it increases confidence in the whole area. There is political agreement on this. As chairman of the Committee on Justice, I welcome the examination of the information provided by the Political Authority to victims of crime. A number of shortcomings are identified which make the work less efficient than it could be and make good and balanced recommendations. The police authority responds clearly and feels that the recommendations are relevant and indicates that they are part of the ongoing work in the agency. Concrete improvements have already been made. Mr President, I would like to So far, no strangeness. But this is where the interesting begins. The Moderates and the Right Conservative Block fundamentally agree that these are important issues. We heard that from the previous speaker. It agrees with the review carried out by the Swedish National Audit Office, agrees with the recommendations to the Authority and even notes that the Government will pay particular attention to the work. Is that enough? No, of course not. The Moderates ask their habit faithfully the questions: Can we report someone? Can we propose a committee initiative? Can we go to storms on the issue in order to put the picture that the government is not doing what the government is supposed to, that the problems are much bigger than they really are, or that this is an issue that only the Moderates are pushing? Today, an announcement is being proposed to show decisiveness on this important issue, that the Riksdag should tell the government to do what the government has already said and that it should follow up what the Police Authority has already started. That doesn't change the issue. That is a very clear and good example of rather bad opposition policy. I think that this well sums up the importance of these issues, the important work that the agency itself does and the clear statement that the government will follow up on this. There is no reason to address this announcement to the government at this point. I commend our reservation.
i-MS7Q6ZWKACLrhnbbzzPSKE	Mr President, I would like to How important does the government think it is for victims to get the information they need and the support they need? You had not put yourself on the list of speakers when this debate began, so you could not have considered the issue to be very important. That Fredrik Lundh Sammeli went up I assume was because we had brought it up and I am on the list of speakers. If I hadn't, you wouldn't have thought it was so important. Then you wouldn't be here. I think it is very clear that you felt obliged to come here and say a few words in the speaker's chair just because we Moderates are defending the victim issue. There is no other indication. Otherwise Fredrik Lundh Sammeli's name would have been on the list of speakers together with my name. It didn't, so I think it's pretty obvious to everyone. Then Fredrik Lundh Sammeli says that the government has shown its ability to act. Yeah? The first announcement came in 2015. After seven years, there are still so many shortcomings that are shown in the Swedish National Audit Office's report. It is not very capable of action, and this is a very important issue. Fredrik Lundh Sammeli says that the government should pay particular attention to the issue and work. Yeah? How long before there is more workshop so that the shortcomings are corrected? Fredrik Lundh Sammeli also says that the government has said that it will follow up. Yes, said and said. It is not enough just to say; you have to have a little workshop too.
i-3qX9KjgApxEgDoteZnEXPg	Mr President, I would like to I thought I was clear in my speech. This is an important issue. There is no party in this House that does not think the issue of information and support for victims of crime is incredibly important. It is about their opportunities for protection and support, about the security for them in being able to be part of the legal process but also about having participation in the legal process so that we have more people convicted. The Swedish National Audit Office examines the agency and finds clear shortcomings where it is considered that the agency is not effective enough. It welcomes the Authority. They clearly point to the work they are in the middle of, a large and extensive effort to strengthen the particular area of crime. The Government has responded to the Swedish Parliament's views on the Swedish National Audit Office's recommendations to the Swedish Police Authority. In all of this there is a broad consensus in Parliament on the importance of the issue. It is natural for the authority to be examined. They have clear proposals on how to deal with this. But I am thinking that the moderate Member, Mr Juntti, is trying to make a chicken out of a feather. No other party saw reason to give the impression that there is a huge political disagreement on this issue, which Juntti chose to do.
i-388GdacpvXXMPUJu4KmqL2	Mr President, I would like to The first announcement came in 2015. It was seven years ago, and there are still so many shortcomings according to the Swedish National Audit Office's report. The government hasn't done enough. Fredrik Lundh Sammeli says that the government has said. Yes, as I said, it is possible to say and say, but there must actually be a little workshop too. Fredrik Lundh Sammeli also says that this is an important issue for the government. If it is so important, why didn't you put yourself on the list of speakers this morning? Then only me from the Moderates stood there. You jumped in when you saw the Moderates wanted this debate. It is clear that the Social Democrats thought this was an unimportant debate until I was in the speaker's seat. As I said, it does not help just to say and say, but it also needs a little workshop. It's been seven years since the first announcement came. When are you going to deal with this and ensure that the Police Authority has corrected the shortcomings that the Swedish National Audit Office has highlighted in its report? When? Will it take another seven years?
i-9HhaiiyGaXaixuZefoQkVY	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish National Audit Office's recommendations are about monitoring and evaluating how employees inform victims of crime. They are about evaluating employees' support and ensuring that they also receive adapted and developed support to work better with this based on new technology, to review the training of operators at the contact centres in the police and the civilian receptionists and others in order to also provide clear and good information, to strengthen this whole area within the Police Authority and to introduce procedures with clear responsibilities that ensure that you get the information you need throughout the time. It is not that nothing has happened since 2015. If Mrs Juntti takes note of the Swedish National Audit Office's review, she will see clearly that these are the four recommendations to strengthen the work that is already under way. These are recommendations to the Authority. The Swedish National Audit Office does not make any recommendations to the Government. That is also where it is clear that the Moderates find security in the recurring pattern. Is there anyone to report to the KU? Can we take a committee initiative? Can we storm a little bit to give the impression that we are the only ones running this issue? It's not serious. It is not serious on very many issues, and it is not serious on this issue. The government will follow the work. The agency has a clear mission to work on the basis of the recommendations it has received and also thinks it is very relevant. One can point to work that has already been carried out. It also points out how today's IT technology, for example, can reinforce the entire flow of information. There is no doubt that it is an important issue for all parties in the Riksdag that victims of crime receive the information they need.
i-RAj4j1whjgzD3vZd2xH537	Mr President, I would like to Today, then, we are debating the report by the Swedish National Audit Office on the selection of pupils for the PISA study. Pisa is implemented every three years, and Sweden has participated in the study since 2000. The last study was conducted in spring 2018, when more than 5 500 pupils from 223 schools participated. Pisa tests students' knowledge and competence in reading comprehension, mathematics and science. Much has happened since Pisa was implemented in 2018. It has been the subject of debate and discussion. Next, Pisa 2022 will be carried out at a time during and after the ongoing pandemic when we know that many children and young people have paid a high price by missing out on important education, education and training. The experiences of the pandemic must all be taken on board in order to ensure a good and equal education for all. I have often asked myself what the purpose of standardised tests and all these measurements of knowledge are. What difference do they make for our children and for our teachers? The answer to that question is divided, but one answer is that they are a tool that is extremely important to us as education politicians in order for us to be able to make interpretations and draw conclusions about how Swedish schools are doing. They also give indications of what and what parts we need to focus on. It is clear that international measurements are relevant and important tools for measuring students' knowledge, for monitoring developments over time and for seeing trends in students' knowledge development. But it is important to point out that these measurements do not say everything about the Swedish school. For the government and the Social Democrats it is of the utmost importance that the knowledge we get from these measurements is correct. Mr President, I would like to This report concerns the Swedish National Audit Office's review of Sweden's participation. It focuses primarily on exclusions and foreclosures of students. Exclusions refer to pupils selected to write the exams but excluded from participating because of disabilities or lack of language skills. Apostasy refers to students who do not appear at the time of the test. The Swedish National Audit Office's report shows that there were questions about foreign-born pupils' results in Pisa 2018 and the high proportion excluded. It also shows that the Swedish National Agency for Education has failed in the work of following up exclusions and omissions. It criticises both the OECD report and the OECD and the examining institution. It also criticises the government's follow-up responsibilities as well as the fact that none of the audited have taken sufficient action. Mr President, I would like to Let me be clear here. It is in the interests of the government and society as a whole that there are no question marks out at the schools about how to implement Pisa. In view of this, the government, we in the Education Committee and mainly the Minister for Education have asked questions about the degree of exclusion to the Swedish National Agency for Education, and on several occasions the Swedish National Agency for Education has made it clear that the results are reliable. For this reason, it is good that the government has given the task of ensuring the reliability of the implementation of international knowledge measurements in the Swedish school and conducting an analysis of how to restore confidence in the Pisa study. Mr President, I would like to As I said, there should be no question marks whatsoever, and it is positive that we are raising the issue in order to ensure that future studies leave no room for doubt in schools as to which students should be given the opportunity to write the test and not. The Minister for Education and the Government has also commissioned the Swedish National Agency for Education to strengthen their efforts to ensure a high level of participation in accordance with the OECD's current guidelines in Pisa 2022. You should be able to trust Pisa. With regard to the report and what the National Audit Office has pointed out, it is important to point out that, in the case of exclusion of certain pupils from the national statistics, it is not possible to establish an exact level for the proportion of pupils who, according to OECD guidelines, should be excluded due to a lack of language skills. Thus, there are ambiguities regarding the exclusion of certain pupils, and in the Government's view there may have been cases where pupils have been excluded from participating in the 2018 PISA survey in a way that is not consistent with current guidelines. Mr President, I would like to However, the ambiguities that exist have not affected Sweden's performance or performance development in any significant way. This is important to point out. The overall conclusions drawn on the results of reading comprehension in Pisa 2018 are deemed to remain. This means that the result is still higher compared to the 2012 result. It is clear that the students who have participated in the survey have performed better, and that is positive. This picture is also supported by other international studies but also by national statistics. It is important to note in this context that the Swedish National Audit Office has not presented any alternative results. But what I really want to talk about, Mr President, is what Pisa really says and what we as politicians should and are obliged to do. It is about creating a level playing field for learning, enabling time for teachers in the classroom and having high teacher density and eligibility. It is about investing in continuing training and skills development and combating gaps and compensating for life conditions. It's about talking about what I feel the right-wing conservative politicians don't talk about very often. It is about equal conditions, about market governance and how school choices affect those with the weakest conditions. It is important to point out that the Pisa measurement itself is very important to give a snapshot. And to be honest, what we saw in Pisa 2018 is a clear progression in knowledge in, for example, reading comprehension, but it also shows the tragic reality: that the parents' educational background is increasingly important to the results, which we can tragically link to school segregation, which is also affected by housing segregation. Mr President, I would like to As we now leave Pisa 2018 behind with the hope that lessons have been learned to restore confidence in the measurement, which in itself is important, as I mentioned, I also hope that more parties may wake up and understand that if the knowledge results are to continue upwards and more students will learn more, inequality in Swedish schools and in the education system needs to be broken. It is time for us to withdraw democratic control, invest more in equivalence and ensure that children are not divided according to socio-economic or migration backgrounds. The best interests of the students should be put first. All schools should be good schools with a focus on knowledge and education. The school will again become a meeting place for children with different backgrounds. With this, I call for the reservations of the Social Democrats 1 and 2.
i-DTRDa64VxkjVbh6WWDjch3	Mr President, I would like to The government and the Social Democrats lack control of Swedish pupils and schools in Sweden. The Swedish National Audit Office has established that the Minister for Education Anna Ekström, the S-government and the Swedish National Agency for Education, all three of them fail in the review of how they have managed and followed up on the results of knowledge and the latest Pisa survey. Mr President, I would like to begin by quoting the Government's letter on the Swedish National Audit Office's review of the S-government's Pisa scandal: The Swedish National Audit Office's overall conclusion is that too many students have been excluded from the Swedish Pisa Study 2018. The high percentage of excluded pupils cannot be explained by a high number of newly arrived pupils as a result of the refugee crisis in 2015 and neither the government nor the National School of Education has ensured that the Pisa survey in 2018 was carried out reliably in relation to exclusions and foreclosures of pupils. The Swedish National Audit Office also considers that neither the Government nor the Swedish National Agency for Education have taken sufficient measures to investigate the doubts raised in connection with the investigation. The Swedish National Audit Office states in connection with the review of the reliability of an OECD report in September 2020 on the Swedish Pisa study and does not believe that the OECD report is credible and that it should have been possible to find a more appropriate actor than the OECD for the mission. Finally, the Swedish National Audit Office considers that the Government has not fulfilled its follow-up responsibilities. ..................................................... Mr President, I would like to In Swedish, this means that Anna Ekström, the S-government and the Swedish National Agency for Education have all failed in the review of how to handle Pisa. What, then, are the problems? Let me point out at least two. The first is that there are international studies such as Pisa, Timms and Pirl which, if done correctly, provide good basis for finding out how Swedish school is going. How do we stand in knowledge right now, and how does this change over time? They also make it possible to compare Sweden's position vis-à-vis other countries. At the latest Pisa survey, one in four students failed the test, and as the Swedish National Audit Office notes, the flow of refugees is not an answer to why. The risk is that the investigation will be seriously misleading and that the wrong conclusions will simply be drawn on this basis. Of course, you also get a different basis for decisions, and children and young people miss an important test opportunity. In addition: When Pisafusket arrived, something appeared with the government that could at best be called self-denial. Unpolitical officials testified about the problems, but the minister's closest associates looked between their fingers and covered up without grasping it. As the Swedish National Audit Office says, neither the Government nor the Swedish National Agency for Education has taken sufficient measures to investigate the doubts that emerged in connection with the investigation. ..................................................... This undermines Anna Ekström and the government's confidence in the important Pisa study. All in all, they haven't actually done their job. In the near future, there are at least three measures that should be taken in response to Pisafusket. The first is to transfer responsibility and budget for the international surveys Pisa, Timss and Pirl from the Swedish National Agency for Education to one or more universities. The second is to give the government the task of looking at how to avoid a Pisafusk so that the same mistake is not repeated. The third is to look at the damage that has happened so that the trust damage can be gradually repaired. Pisafusket is a grand scandal, and I hope that this can be repaired. You also have to see the bigger picture. For a lot of students, schooling is excellent. They enjoy school, learn, have peers and look forward. But for many others it is not so. Last spring, 16,000 students completed grade 9 without a comprehensive school degree, and more than one in four students in grade 6 fail on one or more subjects. It's really bad and something we have to deal with. These students are in the classrooms every day and should be seen and supported. They should also receive a completely different attention in the political debate in terms of making reforms that change the focus on school policy and establish Sweden as a knowledge nation. These students are not helped by being hidden away in the Pisa survey or in other school activities. On the contrary, what we need in the future is high expectations, a focus on knowledge, peace of mind and a completely different track of learning from what has been the case. Mr President, I would like to A good measure in the near future would be to get the digital and centrally corrected national tests in place once and for all. There are national tests, but there is no comparability. They are not corrected together, which makes it difficult to measure what they mean for an individual student, an individual school and an individual municipality. As I said, we need digital tests that are centrally corrected, because then we will have comparability. Then they can be used in a completely different way to see how a student and a school are doing. In this way, we can escape the ominous grading inflation that exists. The bizarre thing about this is that five years ago the Riksdag made its first decision to introduce digital and centrally corrected tests. Since then nothing has happened. Sometimes opposition representatives say that the government does not do anything, but in this case Anna Ekström and her friends have literally sat on their hands. I think both Pisafusket and this is really bad for Swedish school. A first important measure would be, as I said, to repair the damage after Pisafusket. Then make sure to set up the digital and centrally corrected national tests! Mr President, I would like to I request your approval for reservation number 5.
i-MLJgboG7JfwsHYBQ1Anw5j	Mr President, I would like to Welcome to the committee, Lars Helmered! It will be exciting to be followed up in committee and to discuss these important issues. It feels good that in your speech you show that you have an insight into what you want the school to be and do. It bodes well for future discussion and debate. Lars Helmered says that the Social Democrats lack knowledge about how Swedish students are doing, that we hide away and that we do not invest enough. In view of the fact that Lars Hjälmered is new to the committee, I would like to ask the question of how he views resource allocation, school choices and the school market. How should these parts be handled so that we can eventually come up with the solutions that he highlights in his speech, such as ensuring that national tests work and that digital solutions exist? In Sweden we have a reality where some children and young people do not have access to digital learning materials. They live cramped in areas where fibre may be lacking, and they may be allowed to sit in a closet and study because they share rooms with their siblings. Of course, it would be good for everyone to have a level playing field, but not everyone has it. Therefore, I am curious about how Lars Helmered sees school segregation and school elections and how we will create equal opportunities for all children, so that they can reach their full potential.
i-YUAs33KPp1SEG5PPAc3cio	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mrs Roza Güclü Hedin for his welcome. I am really looking forward to working on the important issues in the Education Committee. Let's be honest. For many students, schooling is excellent. They get up in the morning and run closest to school where they have their friends. They feel that they have good teachers and that they develop and learn things. But for other students it's not like that. They may wake up with a lump in their stomach, think about how to pass an upcoming test, and feel stress. According to the statistics, 16 000 completes the ninth grade without a comprehensive school degree and one in four in grade 6 fail the national tests in one or more subjects. It's a rejection of how the school works. We will be debating several of Mr Hedin's questions to me during the spring's draft debates, so I would ask to come back then. But our focus is, of course, to safeguard the important freedom of choice. We do not want to reduce the obvious right for parents and children to be able to choose regardless of residential area. We must, of course, have a completely different control over all schools. It is bad that the Swedish School Inspectorate has barely closed one poorly functioning school in Sweden, whether we are talking about independent or municipal schools. School law needs to be tightened up, because that's not how it works. What the school needs is high expectations of the students, work peace, focus on knowledge and better control. Mr President, I would like to We do not have workable national tests that are comparable. They are grade-based but cannot be compared over time, and without central correction the results cannot be compared between schools. Here the parliament has been clear but the government has fallen.
i-5Njb2JLHisDbaA6d4AVdr2	Mr President, I would like to I thank Lars Helmered for his answer. The honourable Member talks about freedom of choice, but freedom of choice is also the freedom of some people. Today's school system is unequal. It creates quality differences and does not provide the right conditions for those who need it. We have an unequal school, and we have many problems that we need to deal with together. We must allocate the resources to those schools that have the toughest conditions and have joint admissions to the schools so that everyone gets good schools and better teachers and time is given for teaching and so on. School segregation is a major problem, as is the school market. To get there Lars Hjälmered wants to, we need to get rid of the students in Swedish school and take hold of the education system in the ground. Not everything is peace and joy because there are children and young people who do not get the support they need. We invest through equivalence grants, collaboration for best schools and different types of quality-enhancing measures, and we have made sure that we have more teachers employees and so on. But we need to overcome school segregation. It is the school selection and marketing school that drives and makes us sort students based on socio-economic background. This is not acceptable. What will Lars Helmered do to make system changes so that we get a school that is for everyone? Do the Moderates really want the school to be good for everyone, and are you prepared to take from those who are overcompensated and give to the schools and children who have the toughest conditions?
i-Kr1nRG1Pchw6gcXoykc9w	I would remind you that the debate is about the Swedish National Audit Office's report on the selection of pupils for the PISA survey.
i-X8ov7xyLfSCoRJdYEpWtHA	Mr President, I would like to I would rather say that the big problem for Roza Güclü Hedin and the Social Democrats is that they have now had seven years to deal with Swedish schools. We have quite a lot of problems ahead of us to solve. My focus and that of the Moderates is to prepare ourselves for what we would like to do after a win. In this, to be clear, it is to safeguard freedom of choice – a natural right for all children and parents – for this can counteract a housing segregation that exists elsewhere. We must increase the control of both independent and municipal schools and, as I said before, simply be able to close poorly functioning schools in a way that has not been done before. We need to work much more with peace of mind and study at school, which is a worrying problem. We also need to work much more with teachers' role in teaching and conducting lessons and perhaps also to look at teacher training. Regarding the issue of resources, there are usually socio-economic factors. Such factors and differences in the amounts – this is a matter of course in the construction of a school grant. I do not think anyone is questioning this in this context. Madam President, I would like There must also be a shift in the view of knowledge. We need to re-establish and have a completely different focus on knowledge, and then we get into the topic of the day: Pisa, control and follow-up. There I mean that it has been cheating and that you have to learn from it. That's one of them. The second is the view of national tests. I think it's great to have this, but it's a fundamental mistake not to have central correction of the digital tests. If you had it, you could have tests that could really measure my knowledge as a child. One could have looked at it between classes, between schools and between municipalities and really get control of how Swedish schools are located, with comparability over the years in a way that does not exist now. This is quite technical, but I think it is an example of where it starts in order to get a distinct idea of whether we are going up, as we should, or whether there are other things that we need to deal with.
i-9bg9aZgjeDTLDhq2MdA33i	Madam President, I would like When you hear the Social Democrats in this debate you almost get the feeling that this is some kind of public debate. It is clear – it is good to talk about other things than what this should really be about, namely the dear subject of Pisa, this sequel in our committee, this scandalous international measurement of knowledge, which in many ways characterises the shortcomings of social democratic policy. Pisa is an international knowledge study that will measure 15-year-olds' knowledge of reading comprehension, mathematics and science, as we have heard. I do not believe that anyone here does not agree that this is an important study, not least for us when setting priorities and seeing what efforts are needed and measuring the development of knowledge over time. This is important. If it is to work, the measurement must be reliable at all stages. It should not be the subject of politicisation, i.e. running and hiding or putting your head in the sand when there is uncertainty about the measurements, but it should go up to the surface and be discussed straight and honestly so that we can get a knowledge measurement that can actually be used. The problem with Pisa has become that we have got a knowledge measurement where confidence is very low, not only for the measurement itself but for the entire implementation process. This is detrimental to Swedish school policy. I would say that there are three aspects to this matter that have crystallized during the journey. First, it is about the degree of exclusion. That so many students were excluded from the measurement was not good. If the government had been a government that looked forward and saw the survey as a real basis for how problems can be attacked and the levels of knowledge strengthened, it would have agreed: What's wrong? We'll have to fix that. ..................................................... But they didn't, on the contrary. When we in the Swedish Democrats from the beginning, when the survey came, were strongly critical that there were so many who were excluded it was waved away as trifles – there were no problems at all. It was even raised in interpellation debates and written questions in the Chamber, but everything was waved away – the government had no reason whatsoever to suspect that there were any strange things with the degree of exclusion. Then came Expressen's review, and it became something else. A shaky minister of education stood and held a press conference where one had to admit that there were probably some strange things after all. The Express dug up witnesses who could say how it was done out in the schools, how students who should have written the exams were selected and so on. We know that story. Then, all of a sudden, it would be evaluated. Then you would review the report. It was then decided to have the OECD review its own report. Those of us who were present remember what it was like in this House in September 2020 when we were going to push through a committee initiative calling for an independent review, but it was voted down by the Social Democrats and their friends. But we demanded an independent review. It was important because we wanted reliability. There were questions about the role of the OECD in carrying out the review. Their impartiality was called into question from several quarters, not only from a political point of view, but also from professors in the country. They said it wasn't the right way to go about it. But the Social Democrats did not want an independent review, but were pleased to continue trying to hide figures and not take everything to the surface. Therefore, we were very pleased that the Swedish National Audit Office, the same day that we had the debate, on 13 September 2020, announced that they would review the management of Pisa 2018. And that is where we stand now, with this review and the comments that the government has received. What is it that the National Audit Office says? Firstly, it is said that the high percentage of excluded pupils in the 2018 Pisa survey cannot be explained by an increase in the number of newly arrived pupils. Secondly, it is said that the Swedish National Agency for Education has failed in the work of following up exclusions and omissions. Thirdly, criticism is being levelled at the OECD report and at the OECD as a examining institution. Fourthly, it is said that the government has not fulfilled its follow-up responsibilities. The doubts about the exclusions in Pisa have not been investigated in a credible way. Fifthly, neither the government nor the National Board of Education has taken sufficient steps to find out what went wrong in Pisa 2018. It could have been imagined that this succulent criticism from the Swedish National Audit Office would mean that the government would finally acknowledge and say that we must now look forward. But they don't. In the government's response to the report, they say on several points that there may be something there, but... it's always a With regard to the OECD as a reviewer of Pisa's results, they say, among other things, that it was a completely correct decision and that the OECD was the appropriate actor, despite all the criticisms from political and professional quarters that it was not an objective review of the PISA report. Nor does the government feel that it has failed in its follow-up responsibilities. When it comes to all the criticisms that were brought forward during the journey, which they refused to discuss and tried to hide, one does not realize that one has done something wrong. It's pretty tragic. This is not good for Swedish school policy. We cannot have a government that acts that way, but something new is needed. What is happening now is that confidence in the Pisa surveys is becoming very low. We must look to the future. We must ensure that this fad is not redone. It would have been better if the government were humble and confessed to its mistakes. What are you going to do in the future? We have proposed a number of points on what can be done. Perhaps the most important thing of all is that the Swedish National Agency for Education is no longer given responsibility for carrying out these knowledge measurements, but that responsibility for their implementation should be transferred back to the universities and higher education institutions. We also think that budgetary responsibility should be transferred there. I am pleased that in committee we have a majority on this. It is regrettable, however, that not all parties that have expressed criticism of the PISA review can support this. We also believe that at all costs it must be ensured that the deficiencies that occurred in the 2018 PISA survey do not recur. There is a great demand for the government to come back with measures to ensure this. Now the government has announced that it is going to look at it. But we want concrete results. And above all, we should be able to see them even now before we start with a new Pisa survey, so that we do not stand with the same events again in Pisa survey 2022. When you look at knowledge measurements, if we get back into such a situation, you have to make sure that it is an independent reviewer who does this. It should not be the one who has carried out the investigation, but it must be an independent actor. That is the basic principle of the rule of law, and we think that the members of the committee should otherwise support it. We are, of course, behind all our requests and reservations, but for time winning, I only agree to reservation 4.
i-FnWvL1kWmtcvpjGRbqv2Xk	Madam President, I would like Every seventh student leaves comprehensive school without complete grades and eligibility to upper secondary school, and every fourth student leaves high school without complete grades. There are 12 000 teachers missing from school until 2035. And companies around the country do not get the skills needed to recruit, grow, hire and develop. The fact that we have challenges in Swedish schools is clear. But trust in and handling of the Pisa survey should not be one of them. It is therefore extremely worrying about the review that the National Audit Office has done, and which we are going to debate today, where it has been concluded that too many students have simply been excluded. Students must be able to trust that Swedish schools provide knowledge that is strong in global competition and that we as decision-makers have a good basis for making wise reforms and generally making wise decisions. You have to have this in your back. Therefore, international measurements such as Pisa, Pirl and Timss are important to us politicians but also in the broad debate linked to school development. For the Center Party, it is important to be able to rely on the Pisa survey and the other international comparison studies of Swedish schools. That is why we have welcomed the Swedish National Audit Office's review, which is being debated today. As we have heard before, the Swedish National Audit Office's overall conclusions have been that too many students have been excluded from the Swedish Pisa survey 2018. This means that the results of the measurement are not fully reliable, which is most regrettable. The Swedish National Audit Office's report also shows that the Swedish National Agency for Education could have done more to ensure the participation of schools by following OECD guidelines more clearly. This is based on a review by Expressen, as has been pointed out earlier in the debate. In the review report, the Swedish National Audit Office estimates that neither the Government nor the Swedish National Agency for Education have taken sufficient measures to find out whether something has actually gone wrong regarding participation in the Pisa survey 2018. However, according to the Swedish National Audit Office, neither the Government nor the Swedish National Agency for Education has ensured that the Pisa survey was carried out reliably when it comes to exclusion and loss of pupils. Since this issue came up in talks with the government, the Center Party has highlighted that the Swedish National Agency for Education needs to ensure that there are clear guidelines for implementation in the future and strengthen the work to ensure that these guidelines are followed in future studies, so that we can rely on the results in the future. It is good and necessary that the Swedish National Agency for Education has now presented a report on how to strengthen the efforts of the Pisa Survey 2022 and how to act to get a large participation in the survey for this year. It is welcome that it also raises the level of ambition and learns from the Swedish National Audit Office's previous reviews to get a higher response rate and plans to provide schools with better support. That is absolutely necessary, and that is a good thing. It is also welcome that the Committee and the Riksdag support the announcement by the Center Party and the Liberals that the government should ensure the reliability of the implementation of the international knowledge measurements and carry out an analysis of how to secure and strengthen confidence in them, not least in order to restore confidence in the PISA survey. Basically, this discussion is about a crisis of confidence and whether we can rely on the results. As I said at the outset, these studies are also important for our decision-making in politics. It is important that we have a good basis and that we can follow developments in Swedish schools within Sweden and compared with other countries. Madam President, I would like In this context, I would like to take this opportunity to highlight what the Center Party initiated a year ago in the Education Committee. We see a need that Sweden also has its own national knowledge measurements, so that we not only rely on the international comparison studies but continuously in Sweden can follow students' knowledge development and results. We from the Center Party continue to see this as a necessary reform in order to thus get a better basis for making more wise decisions to strengthen the Swedish school, to get more students to pass the school, so that more people leave comprehensive school with full grades and eligibility for upper secondary school and so that more people leave upper secondary school with good conditions for further studies and work. We have challenges, and we need to be more focused on them in the future too. I request the approval of reservations 1 and 2.
i-H3KgF6BVTWR7SpicLDZqjT	Madam President, I would like The international knowledge measurements must of course be carried out correctly so that the results give a true picture of the conditions within Swedish schools. It is therefore very serious that too many students were wrongly excluded from carrying out the PISA survey in 2018. The Swedish National Agency for Education failed with the implementation of the Pisa survey 2018. Too little was done to follow up how the exclusion criteria were perceived in schools. And the government never sufficiently followed up on the suspected errors. Madam President, I would like I don't know if I might be a little happy and satisfied now that the government at least admits that the National Agency for Education has not adequately followed up the large proportion of excluded students. However, the government still believes that sufficient action has been taken to ensure that Pisa's results are reliable. Actually, that's not good enough. It is not good enough that the lack of follow-up is blamed on the National Agency for Education. Of course, there is no doubt reason to criticise the National Board of Education in this regard. But the government bears ultimate responsibility. Madam President, I would like If the government really wanted to know the truth about the Swedish Pisa results, why did the Minister of Education not inform the Swedish National Board of Education about the calculations of its own officials that were at the Ministry of Education already in December 2019 and showed that too many students had been excluded? And why did the Minister of Education respond in no other way than she did in her written reply to the Riksdag on 9 July 2020, i.e. that she had no information that would suggest that pupils were wrongly excluded and therefore had no reason to question official statistics? That's not true. Unfortunately, the truth seems to have been too uncomfortable for the Social Democratic-led government that had just portrayed the 2018 PISA survey as a huge success, and one had talked about a day of joy. One thing is certain, and that is that the government should have done more to follow up on the large percentage of exclusions. This is also what the Swedish National Audit Office states. The fact that the suspected errors have not been adequately followed up, despite the warnings of their own officials, is a school policy scandal. It is also a betrayal of those students who today fall behind and are not given the opportunity to succeed. Finally, Madam President, on behalf of the Christian Democrats, we would also like to say that an independent review should, of course, have been carried out after the suspected errors in relation to Pisa 2018 have been revealed. As has already been said from the pulpit, we were several parties that raised a committee initiative in which we took a stand for an independent investigation into Sweden's implementation of Pisa 2018. However, a majority in this House voted down; there was no interest in appointing an independent reviewer in relation to the result to be examined. Instead, the National Agency for Education was asked to have the OECD carry out the audit. The OECD, which itself was responsible for the implementation of the Pisa survey and has already approved Sweden's data, was thus commissioned by the Swedish National Agency for Education, whose implementation was to be reviewed. It was obviously inappropriate. Now it is up to the government to ensure that the shortcomings are not repeated in the next implementation. Confidence in the PISA survey and international knowledge measurements need to be restored. As part of this, it should also be examined whether the implementation responsibility for the international knowledge measurements Pisa, Timss and Pirl should be moved from the Swedish National Agency for Education to universities to ensure that they are properly implemented. No child in Sweden should have to be hidden away in school statistics, but all children must have the opportunity to succeed in school. That is why, Madam President, I am in favour of reservation 5.
i-KYaKiMp84K82FcW6mpBZBB	Madam President, I would like Thanks to the hard work of teachers and students in Sweden's schools, the school results have turned upwards. This is shown by several international knowledge measurements, such as Timss, Pirl and most recently the Pisa survey 2018. At the same time, the studies show that the results are not good enough. Swedish school needs to equip all students with the knowledge in, for example, reading, science and mathematics that Pisa measures. But the most alarming result of the 2018 Pisa survey is that Swedish schools are unequal – more unequal than any other Nordic country school. And an unequal school is a school where fewer students succeed. Inequality is that students get different chances of succeeding depending on which school they go to and that the most important factor in predicting how a student in Swedish school is going is what parents the student has. These two things are connected through school segregation. We have a system that has sorted children based on their class background. Children who need more to get through school have been concentrated in some schools – and then we're not just talking about suburbs, but we can also look out into rural areas. In addition, these schools are provided with teachers who are less qualified. It is important that the international knowledge measurements show how the situation is in Swedish schools. It is important that we school politicians take the results seriously and act on them. That is why it is very serious that the reliability and confidence of the latest Pisa measurement is now being called into question, Madam President. The very thorough review carried out by the Swedish National Audit Office shows that too many students were excluded on the trial day. Schools have simply wrongly removed students. There are criteria for who should not write the sample. These include, for example, students who have a visual impairment that makes them unable to read the test or students who have passed so little time in Swedish school that they do not learn Swedish and therefore cannot take the test. Despite the fact that this has happened, the government makes the assessment that the results stand. Nevertheless, we in the Green Party see a great need to remedy the lack of confidence that these errors have led to. That is why, together with an almost united training committee, we agree with an announcement to the government to ensure reliability and analyse how confidence can be restored. In the Committee on Education and Training, we also have a so-called false majority, which is therefore a different majority from that of the large House. For this reason, I would like, on behalf of the Green Party, to endorse two reservations, namely reservation 1 and reservation 2. Together with the Social Democrats, the Center Party and the Left Party, we simply believe that it is good that measures have been taken by the government and the authorities in accordance with the Swedish National Audit Office's report and their proposals. We also believe that, in order to achieve a good implementation of Pisa, it would not be best to transfer responsibility to a different authority than those that have now been examined and where action has been taken. To conclude, Madam President, I would like to say a few words about the statements made by the opposition and, not least, about Lars Helmered's choice of words in this House earlier. I find it remarkable that the opposition writes about what is written in the National Audit Office's report and calls it cheating and cover-up. Because there is a huge difference between mistakes and cheating and between doing inadequately and covering up. Lars Hjälmered was not in the Education Committee when the Swedish National Audit Office came to us to present his review. They stressed at the time that there was no reason to believe that it was done wrong on purpose. The claim that this was covered up is therefore not true. So I say to Lars Helmered, as I sometimes say to my children: No, you should not lie.
i-KQEYJcdy2vjFrz42VpTCFT	Madam President, I would like Let me be clear: this is a grand scandal. The word I've used about the handling of the Minister for Education, the Swedish National Agency for Education and the Government is a scandal. In other words, it's cheating, and, uh, it's cover-up. I used them to judge how political officials at the Ministry of Education handled it when they were informed that things had not gone right. It's hard to call it something else. You could call it a cover-up or look between your fingers. I think it's better to be honest and say that this has not gone right. We now need to get this right and correct the damage to confidence caused by the S-MP government. Madam President, I would like I asked for the floor to put two questions to Annika Hirvonen. The first is: How does Annika Hirvonen view her and the Environmental Party's responsibility in what we can call Pisafusket or Pisa scandal? The second issue concerns the measures. It was suggested in Annika Hirvonen's speech that one would like to see an analysis of the trust damage caused by S and MP. However, it is not open to transferring responsibility, for example, to universities, which have previously been responsible for similar studies. I wonder why this measure is not reasonable. Madam President, I would like We have questions – now it is Pisa – that is related to how to handle tests and follow-up in general. Why has it taken five years from Parliament's first decision on the centrally corrected digital national tests? Why has MP, who has been in a position of responsibility in the government during part of the time, not ensured that we have been able to get these in order to get a proper basis for following children, schools and municipalities in Sweden and to get a better basis for school policy decisions?
i-MsfivbzMhraJLgkJQqTQnC	Madam President, I would like I maintain that there is a great and absolutely crucial difference between covering up and not doing enough. The one talking about cover-up suggests that an active and conscious action has been taken to prevent something known from becoming known to others. This is not the case, and the Swedish National Audit Office also clearly states that there is no evidence for this. This means that what Lars Helmered does when he turns and changes words is to say something that is no longer true. Yes, it's been wrong. It is good that this is revealed and that action is taken. We in the Green Party think it is important for the government to do more and, among other things, make sure to analyse how confidence can increase. What Lars Helmered says are things that are unreliable and that have the opposite effect. I think it's very important that politicians stick to the truth. It chooses Lars Helmered not to do – fully consciously and for populist or political reasons, what do I know. As regards the question of the responsibility of the Green Party, the Green Party and I have been active in the Committee on Education and have asked questions from day one after this came to light. When we had different actors in place to talk about whether it would be a good idea to move the Pisa survey, several opposed this. We talked to many different; this was before Lars Helmered's time. After these meetings and analyses, we came to the conclusion that it is better that the actors who have now taken many steps to ensure that this is not repeated continue with responsibility. I will come back to the second question.
i-9MNnqBNBZqU2Td6pPaPQ8j	Madam President, I would like I have to say that it is a bit strong for Annika Hirvonen to stand and talk about another Member lying. The word I've used is a cover-up. In fact, political officials in the Government Office warned and testified that things had not been right, and the minister's closest staff did not take it in a reasonable manner. It's hard to call it anything other than cover-up or the fact that you looked between your fingers. It sounds at Annika Hirvonen that you buy the main features of Riksrevisionen's criticism. I think this is a good thing – then you can tackle the mistakes that have happened at the Ministry of Education and at the Swedish National Agency for Education and take us further. What this ultimately is about is the knowledge for children and students and that we should have a school that works significantly better than it currently does. We need both these international surveys and comparisons, and well-functioning – in a way that is not the case today – national tests that measure what knowledge children actually have. It is about comparability between classrooms and being able to compare schools within a municipality or, for that matter, in the country as a whole. Here we must take a step forward and break with the rather lax attitude. When it is true that five years ago the Riksdag decided to introduce centrally corrected digital national tests, it is actually quite remarkable that they have been sitting on their hands literally for several years. This is a missed opportunity to manage and lead the Swedish school. The combination of this and the major mistakes made by the government and the Swedish National Agency for Education is an injury. The great damage is not to the political debate, but the great damage is that the right measures have not been taken to steer up and develop Swedish schools in the further positive direction.
i-HiiGcJVaQrdarzxYpttSNc	Madam President, I would like If Lars Hjälmered had been on the Education Committee, he would have known the reasons why this centrally corrected national test, which is the Green Party's proposal and which is under way, is not yet ready. This depends on EU legislation on personal data and where the companies that are procured have their registered offices. This is what takes time, but it is on the way. This is important in order for us to get away from the possibility for, not least, those free schools who want to give joy certificates to simply ignore the actual results. It is important for us to have fair and equivalent assessments of students' national tests. This is also a way of reducing the workload in schools. I think that's good. At the same time, I believe that we can develop this proposal even more by ensuring that national tests add issues that can also be used for comparability over time. This is, after all, what international measurements are doing today. Justice between schools can be obtained through centrally corrected digitalised national tests, but if we are to have comparability over time, the government needs to take further steps to develop the national tests themselves. I really think we can discuss this further. To conclude, Madam President, I would like to say this: when there are shortcomings, I think it is important that we be honest with what the reviews have shown if we are to have a serious discussion about these shortcomings. When the Swedish National Audit Office came to the Education Committee, they were very clear about one thing, namely that there is no evidence that someone has deliberately made a mistake. I think there is a big difference between deliberately covering up and making mistakes.
i-YUK1EvQuT3WBzoBqzvMGUE	Madam President, I would like The results have gone up," says Annika Hirvonen. They do, but this is also a truth of modification. Annika Hirvonen probably compares with 2012, when there was a situation when we were all-time low – the results have never been so low. I also think it is good if we see an improvement in the results. But over a long period of time, we are nowhere near the results we had from the beginning. I wonder if Annika Hirvonen would like to revise her analysis of the results without saying that they did not go up between 2012 and 2018. Annika Hirvonen himself mentioned Timss and Pirl, which are also included in the case. They show another thing, namely that the peak results are falling. The very best students get worse results. This is not good. It will affect our university education and higher education and our ability to compete with hungry countries such as India, Singapore and China. How does Annika Hirvonen view this? Has this also to do with the fact that the results have gone up? I also wonder: Is it good to have an objective review? According to Annika Hirvonen, was the OECD an objective reviewer?
i-Bk1rAfndhRJnqAgpeBV1td	Madam President, I would like The most important school debate is about how Sweden will get a world-class school again. That is not really what the report is about. But I'll still answer that question. I really think there's a reason to talk about it. The results have turned upwards. It is important that we do not remain at the bottom level where we were in 2012. But we have a long way to go. If we are to succeed in having a world-class school again, we must have an equal school. The world's world-class school systems are also equal. We see this in the Nordic countries; me and Patrick Reslow have visited Finland together. But we also see it internationally. An equal school requires that children are not segregated based on their parents' educational background. It's happening today. The school inspectorate today released a report that shows that almost all audited free schools are wrong in one way or another when they select pupils for their schools. It's alarming. This has been shown in many studies earlier when Mohammed and Anders have received different answers when they have applied for schools for their children. It is a very serious problem, which also has consequences for the results. Madam President, I would like I have much more to say about the issue. But on one point I want to be clear: the Green Party's main priority in school policy is an equal school where all children have the same opportunities. That is why we have made a historically great effort on the equivalence grant and have introduced a read-write-count guarantee, so that the measures should be implemented early rather than when the grade alerts come in the highest grades.
i-Pz35PebLdWSZT68Pe6QcMJ	Madam President, I would like That wasn't really the answer to the questions I asked. It is clear that you can do some general political exposé and put in some criticism of the school system if you want to. We know that the Green Party and its left-wing friends would like to do so in every debate, because they would rather not talk about the real problems. The questions I asked were: Why is it said that the results have gone up when we can see that the top results do not go up? The results of the very best students go down. It's serious. There I want a small modification of Annika Hirvonen's interpretation that the results have gone up. It is not only the lowest results we will count in this country, but also the results of top students and top students. The second question concerned the objective examination. When we had the debate on 30 September 2020, all the world's accusations flew out of the mouth of Annika Hirvonen against those of us who voiced criticism. We undermined trust in authorities, and the OECD was best placed to do so. What evidence does Patrick Reslow have that the OECD would not carry out an objective review of Sweden's participation in PISA? ..................................................... Now we have it black and white. The Swedish National Audit Office says it was not an objective review. It was not an objective review, but Annika Hirvonen stubbornly claimed on 30 September 2020 that we who made criticism were wrong, because the OECD was an objective reviewer. The question remains. Does Annika Hirvonen, contrary to what the Swedish National Audit Office says in its report, consider that the OECD in this case was an objective reviewer of the Pisa results?
i-MnxydQC7YkUAZSsSMLBfzf	Madam President, I would like Now I understand Patrick Patrick's question. I am talking about the average results, which give the main message. You can cave a lot in these numbers. And it is, of course, our responsibility as an education politician to do so. It can also be seen that the weakest students are not developing as fast as the average in a positive direction. We also need the addresses. But on the whole it is still important to see that politics and the hard work that teachers and students in Swedish schools have stood for makes a difference. It matters what decisions we make in the future. It makes a difference when we provide better conditions and resources. As regards the question of the OECD, it is still relevant to understand what they were asked to do. The OECD has set the rules for Pisa. We therefore thought it reasonable to believe that those who have established the rules can also examine whether the rules have been complied with. Now it is clear that the Swedish National Audit Office's very thorough review, which many researchers have praised for being a unique review of the implementation of this particular type of sample study, shows that the OECD did not go deep enough to find the shortcomings that existed. The committee has also visited the OECD. And the discussions we have had with them have been interesting. There is indeed much to discuss further in terms of how the PISA study should be designed and how to ensure that it is carried out properly forward.
i-TnRMKv614NSohRgL36NVhe	Madam President, I would like I don't think I'm going to use my four minutes. I would not really be standing here because I am not responsible for these issues, but my colleague Fredrik Malm is like many others at home with cold symptoms. I'm not the best at talking out of my heart, even if I'm a politician and that's supposed to be my specialty. I'll keep it very brief. The Liberals, like many others in this Chamber, are concerned about what has emerged from the review carried out by the Swedish National Audit Office regarding the latest PISA study. We would like to underline, as many others have done, that the Pisa survey is extremely important in identifying where Swedish students are knowledge-wise over time and in an international comparison. Pisa has become something of a concept. There are many, even outside this room, who know about the investigation. Then it becomes even more problematic if you cannot trust the survey and the results that emerge. This is what the Swedish National Audit Office's review shows and, in the long run, that the legitimacy of the Pisa study regarding the Swedish results is being eroded. We all lose out on that, not least the students in the Swedish school. And that is ultimately what the debate is about. It should not be about the OECD, and it should not be about who has said what in what debate. It is about what the consequences are of us not being able to rely on the results of knowledge studies. Yes, this means that we cannot identify the best measures for Swedish schools in the future. And who suffers? Yes, it is the students in the Swedish school. Liberals see the need for the organisation of Pisa surveys to change, develop and return to more of the system that previously existed with higher education institutions as responsible. How it should be organized in detail, let us continue to discuss. But ultimately, further changes need to be made to the organisation of the test so that we do not need to have the kind of debate that we have just had in the future – that is the most important thing – to have the kind of debate that we have just had today. I do not think anyone will benefit from having such a debate. Pisa results must be reliable.
i-DmF2ju2SYgsmf6VBERco2H	Madam President, I would like For many years Sweden has received a large number of people who have a very short educational background, people who have not become an integral part of our society. It contributes to large exclusion, high unemployment, crime and dependency on benefits. This is a development that we must break. Today, about half of the immigrants of working age received by Sweden are not self-sufficient. It is perhaps not so strange if we know what the Swedish labour market looks like. We know that most jobs are targeted at those with a longer educational background. We can look at what education the newcomers have with them. More than half of those who currently participate in the establishment programme, the two-year programme that new arrivals will undergo after a decision on a residence permit in Sweden, lack upper secondary education. If we look at the five most common countries of origin to Sweden, we can see that people from these countries have an average educational background that is less than nine years old, our Swedish primary school. For those who come from Afghanistan, the most common country of origin, the average educational background is 3.9 years. It is quite clear that we need to replenish the relevant education and skills to enable these people to be employed in Sweden. With today's education obligation, about 10 percent receive regular training. It is not enough to be able to replenish the skills needed to become part of the Swedish labour market. That is why we, on the moderate side, have pushed for this education obligation and also to ensure that it is filled with a relevant content. It was already in 2016, I think, as the OECD criticised Sweden for the fact that the training we offered to new arrivals in the framework of the establishment programme was not the relevant training that the new arrivals needed to be employed in the labour market. You could see that connection was missing. That is why it is basically a good proposal on which we have a position today. That is the proposal that we are now debating. It is good to have a coherent education. But we see from the moderate side several flaws in the bill. It's liable to be a blow to the air. The first concerns the conditions of municipalities. Today, there is no general requirement for municipalities to provide adult education for all, which means that this proposal risks creating displacement effects. This risks implying that other students will not then be able to obtain education to the extent that they would need to be employed in the Swedish labour market. That is why we believe it is important to review the financial impact of the proposal on the municipalities and to ensure that the municipalities receive proper financial compensation for what this proposal actually means. The second concerns the Employment Service. Here we have a long series of reports in our backs that show in various ways the Swedish Public Employment Service's shortcomings in monitoring the consequences for those who do not participate in the establishment programme and in the possibility of imposing sanctions on the Swedish Public Employment Service. Today, there is a great risk that it does not really matter. We have a long series of reports showing that in many cases the Public Employment Service is not taking the strong measures that it is actually able to take. Then the so-called duty is in danger of not becoming a duty in practice. I can give a concrete example based on the social orientation of new arrivals that I myself had the opportunity to visit in my role as municipal councillor. The social orientation instructors testified to the challenges involved in there being no requirement for attendance in education. When instructors report to Arbetsförmedlingen that students have not participated to the extent that they are assigned to them, there are no consequences. There is also evidence that different employment offices and different employment services make completely different assessments. This, of course, is not reasonable. We must ensure that the supervision of the Employment Service works properly, that the duty is followed up as a duty and that sanctions are imposed in cases where it is considered reasonable. The third concerns the extent of full-time work. The proposal proposes that the coherent training plan should cover 23 hours. This is considerably smaller than a regular working week. That is why it is important to ensure that follow-up is also ensured that other types of actions and measures are added, so that new arrivals participating in the full-time establishment programme are effectively provided with appropriate measures to bring them closer to the labour market. This, my friends, is to care, and we want to ensure that. With this, I am in favour of the Moderate reservation.
i-8sG4zQjr7yKHb7ni3peJ3k	Madam President, I would like Let me first of all support our reservation 1, which rejects the committee's proposal as a whole. So we have to deal with a government proposal aimed at the newly arrived immigrants who are taking part in the establishment programme and who, due to short training, cannot be matched to work during the programme. There, the government wants to introduce an obligation for municipalities to establish coherent education within Komvux. Let me say that we Swedish democrats are in no way opposed to education obligations for newcomers. On the contrary, it is of the utmost importance that requirements are made for teaching the Swedish language and that the newcomers have a good social orientation, because these are fundamental prerequisites for them to become part of society and be able to support themselves. We could then imagine that we are satisfied with this proposal, but we are not. We see a number of problems and, above all, many questions about the proposal that we are now debating. I intend to address some of these aspects. The first is the issue of responsibility itself. It is said that today we have poor goals in this area. In other words, those who attend the establishment programme do not become self-sufficient and do not get jobs. That's not good. However, we believe that responsibility must be much greater for the immigrant himself, that is, for the individual. The individual perspective must weigh more heavily. There should be no more demands on municipalities. It's not the municipalities that are supposed to fix this--it's the individual who's going to fix it. We must make demands in order to increase the achievement of our objectives. For example, we must make clear demands on learning the language, on basic social orientation and on making oneself employable. This must be highlighted as something to do – it's not an offer or something like that. We must also make demands on the results of studies. It is not enough just to go and read Swedish, but also to get study results. We also need to increase throughput. That's important, too. It should increase, not decrease. But instead of problematizing about the issue of responsibility – what responsibility the municipality and the state should have and what responsibility the individual should have – you simply choose to invest in more of the same, in the hope of getting a different result. We know it's usually not going to be great. The second point is that we should first evaluate and then reform. I guess that's always a good starting point. First you evaluate what you have and then you reform. Today, we lack an evaluation of the reform of the Employment Service that took place in January 2018 on the right to decide on training measures to increase employability. There is no such evaluation. The only reasonable thing is to first evaluate the efforts already made to establish what needs to be changed, so that one should not have to guess. We see that the current target group already has far-reaching rights to study, SFI and basic adult education as it is. What would change this in the new proposal? The third is that we see that there is a risk that bureaucracy will increase with the proposal. What happens, for example, if someone wants to cancel a course and start something else? We do not see that the proposal highlights those aspects of how bureaucracy increases when more tasks are imposed on municipalities than they do today. Fourthly, we also think that there is a great deal of uncertainty about the cost. Now the newcomer will have the right to take courses other than SFI at basic or upper secondary level in another municipality if you want to. It can have unreasonable financial consequences for a municipality, for example in the form of travel expenses. We do not know what has been said about this. We do not know what that framework should look like, whether to get compensation or what happens. The economic cost of the proposal lies in the air on a number of points, including on this. Fifthly, we can see that, with the proposal, we are also somewhat interfering with the municipal self-government when we oblige the municipalities to arrange their education in a certain way. We do not think that is good either. The proposal and the proposal leave many questions unanswered. We see a risk that it will make it more difficult to recruit teachers. We already have a lack of teachers. This will fuel the shortage of teachers. We also see a risk of qualified teachers being allowed to act as supervisors and will be overloaded with various documentation tasks. There are also those who warned against it, such as the Teacher League. SKR has stated that the additional costs set out in the proposal are underestimated. It will cost the municipalities a lot more. We also agree with the views of the Swedish School Leaders' Association that the proposal is unclear because there is still no longer a deadline for education. How long does it last? If you are to have a sharp limit, we are in on what I started with, namely that we must make clearer demands on the individual. Madam President, I would like It is against this background that we do not support the committee's proposal.
i-UF5fjBKvagpNe7f7hfQpiy	Madam President, I would like Today we are going to discuss a little about changes and improvements in the very important education for newly arrived immigrants who unfortunately do not have sufficient basic skills from their home country. These changes thus apply to individuals who need more of both Swedish knowledge and basic education in several basic subjects in order to be able to move on to other education and make themselves available to the labour market. Madam President, I would like Getting access to education at least at upper secondary level has proved to be increasingly necessary in our country, in order to have a chance of entering the labour market at all. This means that the absolute best way to get a good integration in terms of both getting into society as a whole and in particular being able to achieve our own livelihood is to ensure the knowledge of the Swedish language. This also makes it possible for education at least at upper secondary level for everyone. The government has decided and implemented several initiatives to achieve a faster path for new arrivals into our society. We have worked out the pointless waiting time by introducing social orientation and a certain Swedish education from day one or as soon as possible after the arrival in our country. We have made Swedish education possible in connection with professional practice at different workplaces with good and trained supervisors. We have introduced a variety of professional packages where you both learn a profession and at the same time study the Swedish language. Arbetsförmedlingen has been given several different tools and opportunities to offer different ways into their own livelihoods at individual level. The intensive year is one of the latest in the establishment programme. Within a year, the individual will receive Swedish education, education and internships in order to gain basic knowledge more quickly and move on to employability. Madam President, I would like It is generally faster and faster for newly arrived immigrants to be able to establish themselves in Swedish society. We already see today that with the various efforts of the government, we have managed to actually halve the time of establishment in society. For some groups it is very fast, for other groups it takes a little longer. But for the group we are discussing today, it is particularly difficult to move on into society. That is why a great deal remains to be done. We see that there is a great inequality between women and men, both in terms of the time of establishment and in terms of the number of people who actually carry out both Swedish education and further education. It is problematic in several respects. Sweden is and must be an equal and equal society where everyone regardless of gender and background has the same rights to both education and work. All new Swedes, both women and men, must learn the Swedish language and thus have the opportunity for further education or entry into the labour market. In the very important Kliva inquiry that the government appointed to investigate the need for changes and improvements in adult education and Swedish education, a number of improvements and clarifications are proposed, not least in terms of responsibility and obligation for the municipality as the principal. This applies, among other things, to a language responsibility for the municipalities where the requirements are tightened up to motivate and support the students to both start and complete their Swedish education. These are individual study plans and limited-term SFIs to a certain extent. Madam President, I would like The bill that the government is now presenting is extremely important to ensure that really everyone gets the opportunity to learn the Swedish language and to assimilate a basic education in order to thereby become an equal part of Swedish society. It is about ensuring that municipalities and state authorities in the form of Arbetsförmedlingen and adult education take these assignments very seriously and ensure a good collaboration around these individuals' different knowledge needs in order to move forward and be able to establish themselves in Swedish society. It is about clarifying the individual responsibility and quality responsibilities of municipal adult education, as well as correcting previous questions and misinterpretations. With this bill, we will achieve the very important individual facility in terms of both language training and the necessary basic courses in, for example, mathematics, social science or other things. I believe that this will have an effect together with the government's mission to the Swedish School Inspectorate to no longer just review adult education at the level of the head, as it has been in the past, but also examine external, private education companies. Unfortunately, Madam President, once again we have seen how bad it is when the focus of marketing schools is to make as much money as possible, rather than ensuring basic quality and ensuring educational needs. This just can't go on. The ambition is now much clearer. With the help of increased quality and individual plans you should get to full-time studies where at least 23 hours a week consists of teacher-led sfi lessons. It shall also be supplemented up to full-time with other training in either Komvux or another course selection. The important thing is that it is high quality and coherent and structured from an individual perspective. So it's supposed to be 40 hours a week and not 23. Madam President, I would like I have taken note of what we also heard earlier. There are parties who are concerned about the additional work that may arise with these increased quality requirements for more teacher-led lessons, more of the interaction between employment services, the labour market and municipal adult education, and more clearly municipal responsibility for both language training and the individual learning facility. However, I note that the municipalities have received compensation. This is true both in the past with increased flat-rate payments and now in the budget adopted for 2022, where the government has increased the appropriations for adult education. I am also firmly convinced that an effort to ensure that everyone takes part in language education and the Swedish language and be able to move on to education that suits the needs of the labour market in the longer term is really a profitable initiative for all municipalities. The alternative, Madam President, is unemployment and exclusion and the supply of municipal financial assistance. As a Member of Parliament, I have had the opportunity to travel around the country a little. I have met different municipalities and been given access to how to work with these issues and how in different collaboration municipalities have chosen to organise the courses. This applies above all to Swedish education, which is so important to these groups. What I can see in several cases is that the proposals the government is now making are already a real reality in several municipalities and cooperation municipalities. It already works with structured individual plans and in close collaboration with both the employment and labour market – and of course with teacher-led lessons. These municipalities also already have much better statistics on the number of individuals who have managed to pass and move on, either to other training courses or to the labour market. That is where, Madam President, all Swedish education must be provided throughout the country. Unfortunately, it does not look as good in all municipalities, and that is why it all needs to be made clear with increased responsibilities and clear obligations. Everyone must have the chance to learn the Swedish language; it is the only way into Swedish society. That is why this is a very important proposal. I therefore call for the draft decision of the Committee on Education and Training to be approved.
i-2Z4sMcoAHySJ3XC6oMjZyN	Madam President, I would like First of all, I have a question, because I am a little puzzled by the timing given by Tomas Kronståhl in the speaker's chair. If I read in the report, I can see that it reads as follows: this means that the proposed guaranteed teaching time of 23 hours can accommodate the 15 guaranteed teaching hours in SFI and 8 hours in addition. That is what it says, unlike what the honourable Member said here in the speaker's chair that it should be in addition. As I read the report, it is within the 23 hours. But please clarify what you think about this. That's my one question. My second question concerns the risk of displacement. You state here that it should be included in the flat-rate allowance, and that is of course the case. But how do you view the risk of displacement in the municipalities sfi?
i-e16GvZUR8CqZetNhFe9UX	Madam President, I would like Welcome, Josefin, to the Education Committee! It'll be nice to see you there. Thank you for asking. It is quite clear that the bill means that there will be 23 hours of teacher-led Swedish teaching. Then it will be supplemented with other training. It can be either out of komvux's own range or by other training providers. The most important thing, as I said, is that it is a coherent, structured and planned education. I've seen several different examples where this works fantastically well, and then it's really with the individual in focus so that you can move forward quickly. It is not meant to have 15 hours of lessons or 23 hours of lessons as a full-time, but to be 23 hours of SFI training supplemented by other training. That is when we get the efficiency and speed of the implementation of education. I don't think there's much risk of displacement. This is already, as I see it, an assignment that municipalities have: to ensure, in collaboration with Arbetsförmedlingen, that all new Swedes receive an adequate education in the Swedish language and also a basic education. What we have seen is that it has not worked in all directions, and that is what we must try to ensure that it now does. That's why we're clarifying the mission. Everyone should be behind that, I think.
i-48JrBT12WdqfTx5nLTu9ZP	Madam President, I would like That fingered what I was worried about and what I suspected, namely that in practice this will not solve the problem. There are indeed many skilled municipalities around Sweden. I myself have had the privilege of visiting many of them, not least during my time as city councillor responsible for these issues. I know that there are many councillors who are working hard to offer an important educational opportunity and get more new arrivals to work considerably faster than today. But the problem is that they do not receive compensation for this and that the Public Employment Service, which is ultimately responsible for the supervision and follow-up of participation in the establishment programme, does not require it either. This means that it will be up to an individual municipality to take care of this. There are indeed many municipalities that do a fantastic job, but far from everyone does. In particular, the State does not follow up its responsibility either with compensation or with the obligation on municipalities that this is what they should offer. For example, this could involve combining the possibility of SFI with a relevant internship and being able to study a vocational education and training combined with a traineeship. There are many fantastic examples around Sweden that we would really need to take note of and spread to more people. But the problem remains. This doesn't solve the problem.
i-TMxiF8pRHSWBxsHnrHkY1o	Madam President, I would like I believe that this is actually part of such a solution. We really clarify the responsibilities of the municipalities, and we really clarify the responsibilities of the Employment Service. But what we also do is we offer and press for how important it is to collaborate between municipalities, preferably in labour market regions. We do so in several areas, both in the case of upper secondary education, on which proposals are being made, and in the case of adult education. I have to say that it is in the areas of cooperation – at least in the case of smaller municipalities as such that I come from – that all these tasks can be solved in a good and clear way. If you have this collaboration, which I think is so important, you can get a good education, perhaps not exactly in the municipality of residence but in another cooperation municipality. Then you have the same cost as if the municipality were to offer the student this education in the municipality of residence. That's exactly how we have to work. Josefin mentioned earlier SFIs, internships and other things. There are indeed many good examples of this. This is also part of the purpose of the bill: to make it clear once again that cooperation between Arbetsförmedlingen, internships and language teaching is important. I believe that this is a step in the right direction, and I very much hope that this will be implemented and become a reality.
i-ACes7FLNKyf8cXGaYcP4pn	Madam President, I would like We are now discussing a coherent education for newcomers with education obligations. A job is the finest ticket you can get into society. Many new arrivals want to do more to get to work. But then people need better conditions, and then they need the right support to be able to take this opportunity. Within the framework of the January Agreement, the Center Party pushed through what was called the intensive year. This helps newcomers closer to the labour market to receive intensive measures for up to a year that take place in parallel or in close succession and at a high pace. The intensive year provides a better start, and it provides opportunities for an intense start. It is a quality boost of the establishment mission that at the same time places high demands on the individual. The aim is for the participants to come to work within one year after the start of the intensive year. The focus is on language, workplace-related interventions and shorter education. At the same time, it is important both for those who are closer to the labour market and for those who are being discussed today, the new arrivals who are further away from it, that a better holistic approach is taken and thus the conditions for an effective establishment are created. This report deals with newly arrived immigrants who, due to short training, are not deemed to be matched to work during the period of the operation. In this case, the training shall aim at providing participants with the skills they need in order to continue to study or establish themselves in the labour market in a structured form. It is good that there is a guaranteed teaching time with a teacher-led time to focus on quality, but it also requires, as I come into later, more effort to get more qualified teachers within the group, not least within the SFI. The proposal states that the exchange of information between Arbetsförmedlingen and the municipalities needs to be facilitated. The Swedish Public Employment Service and the Swedish National Agency for Education have now also presented a report related to the exchange of information. I am counting on the government to take further work on facilitating this. It is important to ensure that public authorities can better create the conditions for this target group and that more people can thus get closer to the labour market. Madam President, I would like We in the Center Party are in favour of the changes that are being debated today, but we would also like to point out that more measures are needed in order for the new arrivals to have a better chance of establishing themselves in Sweden. One key to that is language. There we see a lack of quality in some places when it comes to Swedish for immigrants. A very large part of those who go Sfi do not learn Swedish well enough, and the teaching is in some places poorly adapted to different individuals and of uneven quality. In Swedish for immigrants, there is also a need for a quality boost, not least what I mentioned earlier about ensuring that we get more qualified teachers. More than half of the current SFI teachers have no credits in Swedish as a second language. Only 29 per cent have an educational university degree and at least 30 credits in Swedish as a second language. The investigation has been presented and referred to, and it makes a number of proposals to strengthen the quality of the SFI. It was also the same investigation that presented the interim report on which this dossier was based. The final report points to several measures to strengthen the quality of Swedish for immigrants. It is about skills development efforts to get more qualified teachers and better reviews of those who organise training courses. From the Center Party we see that there are several parts of the investigation that are good and important. I also hope that the government will take these forward. It is important from the point of view of strengthening the quality of newcomers to Sweden and providing them with better conditions, not least in terms of language training. Finally, I can also note that the report on the results-based remuneration for SFI education, known as SFI money, for which the Center Party was pushing for under the January agreement in the days to come is to be presented. We want to see this reform implemented in order to allow for more focus on results, ensure that more people learn the language and through competition with new education providers are also able to strengthen quality. I look forward to hearing the conclusions of that investigation. The Center Party supports the committee's proposal in the report, so I call for this to be approved.
i-4YGZE5cRn5LoDLVSuMQTcq	Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats support the proposals in the bill for a coherent education for newcomers who have an educational obligation. Of course, I also agree with what is stated in the Christian Democrats' specific opinion in the report. Sweden has unfortunately become a deeply segregated country, and we see a growing alienation. What, according to the Social Democrats, would become the EU's lowest unemployment, instead became the EU's fourth highest. Long-term unemployment is rising, and many of those without work have immigrated to Sweden. In fact, every other adult immigrant in our country cannot support himself. In fact, Sweden has completely failed with integration. One reason is, of course, that we have received too many immigrants in too short a time so that they could seriously integrate in a good way and become part of Swedish society. Another reason is that we in this House have neither been able to make tough enough demands for integration nor have been able to reform the labour market so that more people could actually have the opportunity to have a job. What is needed now are more and better ways of integration, roads that lead us away from segregation, that strengthen community and give more people hope for a better future. The large number of new arrivals with a short or no educational background that came to Sweden in the 2010s has meant that adult education today faces completely new requirements and different conditions than before. Strengthening opportunities for education and training is an important part of giving more people the opportunity to have a job. The Christian Democrats therefore welcome the obligation for municipalities to offer a coherent education within Komvux for those who are in the establishment programme and who, due to their short education, are not deemed to be able to match work during the programme. We also support the proposal that people subject to education and training should be given a guaranteed period of teaching in accordance with the proposal that has been put forward. Coherent training should include training courses that enable more newcomers to get a job, and it is important that language education can be combined with vocational training. We also believe that newly arrived women who are on parental leave need to be able to be covered by Swedish education in the form of a sfi with a baby. Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats, as I said, support the proposals in the bill, but we believe that the government could have taken a broader approach to the establishment of new arrivals. First of all, we note that the bill does not set a lower limit on education. For example, in SOU 2020:66, a four-year deadline was proposed for the duration of a student's participation in SFI education, but something similar is not proposed by the government. Secondly, we would have liked to have seen a proposal to extend the start-up programme compared to today and to allow it for up to five years, so that the state can take greater responsibility for the integration of newcomers over a longer period so that we relieve the municipalities – hence our special opinion here today. Having said that, we support the bill.
i-5JjLP4f2nVaj51bp2gNF3k	Madam President, I would like Liberals have long worked for a SFI education with quality in focus. We have done this precisely because we are inspired by the importance of learning the Swedish language and Swedish society as new arrivals. The Swedish language is, without exaggerating, the key to an integration process. We need to do much more to strengthen SFI education. I would also like to take this opportunity to remind you that SFI is the school form most affected by the pandemic, not least students on study routes 1 and 2. It is the students who have the shortest study background, perhaps no study background at all, and who over these years have been referred to studying remotely, perhaps with just a mobile phone as a tool. This is a group of students who need on-site learning and on-site teaching. We must not forget it. We tend to. The restrictions will soon be over, and not least we want them to be, but the consequences of these last two years are very clear. We will carry them with us, and we will have to do something about them. This applies not least to this group of students. I would also like to remind you of the lack of teachers in SFI areas, as has been mentioned earlier. This lack of teachers means that there are very many unauthorized teachers who teach SFI today. We need to change that. We need more qualified teachers. This group is very important to Swedish society, and we need to treat that group as important to Swedish society. Then we need an adequate, qualified teacher. Madam President, I would like Students currently studying in SFI education are a heterogeneous group in terms of study background and further choices. The SFI must be designed to provide support for all students to take new, better steps in terms of Swedish knowledge and to take further steps towards integration into Swedish society, whether for further studies or into the labour market. We are of the opinion that the government's approach is essentially positive. That is why we do not have a reservation but a specific opinion, in other words, precisely to emphasise that the route taken is a good one, but that it is not enough. We believe that the government would need to take more comprehensive and complementary measures. As I said, we hope, for example, for the Kliva investigation and for other actions and proposals, because the SFI training needs to be improved in terms of quality and content. This is needed for more people to be able to make themselves understood in the Swedish language, assimilate social information and not least in their integration process. On the Liberal side, we believe that there is a need to introduce a clear progression staircase with control stations at each stage, but also a shorter time limit as to how long you can be in SFI training. There are, of course, specific reasons, exceptions and so on, but there needs to be a clearer framework than there is today. We also believe that if we do not meet the objectives of the control stations, we should be able to obtain much better support for being channelled into the labour market or to a vocational school. The SFI training must not and cannot be an endless circle where students drop out of SFI to unwind it with shorter periods of work, sometimes on the black market, and then return to SFI for a while, go on parental leave, return and so on. There is no direction and no goal. That is a fundamental problem. I was aware earlier that we would like, as we are proposing in our programmes, to introduce a vocational school focused on lack of education, a shorter one, for adults and involving major elements of workplace learning. Precisely in this vocational school, for students who do not reach the targets at the control stations, the students should be able to be caught up by something else and move on to work through another form. Perhaps not everyone can go through all the stages of SFI training as it is designed today. Madam President, I would like We agree with the report we are debating today, but I would like to remind you that sfi is important, so let us continue to make it important for real.
i-6tVkvPxSfJzFHMiGAeEa8B	Madam President, I would like In Sweden, a completed upper secondary school education is the best ticket to a job, not only in the short term but for the rest of the working life. We need to equip our young people as well as the new arrivals who move to Sweden later in life with this entry ticket to the labour market. Today's proposal for a coherent training course for newcomers who have an educational obligation is an important step in getting there. The new arrivals who come to Sweden with a complete education – they have perhaps been doctors or economists in their home country – should not primarily drive taxis but actually get to validate their courses, supplement with what is needed to work in Sweden with the same profession and quickly enter the labour market. Swedish for immigrants for that group needs to look completely different than for those who come from countries where the school does not function fully because the country has been war-torn for 20 years, as in Somalia, or for those who for other reasons have not been allowed to complete their education. It may be girls who married as a child and then left school. It can also be about those who come from countries where you have done well without a high school degree and therefore do not have one. For those people who do not already have an education with them in their luggage, society must offer it. Since before, we have guaranteed 15 hours of teaching in SFI, and now the responsibility of municipalities is extended to offer 23 hours of teaching in a coherent education that can include SFI and, for example, professional courses. This is important, not least because we see that some municipalities have actually refused to offer training to people who are not already finished with their venereal education. There is no support for this in the previous legislation, and it is certainly not the best thing for the new arrivals' chances of getting into work. On the contrary, the combination of Swedish courses and other education is something that can be successful in the same way as the combination of Swedish education and work has proved to be good. It is probably about the possibility of using Swedish together with other Swedish speakers being valuable in itself. Madam President, I would like I am very puzzled when I try to understand how it is that a party, unlike all of us, is against this. But perhaps the central sentence of the Swedish Democrats' reservation is that they note that this rule actually also gives rights to newly arrived immigrants, and it may be hard for a party to make a difference between people and people. We in the Green Party believe that education, for it to work, must be combined with the right to receive education, and then one must be obliged to offer it. That is why I support the proposal in the report.
i-3UwpymJvHAY5gJWjtFMdAX	Madam President, I would like For the sake of the scheme, I request the approval of reservation 24 under point 11, land transport to Arlanda Airport. We're talking about public transport today. These are important issues that have a direct bearing on the whole area of infrastructure. Our commuting trains need tracks that can be trusted, which are robust and can handle varying Swedish weather conditions. We have the right to demand a Sweden where commuting people should not have to stand and freeze on the platform. Public transport should be about people's lives and the ability to cope with what we modernly call the puzzle of life. Can people not trust that they come on time to work or on time to pick up preschool it limits their ability to career and development. Madam President, I would like Research shows that in a relationship with children where only one of the parents can take a job and commuting, in the majority of cases the woman stands back. It is she who rejects the job in Stockholm because she does not trust SL, UL and the pendulum from Knivsta and because the fourth track between Uppsala and Stockholm never seems to be built. We are talking about single parents who have to take jobs that involve commuting by public transport so that they can put food on the table for their children and who in time and without time are late for preschool because the train does not arrive on time or because the train is delayed due to bad tracks. It is they, Madam President, who often have to try to explain to the five-year-old why he is always picked up last by all the children or not picked up at all by the parent. You have to solve it by a kind friend or a relative pulling out time after time. It is people who have been affected by the chaos that has been in Mälardalen, first with a new digital system and then with diseases that have caused one in three trains to be cancelled. People are affected by poor tracks and systems in Värmland. This should be unacceptable. We must build in safety and robustness and radiate a sense of security, both organisationally and in terms of maintenance. Madam President, I would like This is more important to the Moderates than high-speed trains for 400 billion. Out in the country, buses must be able to drive safely on well maintained roads. Today it is exactly the opposite. On 300 miles of state roads, the speed has been reduced due to lack of maintenance. Hundreds of miles risk facing the same fate over the next few years. The Finnish Transport Administration is very clear. The impact of the Government's infrastructure policy proposal is poorer roads and an increased maintenance debt in both road and rail. The Government chooses to sub-finance maintenance by SEK 33 billion until 2035. Under-financing is being made available to maintain current standards, which have major and serious shortcomings. It affects companies and commuters. It is not the case, Madam President, that there is no money for infrastructure until 2035. We're talking about up to 900 billion. But there is a lack of a policy that ensures that the whole of Sweden can live. It is about commuting with the trains of the big cities as well as commuting with buses at home in my Värmland works. Nothing else is acceptable. Madam President, I would like If I want to book a plane ticket for a trip to the other side of the world, just a few clicks. Then I get a route that includes many countries, airlines and airports. If I want to book the cheapest and best option for a single train trip in Sweden, I have to spend some time visiting different websites. Old remnants of monopolies linger. We must act here. We can't have it this way. It should be easy to commute and easy to book. The information available on sj.se should also be available on a page where all other options exist. Madam President, I would like Communications to and from Arlanda need to be strengthened. The Moderates want to expand and develop the airport to the leading Nordic region and become a hub for jobs and growth. This requires significantly improved airport and airport connections. Here the government has been sitting on its hands for seven long years, blocked by the Green Party and tied to political horse trading where Bromma and Arlanda have been sacrificed for ownership support to SAS. That is not the way to deal with infrastructure, Madam President. It is seven lost years that should have been used to expand the airport and strengthen communications for all of us who regularly travel from the country to the airport to commute or travel abroad. In 2019, more than 1.8 million people travelled by ferry to and from Gotland. In traffic between Visby and Nynäshamn and Oskarshamn 560 000 passenger cars and 810 000 metres of goods were transported in the same year. During the summer season there were 21 trips per day. This shows how important ferry traffic is, not only for Gotland but for the whole of Sweden. The current agreement between the State and Destination Gotland expires on 31 January 2027. The state contributes half a billion SEK annually to ensure ferry traffic between Gotland and the mainland, so this is an important commitment. The Moderates have some clear entry values for the coming contract period: Firstly, the Moderates say no to the alternative of state monopolies. All the experience of state monopolies in Swedish infrastructure teaches us that this becomes more expensive, worse and less dynamic. Secondly, environmental considerations must be taken into account by affirming the ongoing development of fossil-free fuels. This includes electrification of ports, access to biofuels and a long-term investment in hydrogen. Thirdly, Madam President, the focus should be on connecting modes of transport at ports driven by sustainable fuels, in order to ensure both freight and commuting flows. Fourthly, current stretches must be maintained. There are, as I have mentioned, many shortcomings that need to be addressed in order to strengthen public transport in a wider context of infrastructure policy. At the same time, however, we can see what fantastic opportunities are emerging with an increasingly fossil-free vehicle fleet. It is a development driven by large companies, academia and researchers. We are talking about the first fossil-free ferry to Gotland, about the possibility of a fossil-free domestic flight in the second part of the 2030s and about buses powered by hydrogen, for example. My future grandchildren will probably view today's fossil-powered infrastructure, which I consider steam locomotives, as something old from another time and as something that you nostalgically can watch and ride with, as a cultural heritage, on a warm summer day. The opportunities are great if we do the right things politically. It is about building for commuting flows and ensuring that the whole of Sweden can live and commute sustainably. We can do this. Money is not missing, but, as I have said, it takes us to do the right things politically.
i-EcFaqdviK3igfrys5WmgX6	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats are behind all our reservations, but in order to gain time, I only call for reservation 13 concerning strengthened rights to travel services. For more than two years, the coronapendem has ravaged the globe freely. Hopefully it has reached its peak in a few weeks, and we must sincerely hope that this is the last year it hits our population and society so hard. The recovery of trains, flights and buses went surprisingly fast, and by the end of last year the travel of trains and buses was about 80 percent of the level before the pandemic. For the flight it was not quite that good; about 50 percent of the travelers had returned. The Swedish Democrats therefore welcome continued compensations and abolished track charges for our operators, municipalities and regions to ride out the last storm. Madam President, I would like Then it's happened again. On Monday 24 January, a train host was beaten by a traveler outside Lund. Those working in public transport are a group that is exposed to threats as well as violence and sexual harassment on a very large scale. We cannot allow this to continue! As a traveler, I myself have been exposed to threats in public transport. I was on a bus in Kristianstad when two guys in their 15s tried to break the chairs in front of me. I told them, and then they thought we should drop out and fight. The driver didn't intervene, and I can understand that. It could be a fear of reprisals. Fortunately, they stopped after a while when I had told them repeatedly. Is it supposed to be like this in public transport? More than two years ago, the Seko trade union published a survey to which more than 3,000 members responded. Every fourth member of the crew reported that they experience sexual harassment on a daily, almost daily or weekly basis. Almost one in five responds that they experience violence in the workplace to the same extent. Seko calls for measures such as increased camera surveillance, increased double staffing, more security guards and access bans for those at risk in public transport. Several of these measures are being applied today. We see that more trains are being monitored, staff have started with body-carrying cameras, and in some places security guards are being put in. Yet the problems continue. We believe that more far-reaching measures are needed to curb the problem. Here we are talking about what Mr Seko is lifting about the ban on access to public transport for those who pose a safety risk. If you have been prosecuted for threatening, using violence or harassing someone in public transport, you have nothing to do there at all. You will be shut out and prevented from exposing both staff and other travellers to violence and insecurity. That is why we are in favour of banning access to public transport. Madam President, I would like The Traffic Committee owns the time. At least questions of time lie with the Transport Committee, to be more accurate. On the subject of public transport, more interesting, there is the question of just trains with us. In the case of buses, the technology has come so far that several companies today have transponders on the buses so that the traveller can see in the apps where they are. This is valuable, especially for regional buses that do not have the frequency of departure that city buses usually have. When it comes to trains, however, there is a little bit of this and so with good information if the train is on time or not. Best information can be found on a page called jvgfoto.se. There you can practically see in real time exactly where the train is. The site is basically completely unknown to the public, but that feature should all apps have, such as SJ and the public transport companies. The timely provision of accurate information on delays is important. It works on the whole not better now than it did 20 years ago with signs and exclamations. Here, the Finnish Transport Administration must strengthen its work on information. Madam President, I would like To inform quickly and correctly about late trains is good, but not to inform about late trains because they are on time even better. I'm probably not the only one in here who's been trying to get friends and acquaintances to ride more trains but met with comments like it's not possible to trust the train. It's comments like you're either coming out late or not at all. Unfortunately, it is not uncommon for trains to be late, especially when travelling over long distances. A lot of those who today drive a car could choose to travel by train instead. It is not the price that is the problem, because a monthly card is usually significantly cheaper than driving a car. Rather, it is trust and, to some extent, the lack of seating that is the major problem. Skåne is a good example of how you can manage to get passengers from car to train and to some extent bus. On the bus side, we have the successful concept of Skåneexpressen for longer journeys and a strong expansion of the Pågatrain system together with the Öresund train regional trains, which means that the market share has increased from just over 20 per cent in 2009 to around 30 per cent in 2018. Even before Corona, however, it seemed so small to slow down, so the target of a market share of 40% by 2030 seems difficult to reach. The tracks are full, and it is almost impossible to get more trains in during peak time. There is also no room for interference. Madam President, I would like If we are to get more people commuting regionally or locally, we simply need to build away bottlenecks and also spend more resources on maintenance and reinvestment. The commuter system in our big cities will come as soon as the corona effects have released a severe myocardial infarction, so now is the time to give the right priority. Scratch the high - cost train, that is, the high - speed train, and instead spend those resources on upgrading the railway and getting the trains running on time! Finally, Madam President, I would like to raise perhaps the most important subject, namely the transport service. I thought I'd read some of what I've been reaping in the press just recently: A recent judgment from the Administrative Court in Stockholm, where a 21-year-old blind man was denied permission to travel. The court considered that he should be able to go collectively instead. ..................................................... 中 Micke, 36[has after] suffered from a brain tumor and a stroke started working again. After receiving his travel permit, he had to get to work via public transport, often in rush hour traffic. ..................................................... 中 Lennart, 67, has heart problems and severe visual impairment. He dreams of a spontaneous coffee, or being able to swim in the local swimming pool. But without a travel permit, he's stuck at home. ..................................................... Despite serious difficulties in public passenger transport, Vilmer, which is completely blind, is denied permission to travel. His appeal has been rejected and the Supreme Administrative Court has denied leave to appeal. ..................................................... It takes just over 20 minutes for 90-year-old Inga Hoberg to walk 300 meters to the nearest bus stop in Svedala. She has difficulty moving and is usually not able to do much. But it is not enough for Skånetrafiken to grant her travel service. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like It is not reasonable to deny seriously ill or disabled transport services in the way that is now taking place on a large scale. It's directly inhuman. The law has to be changed. A visually impaired person may be able to make it through the summer in famous areas. But in winter with three inches of snow, it is a direct impossibility to orient oneself between the snowdrifts. You yourself understand how unreasonable certain refusal decisions become. Until 1997, the Transport Service was regulated by the Social Services Act. We believe that the law should be brought back there. We also believe that the government should urgently review the law in order to strengthen the rights perspective. The law should also include the right to travel services in another municipality and the right to short stops during the trip, for example, to leave and pick up children at school. With this, Madam President, I hope that Parliament will approve our reservation 13.
i-MQQToBEMqwfgefkAwv3TQt	Madam President, I would like The pandemic has changed our travel patterns and how much we travel. Public transport has had a lot of strain since the pandemic hit 2020. Forward, people are now required to find their way back to public transport. It may also mean opening up and developing new forms of public transport. Today we are debating the report by the Committee on Transport and Tourism on public transport, a report on issues that are close to people's hearts. From the Center Party we have the following entrances. The Center Party believes that the share of public transport travel needs to be increased. This is important for reducing climate emissions but also for reducing congestion on our roads. Today, many people take the car, even though they would have liked to travel by bus, commuter train or tram if it had been possible to do so. The Centre Party therefore believes that the conditions for travelling by public transport need to be improved. Public transport is a matter for the regions and municipalities, but in order to support and encourage municipalities and regions to increase public transport, the Center Party wants a public transport bonus to be introduced. Madam President, I would like Digitisation solutions can make it easier for people to make climate-smart choices in traffic. Car pools, electric bicycles and above all self-driving cars can become part of the public transport of the future, as well as the sharing economy's new concept for taxis, for example. The Center Party wants public transport legislation to be designed to enable new collective transport solutions. The Center Party therefore believes that the government should review public transport regulations and ensure that the regulatory framework facilitates new and efficient means of transport that operate across the country. Madam President, I would like We all travel by public transport in different ways. It depends on where in the country we live and how expanded public transport is. Women and men also travel by public transport in different ways. Transport is fundamental to our everyday lives, and equal transport is about giving women and men equal opportunities. The Center Party wants women and men to have the same opportunity to influence the planning of transport and transport infrastructure. Public transport is mainly used by women, while men choose the car to a greater extent. Developing a more equal and therefore a more sustainable transport system requires both men and women to participate in discussions and decisions concerning the transport system. It is important to include the gender dimension even when environmental objectives are formulated in connection with traffic planning. Women's labour market regions are often smaller than men's, and this is due, among other things, to shortcomings in public transport. In order to achieve a more equal labour market, it is therefore necessary for Sweden to enlarge its functional regions with the help of just expanded transport infrastructure. We can also note that many people, especially women, are concerned about living in the public space, including with regard to gender-based violence. This should be taken into account in the planning work, ranging from the design of lighting in pedestrian tunnels to dead ends, green areas and other places with limited transparency. There is also a partly unsafe and threatening environment in public transport, and this risks reducing the willingness of the individual to travel collectively. This is a serious health and safety problem for the personnel working in public transport. Mr President, I would like to The Center Party wants to make it easier for people to travel by public transport across county boundaries. We therefore believe that the government should initiate a review of regional public transport in order to explore the possibility of developing responsibility for new solutions to future public transport. Travelling by public transport can be done both in the countryside and in the city, and this will of course work regardless of where we are. The Center Party wants you to be able to book and buy tickets for public transport quickly and easily. It is necessary to make more people choose to travel by public transport. The investigation that the Center Party was involved in, A national ticketing system for all public transport, must also be carried out. Against this background, we believe that the pace of implementing the study's proposals also needs to be speeded up with the various proposals on, among other things, a digital infrastructure for a national ticketing system, a national access point for mobility services, third party sales of public transport tickets and a national common platform where tickets are sold for all public transport services throughout Sweden. Mr President, I would like to It should be easy to travel across national borders. In order for people to benefit fully from free movement within the Nordic region, it is essential that transport and communications function satisfactorily. The Center Party therefore believes that cooperation within the Nordic region should be increased in areas such as the expansion of public transport, and the Nordic countries should also strive for joint planning of infrastructure that is important for border regions and mobility within the Nordic region. We would also like to point out that modern technology makes it possible to use common ticketing systems in public transport in the Nordic countries. In our opinion, there is therefore a need for closer cross-border cooperation between infrastructure authorities, municipalities and regions. The Center Party therefore wants the government to work towards increased Nordic cooperation on public transport and a common ticketing system. We have recently noted that there are problems with new timetables and train planning to Copenhagen and Oslo. There is a need to work at several levels to ensure that the traveller is at the centre so that travelling is easy and that the systems do not interfere with public transport across national borders. With this, Mr President, I would like to endorse the Center Party's reservation 1.
i-3AyhcRV7No86ZjJSjHGWA2	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 15, where we propose a better transport service team. We live in a climate emergency. It requires that we drastically reduce our emissions, and that includes emissions from our transport. Sweden has a target of reducing emissions from domestic transport by 70% by 2030 compared to 2010. We're behind. In order to reduce emissions from passenger transport, we need to increase the proportion of passengers using public transport. Before the pandemic increased public transport travel steadily, but restrictions and fears have meant that travel has decreased. It will take determined work to recover travellers and make people choose to travel collectively in front of their own car again. Nevertheless, many regions choose both to cut down on lines and tours and to raise prices, which is exactly the opposite of what needs to be done. Strong action is needed to increase the share of collective travel. For more determined work, an action plan with concrete measures should be developed. We also want a national ticketing system to be developed at the same time as Austria's new climate investment climate ticket, which combines a national public transport ticket system with lower prices in order to promote collective travel with the aim of making it easier, cheaper and more convenient to travel collectively and climate-smart. We believe that the government should investigate the introduction of a similar system of climate ticketing as part of the national public transport ticketing system. It is a system that needs to be put in place as soon as possible. Public transport is not only about climate targets but also about accessibility and inclusion. There are signs that we in Sweden have a growing transport poverty – as it is called – when there are people who do not have access to transport and when the transport system, including public transport, is not available in an equal way. In order to have a transport system that is inclusive and fairly distributed, we believe that more knowledge is needed about how the transport system works for different groups of travellers in society.
i-VKysPtLnXnK9aBY2d55YAm	Public transport workers are among those who have been particularly vulnerable in the pandemic. They are thanked with a system in which they have been given a more precarious everyday life through procurement. Not only can they be forced to look for their jobs, but any new procurement may also give employers the opportunity to get out of previous agreements. We believe that it is an important measure to impose requirements on the transfer of activities. This means that the staff should be allowed to accompany their jobs to the new employer without having worse working conditions. It is also important for the authorities to require companies to offer terms and conditions under existing collective agreements and to apply to the entire supply chain. Mr President, I would like to A new tender period for the tendered Gotland traffic is approaching. Gotland needs to be given safe and good conditions for its traffic, and certain principles should be laid down – principles that mean that Gotland is not forced to fight in every procurement to maintain decent conditions and not get deteriorations. The traffic, just like the state road infrastructure, is best served by the state and should be seen as part of the state infrastructure. The Government should instruct the Swedish Transport Administration to develop a proposal for the nationalisation of Gotland traffic at the end of the current contract period and to develop a framework for quality, pricing, frequency, travel times and environmental and climate adaptation of the ships together with Region Gotland, which is the region most affected by the operation of this traffic. Such a regulatory framework shall be regularly updated on the basis of improvements but never deteriorations. The government should also develop forms of cooperation to give Region Gotland full insight into and significant impact on Gotland traffic. Mr President, I would like to The service shall be for persons who have significant difficulties in moving on their own or in travelling by public transport. The regulatory framework for who is entitled to travel services has become much stricter, and more and more people are rejected even though they are not able to transport without assistance. Statements in preparatory work to the 1998 legislation have meant that the right to travel services has gone from an intervention for persons with disabilities in order to provide decent living conditions to a traffic policy solution. It is not only the fact that many who need travel services are not granted what is problematic. Those who, after all, receive the permit may not infrequently see the benefit cut by local restrictions, problems with execution and high prices which still exclude them from being able to move freely in society. This is not a society that is supposed to be a welfare society. We believe that the government should take the initiative for better legislation on special passenger transport and a new transport service law that more clearly takes the lead in disability policy objectives and reintroduces the rights perspective in the assessment of who should be entitled to authorisation and how the transport service should be organised for better sustainability, coordination, accessibility, pricing and quality. The service should be used to ensure that all residents of Sweden have the same opportunities to move around in society. It is time that it returned to being a right and based on a rights perspective instead of being seen as a traffic policy measure. I therefore request the approval of Amendment No 15. The Finnish Transport Agency has made a proposal for an infrastructure plan that is now being discussed by the Government. We in the Left Party believe that important pieces are missing. This is not really a public transport issue per se. However, it has a significant impact on public transport, especially in the case of the exclusion of regional routes from investment. Regional routes are essential for us throughout the country to be able to have as climate-smart public transport as possible. One example is Kinnekullebanan in Skaraborg. At one time it doubled the travel on the track, and today many depend on it in their daily lives. The investments in previous infrastructure plans have now disappeared. This makes us afraid that the operator will not invest in new trains, which is urgent. This is just one example. There are more examples in Sweden, all over the country. We hope that the government will bring the regional runways into the infrastructure plan in a clear way.
i-XKb3c36jM3S5mHUYyUyUEn	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating public transport, and we are debating many of the motions received from individual Members and from the various parties. I would like to begin by saying that public transport is a very important part of Swedish society. In fact, we have reason to give praise to Swedish public transport. 90 per cent of all fuel used in Swedish public transport is renewable, and this makes public transport a model for many other modes of transport. I usually, when I'm out lecturing about technology development, point to what happened in the 80s, when they went from oil boilers to district heating. That is really what public transport has been doing for a number of years – it has gone from poorer fuels to environmentally friendly fuels, and I think that deserves to be highlighted as a good example. Another important part of public transport is that you work with mobility – that you try to capture as many people as possible in different ways in urban and rural areas. This is hard. All of us who, for various reasons, have been in a public transport committee or have been in one of the different companies know how incredibly difficult it is to get the economy in the different parts and that there is a large subsidy from taxpayers, especially at regional level. At the same time, public transport with technology development and in various other ways works with mobility. Some places in Sweden have come a long way. Stockholm is one such example. We have seen it in Skåne with Pågatågen. We see it at home in my home country, where investments in, for example, railways and roads have facilitated mobility. We're probably in a shift in technology. We were some in the Transport Committee two years ago, it was well, was in California and among other things visited the company Uber. I thought it was an exciting study visit because when they talked about mobility they began to talk about that you could order your trip from point A to point B. Part of the trip could take place on a bicycle – a rental bike in contexts where one does not have one's own bike. Part of the journey could take place by self - driving vehicle and then by train to be taken by bus at the end of the journey, and then you might land at point B. Their vision of mobility was that we could order everything on one occasion. Although this was a private company in another country, I believe that the future will look like that. I believe that Swedish public transport providers will find collaborations where customers will be able to book their journey from point A to point B. Sometimes you travel with SJ, then you travel with something local and at the end it is perhaps even a taxi that drives one the last bit. Something is happening here, and we as a party are very positive about that. But we also see that public transport has been challenged very hard. For example, for a few years now we have had the covid situation. Travelling has fallen, but costs remain because many principals have chosen to keep traffic on the lines, as we have also urged them to. But fewer and fewer go, and this has led to high costs for public transport. There has been some support from the state for these costs, but it is still a fact that we are now in a position to see if this will recover and how quickly it will recover. That is an important part of this. Another thing that the covid period may have reinforced even more, at least what I have been able to see when I have had the privilege of being out on study visits, is the lack of staff. It's hard to find staff. To some extent, we have helped to make things easier; for example, we made temporary exceptions when it comes to YKB, i.e. the training courses. I hear several companies say that we would like to see legislative changes here. It is not something we have been exercising about as Christian Democrats yet, but what is being highlighted is that the YKB could well be part of the internal development of knowledge. This is an exciting idea that I think we will at least continue to dig into. We can see now that we will have competition in several different markets, including in the case of drivers and other public transport staff. One issue that concerns us Christian Democrats and in which we in Parliament have been involved in contributing is the reduction obligation. Perhaps we should have considered this a few months ago. What we are seeing now, and as I also hear when I'm out doing study visits, is that the new rules drive up the price of fuel. The riders I've had the privilege of talking to say that this is not a huge problem for them. They have in their contracts an index list that allows them to save this. However, if public transport is seen as a system, it is clear that if fuel becomes significantly more expensive, public transport will also be more expensive and, by extension, tickets will probably be more expensive. This is an issue that I think we will have reason to reflect on in Parliament. According to the decision taken last autumn, there will be an evaluation of the reduction obligation. I hope that this evaluation will also look at the situation of public transport so that it does not just – understand me correctly! – looks at the private sector, but also at the consequences this has for our mobility. The Christian Democrats have a number of reservations. One is about having better mobility throughout the country. I have already mentioned that I believe that new technologies will contribute to increased mobility. We have highlighted public transport on water in one of our reservations. There we have Gothenburg as a role model. The fact that you can take the boat between the different districts has actually reduced the pressure on the road side. Besides, it's very beautiful. I can recommend that when you get the chance to take one of the boats in Gothenburg on a summer day. It's not just mobility – it's pleasant mobility. The journey service is also highlighted. We lift that it must be safe. You have to have security in the traveling service, and you have to recognize the one who comes and meets you. We also raise with the Liberals the question of being able to have travel services even between the Nordic countries. We have also highlighted the question of being able to get travel services if you have a lack of vision. Another point we make is the point of order – security. It is partly about the security of those who work in public transport and partly about the problem of planning and cheating. Unfortunately, planning in the larger cities has the effect of stealing money from the public. This is money that should actually be used to improve public transport. We would like to see this put right. Another issue that we highlight is Arlanda. We have had many debates in this House about Arlanda versus Bromma. In order to make changes, we need to improve the infrastructure and public transport to and from Arlanda. Mr President, I would like to We Christian Democrats are in favour of all our reservations, but today, for time-winning, we are only in favour of reservation number 8.
i-LWhWmePizw2R1MA6ZL6zb5	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating public transport issues. I would like to start by saying that I support all my reservations, but I am in favour of reservation No 17, which deals with traffic services for the visually impaired. Mr President, I would like to Public transport is a prerequisite for the entire transport system in Sweden to function. We have seen this not least now during the pandemic. I would like to begin by thanking all the public transport staff who have sustained traffic by train, tram, buses and so on for people to get to their jobs. Thank you so much! Public transport is an important means of transport that connects and interacts with road, rail, maritime and air transport. Driving by bus, tram, metro, commuter train and boat facilitates people's everyday lives and makes it easy to get to work or study. It also reduces emissions as well as congestion on the roads around our cities. Public transport therefore needs to be expanded throughout the country. Public transport is currently the most important means of transport because we have as low climate emissions as we have in Sweden today. If we are to reach the 2030 climate target, public transport will also play a very important role in the future. It is very positive that most public transport is fossil-free today. Liberals want to continue this work and therefore want to push for all public transport to be powered by electricity or fossil-free fuel by 2030. We also need to look at how we can make it easier for people to transport from door to door. It is the total time that counts when you travel somewhere, not just the time you sit on a bus or a tram or in the subway. If you look at the total time from door to door, a greater focus must be placed on those parts of the journey where you switch between the same or different means of transport. We need to have more and better-placed commuter parking facilities, better equipped stops and crossings at our ports and airports. This is not least about the experience and road safety of children, the elderly and the disabled. This situation also needs to be reviewed and improved. The time it takes to switch is not least important when switching between public transport and flights. It is therefore gratifying that there will soon be a train connection between Gothenburg and Landvetter. Landvetter is our second largest airport, and there are still no rail services out there. At the same time, the need for public transport to Arlanda needs to be reviewed in order to reduce the dependence on cars for those flying from Arlanda. Mr President, I would like to In light of the upcoming new agreement for Gotlandstrafiken from 2027, Trafikverket has carried out investigations to review the climate impact from traffic to and from Gotland. I believe that the government, as an alternative in the work on the new agreement for Gotland traffic, should also review the possibility of allowing ferry services to and from Gotland to be treated as road and rail traffic. In this way, this traffic could be included in the national infrastructure. Mr President, I would like to Liberals protect the right and the possibility of travel service. However, many applications for travel services have recently been rejected. We need to review the evolution of the interpretation of the law for all conditions of travel service, but perhaps especially those relating to the visually impaired. The increase in the number of refusals is due to the fact that more municipalities and regions refuse permits on the grounds, among other grounds, that people who have severe visual impairment or are blind can learn routes in public transport by heart. Since they can walk, they are not considered to be in need of travel service even though they cannot see. We find that unreasonable. In addition, in more and more cases, the Court has supported the decisions of municipalities. This was the case, for example, in the high-profile case of Vilmer who was denied travel service even though he is blind. This is not how we can do it in Sweden today, and that is why the legislation needs to be reviewed. This development is worrying because strict case law is difficult to break once it has been established, and they are affected with great need. Legislation therefore needs to be reviewed as to how existing case law affects people with disabilities and their ability to participate in society on the same terms as others. This applies, in particular, to the right of the visually impaired to travel services. The coordination of the views of the Transport Services Act and the Social Services Act on the visually impaired should be included in this review. Weaknesses in relation to the intentions of the Transport Services Act identified by the review should quickly lead to changes as ungranted permits may lead to restrictions on the freedom of movement of those persons. Mr President, I would like to The Nordic countries have different national transport systems for people with disabilities. This makes it impossible for people living at the border to travel across the border. I therefore believe that the right to cross-border travel services for frontier residents should be ensured in cooperation between the Nordic countries. In addition to a review and improvement of the physical experience of travelling collectively, it needs to be considerably easier to book and pay tickets for longer journeys across county boundaries. For this reason, the Liberals want a national platform to be put in place to enable door-to-door tickets to be paid regardless of the type of traffic and the county. It should be technology neutral, and you should be able to pay with your ordinary public transport card throughout Sweden. Mr President, I would like to Finally, we need to acknowledge technological developments. Digital solutions enable us to make climate-smart choices in traffic. Today there are car pools, electric scooters, electric bicycles and mopeds, and in the future we will have self-driving cars. I believe that we need to explore how these new means of transport can be included in public transport in the future. The new concept of the sharing economy for taxis should also be included. The regulatory framework needs to be revised so that we really do take advantage of the opportunities offered by technological development. I request the approval of reservation number 17 on the service of sight-impaired passengers.
i-77uLCT4vtKybn7aYbqozLr	Mr President, I would like to It is clear to us environmental partners that public transport plays a crucial role in the green transition. Through strong and attractive public transport, we give more people across the country the opportunity to travel climate smart. To invest in public transport is also to invest in a fair transition. We are still in the coronapandemia, a pandemic that has had far-reaching consequences for many parts of society. During the pandemic, public transport travel has decreased as a result of the restrictions. It has, of course, been quite right and good in the situation we have found ourselves in. However, when the spread of infection decreases and we can leave the pandemic behind, it is important that public transport is strong and can develop. That is why I am proud that the Green Party pushed these issues into the government and, among other things, made important investments through urban planning agreements and important steps to put in place a national ticketing system for public transport. But more will have to be done forward in order to achieve a doubling of public transport and to reduce climate emissions quickly enough. We simply need to do more to enable people to choose public transport over unsustainable modes of transport. This will require substantial investment across the country and interaction between national policies, regions and municipalities. Mr President, I would like to Let me dwell a little on the question of travel service. For those who need it, the transportation service is incredibly important. For us in the Green Party, it is important to ensure that those people who really need transport services do not get caught up in the system. Today, it may take many weeks for applicants to have their application examined. The Green Party therefore considers that the Transport Service Act needs to be supplemented by rules on temporary travel pending the examination of an application. I would also like to point out that there needs to be better procedures for dealing with situations when a travel authorisation expires. The Green Party believes that there should be a routine in place that means that when a permit expires you should ask if the needs remain with the individual. For example, it may be difficult for an elderly person to apply for a new travel permit in the right way and at the right time. I would therefore like to ask for the approval of Amendment No 16. I am pleased that several parties agree on the need to review the legislation in order to ensure that the visually impaired in particular have the right to travel services, something that several parties have also highlighted. In conclusion, public transport is a very important issue for reducing climate emissions quickly enough, for the green transition to be fair and for the overall construction of a fair society.
i-SdEn5MYw3rv3gRFq2d66RU	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating the report by the Committee on Transport and Tourism, TU5 Public Transport, and I call for the committee's proposal and rejection of the reservations. Mr President, I would like to For us Social Democrats, a well-functioning public transport system with expanded capacity is crucial for the development of society and for people's everyday lives to be reconciled. Increased public transport is particularly needed to address one of the greatest challenges of our time, namely reducing the climate impact of the transport sector and contributing to a green transition throughout society. Our ambition is that Sweden should become the first fossil-free welfare country and that all people should be able to be part of the transition. Mr President, I would like to We can see that the coronap pandemic is still holding a tight grip on society and thus also on the transport sector and on public transport. During the pandemic, many of us have had to change our travel patterns to help reduce the spread of infection. Some have been able to do this by refraining from traveling or working from home. But let me be clear: a lot of citizens have been forced during the pandemic and are still forced to get back and forth to work on public transport without being able to choose anything else. In addition, many people work in public transport. They are bus drivers, train hosts and train drivers, to name but a few professions. These people and occupational groups have not been able to work from home. The current pandemic has therefore made and places great demands on the safe operation of public transport in order to avoid the spread of infection. Density and capacity must be maintained to the extent necessary to reduce the risk of congestion, and employees must have decent working conditions and a safe working environment. Trade union representatives from Seko and Kommunal, for example, testify to major pressures and threats to staff conditions and the working environment during the pandemic. That is why it is good and important, Mr President, that the government has provided additional funding during the pandemic to the regional public transport authorities and regions to maintain traffic, despite the fact that, under the Public Transport Act, it is the regions and municipalities of a county that are jointly responsible for regional public transport. I live in Skåne, and the region during the pandemic has unfortunately put the national funding on high and at the same time demanded more money from the government to a public transport service that they themselves cut down on. We do not think that is reasonable. We Social Democrats will continue to stand up for a safe working environment and fair conditions for public transport staff and for everyone's right to a functioning public transport system both during and after the pandemic. Mr President, I would like to As I said, the number of trips by collective means has decreased during the pandemic. In order to increase the share of public transport travel, municipalities and regions have a great responsibility. It is important that more people can travel collectively throughout our country and not just in our big cities, where many already do so. For us Social Democrats, it is about the whole country to live and develop. Therefore, public transport needs to be developed so that more people can travel longer and more efficiently in a sustainable way. It is about promoting mobility as a service, innovation and technology development. It is also about looking at price levels so that people can afford to travel collectively but also plan times and tours that make public transport accessible and help to enlarge labour market regions and facilitate everyday life for many more citizens. The overall transport policy objective is to ensure a socially efficient and sustainable transport supply for citizens and businesses throughout the country. In order to do this, public transport must be adapted to the specific conditions prevailing in all parts of the country. Mr President, I would like to Although the main responsibility for public transport is not with the state, it is nevertheless important to promote and develop public transport at national level. This has been done by the government, not least through the national plan and investments in, for example, railways and bus lanes, and municipalities can seek state co-financing for public transport infrastructure through the urban environment agreements but also through the regulation on state co-financing for certain regional public transport facilities. The Government's electricity bus premium has also provided a certain contribution for the acquisition of electrically powered buses. Mr President, I would like to I'd like to say something about the travel service. Overall, most passengers are satisfied with their journey. During my years as municipal councillor in Lund Municipality, I got a close collaboration with the municipality's disability council and local disability organisations and engaged enthusiasts there. They made me clearly aware of the shortcomings in the traveling service and the consequences when it does not work. The service will give you the opportunity to live an active life and to move under your conditions when you cannot do so yourself by, for example, driving a car or taking part in public transport. I would therefore like to underline what Minister Eneroth has said, namely that the law does not prevent a more generous application of permits by municipalities and regional public transport authorities. We Social Democrats do not rule out the need for further measures to strengthen access to the transport system for people with disabilities. Everyone should have the right to live a good and safe life. Mr President, I would like to I would like to say that strengthening public transport also contributes to a more equal society. Men commute longer and more by car, while women travel more collectively. In addition, we know that it is women who do most of the unpaid home and care work such as shopping and collecting and leaving children. It is therefore clear that we need more gender equality in infrastructure policy and in public transport in particular. It is clear that the development of public transport directly benefits gender equality. For us Social Democrats, it is important that all infrastructure planning contributes to an equal and equal society. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to say that the Social Democrats and the government are taking the challenge of people's need to transport and that the whole country should live as the climate challenge very seriously. We will build Sweden together – equal, fair and sustainable.
i-UkYE3EvMRT689aZ2okVzbU	Mr President, I would like to For the sake of time, I would like to support only reservation 4 on the follow-up and evaluation of the new legislation. The main proposal of the bill is that a serious animal cruelty crime should be introduced into the penal code, where the penalty scale is proposed to be imprisonment for a minimum of six months and a maximum of four years. In addition, the Government proposes in the bill that certain less serious infringements of animal welfare rules should be sanctioned with penalties instead of criminal sanctions and that infringements of animal welfare legislation that are so far removed from the protection interest of the legislation should not appear justified by criminal liability to be punishable. The Moderates welcome these proposals. We believe that good animal welfare is important and that offences against animals should lead to sanctions. However, we see some problems that may arise in the implementation of today's legislation, and we want to ensure that this is not the case in a parliamentary approval of the bill. All animals kept by humans are subject to animal welfare legislation, which must act preventively. The aim, Mr President, is that animals should be well-being and be able to behave naturally. The Animal Welfare Act also states that acts involving physical or mental suffering for animals are prohibited. The welfare of animals requires clear and responsible legislation and regulations that regulate protection and prevention, but the way there may vary. Today, individual owners are treated differently depending on where they live or work in the country. One of the county boards carried out control can have a different outcome in the north than it gets in the south. This legal uncertainty is serious, particularly as repeated injunctions may lead to an examination of animal bans with far-reaching consequences for those who feed on animal husbandry. It should therefore be ensured that the legislation is interpreted and applied in the same way throughout the country. In addition, the Moderates believe that it should be possible to change administrative contact when the dialogue does not work in order to maintain legal certainty. This has been proposed by the Moderates in relation to environmental permit processes in agriculture. And there should be a corresponding possibility for animal welfare controls. It is also important that sufficient capacity is available in the judicial system. If authorities point out shortcomings that may involve crime, there must be the capacity of, for example, the police to deal with this. There is no such capacity, the quality of the legislation does not matter, and animals are at risk of harm. Mr President, I would like to We know that this is a broad area where there are several different issues that we need to address and change in order for animals to have it as well as possible. We have animal welfare that is among the best in the world. We shall be proud of this. I want to go into an area that I find to be deplorable, and that is dog smuggling. From 9 December 2020 until today, we have been faced with repeated reports in several media channels about dog smuggling and, above all, about puppies who feel bad and get sick. During the pandemic, more people have wanted to get a dog, and Swedish dog breeders have simply not followed. This has led to the emergence of organised crime around dog breeding. The market for dog factories and smuggling has grown. Cubs are raised in factories where bitches are forced to mate for constant puppies, often in cages. The puppies are separated from their mothers far too early, which negatively affects their psyche. Diseases and parasites occur, and rabies is not uncommon. These puppies are sold significantly much cheaper with false papers and false identities. At the end of January, two men were convicted of dog smuggling, but they were freed from suspicions of animal cruelty. The penalty for being caught at a customs check on the Öresund Bridge in October with ten lean and dehydrated puppies in the car was six months. Both were convicted of serious smuggling, mainly because of the dogs' vaccination status. Five of the puppies had been vaccinated against rabies prematurely, and five had not been vaccinated at all. A councillor at Malmö District Court stated to the media that the main reason why the smuggling offence was considered a serious crime was that it is of significant public interest that Sweden remains rabies free. The men were absolved of suspicions of animal cruelty. We also believe it is important that Sweden is free of rabies. However, we also believe that the legislation on animal cruelty should be looked at. So the men were exonerated from the suspicion of animal cruelty. Their job was to transport the dogs. But the court found that it was not proven that they were responsible for the dogs being thin and dehydrated. The poor condition of the puppies should have been proof enough of animal cruelty. A relevant question for all of us to ask here is how things turned out the way they did. Is the legislation not sustainable and effective enough? Mr President, I would like to It is important that Sweden strengthens the laws that are there to protect animals and that we value animals highly. Animals can't say more than whining or screaming when someone's mean to them. They cannot tell us that they were raised together with their mother in a cage with a lack of food and deprived of the right to link with their mother, which is so important for a puppy to do well in life. A small puppy can't say stop when smugglers carelessly take it far too early from the bitch, fiddle with paper so that the puppy should look older than it is and don't give it food so that it becomes completely emaciated. The puppy cannot say stop when it together with 15 other small puppies are to be sold at a lower price and smuggled into Sweden and briefly taken care of by a so-called actor, whose role is to play breeders just for buyers to think that it goes reasonably right to. Mr President, I would like to We Moderates want to ensure that the legislation fulfils its role through monitoring and evaluation. Legislation should neither make it more difficult for the individual nor affect animals in a negative sense. We also need to look at other areas of animal welfare in the future. The evaluation that we Moderates think should be carried out should examine precisely the question of whether the new legislation is being implemented equally throughout the country. The evaluation should also examine how legislation affects research and animal testing, where humane use of experimental animals in research should not be categorized as animal cruelty in the sense of the law. Mr President, I would like to Finally, the Moderates believe that the effects of the new legislation must be monitored after two years and then evaluated after five years, partly because it needs to be ensured that the law actually protects animals to the extent that it is intended. We also need to look at the law protecting the animals smuggled into Sweden. The Customs Agency needs to be strengthened with customs officials in order to catch the criminals who are part of a criminal network abroad to bring animals into Sweden and earn money at the expense of animal welfare. These are important issues that we need to address.
i-KofRmaYTx9nYwmReNdNKt	Mr President, I would like to Displaced animals, outdoor cats that come home burned, kicked hedgehogs, mutilated cats, poisoned dogs, drowned cats, negligent animals in agriculture, dogs that get beaten and kicked, wounded birds, negligent inside cats, cut horses, animals injured in transportation, animal torture in slaughterhouses and shot horses. The crimes against animals are numerous and varied. But what they have in common is that it is a terrible plague against defenseless people. These are disgusting acts against animals which, if they survive torture, cannot speak for themselves and tell the outside world what they have been subjected to. It is therefore up to us humans to protect animals. It is society and the state that must discover when someone lacks knowledge or empathy for the animals among us. And it's up to us to show that's not how we treat animals. Gandhi said: A nation's greatness and its ethical progress can be judged by how to treat its animals. Despite solid animal welfare legislation, there are still so many violations of animals in Sweden, and this must be taken seriously. What will be decided here today is an important step towards zero tolerance against animal cruelty in Sweden. We cannot allow animal tormenters, and especially those who commit the worst and most serious acts against animals, to continue without having any tangible consequences for them. It would be a great betrayal of all the animals we love, and it would be a great betrayal of society at large. If society lacks respect for and empathy for our animals, we are out on slippery ice. It is therefore extremely important that we are clear that it is not acceptable to torment animals in Sweden and that those who do so should receive severe punishment. Mr President, I would like to With good control systems and benevolent and skilled animal keepers, we have such good animal husbandry that we can, for example, keep antibiotic use low. We often beat our chests and brag about our good husbandry. But when you repeatedly hear and read about all those who torment animals, you get worried and ask yourself, ‘ Where is our society going if we can't even show empathy for innocent animals? ' For ten years – a decade – the Swedish Democrats have been putting forward proposals in this House to introduce criminal harassment, gross animal cruelty. From the outset, everyone else said no to our proposals and referred to the fact that the issue of the design of the penal provisions for the offence of animal cruelty could be examined in the light of the then proposed Animal Welfare Act. But the new Animal Welfare Act delayed. It was pushed to the future for quite a few years. As early as 2009, the then government commissioned a special investigator to review the then existing Animal Welfare Act and make proposals for a new one. In November 2011, the investigator's report was presented to the government – but it took until 2018 before it was actually decided on a new animal welfare law. When the new Animal Welfare Act was laid down, something was missing, namely what we had been pushing for so many years: the introduction of the crime of gross animal cruelty with a penalty value of between one and four years. Of course, we tabled the proposal again, but we did not get any sympathy from the other parties. On the other hand, an investigation was set up, and it is on this basis that the government has now – another four years later – made a proposal to the Riksdag. In fact, I am very pleased that after so many years we have finally reached the point where this is to be decided in Parliament. From the Swedish Democrats' side, we are very positive that the crime of gross cruelty to animals is finally introduced, but we are still not satisfied. We still want, as in previous years, the minimum punishment for gross cruelty to animals to be one year's imprisonment and not six months' imprisonment, which is what is proposed by the government. Mr President, I would like to I do not understand why the other parties are content with a minimum sentence of six months. So in the future you will be able to be convicted of animal cruelty and be punished for up to two years – and at the same time be sentenced for something worse, that is, gross cruelty to animals, and receive only six months in prison. As we know, with today's penalty rebates in practice means four months. In my eyes, it sends out very strange signals. I had hoped that more parties claiming to protect good animal welfare had supported our proposal for a minimum penalty of one year for gross animal cruelty, which was also advocated by referral bodies. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats protect animals and will continue to fight for them to have it as good as possible in our Sweden. In view of this, I would like to vote in favour of reservation 1.
i-JgAtGuEGP3mn9n7AdkcJJW	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 3. The fact that we have strong animal protection in our country is very important. It is good that a review has been carried out – we in the Christian Democrats have previously called for this – with a more effective, proportionate and legally certain penalty clause for the violations dealt with in the bill. It is good for less serious offences where there is no clear impact on animal welfare to be decriminalised, so that society's resources can instead concentrate on punishing serious infringements. Mr President, I would like to Regrettably, there are serious crimes against animals, as we have heard from my colleague here before. I would also like to mention the example of the import of dogs. We have talked about this in the House before, and I think it is important that we discuss it. Unfortunately, this terrible situation has not diminished during the pandemic, but, on the contrary, as we heard here, it has increased enormously. The organised dog smuggling is done unscrupulously. For the unscrupulous, there is much money to make: A smuggled puppy can be sold for 20 000 to 60 000 kroner. However, the puppies sold are often traumatized because of difficult growing-up conditions and the fact that the trips to the final destination take place under terrible conditions. Dogs are reared in puppy factories, where bitches are forced to be separated for maximum puping frequency. The puppies are separated very early from their mothers, and the consequence is behavioral disorders. Diseases and parasites occur, and rabies is not uncommon. The illegally smuggled puppies are usually sold using social media, whose platforms are used to advertise and establish contact with people looking for a dog. Social media are easy to use anonymously and without traceability. Most of us have probably seen how customs have got hold of some of these smugglers, but that is only the tip of an iceberg. The dogs are many, and they're in bad shape. Unfortunately, smuggling is carried out with a low risk of possible penalties, and the penalties are also very low. The government must be more active and work for stricter legislation here. It is not good enough for many criminal smugglers to escape, as they do today. Mr President, I would like to For many farmers who today have a very tough financial situation, it is important that inspectors who come to their activities have the skills and that farmers feel that it is legally secure. In fact, this is not the case today, but a number of people I have spoken to are just talking about their feeling of unease as to whether the inspectors of the authorities are competent and objective and make equivalent assessments. We believe that it is important for the Christian Democrats that the control authorities have clear guidance in order, taking into account the severity of the offence and the possible suffering of the animal concerned, to use mainly control tools to promote compliance. Forward-looking and supportive controls should be considered the main tool for promoting good husbandry. Furthermore, we believe that the less serious infringements of administrative provisions which are now subject to variations of penalties justify fines in the lower range rather than the range now proposed in the bill, i.e. between SEK 1 000 and SEK 100 000.
i-63dK1TzUeUUtZkTPndEQxY	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for approval of the proposal in the committee's report as a whole. Offences against animals, which we are debating here today, are a matter of concern. Many people feel a great deal of commitment to these issues, as we can also hear in the debate. Animals make us feel good; most of us who have or have had animals can attest to that. It can also be supported by research. Protecting animal welfare is always a priority for the Social Democrats. Animal welfare is mainly about prevention. Treating animals well is an ethical responsibility that we have. It is important that we continue to act forcefully both nationally and in the European Union in order to impose higher demands on animal welfare. The Social Democrats are pushing for Sweden to continue to be the world leader in animal welfare. But, Mr President, when someone does not treat animals well, when someone does not take responsibility, society needs to react and act. We have many knowledgeable and skilled keepers in Sweden, but in cases where keepers do not meet the requirements of the legislation, society needs to intervene with both rapid and effective sanctions. That is why we are standing here today debating this so important proposal for stricter penalties and a more effective system of sanctions in the event of animal offences. In the bill, the Social Democratic Government proposes stricter penalties in the event of an animal offence. Some changes are proposed to sharpen the system and further strengthen animal welfare. Mr President, I would like to I myself have been following through the media a very tragic crime against a large number of animals at home in Västernorrland. Thanks to the fact that two women with great civil courage alerted the authorities, most of these animals could be rescued, but many were so mismanaged and in such poor condition that they had to be put to death. This was about about 80 dogs and about a hundred chickens that a couple had been neglecting for a long time. The animals were found locked up in pure misery in caravans, cars and real estate. They lived trapped in their own feces, and many were very sick and severely malnourished. Some of the dogs and all the chickens were in such a bad condition that they had to be killed directly on site. What happened to those who committed these cruel crimes? They were sentenced for cruelty to animals – one was sentenced to probation and 100 daily fines, and the other was sentenced to probation. This is one of many examples that shows that it is time to tighten the penalties for crimes against animals. Sweden has strong animal welfare legislation, but the sanctions for animal cruelty crimes are often not proportionate to the seriousness of the crimes – just like in the case I just told you about from home Västernorrland. This case is just one of many examples. We also have the dogs that are smuggled into the country under terrible conditions because the demand for companion dogs is so great, horses that have been cut with sharp objects and chickens that are tormented at slaughter. The list of examples can be drawn up on a long scale, and these examples show that we must act more forcefully when there is a crime against animals. The government safeguards the high level of animal protection guaranteed by animal welfare legislation. In order to ensure compliance with animal welfare legislation, a system of proportionate and effective sanctions for infringements is also needed. In the bill to the Riksdag, the government is now proposing that a new serious animal cruelty crime be introduced into the Code of Criminal Procedure for the most serious cases of animal crime. The scale of penalties for the new serious crime is proposed to be prison for a minimum of six months and a maximum of four years. By comparison, the maximum punishment for animal cruelty today is two years. With this proposal, the penalties will be proportionate to the seriousness of the crimes. They will also better reflect how society views animal crimes. Furthermore, the proposal proposes that animal welfare control authorities should be allowed to impose penalties in certain cases. The aim is to enable less serious infringements to be dealt with quickly and to be met by a tangible reaction directly from the control authorities and in close proximity to the infringement. Resource efficient management of minor infringements also provides greater scope for dealing with those infringements that lead to serious animal suffering. In order to improve the effectiveness of the sanctioning system, amendments to the Animal Welfare Act are proposed, which means that certain less serious infringements are sanctioned by penalties directly managed by the county administrative boards rather than by criminal sanctions. The penalty shall be at least SEK 1 000 and at most SEK 100 000. It is proposed to clarify the obligation of the control authorities to notify infringements to the Police Authority or the Prosecutor's Office. The proposal also proposes that infringements of animal welfare legislation, which are so far removed from the protection interest of the legislation, should prevent animal suffering that criminal liability is not justified. These legislative amendments are proposed to enter into force on 1 July this year. With this proposal, we are now showing in action that crimes against animals are being taken seriously. We sharpen the system and strengthen animal welfare. However, in order to ensure a high level of animal protection, it remains important that the control authorities also work on forward-looking measures. Treating animals well is an ethical responsibility that we have. Sweden should be the world leader in animal welfare, and the Social Democrats want Swedish animal welfare to continue to improve. We have a very good animal welfare legislation in Sweden, and by introducing stricter penalties and a more effective sanction system we ensure that we also have more effective and effective tools to ensure that we can comply with our animal welfare legislation.
i-294D9CFsbPKZVbrgmt2HnS	Mr President, I would like to I have a lot of questions that are raised, not least when it comes to dog smuggling. It is a major problem and many times part of the organised crime that we see around Europe and Sweden. If you smuggle one thing, you can smuggle another. In this case, we're talking about puppies who become part of this business. My question, Mr President, is how the government intends to counter this. It is important to really dissect this and see what you can do. After all, we Moderates have proposed that the customs service should have 500 customs officials and that the borders should be monitored around the clock. This is an extremely important effort to combat organised crime. Mr President, I would like to If you arrive today with puppies in the car and get caught in customs and there is no veterinarian available to look at the puppies, you go on to another place and come across the border to sell the puppies on. This must be stopped, just as we need to look at the follow-up to the animal welfare law that is now being proposed. How do you intend to follow up the Animal Welfare Act and see that the effects are good? We Moderates can't see that you're doing it here. This, Mr President, is a question I would like to put to the honourable Member.
i-TSccJqh8scM6fR2SBn1Dw1	Mr President, I would like to This is a subject that concerns and in which many of us have a great deal of commitment. Especially when you have animals yourself, you care very much about them, as I mentioned. On the last question, on follow-up, the responsibility lies with the county administrative boards. The county boards are the government's extended arm in the country, and they are also around the country. The government generally monitors the county administrative boards' work on animal welfare control annually, so this will go through the county administrative boards. Not all new laws adopted are normally followed up, but this will be followed by the government through the county administrative boards at close range. Dog smuggling is absolutely terrible. Of course, what we are debating today is an incredibly important measure to tackle these crimes and to show the seriousness of the crimes committed when animals are tormented. We shall never accept this. The government has done an incredible number of measures, both in the sitting and in the last parliamentary term. We have new animal welfare legislation. Now we are taking the next step by tightening the penalties and establishing a more effective system of sanctions. The Social Democrats and the Social Democratic-led government really take these issues seriously and make a big difference.
i-Ph8QqxZ1y19dEoRoMbFjBM	Mr President, I would like to The MP Malin Larsson answers parts of the questions I asked but not everything. I believe that monitoring and evaluation are extremely important and that this is also specifically formulated. We do so in our reservation and in the accompanying motion. The MP is not yet responding to how to act when it comes to dog smuggling. What action will be taken to prevent these puppies from being taken across borders? How do you think when it comes to guarding the borders around the clock to combat organised crime that this has become a part of and that we also see is growing in Sweden? There are several questions there. Another is how you look at this with the customs officers. As I said, we have proposed that 500 customs officials should guard the borders around the clock. What is the government's response to this? One could easily counter the dog smuggling that we are discussing here and take action. Another question is that of the veterinary shortage. Some measures have been taken but not enough. Veterinarians must, of course, also come to the premises and look after these puppies, in parallel with the fact that customs officials need to be given the power to retain the cars. Otherwise you have to let them go, and then these people can go to other places and get in there. These are several issues that the government must address and to which I would like answers.
i-F52NmAJLkkDTtrY7X6kBmd	Mr President, I would like to Marléne Lund Kopparklint highlights dog smuggling. It is an important part of the animal crime that we have to deal with, but there are also a lot of other animal crimes. That is what the proposal here deals with today, that is to say that we are introducing stricter penalties and sanctions and more possibilities and tools in the toolbox to deal with this. As far as customs is concerned, officials there are incredibly important and are doing a very important job precisely when it comes to dog smuggling. There is also a need for information, because there is a market. Someone is buying these dogs, and that is where the big problem lies. As a buyer of an animal, I have a huge responsibility when I buy the animal but also then, because I will be able to take care of the animal throughout its lifetime. So there are two problems in this. The government takes it seriously and works on these issues all the time. With regard to animal welfare, this government has done an incredible number of measures. Then, however, I have to react, Mr President, when Marléne Lund Kopparklint is making proposals and has views on what the government does and does not do, because I also think it has its own responsibility. We could see now that we had the budget area, Category 23, which concerns this issue that we are debating today, that the Moderates are not spending any more money in this area. So what you say is one thing and what you do another thing.
i-4zitc3gie4NHoy3tLbaVyA	Mr President, I would like to This is what we are now debating about animal offences and stricter penalties and a more effective system of sanctions, and I am thinking of all of us in so many different ways. Not least in view of the stories that my colleagues have made before, I do not think that there is a need for further strengthening of the feeling that it is incredibly important for us as politicians to come up with legislation that prosecutes grosser crimes against animals and that we can also be judged in the way that this legislation now provides the conditions for. We have animal welfare legislation in Sweden that we have reason to be proud of. We have animal husbandry in Sweden that we have reason to be proud of. Not least if we look, for example, at the use of antibiotics in Swedish agriculture, we are the best in the EU and perhaps the second best in the world. This is not because we are just competing to be the best in an issue, but because animal welfare is important for various reasons, not least because of the dignity of the handling itself and because animals that are doing well, for example, in agriculture are also of a higher quality. Now I will not discuss this issue any further, but for all of us, the issue of antibiotics and the issue of animal welfare is incredibly important. The current proposal strengthens legislation and safeguards, as it involves increasing penalties for the most serious cases of animal cruelty and the introduction of this crime into the penal code. The scale of penalties should be changed, as mentioned earlier, and most parties support what is proposed in the bill on imprisonment from a minimum of six months to a maximum of four years. At the same time, my colleagues have pointed out that when this is introduced less serious infringements are subject to faster and more effective management. These very parts show the importance of this new legislation being implemented and monitored in different ways. One example mentioned earlier is that certain less serious infringements of animal welfare rules are sanctioned by penalties which are dealt with by county administrative boards rather than by criminal sanctions. It is clear that this is an issue that it will be extremely important to follow up, not least to see that there is an equivalent assessment. I think that the wordings contained in the bill show that the government has come into a sensible balance in terms of the follow-up it intends to take and that it intends to have transparency and clarity in terms of both the back-looking sanctions and the forward-looking ones. But, of course, we will certainly follow up from all parties on how this legislation can be implemented in practice. Previously, it has been mentioned that the penalty fees should be at least SEK 1 000 and a maximum of SEK 100 000. Here was his colleague Magnus Oscarsson who wanted to see a lower span. He was not so clear about how it would be a lower span, but there may be an opportunity to ask for a line here on me and be a little clearer on that issue or in some other context communicate a little clearer what it is actually about. In the committee's view, various control tools and forward-looking measures are very important tools to promote compliance with the rules. I would say that here we are raising the crimes that are committed in different ways and that we want to prosecute them, but we also know that there is an incredible amount of good animal husbandry. The question is how to promote this and make it more legal to be able to follow what applies in a clearer way in the future. I am therefore thinking that I do not need to extend the debate on this issue any further, but I am calling for the proposal to be approved.
i-XAtoJrUubZBbz2Cs6UiQ3n	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating offences against animals, stricter penalties and a more effective system of sanctions. In doing so, we are taking an important step in relation to the crimes currently committed against animals. The Liberals welcome the proposal in the committee's report and support it, and we do so for the sake of animals. In a society where lawlessness is increasing and hearts are increasingly cold, our animals are also affected. We have heard here about illegal imports of dogs, which has increased during the pandemic. There is a great risk that violence against our animals will also increase. Liberals believe that the protection of animals should be clear. Anyone who violates the law must be punished. Sweden should have the best animal welfare in the EU, and it should be difficult to commit crimes against animals. Today, in fact, it is more severe punishment for serious hunting crimes against wild animals than for serious crimes against our pets. This report proposes a tightening up of the current legislation on animal cruelty, which introduces a new crime, gross cruelty to animals, into the penal code, for the sake of animals. Mr President, I would like to Why, then, do these penalties need to be tightened up? It is because, as a society, we need to show in action that animal offences are taken seriously and prioritised by the judiciary. Crimes mother animals shall include intentional and grossly negligent acts. That's what gross animal cruelty is. The scale of animal cruelty today ranges from fines to imprisonment for a maximum of two years. The proposal we are now debating means that the scale of penalties for gross cruelty to animals should be imprisonment for a minimum of six months and a maximum of four years. As a result, it ends up on the same scale of punishment as a serious hunting offence. Risking up to four years in prison shows the seriousness of harming or killing an animal. This is good, for the sake of the animals. The proposal also clarifies the obligation to notify the control authorities, as well as a so-called exchange of penalties. Clarification of the obligation to notify means that the control authorities must always notify infringements to the Police Authority or the Public Prosecutor's Office when they have led to animal suffering or a real risk to animal suffering, as well as when there are other specific reasons for a notification. This will give more weight to the control authorities so that they do not have to hesitate. They get more authority to file a complaint. Above all, I believe that it can lead to animal owners who take care of their animals in the wrong way thinking both once and twice about how they treat their animals. This is good, for the sake of the animals. A sanction fee is a fee, not a penalty imposed in court. The purpose of the exchange of sanctions is to ensure that minor infringements are met by a faster and more severe reaction directly from the control authorities. The penalty fee is proposed to be at least SEK 1 000 and a maximum of SEK 100 000. This is introduced in order to increase the impact of infringements. The path towards tangible consequences will be shorter if the control authorities themselves can decide on sanctions, leading to a greater cessation of minor infringements. This is also good, for the sake of the animals. Mr President, I would like to It may still be this that will have the greatest impact. Crime always begins in small things, for example by not thinking about how to transport animals in animal transport. It is at the small actions that it will begin. If we manage there and then to be quickly in place and from the community indicate that it is not okay to treat animals in this way, we raise the status of animals in our society. If we manage to stop criminal behaviour, we have also saved the suffering of many animals. It's like any other crime: it's always best if the crime never happens, but when it happens, justice should apply, for the sake of the animals.
i-XT38mRR98Kf27Q7UKEx5dY	Mr President, I would like to This bill is welcome and, for the most part, a very good proposal. A law that differentiates more clearly between, for example, failure to keep records, which in itself is important in the long term but usually does not expose any animal to direct suffering, and the events in which man suffers animals. It is important that we mark against all those who deliberately expose animals to suffering, but also against those who do not care for their animals, which leads to the animals being mistreated and eventually perhaps dying of starvation in their own stools. Sometimes, as we know, it does not happen intentionally, but for the animal it makes no difference. They die of starvation anyway. And if a law enforcement can prevent this from happening, it is only for good. As I said, it is very gratifying and indeed about time that there was a change in how we view violence against animals and the neglect of animals. At present, the scale of penalties does not reflect at all the view that most of us who live in Sweden have on animals, nor does it reflect the knowledge we have about the animals today. With this change it will be much better. Much new research on animals has come in recent decades, and more legal texts will need to be changed if we are to respond to the new knowledge we have today about animals. We therefore welcome this proposal, but we also see that two important elements in particular are missing. Mr President, I would like to The 2011 New Animal Welfare Act proposed the introduction in the Animal Welfare Act of a serious crime with a penalty scale of imprisonment for a maximum of four years. In the opinion of the investigator, the criminal code for serious crime should provide examples of what should be taken into account specifically for a criminal offence to be considered as serious. The investigator considered that offences which had or could have resulted in significant financial gain for the offender could also fall under that category. Profit-making activities may justify increased risk-taking. The study was very detailed on this basis in the report, because some cases of serious neglect are difficult to understand if one lacks understanding of why it occurs and, as the investigation also underlined, it also risks getting worse over time. The investigation stated:- There is also an imminent risk of animals being subjected to long-term or otherwise severe suffering in these cases because the perpetrator can make greater cost savings the longer the malpractice is going on or the more he or she departs from good husbandry. ..................................................... According to the above reasoning, there was a point in the Council's referral that read: This point has been removed from the proposal on which we now have a position. It could certainly have been reworded if the act had brought significant economic benefits to the perpetrator, as suggested by the Court of Appeal for Western Sweden, but instead to remove it completely means that the courts cannot use this basis at all in the assessment of the crime, which we consider to be very unfortunate. It should have been there. Mr President, I would like to It is also very unfortunate that systematic violence against family animals, which is often part of violence in close relationships, has not been included. Many have pointed out the need for this throughout the process of drafting the bill, simply because research has long shown that there is a strong link between violence against animals and violence against women and children in close relationships. In relationships, animals can be held hostage and subjected to both physical and mental suffering in order to harm, intimidate or threaten the person against whom the violence is directed. It happens more often than we see. However, if there is a judicial process due to violations of peace, the animal's suffering is not judged at all in the judicial process itself. That is obviously a problem. In Sweden we have not taken this seriously enough. Several other countries are acting on this issue to a much greater extent, but it is not really included in the general debate here. If the victim chooses to stay with the violent person from the outside to protect the animal, as many do, it will have consequences for everyone involved. There are cases where it actually led to the death of the woman. Some county boards are working on the issue because they see the problem, and they had been given another tool in that work on violence against animals carried out in order to harm, intimidate or threaten someone else had been included as a qualification basis. The County Administrative Board of Västmanland is a very good example. It has for a long time been working very actively on the issue and has shown that combining the work against violence against animals and against violence in close relationships can protect and save human lives. We must begin to see that connection quite simply. In the bill on strengthening criminal law protection in the event of serious violations of peace and serious violations of women's rights, it is written that the work to prevent and combat crimes in close relationships is a very high priority and must be carried out on a broad front. It stressed that, as part of the prevention and combating of crimes in close relations, it is necessary to ensure that criminal protection is strong. Therefore, we believe that the bill would also have contained a qualification basis for gross animal cruelty, which takes into account the purpose of the act. When assessing whether the offence is serious, particular consideration shall be given to whether the purpose of the offence is to harm, intimidate or threaten someone else. Having said that, I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-NiW5WTfsxsiM3mAnX2i48c	Mr President, I would like to We are now going to debate the Environment and Agriculture Committee's report 14 Food policy. First of all, I would like to endorse reservation number 10. There is a great deal to be said about when it comes to food policy in Sweden today. It is not only about how we work with food control at our authorities and companies, but also about food preparedness in an increasingly strained world situation. In principle, I intend to allow my entire speech to address precisely the issue of food security and food security. We are currently seeing a rather strained for a long time around the world. We see how countries have begun to close down when it comes to food and food inputs. It is about providing themselves with arable land to produce food for their own population. We saw last autumn how Russia reduced exports of fertilizers, for example. We have seen how gas transports from Russia to Europe for the production of mineral fertilisers have been inadequate. This has later led to a smaller production of mineral fertilisers in Europe with a sharp rise in prices. Interest in buying mineral fertilizers has decreased as prices have risen. We see how Sweden, Europe and the EU are dependent on plant protection products from the active substance we often get from China. It is a world leader when it comes to the active substances in plant protection products that we use in Europe. What happens at a more unstable world situation with that product? We see India and China vacuuming the market when it comes to mineral fertilisers and trying to get as much as possible for their own sake, of course. We are simply seeing how country after country makes sure to strengthen their own food production and be the first on the ball. A kingdom will protect its borders and feed its citizens. These are the very important parts of a functioning country. This is particularly true in a world situation that is becoming increasingly stable. Mr President, I would like to What does it look like in Sweden? Continued is about every other bite that we eat imported. There are no emergency stocks when it comes to seeds, mineral fertilizers, plant nutrients and fuel. We've abolished them. I do not mean that it is this government's fault that those stocks no longer exist. It is the responsibility of many governments back that those stocks do not exist. But this government has been very good at beating its chest with the fact that they have introduced the food strategy and now three food strategy action plans. Yet we stand here now when the world situation is more stable than it has been for a very long time. We already saw at the drought in 2018 how countries around Europe joined up more and more. We see it clearly now, too, in a deteriorating world situation. Mr President, I would like to Frankly, I'm worried. It is not enough that we now have a shortage of input funds for Swedish primary production when it comes to food. The incredibly high cost increases that we are currently seeing also help to ensure that the positive spirit that has existed in Swedish agriculture is indeed on the way down. It's very unfortunate. We have our plain farms in Östergötland, Västergötland and Skåne. Those farms will run on as usual and produce food. But what happens to all farms out in the less favourable areas where the same crops are not taken, which have a worse condition from the outset, depending on soil and cultivation conditions, in order to reap the same harvests? What's going on in those areas? The cost situation is so extremely high for those farmers, and they choose to stay over with their food production this year. Unfortunately, Mr President, I think they will never start again. Then we have lost that agriculture out in the less favourable areas. That's when it's getting really serious. It is agriculture that is, to a large extent, incredibly important for biodiversity. This is where we see much of our natural pastures. This is where we have our mining areas between land, forests and pastures. They're incredibly important. That is also the final percentage. Most of the food is produced in large agricultural areas. But it is the last percentage that we produce out in the edge areas. They're so important. That's why we can't lose them. It is not that it is something new that it is beginning to crack with food production in these areas. It is also due to a rather poor predatory policy for many years. It is many times these areas that are hardest hit by this policy. But of course they have also had a poor profitability for a long time. Here we have real problems when it comes to food security and food readiness. If Sweden is to succeed in increasing production, the trend we now have is very bad. It is the government that owes the answer: How should we strengthen Swedish agriculture in the incredible liquidity crisis that we are currently in? That is the big question. It falls back on the government. I hope that the representative of the government here today, as we may call the Socialist Member, will have the answers to that. As the Minister for Rural Development cannot say: I follow developments and have close contact with the industry. In a month and a half, we're going to harvest what we're going to harvest in the fall of 2022. If there has not been enough liquidity to buy input money, we will not be doing this year's food production. There is a great risk that we will then reduce food production in Sweden in 2022. I am really worried about that, Mr President. We see, just as I started talking about, that we are in an increasingly uncertain position. We risk that several countries will join forces and, first and foremost, look after themselves. Here we have work to do, Mr President. I think I have had the opportunity to say some well-chosen and serious words about food preparedness and food security, and I look forward to further debate.
i-PJnDTjDc1K2FoztFHj2zHh	Mr President, I would like to Now is the time for a debate on one of the most important areas that exists at all. It is about what enables us to live — that there is food that allows us to eat and survive. This is not an industry like any other, for it is associated with so many other parts of our society. It is about climate change and biodiversity. It's a large area. It is called food policy in this particular report, but it is a major and incredibly important issue. From farm to table, we say sometimes. Let's think about that little seed. I'm not going to give you any sex education in the animal world, but it's a small seed whether we're talking about the animal or the plant world. It is a small seed that gives so much yield. It's a miracle! You are somehow insouled by the question when you think about it that way. That is why I agree with what John Widegren has said before: what we are seeing now when we look at how it looks for agriculture, for example, in Sweden is that many of the people who really are passionate about providing us with food live in an extremely tough economic situation. The latest report from the LRF shows that a quarter of all farmers have already decided to reduce their production slightly. As many as 40% say that you will probably reduce your production. Then we are far from achieving the goal in our food strategy of increased Swedish food production. Since we know that Swedish food production is of such high quality, it is particularly regrettable that we do not have access to high-quality food in this way. It is sustainable food production, and, as one Member said earlier, it is also insurance against crises. But then there must also be the conditions to strengthen our livelihoods both in terms of food and energy. So there are many different parts that fit into what we call food policy. At the same time, as I mentioned at the beginning, our sustainable food production is also a pathway towards reduced climate impact and an investment in jobs and green growth. The last time, as I recall, that I took part in a food policy debate in this House, we had left the drying year 2018. Of course, it put a lot of strain on us. We know that agriculture in Sweden has experienced crises at regular intervals. When I was quite new to Parliament in 2008 and 2009, we had something that we called the pig crisis. We met many farmers who were then in a very difficult situation. This can't go on. This cannot be an industry where you are not sufficiently competitive and do not have the necessary profitability to be able to have a certain degree of flexibility, a strength and a basic condition within your company. The increase in costs is a figure that we are all well aware of in the Committee on Environment and Agriculture. Today, a cost increase of SEK 5.7 billion is indicated. There are also some increases in revenue linked to it. But, as has already been said, the issue of fuel, inputs such as fertilizers and more, feed and energy are four different parts that severely limit the ability of agriculture to get through the year ahead. I hope that many of my colleagues feel that they are hearing from the party leadership in their political parties in order to prioritise these issues forward. The emergency billion proposed by the Center Party in the Committee on Finance last week was very well received by the other parties who supported this. But that's not enough. That is why we from the Center Party yesterday presented five proposals for a strong green transition throughout the country. It is an investment of SEK 7.4 billion. I see it as extremely important, and I hope that there is a positive attitude towards this from other parties as well. Mr President, I would like to We want to see increased Swedish food production both on land and in the water. Then we need to have political conditions for what we can do. We are proud of the production. The food strategy was mentioned here earlier, and it is an important step. We had a united parliament that supported the strategy. But it also wants to make it much more workshop. Concrete efforts are needed. In order for us to reach the full potential, what we have said is not just a measure that is required, but a number of different measures that are needed for Sweden to become a food and drink country in the future. In this context, I would just like to mention in a recital that I am pleased that the issue of farm sales and the investigation into it were sent out for consultation. I believe that, for many reasons, farm sales are an important prerequisite for rural areas to continue to develop. In eight minutes you don't have time to give a broad picture of this, but there will be some impact. It is still the case that rules and advice need to be developed. All authorities must be given the task of promoting increased food production. Then processing times must be shortened, and so on. Today, another factor is also problematic: that agriculture is classified as environmentally hazardous activity. It is clear that if a cowhouse with more than 400 animals is considered as problematic as an environmentally dangerous industry, it hampers development in different ways. Here the design of the environmental code needs to be changed so that it is not classified as environmentally hazardous activity. Another issue in which many of us have been involved concerns Swedish meat companies that have received increased control costs. Here too, the government needs to come back and see how it can work to make this more flexible. There are several solutions forward. Another issue I would like to raise today is food fraud. When you say cheating, it may sound like it's just a little cheating, but it's actually a crime that's relatively extensive. In 2018, it was said that it is perhaps 3 percent of the production covered, but it is about nearly 9 billion SEK. Much stronger action must be taken here. Holland, Denmark and the United Kingdom are showing a much more powerful way of dealing with this crime. It is clear that our municipalities are responsible for supervision and so on, but you need to work more on the basis of prosecution of crime. I am therefore surprised that no more political parties agree with our proposal to give the government a mandate to set up an investigation into how such a control force could be organised so as to be able to face up to crime. We had a visit to the committee from Malmö, and they told us how to work there. I was impressed. But at the same time we hear that as soon as you are someone on the tracks they change the municipality with their business, and then you lose the track again. So these elements will be extremely important to highlight in the future. I would like to conclude, Mr President, by saying that I look forward to our highlighting the important food issue in many different parliamentary debates in the future. It is a vital activity, and the competitiveness and profitability of agriculture really need to be increased. I request the approval of reservation 3.
i-SUT8S7NFFkQXJgAEwhwewj	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 12. Today we are debating food policy in this House. I would like to begin by thanking my good colleagues who have highlighted this policy in a very good way. I want to continue the fire speech about what it actually looks like today for many Swedish farmers. Mr Widegren and I had a debate a few weeks ago, we continued the debate yesterday and now we are having a debate today on what it looks like. It's very tough and very serious. In fact, we are in the midst of a crisis for many farmers. The costs have completely run out. Electricity, diesel, feed, commercial manure– basically everything farmers use to produce food has been cost-exploited. Madam President, I would like I want to read an email that I have received. It begins: Is there a future? Hey, Magnus! What will happen to Swedish agriculture? Today we have no liquidity left in livestock production and live at best on rust and rot. There's talk of crisis support, but it feels like nothing's happening. We don't have Lisa Nilsson who can reach the media and get people to understand the seriousness. The price of energy will break us fast. There are no reserves left, and Swedish milk production in particular has not made money in the foreseeable future and therefore not consolidated. Think the Swedish Parliament bites its tail if you don't do anything now! Here the government – I look at the representatives of the government party – must do something quickly. We Christian Democrats tabled a proposal in the Committee on Environment and Agriculture yesterday, which we also discussed at the time, to reduce the reduction obligation to 14%. This would mean that the diesel price would be reduced by SEK 3 at the pump. Unfortunately, only SD wanted the same thing. We're talking about an emergency billion, and it's important. From the Christian Democrat side, we have said that we support this proposal. But a farmer said to me this: Magnus, you talk about emergency billions when you yourself have actually made sure that your decisions in parliament are necessary. With the reduction obligation it has become so that we have raised the diesel price very much, so I think what the farmer said was quite in the middle of the point. The government that now has the power must do something other than just say: yes, it was a proposal, we will come back again. You have to come up with something that makes a difference, and it is important that it is done now. Madam President, I would like The food strategy has been talked about very many times in this House, in fact since 2017 when we took the decision. I want to stop a little bit at the food strategy. Maybe some of you weren't there back then-- I'm thinking I'm getting a little old; maybe it's not, but still. The fact is – now I am looking again specifically at the Social Democrats here – that without the work of the then rural minister Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht, it would not have been anything, I can say straight away. It was not a matter of course. There was no sense that it would be anything, but it was very difficult. But thanks to his work, and also the work of the former LRF chairman Helena Jonsson, it was created, and we are very happy for that right now. In fact, it was Eskil Erlandsson who, in the time of the alliance government, got into a competitiveness inquiry, and it was it, so to speak, that became the food strategy. So, when we talk today about a strategy for food, we have many to thank who did a very good job. What does the food strategy say? It says that we should increase the profitability of agriculture, strengthen competitiveness and increase Sweden's food supply. When we discuss this, it becomes very interesting. My colleague John Widegren talks a lot about our food strategy and food security and that we have such an incredibly worrying situation. So today we are below 50%. In a crisis or war situation this in Stockholm would be empty on the shelves where we buy food after two days – two days so it is empty! In the rest of Sweden it is about ten days. Is this something we can be happy and proud of? No, that can't be. Is it just the government's fault? No, it's not. It has been a long time during which we have thought that, as we say at home in Ödeshög, it will be okay. Well, it's not really like that. We have to work politically on this issue, and it is interesting that we have now actually put this on the agenda. When I came to Parliament in 2014 and lifted this with our self-sufficiency of food, there was a person who came to me afterwards and said: Do you hear Magnus, don't talk about the self-sufficiency thing! We have the EU. It'll be all right. I think it's nice that none of us say it anymore. I'm sure I won't be met by the same thing. We have understood the seriousness and that we in Sweden must have a production that is worthy of the name. We can look at how things are in Finland, Madam President. Finland has a completely different policy in which it really looks at this and ensures that at least 80% of people are self-sufficient in food. That is something that I think we should follow. There is much that we can work with and much that we can learn from our Finnish friends. We debated this last night, and sometimes, I can say, it is almost a bit of a scolding when you talk about the food strategy. Everyone says to me, Magnus, I'm a farmer and I've been working on this. I do not see anything that has happened because of this. Then I think that this is something that this government must take on board. From the opposition we will work very hard, because we must lift Swedish agriculture in a completely different way. It's got to be visible. Today they say: Magnus, I have not noticed that there has been a single thing that has made me get more money in my wallet. And I think that's true. We must ensure that there is a workshop– I look again at the representatives of the government side. It has to be a workshop. I hope that you will now work on this until the elections – I can promise that we in the opposition will do so, even then if we gain power. We must raise the issue of agriculture in a completely different way and get food production worthy of the name.
i-E5PMFfux4ztSXoSfb639TL	Madam President, I would like I would like to say thank you to Mr Oscarsson, given the great interest in Swedish agriculture and its opportunities. The honourable Member mentions the proposal to reduce the reduction obligation, which the Christian Democrats raised in committee. That proposal surprises me, because my view of the Christian Democrats is that climate and environmental issues are also important. Then I am a little perplexed that the only proposal that comes is a proposal that goes in the wrong direction in this respect. I wonder how the thought is linked to what we should do to continue to be part of the green transition. The whole of the agricultural sector has said that we want to be, but give us the conditions to be able to be so! I am somewhat surprised to come up with a proposal which directly counteracts this. I would therefore like to ask Mr Oscarsson how you think. Would that be for a year? What is the background to reducing the reduction requirement? How can you then turn forward again? I am thinking here of the proposals put forward by the Center Party to increase the refund on diesel tax. It is also a measure that really promotes the farmers' ability to create better economic conditions. But it makes me both a little bit curious and a little shocked that the Christian Democrats are making a proposal that goes so far against environmental thinking.
i-KJMgK8XNE3W69F4LTyzhJH	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ulrika Heie, for the question! It's great that we have to discuss this a little. To be honest, we have come to the realization that, when the decision on the reduction was taken in the Chamber a few years ago, we might not have realised – some perhaps but not all – how much it would affect the consumer. We did not realize that the decision would make it so much more expensive. Today we have a involvement of about 30.5%. Our goal is for it to be over 60% by 2030. When we talk about competitive agriculture, everyone says that it is something that you support. But it falls flat when we know that our farmers have to pay so much more. Today, the European farmer has 5% to 6% involvement in diesel, and their plan is that it should go up to 14%. So we've made a reversal. We don't think that was wise of us. We still have the same plan to be environmentally conscious. But we also realise that we have to go along with consumers, with our farmers and with all transport that needs to go by lorries. It is important to listen and to keep pace. It does not work today when the diesel price is up to SEK 22 at the pump. I wonder how much we're going to talk about by 2030, maybe 30 kroner per litre? How, then, are we going to solve this?
i-Ed8Ya8mx7KSYUtUQNCr753	Madam President, I would like The honourable Member concluded with a question: how are we going to resolve this? It's always easy to ask questions. But what are the answers? The honourable Member says that they still have the same plan to reach the 2030 targets. But if they first back up, how much more radical will they then be? Is it the same objective that applies, or does this actually mean lowering it? There are much more accurate proposals to solve the situation of agriculture. If I understand that correctly, you want to lower the reduction requirement for all interference. It is a pretty big step backwards you take from the climate effort that many parties have been proud that we can have. The question of biofuels also exists and about becoming much better at seeing this production in Sweden as an important way forward. Therefore, I am a little curious about how the Christian Democrats think about the whole. I can compare with the proposals put forward by the Center Party to increase the refund of diesel tax to agriculture, to change the deduction and to invest more in domestic production. There are other ways to go. Would it be interesting for the Christian Democrats also to look at other parts than just actually taking a number of steps back? When you say that you have the same goal ahead, the effort will then be much greater in order to achieve the goal. I don't quite understand it. If you think it will cost SEK 30 per litre by 2030, will you reduce even more? You get into a dead end. I am curious to hear further reasoning on this.
i-E2BGCoHktV7FNvc9hz8xH7	Madam President, I would like Thanks again, Ulrika Heie! Repayment of the diesel tax is something we are in favour of. We think it's important. You might wonder who's making a thought-worship. You were in on it a little bit and wondered how we were thinking. But we still have to say as it is: today, Sweden does not have biofuels in the way we want them to. In fact, most of what is bought from abroad is an ugly propellant. It is made of sugarcane and comes from Brazil and other countries. It can't be the most amazing thing to do in our country. It is important and something that we want to inculcate. It is clear that we want domestic production to be much larger. We'd like it to increase. But there's so little going on. It's going so slow. Above all, the fuel price has gone away with the decision we made on the reduction obligation. With our proposal to reduce the reduction obligation to 14%, we are talking about 3 SEK less at the pump. I know it's a huge issue for people around our country – for our farmers, for those who drive trucks and for those who live in rural areas. Yesterday or the day before yesterday, the Center Party made a proposal. I think you were talking about a drop of 1.10 or 1.20 per litre. People you talk to say: They say 1, 20, but you say 3 crowns. There's a big difference. It's really important that we do something now. The Center's proposal might work. But our proposal is more substantial. It is 3 crowns that apply.
i-HzGS3vm8Un4wGgmf6r1zAC	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation number 6. What we eat matters to how we feel. And how our food and food are produced plays a role in how the climate and the environment are doing. More and more people choose foods that are both more healthy and have less negative effects on nature. A sustainable cycle is needed for nutrition to go from the earth to the table and then back to the earth again. When we eat our food, we need to feel confident about what we eat and not be deceived. Cheating and other fraudulent behaviour mean that it is not competed on equal terms, but above all it affects the view of Swedish food and on Sweden as an export country of food. Now the Swedish Food Safety Agency has the task of counteracting cheating in order for us as consumers to have confidence in the food produced. Support and training for control authorities are important here. Despite this, food fraud is constantly increasing in Sweden, while our food control has become better at detecting and preventing fraud. Unfortunately, we can see that we are not keeping pace with the cheaters. Madam President, I would like Can we today feel safe with the food we eat at the dinner table? Unfortunately, we have more and more reconciled ourselves with the idea that what we eat may not always be as good as we think. Slows the thought that it's hard to keep track of the food, so let's go! But the song-go method can't be left. We need to raise the lowest level. We as consumers should not have to lower our confidence in our Swedish food or in what we decide to import from the EU or other countries. As cheating becomes increasingly organised and moves, not only across municipal borders but also between our countries, action is needed at national level. That is why a national control force is needed. We're joining forces here with the Center Party. It is important to tackle the systematic and growing food fraud we are seeing today. A holistic approach is needed to see what action is needed at municipal and national level. We're not going to lower our lowest level. We will constantly fight to be able to eat our food without feeling anxious. We have enough worries to worry about, don't we? Madam President, I would like It is one thing for us consumers to keep track of the food we place on our table at home. It's another thing to keep track of the products we eat at the restaurant. It's getting harder there. We can of course make demands as consumers and ask the restaurant where we eat what meat we have on the plate and where it comes from. But wouldn't it be easier to see the origin of the meat on the menu? Then we also see when we protect Swedish meat production, which is so good. It is about taking care of it and giving it more priority. Madam President, I would like We have an amazing country. We have many good rules and laws. But when it comes to the big problem of food waste – it's huge, and it's growing – we need to encourage our citizens to start thinking more for themselves. Of course it's quite possible. We have that belief in man. Sometimes life was, I think when I look back, better before. It is not often you hear a liberal say it: that it was better before. In this respect, however, I am thinking at least of what it was like at home on the farm. We didn't have a best label on the milk bucket, which we picked up from the barn. We put it in the fridge. The milk was used. We didn't bring in more than we needed, even though we four brothers drank, like, a bucket every day. That's better than water. So we need to encourage people to think for themselves. You don't have to take more than you need. The eggs from the henyard were always used. They were so good and too valuable to be wasted. Of course we made sure to eat them. We were all hungry. In the potato cellar in front of the spring we learned, especially from my grandfather, that even rotten potatoes can be eaten. You just take away what's rotten and what stands out. Then they're boiled. There was no best-case date. There were no exact limits. There was only a healthy sense of common sense. That's how nature works. We shall feel, taste, see and smell to know what food we can eat. We need to take strong action to get back to how we did during the time when we lived more close to our animals and our nature – yes, back to sound liberal farming sense. Food waste needs to be limited. We need to regain the knowledge and attitude towards food that is more and more lost – this through efforts to inform about what different foods have for life. Today, not everyone knows the difference between, for example, the expiry date and the expiry date. With a greater amount of information, this can also be addressed. With a change in date labelling – for example, it could be: the least sustainable to – it would most likely be less food waste, and it would safeguard our climate. I would like to develop this much more: dear little friend! You can eat. Try! Finally, I would like to join with the group who want to emphasise that it is high time to shift food readiness in our country. That ball is now, as we have been, with the government. As Liberals, we attach importance to being able to both export and import food, especially between the Member States of the European Union. We see that we need to work so that we do not join the European Union when the crisis comes, as we have discovered during the pandemic. We will keep it open within the EU and support and help each other. Today's energy crisis shows that we are a vulnerable country in this particular situation with regard to food. We also have great opportunities to produce fertiliser ourselves in our country, not just now. We are totally dependent on imports of it, from Russia, for example. We need to have both sober and long-term eyes on how to ensure food readiness in our country. I think it is a little popular-party sense that I am now calling on us here in Parliament to take a deep breath in the situation we are in. We do not need to sit still in the boat, but we need to find broad political solutions forward, which do not come lightly. I look forward to finding a broad consensus here in Parliament on this, because governments come and go, but the food must always be on the table.
i-3GVyPHJoVmmZmEfxmMGJ9v	Madam President, I would like Food is something that affects all people and that really engages. One issue that is very important is the question of how food production affects the climate and biodiversity. Many people have been led to choose one food before another, and we can handle the climate. But it's not that simple. The most important thing is not what food we eat, but how it is produced. What is also important, speaking of what the honourable Member spoke about before me, is to reduce food waste. I'm going to talk a little bit about how our food is produced. A recent report from Lund University says that organic farming could be bad. That report is well quoted among editorial writers around Sweden right now. It is said in headlines that ecologically can harm the environment more than conventional. That's not true. The report is not correctly reproduced. The report says: If the environmental impact is related to a field area, the results indicate that organic farming provides more biodiversity, lower nutrient losses and less greenhouse gas emissions. It is therefore better for biodiversity. It gives less eutrophication. And it provides better climate benefits. If the environmental impact is related instead to the size of the harvest, organic farming is better when it comes to biodiversity. However, according to the report, it is a little more difficult to draw conclusions on the other points. Based on this uncertainty, the report speculates that ecologically perhaps could be worse from a climate point of view, but there are no facts. It is simply assumed that more land would be needed for higher production. Counting fictitious emissions in this way is not done anywhere else in agricultural or climate research. This would mean that a farmer growing beans would be designated as a climate villain compared to the grain grower growing wheat. After all, the wheat harvest is greater than the harvest of prayer. The farmer in Uppland would be a climate villain because it has less harvests than the farmer in Skåne has. This is what fictitious emissions are about, and that kind of mathematics is not possible to trust. Organic farming is an agriculture with better environmental performance per area. In fact, more farmers are needed throughout Sweden and the cultivation of larger areas in order to grow more. This is needed when we have organic production, and it is a huge environmental benefit for Sweden. Agricultural land that is now growing again can be put into use. In fact, natural pastures can be grazed to a greater extent. It is also true that organic farmers are the farmers who have the most grazed natural pastures. Those farmers should have all the credit for that. This is linked to Sweden's self-sufficiency. It is not only the degree of self-sufficiency of Swedish food that needs to increase, but we also need a greater focus on how Swedish agriculture will be better supplied by domestic inputs and fossil-free energy. In agriculture today, there is a very high dependence on imported diesel and commercial fertilisers – which are produced, among other things, from Russian natural gas – and on the import of pesticides. Dependence is high also on imported machines and partly also on labour. All these things make agriculture vulnerable in the event of a crisis, and so I would like to endorse the Green Party's reservation 13 to increase self-sufficiency. Self-sufficiency is also related to organic farming. Organic farmers are at the forefront when it comes to using the allocated resources on the farm and are not dependent on highly climate-affected commercial manure at all. This means that they can also be a resource to be involved in the transition to a green society. We have talked a lot in the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture about precisely the need to strengthen civil defence, and it is thanks to the Green Party's perseverance in defence policy that we are now seeing investments in both food and water in civil defence. We also need to ensure a development around Swedish fossil-free manure, and in the Environmental Targets Preparation there were recently proposals for a quota obligation to include more fossil fuels in manure in electricity is fertilised. This is a very good suggestion! Organic farming is also about clean water. Water is our most important food. There are major problems, including in Sweden, with water resources being contaminated by pesticides from conventional agricultural land. It goes without saying that farmers who refrain from using chemical pesticides in their production also contribute to a non-toxic environment. At the moment, agriculture is in a crisis, and in the midst of this crisis, eco-farmers are forced to pay for exemptions and crisis exemptions to Swedish authorities. I hope that the government is prepared to take the cost of the trouble that arises when new food rules for organic food are introduced. It's not supposed to hit the eco-farmers like an extra bang right in this crisis situation. Madam President, I would like There are many Members who have talked about the crisis, and on behalf of the Green Party we want to state that we too want to strengthen Swedish agriculture. We believe that the initiative of the Committee on Finance must be handled wisely. A green investment in agriculture is needed in this difficult economic situation. But the Green Party also wants to make a greater effort and a redistribution from cities to rural areas in general, including in order to strengthen rural conditions and economic viability. We need to support people financially for climate change to be fair and sustainable. Madam President, I would like The EU has a system of protected designations to protect unique knowledge, traditions and environmental and agricultural conditions. In many parts of Europe, this system has developed very strongly and has promoted the tourism industry that provides more food-related business benefits for many actors. In Sweden, the system has not developed as strongly. Tomorrow I will visit the Swedish Food Administration to discuss how Swedish food and food strategy can be improved. We all know that rural areas and agriculture may be one of the really big issues in the next elections. Then it is important that this debate will not only be about energy and electricity but also about how fine food from Swedish farmers and food companies can be produced throughout the country with gentle methods and with greater environmental benefits. Madam President, I would like In recent weeks we have had major discussions on electricity and energy prices. There are very many of us who are committed to ensuring that Swedish households receive stronger support. It is about conversion, but also about crisis support. However, I would just like to remind you that there is also a very strong need in Swedish small businesses, not least in the food industry. Small entrepreneurs such as bakeries and breweries have also been severely affected by energy prices, and so we from the Green Party believe that small businesses must never be forgotten.
i-FjGK2ipZ9kz9YDGWCeMZ6X	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr President, for your speech. I thought about what I was talking about in my speech, namely history writing. I find it so interesting to get how things turned out as they did. I am thinking of the fact that it was actually Eskil Erlandsson, the then rural minister, who highlighted this in the then alliance government, and so was the Competitiveness investigation. It was completed in 2015. Then came the next rural minister Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht, and what did he do? Well, he took this on board and wanted a food strategy that many of us were involved in negotiating. As I said, it was very positive. I know a farmer said to me: Finally! Now I can invest! He's not saying that today, I can tell you. Afterwards, it has not become much of a 中 et. However, the food strategy says that profitability will increase, competitiveness will be strengthened and food self-sufficiency will increase. I know that your Member who was involved in the investigation stressed very much that self-sufficiency would increase. It was one thing that our two parties had in common, because we also thought it was important. We see how bad things have become and how things have not improved over time. Apart from the last few months, you have now been in government. I am thinking of competitiveness. That is a word that I know the honourable Member does not like. But it is a word that is there, and I think it is important to emphasise that our farmers need to have equal competitiveness as farmers in the rest of Europe.
i-WjoLkbhTUbX43DkzUDRacZ	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Magnus Oscarsson, for the question! When it comes to history writing, I can say that I worked for the Environment Party's spokesperson 2008-2009, and this was the first time that the Green Party pushed for a Swedish food strategy. So the Green Party has been at the forefront of these issues for a long time. It is quite right that I fully agree that we need to have a stronger focus on the issues of self-sufficiency, both in terms of self-sufficiency with food and self-sufficiency and reduced vulnerability in agriculture. So we get more indigenously produced fossil energy for agriculture, and then agriculture also becomes better at taking care of fertilizers and things that can be produced in Sweden fossil-free. I think that the food strategy needs to be reviewed and revised, and that is also something that the investigator for fossil-independent agriculture, Helena Jonsson, has proposed. I think that we in the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture should take care of this. Then there was the question of competitiveness and Swedish agriculture. Do you all know, and Madam President, that Swedish agriculture is competitive with regard to some products, namely Norwegian salmon, spirits and sweets? This does not benefit Swedish farmers. It is not competitiveness that drives the development of Swedish agriculture; it is the profitability of farmers and small businesses.
i-QmuUP8dP1Yd7pZGxuD8bNr	Madam President, I would like I thank the honourable Member for her reply. I know that many farmers point out that, compared with the rest of Europe, competitiveness has not been strengthened in any way. It will be interesting to see if there has been a workshop during these years. On the contrary, there has not been a workshop, but competitiveness has clearly decreased. Another issue that I still think is important is that it is still in the environmental code that agriculture is an environmentally dangerous activity. The honourable Member and I have talked about this issue before. That's when the Green Party was in the government. I then appealed to the honourable Member to campaign for the Green Party as a government party to work for a change. Once it came to a decision in the Riksdag, who voted in favour of a change? Yes, it was the Christian Democrats, the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats. It was the three of us who said we wanted to change this. When it came down to talking about a change, we did not hear that the Green Party was trying to make a change. I have the following question to the honourable Member: will the Green Party work in opposition to change? It is not right that this should be the case for our Swedish farmers.
i-9yrU1M5GLbcMxJshbUHRkS	Madam President, I would like This would be a food debate, but it is easy to have an agricultural debate. But let us look at the food in agricultural production, and then the environment is an important issue. Swedish hospitals are also included in the environmental code because it deals with not only patients who are going to become healthy but also environmentally hazardous substances of various kinds. It's regulated in the environmental code. The same is true of agriculture. For example, pesticides need to be properly managed, and emissions need to be regulated. Energy shall be used in a reasonable manner. All of this is regulated in our legislation. Environmental issues affect agriculture. It does not act environmentally dangerously or is an environmental villain just because agriculture is included in the environmental code. This is a misconception that Magnus Oscarsson spreads in Sweden. Madam President, I would like Speaking of what Magnus Oscarsson has put forward in the Riksdag today, I would like to comment that the Christian Democrats are pushing so hard to reduce the opportunities for a growing bioeconomy by flushing the reduction obligation. With the Christian Democrats' proposal, which he has talked about in Parliament today, climate emissions would increase by between 15 and 20 per cent. It's serious.
i-HHSwzuzAhL6KkX9fZWg5oj	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in its entirety. Today we are debating food policy. It is about what food we put on our plates but also about the food's way there, all the way from farm to table. It is also about future food and production, sustainability, job creation and a competitive food chain. There is a broad consensus on the direction of Swedish food production through the food strategy. The overall objective of the strategy is a competitive food chain where total food production increases while at the same time achieving relevant national environmental objectives with a view to creating growth and jobs and contributing to sustainable development throughout the country. The national strategy towards 2030 is the first Swedish food strategy that also covers the whole food chain. Work on the strategy is long-term work, and we need to link all the good work done – from farm level to research – to succeed. The government's long-term investment in research and innovation is crucial for achieving a sustainable and competitive food system. Madam President, I would like One of the objectives of the strategy is that consumers should have a high level of confidence in food and be able to make informed and sustainable choices. Reliable and easily accessible information in both the shop and the restaurant is then a prerequisite. Therefore, the government has taken decisions on origin labelling for meat in restaurants and in large households. The Swedish Food Safety Agency has been commissioned by the government to increase the equivalence of food control throughout the country. The task includes simplifying and facilitating the operation of controls, reducing company fees and saving companies' time and resources. The functioning of food control is also crucial for finding and combating the food fraud which today is a growing problem. The Government has therefore, within the framework of the Food Strategy, provided the Swedish Food Authority with funds for the period 2020-2025 to strengthen and develop efforts in this area. Madam President, I would like At the moment there is a serious situation for many of our food producers. The price of inputs has increased and, in addition, there are difficulties with imports of certain inputs. In addition, our food producers suffer from high electricity and fuel prices. The cost of producing food has increased recently. I know that the Minister for Rural Development and the Government are following and analysing this situation closely and closely. There are constructive discussions with the industry on the state of agriculture and the high costs for the country's farmers. We in the committee will have the analysis that has been produced tomorrow. It is now even more important that we consumers continue to choose Swedish in the grocery store and at the restaurant. We must continue to highlight the added value of Swedish products, continue to reduce vulnerability and increase our level of supply. In the study on fossil-independent agriculture, which is now being consulted, there are also many interesting suggestions. The food sector plays a major and important role in the transition, and there is innovative growth here. If Sweden is to become the world's first fossil-free welfare country, climate-smart and circular food production is an important piece of the puzzle. This also applies to the issue of developing new sustainable foods. Innovation is also a key to ensuring competitiveness and growth in food exports. The transition to a fossil-free farm is also one of the most important efforts to have good food readiness. Vulnerability of food supplies is great because today we are largely dependent on imported inputs. Food security and safe drinking water are a fundamental function of society for the population as well as good quality water is a prerequisite for activities throughout the food chain. The government's efforts in civil defence, together with the efforts in the food strategy, are now enabling the country's food readiness to be built up. The Swedish Food Safety Agency is tasked with working with a focus for the work on civil defence, and an initial account of this work will be made at the end of February. Madam President, I would like I would also like to highlight some examples of everything positive that is happening in the area of food, because a great deal is happening that I think is worth highlighting in the debate. On 19 January this year, the Minister for Rural Development opened Sweden's first protein factory in Bjuv, which will offer Swedish proteins from legumes that have grown, refined and packed in Sweden. Last autumn Arla's new innovation farm was inaugurated in Norrtälje. Here there will be research projects on farm-by-farm methods to increase the positive environmental impact of milk production, reduce climate impact and modernise Swedish animal care. Lantmännen has inaugurated the future farm in Bjertorp, which tests new seed, new ways of growing and new technology and combines various measures on the farm to develop innovative solutions for the future. At the future farm in Viken, where active feed trials have been carried out, the next step has been taken with specially equipped milk robots that can be used in the experimental activities. Madam President, I would like In November I visited Larz and Emilie in Edsele, two hugely driven entrepreneurs who invested and now start up Norrland's only larger chicken production. It is not a large-scale place, but here you rent and fill empty barns with new animals and new activities that give new jobs, new life in the countryside and local chicken meat to buy for us consumers. There is a sustainability and overall splash, the feed is bought locally and the chickens do not have transport when hatching, rearing and slaughter takes place in the local area. There is a lot of positive happening, and we shall have sustainable food production. That is why, through the food strategy, the action plans, the research bill and budgets, the Social Democratic Government has made every effort in the area of food. At the same time, we must continue to have our ear to the ground in order to listen to where future action plans, educational efforts and research funding are needed and useful. Swedish food production should increase, but it is not an individual who solves everything alone. It is together that we will succeed, and the food strategy is the tool for achieving our goals.
i-6DYxZnRSjUZc4uCm9wcNLN	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Malin Larsson for the speech and the clarity of a number of questions and not least the desire to highlight parts of Västra Götaland County, from which I myself come, such as Varaslätten with Framtidsgården Bjertorp and also Viken, which was mentioned. I thank you for the broad knowledge in the Swedish Parliament about where we have exciting development projects for agriculture. I would like to ask the honourable Member a few questions. The honourable Member chose, in his speech, to touch briefly on the issue of food fraud and what can be done to prosecute it. We in the Center Party have proposed a form of control force, because we experienced, when we had contact with not least Malmö Municipality, who was in the committee and told us about its work, that a measure was requested that is more powerful than to cooperate within the food strategy. As I understand it, the honourable Member mentioned that it was a five-year project. If I saw correctly in the document, it's about $3 million a year. At the same time, we can see that the food fraud amounted to nearly SEK 10 billion in 2018, and we know that it is a figure that has probably increased. Since Magdalena Andersson took office, the Social Democrats have said that every stone should be turned around, and they are also making efforts to prosecute gang crime. With regard to the criminality involved in food fraud, I think that there is an opportunity to make an effort and look at Denmark, Holland and the United Kingdom, which are countries that have gone ahead in different ways.
i-374WTKnGXusUpPftErHq3H	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Ulrika Heie for raising important and urgent questions about food fraud, but also the exciting development projects that exist around the country. I would like to say that it is extremely pleasing to see everything positive about food production, research, innovation and development in the food sector. I think it is important that we highlight this. It is happening all over our country, both where Member Ulrika Heie comes from and where I come from. I would like to move on to food fraud, because it is an urgent matter. As Mrs Heie pointed out, we have received information about this in the committee and have been able to see how to work in Malmö, for example, where they are well ahead. Food fraud is totally unacceptable. Where there's money to be made, there's crime. It is incredibly important that we have measures to tackle this. It is important that people know what they are buying. You should not be fooled, but you should know what the bottle or packaging you buy contains. Food fraud also distorts competition, but, as I said in my speech, efforts are being made in this area. Then you have to follow this and see if more is needed, if more money, effort and so on. I can imagine that this could be a subject for our parties to discuss among themselves in the future – if we are going to do more, perhaps in a forthcoming plan of action in the food strategy or the like. I think we should follow this issue together.
i-RumBkRiSq3JfDHBj4YbSDL	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Larsson, for the answers to my question. I feel that there is a certain tendency to wait and see what is happening, but I appreciated what was in between, that together in future action plans we could look at much stronger measures to prosecute crime. I appreciate that the honourable Member chose to mention research and the innovation that exists. Today, there has been much about primary production in the debate in view of the situation we find ourselves in. There is also Sweden Food Arena, which we could highlight as a fine example of when nutrition, academia and others are working to promote Swedish food production, increase exports and so on. I would like to ask the honourable Member something further linked to the situation we find ourselves in with regard to Swedish agriculture, but first I would like to make a correction, Madam President. In a previous change of line, Oscarsson said that his SEK 3 was more than the Center Party 1, 10, but if you count 1,10 and 2.07 you get 3, 17, which is slightly more than SEK 3. Then I got it said – I don't think it's good when inaccuracies have to remain unresponsive. Back to my question. With regard to the situation of agriculture, the Center Party has proposed the so-called emergency billion. We also have a number of other proposals. What are the ideas of the Member's party? After all, the Committee on Finance has supported the emergency billions. I would find it exciting to hear what measures are most important at this point in time to come forward rather quickly with proposals on what to do. As Mr Widegren said in her speech earlier, sowing begins in March, at least in parts of the country– it may take a little longer. What do we intend to do in the near future to ensure that we have increased food production?
i-UpzXSL4ZSePLjKWCzLByKr	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ulrika Heie, for the many important issues that you raised! The emergency billions were highlighted in the Committee on Finance, and there the Social Democrats also agreed to investigate it further. Where it then lands remains to be seen, but just as I raised in my speech, we now have a serious situation for our food producers around the country. There are analyses, dialogues and so on. And as soon as tomorrow in our committee we will be able to take note of the analyses carried out by the Swedish Board of Agriculture. I do not want to anticipate what will be said then. I don't know. However, it is quite clear that certain measures will be required in this area. We are very keen to have increased food production in the country. Then it is very important that our food producers have the opportunity to develop their businesses, to change and to push their businesses forward. We want more food production, more self-sufficiency and so on.
i-Q3RuPjDQimQSTbzqTae62R	Madam President, I would like Thank you for an exciting and interesting speech. I'd like to say it's a little bit as usual. When the Social Democrats stand in this Chamber and make their speeches, they paint fantastic pictures and visions. I think that's good. You're supposed to have visions of where we're going. But that's exactly where we're not right now. It is now that we have problems to deal with. It is now that we need to have visions of how we are actually going to get agriculture to cope with the liquidity crisis that we have now. Madam President, I would like Now it is primary production in the food chain that we are dealing with. Without it, the whole food chain stands quite flat. The Social Democrats are not getting away with this. They have now been in government for almost eight years, and we are facing a huge crisis. Swedish agriculture has an advantage right now because it is quite high product prices on what you sell. That's what makes there any hope of getting through this year, 2022. But what if we get a new 2018? They are being wound now that there are high prices of inputs and put out mineral fertilizers on which there are very high prices, but then the harvest may not even be half. What happens then? What are the Social Democrats thinking? Here the Social Democrats paint long-term visions and long-term goals about where we are going, and that is good. We need to talk about long-termism, too. But, Madam President, how do we prevent Swedish food production from falling by 2022?
i-79v7wTfMHEFYo1iW4eA5Ps	Madam President, I would like As far as visions are concerned, I also choose to see everything positive that is actually happening in the area of food. I also think it is incredibly important that we highlight all the positive things that are happening and all the developments that are taking place. It is the primary producers who are out there who are behind it too. There is very important research under way in this area thanks to the government's efforts in the food sector in the research bill. The situation we have at the moment is very serious for many of our food producers. I am very much looking forward to seeing the report tomorrow in committee. But, as I said earlier, what will be said there we do not know yet. But it is important to follow it up later. I know that the Minister for Rural Development and the Government are following this closely and closely. You say it doesn't help. But you have to listen and see too, and you have to analyze before you can make decisions. Having a good basis is also important. There have also been very constructive discussions, not only once but several times, with the industry based on the situation. We must also continue to highlight the added value created in the country in terms of Swedish products and highlight them and continue to reduce vulnerability and increase our level of supply. I think that Mr Widegren also has a responsibility in this regard. In this House, for example, he has spent far too much time on government transformations rather than working forward. But now we're on. We have a social democratic government in place and a rural minister who is taking on the issues at full speed.
i-7VpPCZeoTUP4yXT7V4TwjB	Madam President, I would like Now I do not think it is the Moderates' fault that the Social Democrats were unable to obtain a majority in order to remain in government positions. I'm a little disappointed. Nevertheless, I think that the largest party in the Swedish parliament, the party that sits in the government – although a minority government – has no concrete proposals whatsoever, but says that you listen to and follow developments. Then we will see whether the 25 percent of the farmers who said that they would not so, as was highlighted here earlier, actually wound or not. If they do not sow, we will reduce our food production this year, as we approach the deadline for the Swedish food strategy set for 2030. That's when it would increase. What then happens to the farmers who end up in the less favourable areas, because that is where we will see the most farmers ending up? Will they start again? Are there any thoughts that they will probably start again if only the price levels of inputs, if there are any, end up a little more right? I believe that the government and the Social Democrats at this point do not show leadership. I was expecting more. If, after what we hear from the LRF and the Swedish Board of Agriculture, the Social Democrats can deliver more tomorrow, that's a good thing. But right now it shines with its absence.
i-3HRGY63cA45zxjFF435FQg	Madam President, I would like As I said, it is incredibly important that we have good evidence and the right facts on the table when decisions are to be made. Instead of gimmicking and hoping that it lands right, we are very careful to make the right decision. We take responsibility for the country, and we take responsibility for Sweden's food production. We have been doing this for a long time, and we will continue to do so. We have made enormous efforts in the food strategy, in the action plans and in our budgets because this is an important area. Yes, we see the seriousness today too. And I'll come back after tomorrow. But we need to have facts on the table before we make any further decisions.
i-5uTTkW8twzAUkUo12Fmamk	Madam President, I would like The Social Democrats have held the post of Minister for Rural Affairs in the recent governments. And we see how agriculture in Sweden is unfortunately closed down in many places, not least in forest and middle areas and in northern landscapes. It is very good that Malin Larsson points out that there are also examples of agriculture that come to Norrland. Unfortunately, however, there are exceptions. The Social Democrats have a very strong focus on industrialism in their agricultural policy. On January 16, we read in Svenska Dagbladet that Swedes eat the most ultra-processed food in Europe. Ultraprocessed food is linked to major public health problems. There is also a great variation in the way food looks around Europe, where Italy may be the best. But Denmark is much better than Sweden.
i-TcLzKPZpRM9FXk7eQBgoHn	Madam President, I would like Yes, it's incredibly funny with everything positive that's happening. I picked up an example from Edsele in Sollefteå Municipality – a sparsely populated municipality – but there are also many other positive things that are happening. Farms are not laid down everywhere, as you sometimes want to make it. For example, there is a young couple who have just built a new dairy farm on the High Coast. There are also more people who invest in and choose to move back to these areas, take over farms and start operations. I hope that this will last, because that is what is needed. Enough because we need large farms – we have many mouths to feed, the whole country will be supported and preferably we will also export food. But the smaller farms are also needed, especially in order to farm the land in the interior – including the hinterland of Norrland. Maria Gardfjell asked me about ultra-processed food. I think it is incredibly important that we maintain the positive pandemic effect, perhaps we can call it, where we see that demand for locally produced food that is not ultra-processed is increasing very much. It is important that we keep this up and continue to raise the added value of local food. I would also like to point out that the public has a very important role here through its procurement procedures. You can actually buy good food instead of the ultraprocessed.
i-GHtQZn7YuVCQe9VqXETGz5	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the answer, Malin Larsson! I hope that this is a sign that the Social Democrats will now change direction in their food policy and really invest more in local production and small farms throughout the country. Madam President, I would like The EU has a system of protected designations to protect unique knowledge, traditions and environmental and agricultural conditions. The system covers geographical indications and protected designations of origin. A protected designation of origin requires that the raw material must come from the area and that production must take place there. We know that in many parts of Europe there are many products that have protected names and that it also drives a food-visiting industry, one might say. We miss this development completely in Sweden, and I wonder how the Social Democrats and Malin Larsson want to work to get more products with a protected designation of origin in Sweden. And what about when we have two authorities that obviously cannot work very well together on the task?
i-HYwgqubDY94CqYSY9gd2gd	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking, Maria Gardfjell! Yes, there is an incredible amount of good food work around the country. We had the privilege of joining the Swedish Championship in food crafts, for example, where you could take part in – both watch and taste – these fantastic food crafts. In government we have also invested together in Eldrimner and the food trade. I see that the protected food labels are something that could be relevant here. How to work with that forward I dare not say here today, but that is of course something we have to take with us. We've done a lot – and I've lifted up a lot that's done today – but it's good and lucky that we have something left to work with ahead too. So we will have to bump and wet together on food issues in the future.
i-9JuLwyEnUZGQHFtkzzzhg2	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your interesting speech, Malin Larsson! We have been very concerned about the situation of our farmers at the moment. We talked about the fact that everything has skyrocketed – the price of electricity, diesel prices, feed prices and the price of fertilizers have skyrocketed completely. It is then naturally interesting to hear what a government has ideas and suggestions to bring about some kind of change. So I agree with the question that my friend here asked about what is going on. An organic dairy farmer I talked to recently said this: Well, Magnus, now it's tough. It's all right because I don't use a lot of diesel. But in spring, when spring use starts and we really start driving tractor in earnest – I don't even dare think about that! That is why we in the Christian Democrats looked at what can be done. You talked earlier about listening, Malin Larsson. You put your ear to the ground and you want to listen. I am thinking here: we have also put our ears to the ground and listened, and we think that you must do something about the price of diesel. We had a proposal to reduce the price by 3 kroner, but we got no. I wonder, then, what alternative does the government have to address to this great concern, which many feel is truly disastrous for our country?
i-XTPw8pv9oBoLVh5EQdMcvV	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the questions, Magnus Oscarsson! Unfortunately, with regard to the serious situation of food producers, which many have raised here today and to which I have replied, it will be the same answer as before: I am not pre-empting the government here, nor the information either. I think it is important that we have facts on the table before we speak and say anything more. So, what's going on, I'm afraid I can't give you an answer today, Magnus Oscarsson. Mr Oscarsson also asked what was being done, and he raised the Christian Democrats' proposal on the reduction obligation. I reacted to a previous change of line, Madam President, when Magnus Oscarsson said that we are importing, that there is so little going on and that it is going so slowly. I am not really getting this together, because at the same time the Christian Democrats are proposing a committee initiative on reducing the burden of reduction. Is it faster in the transition? No. It's kind of like backing into the future. I also listen to farmers and food producers, and yes, they are in a tough situation now. But a lot of people want to be in the transition. Many people want to know what is happening there and wonder how they can change. They do not want to continue running on diesel, but want new solutions. They want to be involved in the transformation of our climate and our environment, and they want to be involved in pushing these issues forward. I got a little perplexed, 'cause I didn't really follow. So the honourable Member will be happy to explain that.
i-9UKxBbxQ5G7DXdNyaABWjP	Madam President, I would like Thank you for both some answers and some questions, Malin! I am happy to answer the question raised by the honourable Member. What I was trying to say was that the high reduction obligation is at the expense of everyone who uses diesel in rural areas. This means that all farmers and all those who need to transport in our country are suffering a great deal more than European farmers, for example. That's what I was trying to say. Then we are the first to say that we want more domestic production, but the fact is that today we buy a lot from the rest of the world. In fact, we've done a lot of fulcrum on sugarcane from Brazil, so I guess that's a bit like that. I want to go into the food strategy, which we have been going on about. I believe that the honourable Member and I have had discussions about it before, but I still think it is important to highlight this. In 2017, we adopted the food strategy here in Parliament. We talked about more profitability for agriculture. We would strengthen competitiveness and increase food self-sufficiency. These are, as I said before, great and important words, but unfortunately the farmer does not notice this. I would like to ask the honourable Member a straight question. I understand that the honourable Member, like me, is out meeting many farmers. What does the honourable Member say to those who say that they do not notice in their wallet that they have received any boost from the strategy that is so much talked about?
i-CuQWs25Q65Qwg81DHgbAkW	Madam President, I would like The food strategy has been discussed many times. I think it's the best tool we have to work on and increase our livelihood. We have action plans that are linked to it and can constantly see what more of it is needed and make investments there. I'm making a visit out there, too. Magnus Oscarsson and I probably hear different things, because I actually think there is a difference. I highlighted several good examples in my speech today. Sweden's first protein factory has opened. We have trials all over the country. We also have innovation farms, where new technologies, new opportunities and new food are being developed. I think there's a lot going on. Then it may not always be clear to the primary producer that what is falling down may be the result of the food strategy and its efforts. Often when I visit, I see that there are signs on farms where there has been investment money or other support and grants that they have been able to take part in when they have developed their business. This is money from the government, but people don't make that connection. I think we need to link the food strategy more with the concrete, which Magnus Oscarsson is into. What is the concrete out of this? This is long-term work, and I think it is important to hold on to this. This food strategy is enough for 2030, but we also need to start seeing longer. It is with the food strategy that we can change, and we can do that together. I think it is incredibly important that we have as much consensus as possible on these issues in order to achieve success.
i-srrRMPVe9VT2ifrGZ6Z53	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to call for reservation 9 on the export promotion of Swedish food. We have the best food in the world in this country. Yet they are only a small part of what we eat and a small part of what is exported into the world. How can that be? That's crazy. We must begin to understand why this is the case. Our food has very high added value. It is about animal welfare, climate pressure, low antibiotic resistance and the safe use of pesticides. We're the best in the class, or second best, at these things. Yet we produce so little food – less than we have done before. Much can be traced back to the fact that we have less competitive conditions in this country. Much of this, in turn, can be attributed to political decisions that have been taken for many years. It is about political decisions in Sweden and political decisions in the EU. Time and again the decision is taken in which the competitiveness of the food industry is not taken into account. Decisions should be well balanced. All values should be weighed against each other; it is a fundamental conservative principle. It has not been applied; instead, it has wanted to be the best in the class in Europe and best at home in various competitions within the EU and globally. We have to stop this. We must begin to take account of the competitiveness of each decision. We must always carry out impact assessments. Well-balanced decisions should be what we are aiming for, and this must be done at an early stage. You can't wait. Here the government has a particularly important role to play because it sits in the context, not least in the EU, where these issues are discussed at an early stage. The Riksdag often enters a rather late stage, and then it is not possible to choose freely. The issues where we have had, and have, problems are about a lot. They are about food directly, agriculture, electricity, fuel, climate, forests, rural areas, border guards, customs and more. Everywhere we have contributed to a policy that does not take into account all the values. Everything is connected, and all the time Sweden makes the wrong decision for Sweden's agricultural industries. Partly, this is because we have a European Commission that is not similar to the European Commission that has existed in the past. It's activist. All the time Sweden acts too late. Sweden can now activate itself, tough up and tell the people how bad it is and how bad it is going. This applies not least to forests, although this is not what today's debate is about. These are the long-term issues. We also have an urgent issue – an acute cost crisis – in agriculture. There's a real rush here. If you do not act now, you throw away opportunities and faith in the future. This confidence in the future is needed for investment, and these investments are needed for future competitiveness and environmental and climate friendliness.
