i-3UhZgU7oT667pbX7g27ff2	Mr President, I would like to Martina Johansson has asked me what I intend to do in order for the courts to increase their competence in the area of children's rights to be heard. She has also asked me what I intend to do to ensure that children, in accordance with the Convention on the Rights of the Child, are more involved and heard. Furthermore, she has asked me what I am going to do to increase the systematism and the use of uniform methods to ensure that children's rights are taken into custody. It is very important that the best interests of the child are primarily taken into account when matters of custody, housing and association are decided. Children shall be protected against violence and other abusive treatment, and each child shall be given the opportunity to be involved in matters concerning him or her. The Government is continuously working to strengthen the child rights perspective in custody disputes. Last year, new legislation was introduced that strengthens the child's right to information and to be heard. The legislation gives more and younger children the opportunity to participate in the procedure. In order to strengthen the child's participation, an opportunity was also introduced for the Social Welfare Board to hear a child in matters of custody, housing and access without the guardian's consent and without the guardian being present. The government also recently decided on a bill with proposals to increase children's legal certainty in international family goals. I hope that these legislative changes will provide increased support and improved basis for decision-making in the application of the legislation. The government also set up an investigation last year that will consider, among other things, how to strengthen the protection of the child when questions arise about relations with a parent who has exercised violence or committed any other serious violation. The assignment will be presented in December this year. The Government also gave a commission last year to the Gender Equality Agency to carry out a survey of judgments in order to gain increased knowledge of how data on abuse is processed in cases of custody, housing or association. The report now submitted by the Gender Equality Agency will be a useful basis for the ongoing investigation and the government's continued work to strengthen children's rights.
i-UEpnXCBPEbaspeSJdobeCc	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Morgan Johansson, for your answer! It is a response that contains some of the improvements that have actually taken place in the area of children's rights over the last year, including, as the Minister mentions, the right to information and talks without guardians, as well as the protection of children in international family cases. However, I do not think that is enough. In order to ensure children's rights, we need to have more demands on knowledge and the use of uniform methods based on different types of research both within the court and the social services. The Center Party has made a number of different proposals in these areas last autumn and also in the past that also aim not even to have custody cases in court – because we do not want them there. The best thing is if the parents can get along before you even have to take it to court. However, what concerns social services directly is not under the responsibility of the Minister. Nevertheless, I do not think that the Minister answers my questions in his first speech. The Convention on the Rights of the Child has been Swedish law for over two years. The courts must relate to the legislation that we have in Sweden. Since the Convention on the Rights of the Child clearly shows that children have the right to be heard and to be involved, we would not really have to make these clarifications in other types of legislation. I believe and am quite convinced that much is about knowledge and working methods in many areas to increase children's rights and opportunities. The gender equality report that has been submitted – it has been quite a long time since I submitted the interpellation – shows that children do not speak. I can't see it. Either it doesn't show how you've used it, or it's standard response. Here you could refer to social services and say that it has this responsibility in its investigations. Nevertheless, I would argue that the Court has a responsibility. If the court sees that the child has not been heard, the court must either ask for another type of investigation or investigate for itself and ensure that participation actually increases. Children and young people must be allowed to share their image without the influence of other adults, and that can only be achieved by working with knowledge and uniform methods. We know from various reports that children do not really speak, such as the last one I mentioned. I do not know, therefore, whether further investigations and reflections are needed. We need a workshop now! As I feel that I did not receive an answer to my questions in the interpellation, I again ask what the Minister intends to do in order for the courts to increase their competence in the area of children's right to speak, what he intends to do in order for children, in line with the Convention on the Rights of the Child, to become more involved and to be heard and what the Minister intends to do to review the system and the use of uniform methods to ensure children's rights in custody cases.
i-7SmgHDFuCNWV29JXErb6jg	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to say that combating violence and child abuse are some of our top priorities. Such a background often exists when it comes to custody disputes. I can mention some legislative changes that we have made in this regard. The other year, for example, we removed the limitation period for child sexual abuse. We did this to make it clear that it should not matter how long time passes, but one should be able to take an offender far into the future. The perpetrator should know that this is the case: If you commit a serious abuse of a child, you may be convicted of it far, far into the future. We also introduced the child peace crime last year. It was a very important change in the sense that if a man beats his wife in front of the children, he commits a crime not only against the woman but also against the child. Police and prosecutors regard it as a huge change that these abuses and violence are now being tackled differently from before. This also means, among other things, that the child becomes an independent victim and plaintiff in the process and gets the right to better support plus actually can also get compensation from his own father. Thus, the child peace crime is also a huge change. As part of the major expansion of the police force, the police have also recruited over 350 investigators with a particular focus on crimes involving particularly vulnerable victims. These crimes are part of it. I pointed out the legislative changes made on 1 July 2021. These include increased opportunities for children to speak. It is about younger children and in more situations than before. It is an important and recent change of law because it is not even a year old yet. Nowadays, there is also a possibility for social services to hear the child without the guardian's consent. It is also hugely important for the whole picture to come out, so that a guardian who can be part of the problem itself cannot stop information from the child. It's extremely important. I note that in the report from the Equality Agency on which Martina Johansson builds the interpellation, the agency has gone through a number of judgments that lie further back in time, and in essence it is about judgments that came before the legislative changes. I hope the legislative changes of 1 July last year will have an impact, so that it now looks better simply. The gender equality agency's report is mainly based on judgments that came before the amendment of the law. I also point to the investigation where we reviewed the rules of association. This issue is important in the future when it comes to strengthening the rights of vulnerable children and women. My view is that a violent man is not only a bad husband but also a bad father, and this must be reflected in future in the examination of rights of access. There is a review and a report will be presented in December this year. We are doing a lot in this area, but there are certainly other things that we need to do. And I am happy to have a dialogue with the Riksdag in the future on this.
i-4PvSoPUmUUQKHfdjWovfPm	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. Certainly, child peace crime is an important change, and the Center Party has been involved in pushing forward and making the change of law a reality. Of course, a child who witnesses violence should of course be regarded as a victim and be his own person. That's where we're in complete agreement. Let me go back to what the Minister says about the legislative changes coming into force after the judgments that the Equality Authority has been looking at. That's absolutely true. However, the Convention on the Rights of the Child still stipulates that children should be given the right to be heard. Regardless of the change in legislation, this was stipulated in the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Why have I repeatedly talked about children's right to speak during my years in Parliament and that there must be uniform methods at work? It's to make kids feel good. Children are individuals of their own and they are not anyone's property that can be used in, for example, a custody case. What happens if there is not a good job to ensure children's rights is that a child does not have access to both his or her parents – which is equally wrong – if both parents have care skills. In fact, that is what is happening today, namely that children lose access to one of their parents. This is because there are not enough good practices when we judge the issues. It's just as terrible for the child for the future. I will come back to the fact that it is the methods we have to work with and not always the legislation. In criminal matters, it is clear what is needed to convict someone. It's not as clear what to do when we talk about custody. Of course we can't talk about fingerprints when we talk about custody cases, the way you talk about evidence of a knife or a burglary. But it's about getting as close as possible. Let us look at the example of children's interviews. In a criminal case, it is very clear how the interviews should be conducted. There should be open questions and clear methods to be able to refer to the children's answers. In this way you can analyze and tell what your assessment is. The corresponding working methods do not exist throughout the country in this type of case that is decided in court. There are municipalities that are very good at working with children's interviews, but this does not happen throughout the country because the whole thing does not exist. Then I think it is the Court's responsibility, from its point of view, to ensure that children have the right to speak in order to get as close as possible. We need to ensure the best interests of the child in a custody case. Mr President, I would like to I will come back to my basic questions. What does the Minister intend to do to improve skills, to ensure that uniform methods are developed so that children can be heard and more involved?
i-RW7QPGk9D6AAhtm5yoxtVf	Mr President, I would like to I'm sure there's a lot more that can be done. I would like to point out that the amendment of the law introduced less than a year ago strengthened the right of children to speak. The analysis carried out by the Equality Agency is based on the conditions that existed before the amendment. I assume that there has been a change, and that will have to be evaluated afterwards to see what impact the new legislation has had. After all, however, these are important changes, both the strengthening of the right to speak and the possibility of hearing children without the consent of the guardian. It's extremely important. Martina Johansson then asked what else can be done to ensure that there are proper investigations and more uniform processes. It is the social services in the municipalities that are responsible for the investigations, but we in the state can help in different ways. Here is the Agency for Family Law and Parental Support, which deals with these issues. It's not my authority. It's in the Ministry of Social Affairs. However, a lot of work is being done at that authority to try to support the municipalities in these investigations. General advice has been issued on the investigation procedure and specific management support has been provided on risk assessments in investigations into custody, housing and access. Information and knowledge support has been published as well as manuals on the handling of cases and investigations. This is what the state can do to strengthen the processes in the municipalities. Then it is the municipalities that are responsible for further education, competence development and so on in the social services. What's on my area of responsibility? I have the courts. There I note that the Academy of Justice, which is the organisation of the Swedish Courts to provide judges with further training and competence development, is actively working on these issues. It offers several courses in family law dealing with various aspects of the best interests of the child and other relevant issues as well as the most recent legislation. That's how you get to work. When new legislation is in place, you will then have to work on skills development for those who will apply the legislation. Then it is the Swedish Courts Academy that is responsible for education and competence development. As I said, it offers a number of courses for this. We will certainly have reason to come back to these issues in the future. I would just like to point out that this is what we can do on a regular basis on the part of the state.
i-Fho4xzegJmWDe1u1LxwGrL	Mr President, I would like to These are issues that lie under a little different responsibilities. I think that is precisely the reason why children do not speak and are allowed to participate. Responsibility for the different parts is always with someone else. I have similar discussions with the Minister's colleague Lena Hallengren about what can be done. Nevertheless, I would like to return to the fact that the amendment of the law will affect, but the Convention on the Rights of the Child still exists as a law regardless of what has been included in our previous legislation. Here is a dividing line between me and the Minister as to what is required. I do not have the same focus on changing the legislation, but again it is about competence. There the state must take responsibility. The authorities can describe different ways of working, but you can become much more distinctive in looking at what the research does. There is very little research on, for example, child interviews in custody cases. It is reflected in the work of the Court. The court must ensure that children are heard. It's not just the municipality's responsibility. The Court of Justice asks for an investigation, but if it fails to do so according to the Court of Justice, the Court must either ask for additional information or carry out an additional investigation itself. I hope that we can continue the discussions. Please read the Committee exercise from last autumn! There are many suggestions that the Minister, together with Lena Hallengren, can take and take off to both reduce the number of custody cases and ensure children's rights.
i-AjazrH6ynNMAh6278Yb9RN	Mr President, I would like to I don't think there's much difference of opinion in this. It is clear that the Convention on the Rights of the Child is there all the time and is being applied and used by the authorities applying legislation. Sometimes legislative changes are needed to see that the legislation needs to be strengthened in order to achieve the objectives and objectives of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. This is an example of this, I would say. Less than a year ago, we strengthened the children's right to speak and made the amendment regarding the possibility of hearing children without the consent of the guardian. It's a big change. From 1 January, there is also another amendment to the law, namely the fact that information between parents is being conducted by social services in a different way than in the past and with greater demands on it than in the past. It is also a consequence of the bill that we tabled last year. Yes, of course there is a shared responsibility. As long as it is the municipalities through the social services that are going to do these investigations, that is the way it is. I do not want to transfer that responsibility for investigation to any state institution, and I do not think that Martina Johansson wants to do so either. It is the municipalities that do this, and then you have to ensure that the municipalities receive the support from the state that they may need in it. But they also have their own responsibility to do their job well. We can do this through the Swedish Agency for Family Law and Parental Support, which we do, and we can strengthen the development of competence in the courts through the Academy of the Courts, which we also do. As I said, there is certainly reason to come back to this in the future, but I do not think we have any deeper differences of opinion. We simply continue to work on strengthening children's rights in all respects.
i-DwSSGXTofRqYRFhASeeNsz	Mr President, I would like to Lars Beckman has asked Minister Johan Danielsson what measures he will take to develop the legislation in the area of digital property formation and what legislative proposals will be presented next year. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. Digitalisation is a priority for the government. It is an important tool for achieving simplifications and efficiency improvements in the civil engineering process, of which building is part. In recent years, the Government has decided on several assignments focusing on the digitisation of the civil engineering process, and extensive work is under way in this area. For example, Lantmäteriet, together with other authorities, has established a national platform for digital geographic information. In the long term, this is estimated to lead to economic benefits and contribute to reduced processing times in the property building business. Lantmäteriet is also developing a new technical support for the handling of property formation cases. There is also ongoing work on the exchange of digital information between authorities and on the development of public authorities' common digital services such as electronic signatures and digital authorisations. The government is keen to ensure that we have a well-functioning and equivalent property formation throughout the country. Effective legislation is an important part of this. As shown in the report from Lantmäteriet referred to by Lars Beckman, the work on developing legislation in this area is extensive and time-consuming. In February, the Government submitted the Government's proposal Change of unit rates in joint units to the Riksdag. The proposal allows for a simpler change in percentages, which may lead to a reduction in the workload of surveying authorities. In addition, work is ongoing within the Government Office on several issues related to Lantmäteriet's operations. For example, proposals for coordinated property limits and digital transfer documents are prepared. There is also ongoing work on the rules on the land register. It is too early to say when any legislative proposals can be presented.
i-XbiQQ5kVTVPsTjsZ362NTH	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. There is a public contract in Sweden. That social contract is based on the fact that we citizens give power and tax to a number of politicians, who are going to solve societal problems. Sometimes it becomes apparent when the social contract is broken. The Easter riots are one such example. It becomes clear to everyone in Sweden that we have alienation areas where the whole social contract is broken. When it comes to Lantmäteriet there will be no Easter riots, but there will be a huge disturbance in social development around Sweden's municipalities. It's been a while since I wrote this interpellation. When I wrote it it was about the Swedish National Audit Office to review Lantmäteriet and there was to be a report. The Swedish National Audit Office's report has now arrived. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish National Audit Office's report is frightening reading for those of us who are interested in urban development issues. The heading of the news of the report, which is available on the Swedish National Audit Office's website, is It's not the Moderates who say it, it's the National Audit. 中 Lantmäteriet's real estate development activities are inefficient with long processing times and high unpredictable fees. The Swedish National Audit Office recommends that the entire regulatory framework and the current charging model be reviewed, it says further. The Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed the state property formation at Lantmäteriet. The review shows that there are major efficiency problems. For example, the processing times are very long – and have become longer and longer for a long time. ..................................................... That is how the Swedish National Audit Office writes, Mr. Speaker. This contrasts sharply with the Government's response, which is that this is a political priority. If it is a political priority and the length of the proceedings is longer and longer, then one has to wonder what is going wrong. The fees are way too high. I received a report from the Swedish Parliament's investigation service that shows that Sweden has the longest processing times in the Nordic countries at the highest cost of building construction – in the least and most expensive. The Swedish National Audit Office points out that it is possible to make the processing process easier and faster. However, outdated legislation prevents digitisation, such as the use of digital coordinates instead of poles in the ground. The introduction of automated decision-making for certain matters is another important step, says Helena Lindberg, National Auditor at the Swedish National Audit Office's website. This is not a new issue, Mr President. We've been talking about this for years. The criticism of Lantmäteriet has existed for many years. But the government is not pushing. The government does not make demands, but it is lazy, lax and indifferent. And when the government doesn't push, nothing happens. It is almost unbelievable how the other Nordic countries can withdraw so quickly in this area. So action is needed. Action is needed, and that has not been done quickly enough. It would be interesting to hear whether the Government has taken any note of the Swedish National Audit Office's report, what conclusions the Government has drawn and what concrete measures the Government intends to take to resolve this situation so that we can speed up construction around Sweden.
i-H7wWEuHiQD5fK4dbFXsMRT	Mr President, I would like to Yes, of course I have taken note of the Swedish National Auditor's report. Lars Beckman says it's scary reading. Then he's probably pretty easily frightened, let me tell you. After these days, I can imagine far more frightening reading than the Swedish National Audit Office's report on Lantmäteriet. Lars Beckman goes on about the processing times. It goes without saying that government and municipal services must maintain a high level of service, of course at the lowest possible cost for applicants. But to Lars Beckman's hopefully great pleasure, I can still state that the processing times at Lantmäteriet have gone down, in some respects actually quite sharply. I look at the statistics on the processing times and compare 2017 with 2021. Private residential building processing times have decreased by 10 per cent. The processing times for commercial and public land and real estate development have decreased by 23%, as have the processing times for agriculture and forestry. And the processing times for private land and real estate development have fallen by 28%. When Lars Beckman claims that the processing times are getting longer and longer and that things are getting worse and worse, it is not true. Actually, it's exactly the opposite. They sink year by year. They're still too long, yes. But they still sink year by year. Then why are they too long? It has not, I say, mainly to do with the legislation itself, but it is due to a lack of surveyors – a lack of staff to do these tests. Lantmäteriet is not my authority, but I can see that it has now been ensured that this authority too has been expanded quite substantially in recent years. Since 2015, the number of employees has increased by more than 300 at Lantmäteriet. This is an increase of 15 percent since 2015. Should we continue to work to speed up this and pinch in the processing times, I think that is where one can focus. It is simply a question of continuing to strengthen the agency with more employees to whom these cases can be allocated. However, I can nevertheless note that the processing times since 2017 have been falling to a very large extent and that in this respect they are actually moving in the right direction.
i-QUoKY9rFQyNw8Yn6EY4mMV	Mr President, I would like to I started my speech by saying that when the social contract is broken it becomes very clear, as for example in Skäggetorp this weekend. These are incredible scenes we've seen... may we never have to experience this again. As far as Lantmäteriet and urban transformation and construction are concerned, the shortcomings are of course not as obvious to many. However, it is equally harmful for Sweden, for rural municipalities, for companies that want to expand, for private landowners who sell their land and for those who want to buy land and expand. These are issues that have been raised very much in recent years. The Swedish National Audit Office's report is frightening reading, which shows that the government has not prioritised this area. That's probably why it's being built too little compared to how much it could be built. That is why, among other things, I produced this report from the Parliamentary Investigation Service, to look at what it looks like in our Nordic neighbours in this area. Sweden is therefore by far the most expensive and has the longest processing times. There has been no lack of proposals, either from Lantmäteriet or from others, which have flagged the government that legislation needs to be changed. I visited Lantmäteriet myself, and it was told that in some cases you must manually go back to perhaps the 1600s in order to be able to do an execution. It is clear that if the government had pushed and given resources to increase digitalisation, the administration would have gone faster. And when the process is speeded up, the costs will also fall. The Swedish National Audit Office itself points out that the charging model is characterised by the monopoly position of Lantmäteriet, that full cost recovery should take place, that the fees should be set through hourly rates and that Lantmäteriet may both decide on and retain the fees. The Swedish National Auditor says, "In the state administration, this is an almost unique degree of freedom, which means that Lantmäteriet lacks clear incentives for cost efficiency. ..................................................... This means, therefore, that it is the government that must push for and say in regulatory letters and other things: hurry up, improve and do this better. Then there is a need for changes in legislation. I saw that, in some case, almost two years ago, Lantmäteriet itself flagged and said in its report: we need a change of legislation; we need help with this. But nothing's happened. I read in Expressen the other day that what has taken up the Council of State's time is to engage in flag days. It may be that it is important for the Government to engage in whether we should flag or not on the Queen's birthday. But I believe, Mr President, that the citizens expect them to devote themselves to what is important in society. I believe that citizens expect Sweden to have the fastest real estate building process in the Nordic countries, and the cheapest. That would be good for Sweden. It is therefore the opposite that prevails at the moment. We have the longest processing times and the highest costs, while the Government has devoted itself to the Queen's flag days. This may be important for some, but I think that most people think it would be better to put the Ministry's time, energy and resources to solve what is important for the urban transformation in Sweden, not least because the government has denied the municipalities that want to carry out their own municipal surveying activities. The government has consistently rejected the requests that have come. Municipalities are extremely affected by the state's breach of its social contract, Mr President.
i-BgNKH7xHkEfTQKJhYcGh6G	Mr President, I would like to Lars Beckman mixes all sorts of things in a single mess. The flag days I have spent minimal time on, I would say. What I am doing is implementing a proposal to the government from a parliamentary committee in which the Moderates have served. I am therefore putting this into effect as part of a deal made a number of years ago. But, as I said, it has taken minimal time. The Moderates have, of course, been involved in designing this proposal regarding, among other things, flag days but also other things, so Lars Beckman should not try to escape. But this is not what I have spent most of my time on, especially in the last few days, but I have, as everyone understands, devoted to quite different issues. To return to the very subject of the interpellation, I say when Lars Beckman claims that everything is getting worse and worse: No, look at the processing times. They have declined, in some cases very strongly – with everything from 10 to 15 and up to almost 30 percent since 2017, as a result of, among other things, strengthening the agency and now has over 300 more employees than in 2015. So what Lars Beckman really wants is a little hard to put his finger on. He talks a little sweepingly about legislative changes and such. Yes, even this authority is constantly developing its digital capability and has been doing so for a number of years. Among other things, it points to the new national platform for digital geographic information, where municipalities can put in their detailed plans. This gives them digitised or digital information about this in a way that they have not had in the past. The same applies to the exchange of digital information between different authorities. This is an ongoing operational work carried out by the Agency. Lars Beckman is concerned about how this affects housing construction. I would like to say that it is minimal. The major problem and the threat of housing construction is the policy of the right-wing parties, which abolishes investment aid for housing construction in particular. As long as we have had the investment support and the fundamentally Social Democratic housing policy, we have also had a record level of housing construction; this applies to both housing rights and, not least, rental rights. In fact, we have to go back to the 70s in some respects to find a housing building as extensive as we have had in our years. As soon as the right parties get the chance, they go for investment support and thus increase the risk of a reduction in housing construction. This is the great threat. So I'm not quite sure I understand what Lars Beckman is after. But he mentioned in some way that it is a problem that Lantmäteriet has, as he says, a monopoly on this. And then maybe I understand what he's after: He wants to privatize Lantmäteriet in some way, open it up to competition. We know that it is always on the agenda for the Moderates when it comes to things that are going to change: it should be privatised and opened up to competition. And we know that history is full of examples of how privatizations have, rather, led to very major deteriorations in the service to the citizens. I don't want to contribute to that.
i-3tXARfqJdZL7w2K8LThhMx	Mr President, I would like to I'll tell you exactly what I'm after. I'll be very clear. Me and the Moderates think that Sweden should have the shortest processing times and the lowest costs for executions in the Nordic countries. I understand that it is a long way to Ljusdal for a social democrat, but that an execution would not affect the pace of construction is a lie. I myself have talked to an entrepreneur in Ljusdal who will make sure that it becomes a new residential area. Two years is the state's processing time to cut off land, and the Government says that this does not affect the pace of construction. Of course it does, and this is what the Swedish National Audit Office points out in its report. Another expectation that the Moderates have on the government is that they change the legislation according to what Lantmäteriet itself wants in order to digitize more and faster. But this is the case when priority is given to other issues rather than to the social issues that are important. It becomes obvious in Skäggetorp that the community contract is broken. It is not as obvious to the entrepreneur in Ljusdal or elsewhere who wants to expand. So what the government has to do is push for, for example, coordinate boundaries. I think it is five years since Lantmäteriet delivered its report on this. The Government stated in its first reply that the government prioritised the issue, but it does not appear to be a high priority. The Moderates want it to go faster, that it will go better and that it will be cheaper, so that the urban transformation and social development in Sweden can continue as efficiently as possible. It would be appropriate for the Government to prioritise its time and that of the Ministry to what is important, and this is a very important issue.
i-XASdbkAQQfhoQgs5Ap1uwH	Mr President, I would like to I can only see that the processing times are falling. I have just lined up developments in recent years, from 2017 onwards. I don't know what was the case in Ljusdal, but when it comes to private land and real estate development, processing times have fallen by 28 percent since 2017. Private housing construction has fallen by 10 per cent. It is about ensuring that Lantmäteriet and other authorities have the resources they need to cope with the tasks they receive. I note that we have expanded Lantmäteriet with over 300 more employees since 2015. There is a lack of competence, and this is not, of course, the only area. There is a shortage of surveyors – educated people – also in this business. But it is the training and competence development of those who are working on this that you should go on rather than dealing with the very issues of legislation. That's not what's effective here. If we are to continue to reduce the processing time, it is simply a matter of expanding the process so that there are more administrators who can handle these cases. I can assure Lars Beckman that, although I have many questions on my table, I am dealing with the most important issues and taking them gradually. The fight against crime is perhaps the most important priority I have dealt with in recent years, and I will continue to do so. But, of course, ensuring that we have functioning public services is also extremely important. We will continue to pursue a housing policy that will ensure that we maintain a high level of housing construction. I don't know if Lars Beckman has informed the person who would build in Ljusdal that the Moderates are taking away all the money for housing. Surely this is the real threat to housing – not the legislation in this area.
i-NvYny9kKVnHm8F9ToRjEBf	Mr President, I would like to Alexandra Anstrell has asked me what more important measures the government has taken to strengthen civil defence and specifically population protection since the 2015 defence decision. Furthermore, Alexandra Anstrell has asked what measures I intend to take in the short and long term to strengthen population protection and what measures I intend to take to resolve evacuation issues in the event of increased preparedness. We are currently rebuilding Sweden's total defence, and the government is making the biggest investment in modern times in civil defence. In the coming years, the investment will increase gradually in line with what was announced in the bill on defence from 2020/ 21. Together with the funds added in 2018, this means that the civil defence will have been strengthened by a total of SEK 4.2 billion at the end of 2025. In addition, the budget proposal for 2022 proposed additional SEK 500 million per year from 2024 for the continued efforts to strengthen security of supply in healthcare. The government has also made proposals in our amending budget to further strengthen civil defence by SEK 800 million. The proposal is based on the recent report of the Civil Protection and Preparedness Authority in response to a mission to assess the measures to be taken to strengthen civil defence in the short term. This includes, among other things, the upgrading of the population protection rooms and the improvement of outdoor warning systems. The government has commissioned MSB to make proposals for measures that can be taken to strengthen the civil defence in the budget bill for 2023. The report may include both already planned measures that could be brought forward and any additional measures that could be taken to strengthen civil defence. This assignment shall be presented on 10 May. The government has also commissioned MSB to develop a basis for civil defence in the longer term, i.e. for 2024 and beyond. It shall include analyses and assessments of the civil defence needs and capabilities of the actors, proposals for measures and priorities, and cost estimates. The assignment must be reported no later than 1 November 2022 and must be subject to continued handling in the Defence Committee. In May 2021, the Government appointed an investigation to review and propose how modern and well-adapted physical protection for the civilian population against the direct consequences of acts of war on Swedish territory should be designed. The mission covers three highly interrelated areas: shelters, evacuation with subsequent accommodation and a support organisation that can carry out operations, for example in connection with the use of shelters and evacuation and accommodation. The study will present its report in November this year. The government has therefore taken a series of measures to strengthen the protection of the population and, taken together, what we are doing now shows that the reconstruction of civil defence is a priority for the government.
i-74LsMADcuVfE7Hc5oHvhV8	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for his reply, although I feel that I did not receive a single answer on the issue of evacuation. But let's just take some shelters! Today we have 64,000 shelters of different types and models in Sweden. It is estimated that about 7 million people will fit in. But in most of these shelters maintenance is very neglected; they have not been renovated or checked for a very long time. A majority of the shelters have not been checked for more than ten years, and evacuation plans are not up-to-date either. This, of course, poses a real risk to Swedish total defence capabilities, as we do not have full control over our preparedness situation and population protection. Protection rooms should provide shelter for people at war and are part of a building with reinforced walls and doors that can withstand pressure waves from bombs, fire and debris from raging houses. The shelters have a special ventilation and airlock so that you can minimize the effects of toxic gases, for example. Around Sweden there are a large number of so-called normal shelters, usually in ordinary residential buildings. It is up to the property owners in peacetime to use them as stores, bicycle rooms or associations. There are also a few really large shelters, which are usually used as parking garages. It is said that the availability of shelters should be maintained, needs analysed and capabilities ensured, so that it becomes possible. The mandates and responsibilities are defined in the Act and the regulation on shelters. In connection with this, Parliament has stated in particular that the shelter stock that exists is a resource to be preserved and controlled in order to be used for its purpose in the future, should there be a need for physical protection in war. Yet so many shelters have not been checked for a very long time. The Caliber programme in P1 did a review just two years ago called the Failed Protection Rooms. There we were told that data relating to deficiencies in shelters have been deleted by MSB on the grounds that the authority has changed computer systems and had difficulties in connecting data from different counties. This is still a national authority. MSB, for which Minister Morgan Johansson is responsible, is responsible for the control of the 64 000 shelters that exist, which have not now been controlled. Caliber was therefore able to tell us two years ago that there were long intervals between the controls and that one tenth of the shelters that were checked in 2019 could not be prepared within the limit of two days. According to MSB statistics, there are so-called persistent deficiencies in almost a third of all shelters, but the evidence on what is wrong with them is thus deleted. You have to start all over again. And in the majority of the shelters, no control has been carried out after 2011. Mr President, I would like to During two terms of office, we have pointed out the need for new shelters and more controls, but nothing has happened more than more investigations. Now the Minister is here telling me in his reply that the government has taken a number of measures to strengthen population protection and that civil defence is a priority. Yes, in the Minister's previous interpellation debate with my colleague Lars Beckman, the Minister made it clear that priority is given to his area of responsibility. I understand that this is not a very priority for the government, because it is actually the case that we are being held up. We need action here and now, not more investigations. Seven years have passed since the defense decision, but S has done nothing. They've been in charge all along anyway.
i-TzrjaDWptp4unCBocBX59G	Mr President, I would like to It is a very important interpellation that my colleague has made. This, too, is about the social contract. I believe that a great many people expect that when there is an assault situation, the state has ensured that such an elementary thing as shelters works. I raised this issue a few years ago when it turned out that MSB re-assigned its mission – from the control of shelters to the inspection of shelters. You have to understand, just as Alexandra said, that the shelters have to work. It came to light that there were very serious deficiencies in the shelters. They were in very bad shape, simply. Media in Hälsingland flagged for this, and some municipalities in Hälsingland have major shortcomings in terms of shelters. In 2020, MSB provided new information. They would not control shelters, but would instead supervise them. The difference between them is very big. Control talks about what is to be addressed, and that is how it is done. Oversight does not have the same power at all. I visited a school in Gävle after 24 February, and I asked: How do you work with shelters? Have you looked over where your students are going and so on? It turned out that that school had pretty bad control of it, and there was no shelter at the school either. This is a priority. One might think that this is an unpleasant question or that it is an issue that one would not have to look at, but nevertheless this is extremely important. In addition, this is a very small industry – those who build shelters and maintain shelters. There are very few who have that special expertise in Sweden. The state thus has a huge responsibility to ensure that this competence remains. When Sweden has not built shelters for a number of years, people have left this industry for age reasons. This is one aspect of the whole. MSB thus gave an active mandate to stop controls. Instead, inspections were to be carried out, bringing the flow up. It certainly looked better in those statistics, but the consequences were very bad for the citizens. Another important issue that I raised recently – this has also been flagged by the DHR – concerns the lack of shelters for disabled people. It was a feature on TV– I don't know if it was in News or Report – with a woman sitting on a per-mobile. It's a staircase to her nearest shelter, within reasonable distance. If you are sitting in an electric per-mobile, it is therefore very difficult to get into a shelter at all. There are huge shortcomings here. In reply to my written question, the Government refers to an ongoing investigation into how to make shelters available. I would also like to know what the Minister intends to do in the short term, here and now? Are you going to clarify a mission to MSB? Are we going to speed up the control of shelters? What do you intend to do in practical terms, which will have some effect?
i-TquZyzSMCxY72oNuaefBdV	Mr President, I would like to Alexandra Anstrell told me you're taking off. I guess the only thing you're going to do is give the Moderates the tone of the defence debate in general. There is well reason to welcome the newfound involvement of the Moderates in the issue of defence. But this was not the case when the Moderates ruled Sweden. It was just the opposite. The Moderates in this House, with very little margin, a few votes, pushed through the abolition of military service against the will of the Social Democracy. We voted against that proposal. The Moderates pushed it through. Then the Moderates cut down on the defense to such an extent that one of your defense ministers resigned in protest. That's what happened. Now we stand here afterwards and say that it is the responsibility of the Social Democracy, things that have not happened. The truth is that when we took office in 2014, we changed defence policy in a more expansive direction, and in recent years we have invested more money in defence than any government, at least in more modern times, has done. We are gradually expanding the entire total defense. This applies, of course, to military defence, but it also applies to civil defence. In my reply, I explained that there is increased investment in civil defence, with SEK 4.2 billion to 2025. It's upstairs. This year, 11⁄2 billion has so far been allocated to civilian defence. The spring change budget is now on Parliament's table, and it contains an additional SEK 800 million for civil defence for this year, of which SEK 91 million will go to shelters, among other things. That's the answer to Lars Beckman's question: what is going to happen here and now? Yes, on the table of Parliament there is a proposal for an additional SEK 91 million just for shelters, here and now. This is needed. During this time we have seen that a great deal needs to be done both renovations and renovations when it comes to setting up our shelters. We have 64 000 shelters, and the controls that have been carried out have shown that there is a great need for maintenance. These are costs of almost 1 billion, which must be added to this. We will continue to do this as and when. MSB produced a rapid analysis – this was done in one week, a few weeks ago – which forms the basis for the proposals now in the spring change budget. In a few weeks, on May 10, MSB will come with another basis for me. Then it's about what we're going to do for the 2023 budget bill. In addition, MSB will come this autumn with another basis, where you should look at what resources you need to provide in the longer term. Then there is a special investigator, Britt Bohlin, who sees the issue of shelter as such and the division of responsibilities, but also the issue of evacuation, for example in the case of our large cities. She will leave her report in November. I am probably saying that there are few areas where so much is being done right now as this particular area. The investment we are making in civil defence is thus the largest in modern times. I am pleased that it is our government that is now implementing this.
i-Fyrrnucd21SY6jPVv8Y7Ys	Mr President, I would like to It is always easy to blame someone who ruled over eight years ago. Not long ago, 2019, when the Defence Committee was in its final stage, the Social Democrats chose to back off the ambition the Defence Committee had had as a working hypothesis for a long time. Magdalena Andersson, our current Prime Minister and our then Finance Minister, could not support this ambition and felt that such a large increase could not happen. I quote the then Minister of Finance and the current Prime Minister: a lot of people who have made a budget, including a ten-year-old, know that things are being pitted against each other. Do you want me to go to the movies or do you want me to buy candy? So it is not the case that the Social Democrats can take credit for constantly investing in defence. On the contrary, Mr President. In 2002, a general exception to the requirement to build new shelters was introduced. Instead, the focus would be on maintaining existing shelters. Since then, several towns and cities have grown without the construction of new shelters. It has therefore not taken responsibility for the protection of the population or made evacuation plans. The map tool that MSB has shows that some municipalities have a rather substantial deficit in terms of shelters. According to MSB, a possible need for general renovation of the shelter system will be made clear when the investigation of population protection is completed, i.e. this autumn. But, Mr President, we have known for many years that we need to map, control and upgrade our shelters. The investigation was, of course, good when it finally came about. The government's slowness in this matter, despite the need for a functioning civil defence, has been highlighted by the Defence Committee for eight years. The Swedish Armed Forces have also said in their referrals in various investigations that it is necessary. But as with most efforts on the civil defence that the government is talking about, it will not even be a thumbnote, it will only be investigations. In my home municipality of Haninge, the newly built area of Vegastane, an area of about 10,000 people, is estimated to grow. The defense committee decided several years ago that new shelters would be built in strategically important places. The Minister may be able to seize this opportunity today to inform us of the strategically important places in which the state has initiated the construction of shelters in recent years. I think it would be great to know. If you're not prepared, you're unprepared. This was the case in 2020 when a pandemic took over the country, and so it is now with the dangerous security developments we are seeing, with Russia's war on Ukraine and what it has brought. This raises many questions about our Swedish shelters and Swedish preparedness. I have been asked many questions by friends and people who e-mail me and so on. It's worried people who wonder why they don't have a shelter near where they live. They wonder if there is a plan for population protection at all. And there are those who wonder if there is any shelter where they live. Other politicians and authorities have also received many questions. This can be seen not least when it comes to MSB's shelter map, which has had a high pressure. We can see that the security situation was different in 2002, but now the situation is different. It's been for quite a few years. The question is whether it has not been and is the government's common thread that you did not see it coming, that you have been naive and that you simply have not been prepared.
i-AZPDEBCcYJqQfMTwDcudpi	Mr President, I would like to For someone like me, who grew up in Norrbotten and Boden, it was possible to see how the Social Democrats and Göran Persson cut down on the Swedish defence. So don't talk defence policy to us Moderates! We have nothing to be ashamed of. I understand that Morgan Johansson has not read Göran Persson's book, but do it! There he boasts of how to slaughter the Swedish defence and how to even close the department, which they did. The interpellation, however, is about shelters. Even there, this government has failed to pursue matters that are important. I and a number of other people alerted a few years ago when MSB started with its numbering to change controls to inspections so that the statistics would be better looking. This was devastating for the shelters. In the past, functions were checked and instructions were given to remedy the deficiencies found. It was under Morgan Johansson's and the government's flag that this differential took place. As a result, there were no renovations of shelters. This means that the entire industry and its valuable skills are at risk of being lost, because very few and small companies can do this. It is advanced to get a fan to work in a shelter, so now it takes power. The 91 million that the Government is flagging for, do they apply to Gävleborg, Gävle Municipality or Ockelbo? Because it can't be that the Government mentions 91 million for the whole of Sweden and thinks that's a figure to boast about? I would like clarification. Does the figure apply to the whole of Sweden, Gävle municipality or Gävleborg?
i-G6BD3Y32DMhHntdo1gpVHk	Mr President, I would like to You can see that it has been a long time since the Moderates ruled when you see how they go on as they do. They cannot even take responsibility for their own decisions that they were involved in. I do not know if you were in Parliament at the time, Lars Beckman and Alexandra Anstrell, but it was in fact the Moderates who pushed through here that military service should be abolished. Why did you do it? With a very small margin, just a few votes, you made such a big decision. We protested on the part of the Social Democracy. As I said, you also pushed through cuts in defence to such an extent that one of your defense ministers, Mikael Odenberg, resigned in protest. He lost a negotiation against Anders Borg, and then you cut down on the defense. What we have done after 2014 is exactly the opposite. We've scaled up the total defense. It's easy to see. It is just to go out and look at the new regiments that we have set up, on the reintroduction of military service and on the expansion that we have made. We now have more resources for defence than we have in modern times, and we continue to scale up. Then, of course, one should always weigh it against other important social activities. Why did the Moderates cut down on the defense? Yes, it was for you to finance your tax cuts. We need to strike a similar balance and see how much money we should spend on health care, school, defence and other parts. This balance is always being struck in the context of the budgetary negotiations being conducted. What we have stood for in our eight years is an upscaling of the defense so that we now spend more money on it. It concerns military defence, where it is easy to see everything we have done. This also applies to civil defence. As of this year, we are going in with an additional 11⁄2 billion to civilian defence. At the Riksdag table is a proposal for an additional SEK 800 million for this year, of which SEK 91 million for shelters. Then we will see what needs to be done in the coming years. Here we have a process in the future. On 10 May, I will receive a new report from MSB, which will identify further areas where things need to be done, and in November, another basis will apply in the longer term. I think we need to do a lot of things. The shelters and their rehabilitation and preparation are an important part, but we have large sectors of society that must also work in times of war and crisis. We will make proposals in the spring. There we go further with the proposals presented by Barbro Holmberg in his study, which came last year, including regarding the division of Sweden into civil areas and that we will appoint the responsible authorities that take responsibility for one social sector at a time. There we will work in much the same way as during the Cold War, and we will restore the civilian preparedness that was dismantled in the 1990s. We are looking at Finland and their solutions when it comes to emergency stocks. I will meet the Finnish Minister for Labour, who is responsible for this, when she comes to Sweden next week. We also get inspiration from there. So do not say that nothing is happening in this area! It's the other way around. When it comes to civilian preparedness, I say that so much is happening right now has not happened for a very long time. And we are leading that development.
i-932wk5z9vLsHM6Jt6gWvec	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for that. What is it that the Minister can actually beat his chest for and say: This is what we have now actually decided on, and it has actually become real – more than just investigations? I would like to have a special debate on who started the disarmament of Sweden's defence. Just invite it and I'll be there. I swear. This debate is, however, about civil defence and shelter right here and now when it is Morgan Johansson who is responsible for the issues. In fact, civil defence must be strengthened, including the protection of the population. I still haven't heard anything about evacuation. But perhaps the Minister will come to that in his last speech. The problem with these issues is that it has only been investigated and investigated, but the government will never get to grips with it. Barbro Holmberg's investigation into the structure of responsibility, management and coordination in civil defence at central, regional and local level, which is so much needed, was submitted over a year ago. And it seems to be only now that the government has found out that it exists. I think it's serious. In the referrals to the investigation, the Swedish Armed Forces, among others, made some comments about the need to strengthen civil defence, as this is a prerequisite for the military defence to function. So not only can we exchange military defence, but we also need to sync it with civilians. Why was this investigation stopped in a moth bag, Morgan Johansson? Recently, there has been sharp criticism of the government's work on civil defence. It's perfectly understandable, because nothing has happened. And now we are in a seriously deteriorating security policy situation. A number of improvements are needed. We need a National Security Council. We need to introduce a modern civil service. The business council we have been talking about, which has been investigated three times, has still not come into place. We need to move in line with military defence, and we need to do it now. In fact, there is a heavy shadow over the government's lack of responsibility for this issue, which is so central to Sweden's national security.
i-5zjNVn4czgpR2mZEj1Q68m	Mr President, I would like to It is completely wrong to claim that something is in a moth bag. Barbro Holmberg's investigation came last year, and it has been out for a referral. And I have just said in this House that this spring we will be taking the necessary regulatory decisions to divide Sweden into civil areas, for example, and to appoint sectoral authorities. I just said this here. It's not something that's in a moth bag, but we're working on this at the department. As I have said, a decision will be taken shortly on this matter. Again, when it comes to these sweeping phrases that nothing has happened and that no one is doing anything: My God, there are billions and billions spent in these years. This is a development that began after the Swedish Defence Committee's analyses and after the total defence bill. So this is completely wrong. Only this year it is about SEK 11⁄2 billion in the base and then an additional 800 million proposed in the spring change budget. To say that no one is doing anything and that nothing has happened is, in fact, completely wrong. We will continue to ensure the restoration, I would say, of civilian preparedness, which was unfortunately dismantled. But it requires money, and it requires that priority be given to this. Then you cannot do as the Moderates did and spend all their money on tax cuts and then ignore public services or public protection. As I said, as far as shelters are concerned, we have set aside special money. We know what needs to be done in that part. We have also asked a special investigator to review the division of responsibilities. Britt Bohlin, who is the special investigator, is also responsible for what Alexandra Anstrell mentioned, namely evacuation and evacuation issues, to ensure that proper plans can also be made in that area. Mr President, I would like to I say that more is happening in this area now than has happened in a very long time, and we will continue with this work.
i-VCb4Zbx8svCCSCDimQiNqU	Mr President, I would like to Saila Quicklund has asked me what concrete measures I intend to take to meet the needs of mountain rescuers and to ensure that they can carry out their important tasks. The Police Authority is responsible for rescue operations in the mountains within the framework of the State Civil Protection Agency. To help the police have mountain rescuers, who are volunteers and who are trained and equipped by the Police Authority. The mountain rescuers receive compensation during mountain rescue assignments, training and preparedness. This compensation is regulated in an agreement between the Swedish Police Authority and the Swedish Fjällsrädares Riksorganisation. The agreement is reviewed on a regular basis, and on 25 March an adjustment was made to the taxable amount of the car allowance. With this starting point, it is primarily the Police Authority that determines the compensation levels for the mountain rescuers. The police authority is also responsible for what other measures need to be taken to create the right conditions for mountain rescue operations. The prices of petrol and diesel have risen as a result of Russia's invasion of Ukraine, and the government has presented a package of measures including reduced fuel tax and new fuel compensation to private individuals by car, with particular emphasis on car owners in sparsely populated and rural areas where distances are high. The Government has also announced its intention to propose an increase in the flat-rate duty-free amount which forms the basis of the car compensation. The mountain rescuers have an important mission. They save lives in some of Sweden's most difficult places. However, the terms and conditions for the mountain rescuers are primarily a matter for the Swedish Police Authority and the Swedish Fjällsrädares Riksorganisation to regulate.
i-WZV1CN5KbFMYACjZy2Wja6	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government for its answer. I will comment on the answer a little later in my speech. However, I think it is urgent that I give a brief background to those following this debate. I get a lot of questions, not least because I come from Jämtland County, and I also have the privilege of being part of the Political Authority's Transparency Council, both the northern region and the national part. That is why I think I have a fair degree of transparency on these issues. This whole interpellation is therefore about the mountain rescuers going with financial loss due to too low travel compensation. Today's fuel prices, which have fluctuated a little but which have been at levels of 26 – 28 SEK per litre for diesel, have terrible consequences for this group. It is therefore 400 mountain rescuers who will both rescue and search for missing persons in civil protection. All these mountain rescuers are handpicked and also have skills beyond the ordinary, but they also have local knowledge. It takes a great many years to build up this competence and to recruit these people. The mountain rescuers work in mountain areas, but they can also get to go out in other parts of Sweden to search for people. And it is a great effort that this group is making. You can compare the mountain rescuers with a part-time fire brigade and those who have assignments in this sector. They have regular jobs but are called in when there are alarms that people have disappeared and so on. The difference is that firefighters don't have to pay when they fill their cars, but the mountain rescuers have to. The mountain rescuers load their scooters on the trailer. And I think we all understand that the vehicles become heavy that consume petrol at enormous costs. Now it is reported that many are giving up their assignments, which is of course worrying. So they hand in their equipment. They provide uniforms and personal equipment. But scooters, trailers and quadricycles must be provided for themselves, and these are great values that they represent in private. During the fuel crisis, Rickard Svedjesten, Chairman of the Swedish Arctic Rescue Association, wants to regulate the cost of approximately SEK 45 – 50 per mil – that could be relevant in this context – and that it regulates when prices rise and of course also when prices fall. When this interpellation was written, the compensation was 18.50 for the tax-exempt portion and SEK 9 for the taxable portion. Of course, the police authorities are also concerned about the situation. They have overall responsibility, but the ultimate responsibility actually lies with the government and the Government itself. I am clearly concerned about this. I note that the Minister answers that it is a matter for the Police Authority, but if it does not work there and they do not have the resources they should have to compensate this target group, the responsibility nevertheless falls to the government. I therefore have to ask the question again, because I do not think I received the answer I would have liked from the Minister: what concrete measures does the Minister intend to take to resolve the situation of the country's mountain rescuers?
i-XTk9s5qV1mpsa61BwM7cLS	Mr President, I would like to It is obvious that the mountain rescuers must be able to have good conditions to operate. They are doing a hugely important job, and of course you should not have to pay to be involved in saving lives. There must be good economic rules for those who make this important contribution to society. This situation has been created by rising petrol and diesel prices as a result of Russia's war in Ukraine. Of course, it affects all of us, but it especially affects those who work as a mountain rescuer. As Saila Quicklund is concerned, the compensation consists of two parts: on the one hand, we have a tax-free mileage allowance of SEK 18.50 per mile, and on the other hand we have a taxable mileage allowance on top of the n. As Saila Quicklund says, it was SEK 9 when she wrote the interpellation, but it has been raised. It was raised on 25 March by SEK 5.80, so now that part of the compensation amounts to SEK 14.80 – which is put on top of the 18.50. A total of 33 SEK and 30 øre per mile are paid, of which the upper part is taxable. Thus, if you estimate 30% of your income, you estimate about a fifth of these 14, 80. Then you get out about 28 kroner per mile. The increase was made here in the light of the rising inflation and diesel prices, and it was done by the Police Authority itself because it is they who regulate this. Saila Quicklund brings up the financials of the police, and there I can say that the police have more resources than ever before. The result has been that the police have actually gone with surplus – so they have not been able to use the resources that the state has provided. We'll see how it will be this year, because now the police are growing tremendously with many more employees. However, it should not have to be an economic issue for the Police Authority in terms of improving the rules here. Then we have also proposed – it is on Parliament's table – a temporary reduction in petrol tax, which of course also matters. From 1 May, the tax will be reduced by 50 cents, and from 1 June it will be reduced by an additional 1, 30 cents. In total, therefore, the price of petrol as a result of the tax cuts will, all other things being equal, fall by 1.80 per litre. Of course, this also has a bearing on the costs of mountain rescuers. In addition, we have proposed special cash support for everyone who has a car, and for those who live in sparsely populated areas cash support is paid with 1,500 SEK. I think I'm saying we've done a lot of things. Taxable compensation has been increased less than a month ago and the increase is almost 60%. As I said, the gas tax is reduced by 1, 80 on a temporary basis; it shall apply until 31 October. We therefore also have cash support of 1,500 SEK. Do we need to do anything else? Yes, we are, of course, following this closely, and we have also opened the way for an increase in the duty-free part – that is, the one at 18.50 per mile – but we will have to come back to that point. But we've opened for that part too. Again: It is important that the mountain rescuers have good conditions to operate. You shouldn't have to pay to be part of saving lives.
i-6wyYRzBpJCZqVMYvAatguM	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for his reply. In the answer, the Government mentions that petrol and diesel prices have risen as a result of Russia's invasion of Ukraine, among other things. Nevertheless, let us be honest and tell you that about 54% of the price of diesel and petrol today goes directly into the pocket of the state, so to speak. The Moderates have fought hard for the relief in prices that the Government tells us about here, and it is general relief that everyone can take part in. I just preferred that the mountain rescuers would need 45 – 50 SEK miles to compensate for the actual costs, and then the reductions that the Moderates have been involved in, among other things, and which are now taking place on 1 May, are not enough. I'm moving on. My question is: Has the Minister ensured that the police really can, and have room to, meet the needs of mountain rescuers? If this had happened, the answer from the Government might not have been the same as it is now. By what means should the police be able to offset the mountain rescuers' petrol and diesel costs? Salary space should be allocated to salaries, which also facilitates recruitment – we have major recruitment difficulties within the police, with empty seats and so on, and there needs to be investments. The Moderates have pushed very hard for increased wages, better equipment and so on to improve the situation. That is considerably more money than the government has contributed. Salary space should also be used to reward good work and valuable contributions or special efforts to, as I said, improve recruitment – nothing else. The Minister would like to shift responsibility to the Police Department. The police authority has the same agreement for everyone within the authority, i.e. 18.50 in the duty-free part and 14.80 in the taxable part. Does the Minister mean, then, that a particular variation would be made within the authority of the mountain rescuers, or how does the Minister think about that? According to Motormen, who have made a calculation, for a vehicle with an approximate value of 200,000, it has been found that the cost is about $40 miles. This government travel allowance was introduced in 2008, and then the diesel cost about SEK 10 small. So there have been very small changes; we are talking about a change now in March, but it is far too little to compensate. It is, however, a matter of people who are part of civil protection, and they are today at a loss. It can't be ignored. Nevertheless, I have to ask the question again: the Minister admits that this is not reasonable, but what are the concrete efforts of the government if the Police Authority now does not consider itself to have room to compensate the mountain rescuers? The ultimate responsibility lies with the Minister and the Government. I am happy to receive an answer to that question.
i-SpYtHQoiQ6ueaWw1Gqz9uz	Mr President, I would like to After all, the taxable portion has just increased by 60 percent, less than a month ago, from SEK 9 to 14.80. This was done mainly to cover the increase in petrol prices we have seen in the spring. I can nevertheless say that although part of the cost is tax, the increase in the price of petrol has taken place throughout Europe. It goes without saying that it is an effect of the war in Ukraine. We are talking about Putin prices, because it is Russia's attack on Ukraine that, so to speak, pushes forward price increases – throughout Europe, not just in Sweden. It has been compensated in various ways. The police make up for this by increasing the taxable portion from SEK 9 to 14, 80. We compensate for this through a temporary reduction in petrol tax – it will be reduced by a total of 1.80 during the summer and until 31 October. We also make a special investment in which everyone who has a car receives SEK 1 000 as a one-time sum. If you live in sparsely populated areas it is 1 500 kroner. We have also opened the door to increasing the tax-free part of the mileage allowance, i.e. that which amounts to 18, 50. After all, this is not the only compensation paid to the mountain rescuers, but they also have basic payments. Let me briefly outline what the agreement is like. They have a replacement for training and training with SEK 236 per hour. An emergency fee of SEK 236 per hour is also available. One relief officer has 370 kroner an hour. When you are on standby, you have a basic allowance of SEK 21 per hour. In the case of snowmobiles, there is also a special compensation of SEK 511 per hour. On top of this is the car allowance. You should therefore remember that it is not only mileage compensation you have when you step in as a mountain rescuer. Having said that, however, I believe that we generally need to open up to increase the duty-free part, which is currently at 18, 50. We have said that on the part of the government. But only what we have already done costs quite a lot of money. We are talking about billions of dollars in order to cover the costs of many households. With regard to the political authority's finances, we can see that during the ten-year period 2014 – 2024 we almost double the police's funding, from just over SEK 20 billion to almost SEK 40 billion. There is no authority that has grown as quickly and got the same push as the Police Authority, especially in the last eight years, as a result of the efforts we have made. And, of course, we continue to do this. The police should have the tools to solve their task. You have to have the resources you need to solve your task. We're going to keep pushing so you can do this. An agreement between the Police Authority and the mountain rescuers is then needed to solve the mountain rescuer's situation. But we are doing what we can on our part to resolve precisely the emergency situation.
i-WVJPgnXDNAKgrohPwaxwML	Mr President, I would like to I don't know if it's hard to get my message out. The Government still claims that the remuneration in the taxable part is 14,80 and 18, 50. One can get the impression that he believes that the mountain rescuers should be largely satisfied with the compensation they have. However, they would still need 45 to 50 kroner per mile in order not to have to pay for emergency expenses themselves. The Government is also talking about the Putin effect. Even before the current war in Ukraine, we had the world's most expensive diesel. Consider, too, that over 50% goes to the state as tax. There could be a space here. The reductions coming now on May 1st, the Moderates have been highly involved in pushing through. Unfortunately, it is not enough for the mountain rescuers, although it is very good. We will also push for further reductions. A little worrying is that we do not get answers from the Minister. I'm presenting a current situation. There are 400 mountain rescuers who express that they will return their equipment and finish their assignments. There are expectations that the civil protection function will be maintained in the mountain world. Not least since the pandemic, the pressure on the mountain world has increased. It is also not only in the mountains that these actors operate, but they are used throughout the country. Of course I'm worried. The minister doesn't seem to be. He thinks you should make up for this, maybe through the paycheck. I don't agree with that. But it's for the minister. The mountain rescuers have always argued that they do not want to make money, but neither should they pay for their missions. I thank you for the debate and will certainly come back on this issue. It's way too important to ignore.
i-9iNL7gc5ppYjsHbGWSFAwu	Mr President, I would like to I absolutely agree that this is something we should take very seriously. I simply note that less than a month ago the compensation was increased by 5.80 per mile. That's a 60% increase. Again. This is regulated between the Police Authority and the mountain rescuers. It's not something the government goes in and controls in detail. But I assume, of course, that the Police Authority in dialogue with the mountain rescuers will continue to ensure that they have rules so that they can solve their task, because it is extremely important that they can do so. Then there are the general investments we make. It is a question of reducing petrol taxes and cash payments. We are also opening the door to raising the tax-free part, which is currently at 18, 50. It will of course also come to the mountain rescuers. It is important to ensure that this activity can be maintained. However, as I have just said, we have seen a 60% increase in the taxable part, and that happened less than a month ago. Of course, we continue to follow this issue. It is extremely important that good activities can continue to be maintained.
i-XkfBTBWH6ydoQB1wmjoGj3	Mr President, I would like to Mikael Eskilandersson has asked me if I will instruct Boverket to provide more detailed information about housing needs and the demand for different types of housing. The Government considers it important that the supply of housing corresponds to the demand and needs of the housing market. According to Boverket, a low supply of small houses during the pandemic, together with a high turnover, has led to strong price increases. It is therefore gratifying that SCB's latest figures show that approximately 12,750 dwellings were started in small houses in 2021, which is 17 percent more than in 2020. Sweden will have a long-term housing policy for everyone and the government sees a need to be able to continuously monitor how the needs of the housing market develop. The Government has therefore submitted the bill A better basis for measures in the housing market to the Riksdag. The proposal proposes to make it clearer that municipalities should address the housing needs that are not met in the housing market when planning for housing supply. According to the proposal, the analysis that forms the basis for the data in the municipal housing supply guidelines is to be carried out on the basis of data provided by Boverket to the municipality. In terms of demand, municipalities are expected to know how the local housing market works. Municipalities must have knowledge of the supply of housing in different price ranges and rental levels in the municipality, what demand looks like in different areas as well as the willingness to build new housing for rent or sale. During the term of office, the Government has worked on several fronts to create better conditions for housing construction. Among other things, the Government has submitted a proposal to the Riksdag on private initiative aimed at enabling faster detailed planning processes. The Parliament has adopted the proposal and the amendments came into force on 1 August last year. The Government has recently also handed over the proposal Certified construction design companies – a more predictable construction process to the day of its publication. The proposals include the introduction of a new actor in the law, certified construction design company, which can be used to increase the predictability and efficiency of the construction process. Housing construction can benefit from facilitating repeatable processes. The legislative amendments are proposed to enter into force on 1 August 2022.
i-S8xBR5iEzRDEjqNpypzGvV	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Johan Danielsson, for your answer. The government is happy to give the impression that much is being done to build more small houses and villas in Sweden, but I would say that one absolutely lacks one's own policy to do just that. Johan Danielsson emphasises that they are working on several fronts to create better conditions for housing construction. Among other things, he points to the proposal on the right of private initiative. But the proposal on the right of private initiative is an old proposal from the Swedish Democrats, which was announced already in the Parliamentary year 2014/ 15 in the Committee on Civil Liberties. The government was then against it. This is how the Social Democrats and the Green Party wrote in their joint reservation number 7 against private right of initiative: We do not believe that there is any reason to change today's principled starting points for how planning work should be initiated and carried out. ..................................................... Now Johan Danielsson highlights this as the government's own policy, although it is obvious that the opposition has forced it through against the government's will. But it is good that the Social Democrats have changed their minds on this issue. The truth is that the government is actually doing more to make it difficult and expensive for those who want to build and own their housing in Sweden than it does to make it easier. It is true that the government has come up with several proposals during its time. But Johan Danielsson mentions only a few of them. After all, most government proposals and proposals have been to the detriment of the normal homeowners in Sweden, I would say. Or what do we say about the new waste water declarations, which will affect everyone who lives outside the scope of the municipal water and waste water discharges? Not only have expensive facilities been built according to all the ever aggravating requirements that the government makes up, often with highly questionable environmental benefits – now you must also pay a number of thousands of SEK to inspect functioning plants. It will come back every seven years. In addition, the same proposal threatens to dismantle fully functioning sewage plants without measurable emissions if they do not demonstrably comply with the technical requirements. The bill is called Roads to Sustainable Water Service, and I hope that it will not pass through the Civil Affairs Committee without the strength. It is not exactly the case that such a bill increases the willingness to invest in a small cottage in the country. The government has also welcomed the European Parliament and Council Directive on the energy performance of buildings. Although the directive is not pre-negotiated, it clearly states that all buildings will be zero-emission houses by 2050. The government shares the vision of the proposal. Johan Danielsson has already sent a commission to Boverket to see how energy declarations can be introduced even on renovations and how these can be subject to requirements. As stated in the proposal for a directive, this will affect all homeowners within 28 years. All buildings must therefore become zero emission buildings. It is not exactly that it increases the desire to build new ones today. Even if you can build other than zero emission houses today, all buildings must be zero emission buildings by 2050. 28 years is a very short time when it comes to building a new house.
i-Y5SFDzfFC2tiEmhBAaaMbi	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mikael Eskilandersson for his speech. As Mikael Eskilandersson rightly states, the EU's energy directive is not pre-negotiated. I have noted that Mikael Eskilandersson had quite recently had an interpellation debate with the responsible Minister on this issue. In the negotiations on this, it is a declared ambition of the government to ensure that it does not lead to increased administrative costs. The negotiations are still ongoing, as the minister responsible also pointed out in the interpellation debate. The specific issue in this interpellation concerns the need to obtain additional data from Boverket in order to better address the demand for different forms of housing. That question is quite a technical one, and I would like to come back to it in a bit more detail. Boverket already produces products for this purpose. Several products are being developed that summarise the situation on the housing market in a fairly clear way. One example is Boverket's indicators, which are published twice a year. They contain descriptions related to demand. It is about what type of housing is requested, such as small houses, and what it looks like in relation to the price situation and the built rate at the regional level. Then, of course, the municipalities, which I was dealing with, have a great responsibility to know what the conditions are in the local housing market. Our proposal A better basis for measures in the housing market, which we have submitted to the Riksdag, is an attempt to make it less of freely chosen work and that municipalities analyse what housing needs are not met. This should be done according to guidelines that Boverket develops. In this way, Boverket will also be able to better analyse which housing needs are not met. This gives a comprehensive picture of what both needs and demand look like around the country. As Mikael Eskilandersson points out, this government has taken and will take steps to ensure that we are able to meet the climate change. It is a matter of destiny not only for Sweden but for the whole world. But it can also be noted that the construction of small houses has increased during the time when the government is in power. It has increased from somewhere around 8 000 homes in small houses to now nearly 12 000 each year. This is the key: to try to find a policy in which we are able to change our society while at the same time being able to build more housing. Not only are we going to build small houses, but we are going to be able to build small houses, flats and rental apartments to build away the housing shortage that we still have in the majority of the country's municipalities.
i-9hmAbGgiz1ueNJw91opAdp	Mr President, I would like to I can take it from the point of view of demand. Surveys on where people want to live are quite clear that most people want to live in small houses, such as villas or terraced houses. Even among those who do not want to live in small houses, the vast majority want to own their dwelling. It is therefore surprising that the government spends so much gunpowder on subsidising rental apartments. The subsidies of rental apartments, which my party and the Alliance have stopped to some parts but which still continue to roll on for a number of years, have tricked the municipalities into building rental apartments, even though in many municipalities there is rather a great demand for villas and other small houses. When it comes to building villas and other small houses, there are other things that are needed than subsidies and money. Rather, you need to go into the regulations and see why so few houses are being built. I still think that relatively few houses are being built, even though there has been a slight increase in the last year. It is reasonable for the owner of a villa to pay for his own home, pay for his own renovations and pay for his own energy efficiency. But there is no reasonableness in doing what the government does. In addition to their own costs, the home owners must also pay to build other people's rental apartments and pay for their renovations and their energy efficiency improvements. This is what they indirectly do when they support certain forms of housing but not others. Aid is not really based on where people have the worst financial situation. Many of the new rental apartments are built in attractive locations and are rented by people with very high wages to subsidised rents. It is economically very bad and unreasonable. I think distribution policy should be based on individuals. You should support the individuals no matter what form of accommodation they happen to choose. The construction of small houses has increased from 8 000 to 12 000. But if you look a little further back in time you can see that there were a lot of small houses built especially in the early 70's. That may be surprising, given that we then had the million-dollar program with a great many apartment buildings. But it was also a large number of small houses that were built. Around 30 000 small houses were built each year. It continued to be quite high, and right up to the beginning of the 90's there were quite high figures for small houses. Now that we are talking about the fact that it has gone up from 8 000 to 12 000, that is by no means what is needed. We would need a doubling of today's figures, i.e. up to 25 000 – 30 000. We've been on that before. And we have been able to lie on it while we have built apartments, so I do not see that there is a contradiction between building apartments and building small houses. The fact that Sweden builds only 20% small houses in round throws while the average in the EU, as I have read, is around 40% small houses is problematic. Sweden builds fewer small houses than all other countries in the Nordic region. The fact that we have been doing it for a long time is also problematic. It is not a matter of a few years, but Sweden has been in the bottom layer for a long time when it comes to building small houses.
i-HyTAsvxxZqog5V6KXd2W2Z	Mr President, I would like to The great interest that existed and still exists in the investment aid we had in building cheap rental apartments shows that the developers see continued demand for this type of housing. It has been granted for the construction of over 50 000 homes, and many of these homes would not have been built otherwise. They have been built in parts of the country where they had not built without this support. This is not a contradiction between rental apartments, flats and small houses. We need more housing in all types of tenure, small houses and multi-residential buildings, and we need it throughout the country. When we took office, Sweden had an annual residential building of 20,000 dwellings. Of these, 8,000 were small houses, a higher proportion of residential buildings. But it was worse for Sweden's economic development, and it was a worse policy to meet the housing shortage we see in municipalities around the country. The policy of ensuring that we are able to build more housing in different forms of tenure, multi-residential buildings and small-scale houses, is not about removing the support that works to build more cheap rentals that people can afford to demand. Instead, it must be a policy that facilitates the construction of all types of housing. In order to reconnect with this with favored housing, I believe that Mikael Eskilandersson is quite alone in the view that the rental right today is a favored form of housing in the Swedish housing market. Of course, we must also strengthen people's ability to ask for housing. The government has recently received two investigations. An investigation from Eva Nordström is about making it easier for first-time buyers on the purchased housing market. This could perhaps also lead to the construction of more small houses. The second study, presented by Karolina Skog, is more about how to make it easier for people who find it difficult to ask for suitable housing at all, even in the rented housing market. Both of these proposals are now being consulted and will be able to facilitate the demand side in supporting those who currently find it difficult to enter the housing market, both the rented and the purchased. However, that is not all the government does. I mentioned some examples in my initial reply. Another issue that is important for increased housing construction is that we make more land available. During this year, the Government has commissioned both the National Board of Antiquities and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency to review more than 500 national interests that have been identified by the county administrative boards because they lack timeliness and extent and are in conflict with possible housing construction. In this way, we hope that we can significantly reduce government claims and make more land available for housing construction around the country. The possibility for municipalities to make land available for the construction of small houses is also a way to ensure that we are able to build more small houses.
i-J53a1skuVy1SAjQSGjB2Zn	Mr President, I would like to Sweden needs a better policy to build more and different forms of housing. Small houses, terraced houses and owner-occupied apartments are needed. Above all, there is a need for a policy that simplifies and facilitates building what is actually asked for. Just as the labour market requires different skills, the housing market needs to be adapted to demand. When people move from rental apartments to their dream homes in houses and terraced houses, there are suddenly rental rights available to those who today find it difficult to afford newly built apartments. It is not wrong to build rental apartments, but it should not be done through subsidies paid by the tax collective, especially when it becomes the people who can already afford high rent that rent them because few can demand the newly built, expensive apartments. The government must stop punishing the homeowners with constant new charges. 12 750 small houses are also far too small; it needs more than double. Then the government must stop punishing those who own small houses in Sweden. Instead, remove the second amortisation requirement and stop fuelling inflation with what I claim is sosse prices of fuel and energy. Blaming Putin when more than half goes to tax may be a little harsh– although I have no problem with being mean to Putin. We could have significantly lower prices of fuel and energy. That, in turn, would not threaten us with increased interest rates, as we now appear to be doing. This is what drives inflation in Sweden. If the government did this, we would have a better housing market.
i-yfSA5ks9EwQxpt1a4mrua	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mikael Eskilandersson for the debate. The discussion we are stuck in about Putin prices is somewhat bizarre. When we have higher prices of energy and fuel all over Europe, and it has had an impact on inflation in the euro area, in Sweden and on the other side of the Atlantic, it is somehow the government's fault. One can of course thank the Swedish Democrats for the great confidence they have in the Social Democracy's ability to influence world market prices of energy and fuel, but in this case it is clearly linked to Putin's illegal and unacceptable invasion of and warfare in Ukraine. As far as the Swedish housing market is concerned, I share the view that we need to build more. We need to keep up the historically high building act that we have now; we are building more than we have in 30 years. Since 2018, we have begun to pick up the housing deficit created by building too few dwellings for a long time in relation to population growth. The policy of the Social Democrats has made a difference since access. According to Boverket's assessment, construction of 66 000 dwellings began in 2021. We will have to continue with this policy. We will have to maintain the high rate of construction for at least another ten years in order to build up the housing deficit. We will make sure to build more small houses and flats, but we will also build cheap rental apartments that ordinary people can afford to demand. Thank you again, Mikael Eskilandersson, for the debate!
i-NjDZyjGUGDEjNRW2W6uwj9	Mr President, I would like to Helena Lindahl has asked me if it is true that Boverket's report on the financing of construction in rural areas is written off and if so, what the reason for this is and what the government is now doing concretely to increase the possibilities for housing construction in Sweden's rural areas. The issue of government top loans for building and rebuilding homes in rural areas is highly relevant in the general debate and Boverket's report Financing for renovation and renovation of homes in rural areas is being prepared within the Government Office. For a long time it has been built too few homes in Sweden. But since 2018, according to Boverket, the deficit in housing is decreasing, and the number of completed dwellings is expected to reach the highest figure in 30 years this year. I'm glad to hear that. During the term of office, the Government has worked t in several places to create better conditions for housing construction t. In order to facilitate the construction of both apartment blocks and small houses, the Government has proposed in the proposal Certified construction design companies – a more predictable construction process proposed the introduction of certified construction design companies as a new player in the love and construction process. The Government has also commissioned the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the National Antiquities Office to reconsider certain national interests identified by the County Administrative Boards have shortcomings in both timeliness and distribution. A starting point for the mission is to reduce conflict between national interests and housing construction, and to free up more land for planning and housing construction. The investment aid for rental housing and student housing, which has now been abolished on the initiative of the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats, has been granted until March 2022 for more than 53 700 dwellings. Investment aid has helped to build homes throughout the country that would otherwise not have been built. More than half of the housing supported is located outside the three metropolitan regions. Almost every sixth dwelling is located in municipalities in the rest of the country, i.e. municipalities that neither belong to the metropolitan regions, are close to Stockholm, large or have had a high population growth. The high interest in investment support suggests that developers consider that there is still a need for – and opportunities to rent out – rental housing with a relatively lower rent. The removal of this effective support is expected to have consequences in the form of fewer new rental dwellings and housing for students in the country in the future.
i-G7FVpXTvLVgbdZ9iiyBg6P	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, Johan Danielsson, for your answer. I think this is the first time I have been able to meet the Minister. The Minister has a very fine Daladialect, and we thank him for that, not least now that we are debating housing in the countryside. I know that Dalarna, just like Västerbotten, is a large rural county. I have chosen to address the issue of housing in rural areas. However, much of the debate in this House focuses very much on the cities. The challenge for rural areas is great. The pattern of movement is now becoming different. Not least during the pandemic, we noticed that more people are moving to rural areas and perhaps first and foremost to rural areas close to the city. The problem is that the bank does not want to lend money if you want to build small houses in particular. As I wrote in the interpellation, the County Administrative Board of Västerbotten has conducted a survey among the municipalities of Västerbotten asking: What is the biggest challenge for more people to dare to build in you? They say it's the bank. The production is as expensive to build perhaps in Sorsele as it is elsewhere in Sweden. The problem is that the market price may be halved after completion of construction. This means that the bank is not always particularly interested in lending, even though you may still have permanent jobs and a solid income as a builder. I'm from Robertsfors County. It is quite close to Skellefteå municipality. There, the green industry has taken a great deal of speed. You just don't have time for your housing in Skellefteå. Therefore they vacuum areas around and not least my municipality of residence Robertsfors. There's barely a house to raise anymore. The value of my house in Gumbodahamn with 15 inhabitants has also doubled, for which I thank myself. It's just that we're going to get more people to move to the area and also to other municipalities in the rural areas of Västerbotten that's a problem. If there is no place to live, and money cannot be borrowed from the bank to build, we obviously have a major problem. I know another example. It's a big forest company called Rototilt in Vindeln. It's a billion-dollar company. When it was going to expand its factory premises to double it had problems with borrowing from the bank. It had to go in with shares as a guarantee that the bank would lend. I remember the owner saying to me: I know that I will not get this money back, because I am now actually building Sweden's largest snowmobile garage. That is the reality. I think the Minister is aware of that. Madam President, I would like In 2019 an investigation came from Boverket, which the government had initiated. It was about what I am talking about, the financing of housing in rural areas and not least of small houses. It was completed in 2019, and that was three years ago. In his reply to the Minister, he says that it is being prepared at the Government Office. Sometimes it is a finer answer for: We don't do anything about it. It's in a drawer, but we'll see if we do anything. I certainly hope that is not the case, Minister. I hear from officials in Region Västerbotten who have been in contact with the Government Office that it is precisely the case that the investigation has been put in a drawer because it was allegedly disapproved by the Ministry of Finance. My question to the Minister is: Is this true? What does the Minister himself think of Boverket's proposal?
i-BPtWaK37fF6W4QrM9P5nrr	Madam President, I would like I felt that I had a little more that I wanted to ask questions about precisely when it comes to the construction of the countryside when we also get into this. There are several problems with the construction of rural areas. The banks are a concern. It is simply difficult to obtain a loan. Another major concern is that Lantmäteriet takes such an enormous amount of time to cut up plots. Moreover, the fact that they are expensive does not make things any easier. In addition, there are various dangers and dark clouds in the sky in the future. We will be able to see that this water and sewage bill, which I mentioned in a previous post, will affect rural areas. You will be forced to make declarations on your water and sewer. There is a risk that additional costs will be incurred as a result. It does not directly increase the banks' willingness to lend money to rural houses. Then there is the question of zero emission houses. All houses will be zero emission houses by 2050. This means that all houses in our countryside will also be renovated and renovated. It is a cost that will affect the owner of the house. When banks see it, there is also one thing that makes banks even less interested in lending money to rural houses. Overall, one can say that there are huge problems to make ends meet. In fact, I do not understand how the government intends to make people want to live in rural areas. Although Johan Danielsson spoke in his previous speech about Putin prices, I would still argue that more than half of the price of diesel is tax. If more than half of the price is tax, there is quite a great potential to change at least half the price. It would affect the possibility of living in rural areas quite radically Accounting rules are another matter if often comes up as problematic. It is now believed that subsidies are a solution to accounting rules. However, accounting rules are usually not a matter of financial concern, but only of accounting. It is often possible to find opportunities to build houses and even apartment buildings in the countryside and to get a rent so that it runs around. But then the accounting rules do not allow you to retain the value that it actually costs to build the house. Here, action has been asked for as long as I have been in Parliament. I came in in 2014. One of the assignments I've had was that I was in the Municipal Investigation. The local government inquiry identified this as one of the major problems in rural development. I would like to hear Johan Danielsson tell us more about how the government has actually planned to get it together with people building more in the countryside while we have all these problems to deal with.
i-3k1BUAd13VKHQawpV8B44B	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking Helena Lindahl for a good question on a very urgent subject. Housing policy is a central part of welfare policy. The dwelling is central to every person's life. In Sweden, we will have a long-term and sustainable housing policy for all. That is not the case today. We have a situation where young people find it difficult to find housing and where socially important groups cannot ask for adequate housing in our metropolitan regions. We know that the housing shortage is one of the major obstacles that are addressed when new, green industries are planned and emerging, not least in Västerbotten, although we are pleased that Northvolt also comes to Borlänge and other parts of Sweden. The government's focus is therefore clear. We want to see more housing across the country – homes that ordinary people can afford to live in. We want all types of leases, multi-residential buildings and detached houses. And it really is about the whole country, including the countryside. With this, I would like to take this opportunity to develop the answer a little bit to the first question, which came back in the speech in this House. It's about government top loans to build and rebuild homes in rural areas. The government is well aware of several of the problems raised by Helena Lindahl. Among other things, this was the reason why we commissioned Boverket to develop proposals for measures in 2018. The report is not written off; that is not what my answer means. As I mentioned at the outset, it is still being prepared in the Government Office. The process has been influenced and influenced by the fact that the issue spans several policy areas. It requires some complex balances. Generally speaking, measures of this kind need to be carefully analysed. They concern issues relating to the credit market and also several property and contract law issues. In order for the proposal in the Boverket report to be considered, the consequences in these and other areas need to be clarified. That is what is somehow the concrete meaning of the proposal still being prepared and a statement that the government has not yet communicated and, if so, how we want to proceed with the issue. But in no way is it written off, but we are actively working on the issue and hope to be able to return in any way. Mikael Eskilandersson raises several other related issues, including Lantmäteriet's long processing times. This too is an extremely relevant issue, which I have debated in several interpellation debates here before. The government is well aware that the processing times in the proceedings are not satisfactory but need to be shortened. The government has been working on this gradually since we took office. Now we have the Swedish National Audit Office's review of the operations, and we will return to the Riksdag in the usual order linked to Lantmäteriet and Riksrevisionen's recommendations. I believe that we will do so by 30 June of this year at the latest.
i-PjbMgHfrJSokZQG8vbs3KB	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It's nice to hear that the report has in no way been written off. However, it has been marinating for three years, so I really hope it will soon be coming. I thought I would briefly say something about the report and the investigation, because we stand here anyway to inform the public, and perhaps not everyone knows what all the reports are about. This report from Boverket is really about making it more attractive for commercial banks to lend to the individual by proposing that the state, the municipality and the individual share the risk of the top loan in order for the bank to lend what is called a bottom loan. I hope that this could be a possible way forward. In Västerbotten, just like in Dalarna and other rural areas around Sweden, it is possible to afford to build your dream home if you get this loan. Today, not many houses are built and sold in rural areas, so the market value is not really known. Then the banks are convinced that it is not commercially viable to build in rural areas. It's very sad, because I think we could attract a lot more people to move to Västerbotten, work at Northvolt and maybe have their attractive living at a lake in some nearby municipality or why not in the inland, if you can work digitally. What I think is a shame is that we don't get this chance. I know that we cannot legislate and decide over banks' lending, but perhaps we, from the state side, can make things a little easier by ensuring that it becomes attractive also for the bank to see the possibility of housing in rural areas. I was visiting Borgafjäll not so long ago; it was at the end of autumn last year. There, in the mountain municipality of Dorotea, it is a construction boom. It was told that there are people from all over the country who build cottages there. The one who came from the farthest was a man who comes from Holland but who I think lives in Malaysia. He loves to be in Borgafjäll, and he works from there several months a year – that's what it's supposed to be. So he has the opportunity to work digitally. The world is also in Borgafjäll, and it is also found in small inland municipalities. It's just that we need to help get the bank to move, as the colossus it is. I have a question for the Minister that I did not really get an answer to. The investigation is under way, but I would like to know about the time when a proposal based on the report will be presented. And what does the Minister himself think of Boverket's proposal?
i-6q9atPrv4bvZZsUH5jSxMR	Madam President, I would like Johan Danielsson believes, as I understand it, that the government has succeeded in its eight years when it has reached 50 000 – 60 000 homes annually. But if we look at this historically, we were actually higher throughout the 60s and 70s. At the end of the 90s we suddenly had too many apartment buildings, and after that we have never really caught up with the construction. One thing I want to mention at the end is zero emission buildings in rural areas by 2050, because I do not feel that I have received an answer to that. How, in fact, are these investments to be economically justifiable for those who own the houses? First you should buy or build a house, and then within 28 years it will be renovated to zero emission building regardless of whether you want to or not, because that is what the government has as a vision. We have criticised the timetable in particular and believe that it is far too short a time to fix this in 28 years. In addition, the majority of the stock is owned by private individuals, and it is unreasonable to go in and decide on ownership and say that people will renovate their houses to zero emission houses. There must be some sort of plan for how to make this economically justifiable. I would like Johan Danielsson to tell me that.
i-PEVgoNC9kBBqT7rAKpNcMq	Madam President, I would like With regard to the final question from Helena Lindahl, I cannot, of course, anticipate the process currently under way in the Government Office. I do not have a specific date for when we will come back to this issue. What Helena Lindahl describes linked to the development in Borgafjäll and the visit she made there is a development we see in different parts of the country. It is important to create conditions for construction throughout the country. The reason why we are still actively looking at the investigation is that it is a proposal from Boverket on how exactly this could be achieved. There are also other things the government does to facilitate the construction of rural areas. I visited Sundborn on Tuesday and looked together with the utility housing company at the construction of 24 rental apartments on previously empty land. This is in many ways a construction of rental housing for exactly the reasons Helena Lindahl describes: It is faluröd, and it is walking distance to the nearest beach. It sums up all the reasons why people want to settle in the countryside and live in close proximity to a town, in this case Sundborn. Here the utilities also play an active and important role. Thanks to the fact that they go ahead and show that it is possible to build in Sundborn, it is now believed that there will also be other players and invest there. This is also part of Karolina Forests' investigation Lower the threshold to a good home, which we talked about in a previous interpellation debate. It is also about seeing how we can create better conditions for the public housing companies to take on this responsibility, take precedence and perhaps build on markets where others do not. I would also like to take the opportunity in this context to mention the state start-up grant for village communities that has been introduced. It is another type of player who plays an important role in rural areas. From 1 January 2020, there is an opportunity for village communities to receive State aid for costs at the initial stage of the project. During the first 18 months, the aid has been used by ten village communities. Most of them intend to build between 10 and 15 apartments, both in smaller and larger projects. Four of the village communities have chosen the form of cooperative tenancy; as many have chosen the right-of-occupancy. There are also different types of combinations of tenure forms. Half of the grants granted have gone to projects in weaker markets where it may be difficult to achieve housing construction at all, perhaps in particular apartment blocks. This is a way to solve housing needs and meet household demand. It is often about older people who live in a villa in the area, perhaps want to stay and have no condition to move but who can get it through the village community. This way you can also free small houses for younger families who want to move in, while also providing more support for service in the local community. Last but not least, we must not forget the state-owned company Statens Bostadstransformation AB, SBO. They have the task of acquiring publicly owned and private properties with the primary objective of ensuring housing for the elderly in weak housing markets. It could have the same effect as what I was talking about linked to the village communities.
i-QkfCLFgWyG9r7UeUV3VuAz	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, Minister, for your answer and for your commitment. I can also welcome you to Västerbotten and Skellefteå, and the Minister will see a lot of exciting projects going on. Recycling of batteries, which will also be produced at Northvolt, is also under way. I understand that the Minister cannot anticipate the process going on in the Government Office. I try to interpret it kindly and would like to send a reply home to municipal managers and councillors around my home country, who have also given me the task of simply asking when there will be an answer to the report and whether it will come at all. I hope I can exert some kind of pressure so that it won't be three more years and we'll be standing here in three years and talking about the same thing. I would like to return to you shortly. Then the Minister may also have the opportunity to see how far the report is progressing. It is incredibly important, and I feel that we in the countryside have been waiting a long time. Now we really have our chance. Not least, as I said in my introductory speech, the pandemic has shown us that we can work in completely different ways, that we can really live and live in rural areas and work digitally with the big city. I really want it to go on that way. Then I also want us to offer attractive accommodation and the opportunity to build for individuals and not just let flies and mosquitoes enjoy all these amazing lakes that are around our rural countryside.
i-CjWnnWMKyzzqYnHA6tQhKP	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Helena Lindahl, for this debate and the discussion on something that is really an urgent matter! I am pleased that I will be visiting Skellefteå already on Wednesday, and it will certainly not be the last visit to Västerbotten. I also hope that we will meet here in three years' time and that I will still be the Minister for Housing, but that we may then be discussing other issues. The specific question asked today about facilitating the construction of rural areas is important. Generally speaking, it is important for the government that we ensure that we maintain the high rate of housing construction we have today to build away the housing shortage throughout the country. It is important that we build different tenure forms, that we build more residential buildings, that we build small residential buildings and that we build housing that ordinary people can afford to ask for. I understand that ambition that we share. I understand that this is something that we will be able to agree on and continue to work constructively with, both the little time left by this term of office and on the other side of the term of office, so that we ensure that we have a housing policy in Sweden that in the long term ensures sustainable and good housing for everyone, whether it is about the region we are in now or about Dalarna or Västerbotten. Many thanks for this discussion!
