i-XSyuT9viN8hHZ34vxyWvrh	Mr President, I would like to We're behind the government bill. We believe that the legislation that has now been in force for two years until the end of the year, which allows associations and limited companies to hold digital voices, should also apply in 2022. We Moderates were very early in seeing this need as a whole and that one should have looked early at how some parts of the system could have been even better, especially the postal vote. In 2021, when we had had this opportunity for digital voices for almost a year, we could see that it was very appreciated and had more positive effects than reduced spread of infection. We know that many shareholders live in a place other than the place where the meeting is held. We know that keeping a physical voice can be expensive. For these two reasons, for example, in order to increase accessibility and to enable companies and associations to have lower costs in connection with their annual meetings and meetings, we said in 2021 that we thought that the government would already then start looking at how to permanent such a solution. It's in the United States, and it's in Denmark. We believe that Sweden should not back up in the future, but look at the great positive benefits that we have been able to see from having digital voices. When this legislation now goes through and when it will have been applied for another year, Swedish associations and limited companies will have lived with the possibility of fully digital voices for three years. And it has largely been almost entirely positive and appreciated. That is why I am in favour of the reservation in the report on a proposal for a declaration to the government that a permanent solution should be found to fully digital voices to be returned to Parliament as a matter of urgency. We also think that we should look at whether this possibility could also apply to listed companies.
i-LqtVuHz41N6Fmeu8nz6m97	Mr President, I would like to Now the government is finally extending the temporary law on digital voices. I myself wrote a question on this already in December, but there was no reason for any extension. I am, of course, pleased that there has now been a change of heart. I can see a lot of benefits from digital lawsuits, perhaps especially for limited companies and economic associations. For companies that have owners in different countries, opportunities for participation are increasing. This is particularly true of less well-off owners. This law was written on the basis that people should not meet. A permanent law on digital voices should be drawn up on the basis of making it easier for everyone to participate. There's actually a difference. We have recently received a long series of letters from housing associations in particular, who are afraid that their ability to influence may become worse. I can understand them, and I am not saying that a permanent regulatory framework should have exactly the same rules for multinational limited companies as it has for tenant-owner associations. On the contrary, right-of-occupancy associations, which consist of housing and not premises, are an example of when physical voices may be preferable. That is also why we choose to propose an announcement, so that the government can file the text of the law and propose a law that takes into account the situation of the housing associations. Now the government parties believe that they are already working on such a law. Strange, perhaps, when we write in 2022. However, this work has not been given a direct priority. The Social Democrats have been in the government for almost eight years. Various stakeholder organisations have been pushing the issue of digital general meetings for many years. The Association Aktiespararna pointed to the need long before the pandemic began, then as a way to increase influence and democracy in companies. I simply do not believe that the government should suddenly begin to give priority to this issue. Now that I am about to leave the speaker's seat for Ola Möller to speak for the Socialist Democrats, I would like to ask you a question. I wonder when this law will be in place. Will the government have time to make proposals on it before it has to resign after the elections, or will it do what it usually does, that is to do nothing at all and then insist that it has prepared everything when it is eventually deposed? Mr President, I would like to I support the reservation contained in the report.
i-Q4rMQkPym6LcWqNny6yA1h	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the proposal in the report to be approved and for the reservation to be rejected. Once again, we see that there is a reservation about things that the government is already doing. And Mikael Eskilandersson asks questions in his speech from the speaker's chair, which is customary to do in a change of line. But I'm not in the government. The questions asked by Mikael Eskilandersson may be put to the government. I'm standing here as a Social Democratic Member of Parliament. The work is going on; so much I know. When it's done, the government will answer. But this is just another clear move by the parties that have been mentioned earlier in this House with regard to the announcement bingo that is going on. After all, other parties in here understand that this is happening and therefore do not support the proposal for a declaration. Moreover, I believe that profits in welfare should be banned.
i-W5PzKGrbaQN6zRtetpP7j1	Mr President, I would like to No one will forget military Olympics in October 2019 in Wuhan, China. Of the 19 contestants from Boden who came home, most fell ill with a flu-like illness. One of them tested positive for Corona, but it was considered a mistake. It was the beginning of a pandemic that none of us had experienced before. It was the beginning of a pandemic that had unimagined consequences and still has consequences for our society as a whole. Mr President, I would like to The traces of the pandemic have been many and differed according to the industry in which they operate. At the beginning of 2020, many were seriously ill, and all our iva departments in hospitals were overcrowded with severely ill people. Unfortunately, many of them died in the difficult coronapndemine. Everyone tried to do everything they could to reduce the spread of infection, and there was great respect for the measures among most of our people. We have never seen so many wear masks, and we have never seen so many wash their hands and use hand alcohol. We stopped visiting each other by touching hands and hugging. Thanks to this, we have seen consequences that few cases of flu, winter shrimp disease, RS virus and more. Mr President, I would like to The pandemic has been tough and difficult for large parts of our industry, for infrastructure and for all public operations. The opposition has led the government to develop 28 additional budgets to manage to keep Sweden reasonably alive. Many activities have not been able to cope with the consequences of the pandemic, many have had to rethink and many have gone down to a minimum level to manage their activities. Many of the activities in different sectors have made use of the possibility of short-term work. The latest law was adopted in 2013, when the Swedish Agency for Growth was the supervisory authority. The report we are now debating proposes that the Tax Agency should take over the role of supervisory authority. In autumn 2020, the Government commissioned the Swedish Agency for Growth Policy Analyses and Evaluations to begin a follow-up of the overall impact on companies of the support introduced as a result of the pandemic. This has continued, with announcements from the Riksdag that have led to new reviews. We Moderates believe that many companies have been unduly affected by the effects of the pandemic when the system has not worked. We want the Riksdag to address an announcement to the Government to ensure that early efforts are evaluated. The Moderates also consider that the length of the proceedings should be shortened. The Moderates have no objection to the Swedish Tax Agency taking over as the supervisory authority for short-term work. However, we would like to emphasise that the government has been slow to react when there have been signals that the handling of short-term work has not worked at the Swedish Agency for Growth. This slowness has had severe consequences for many companies, and many of them are still suffering and may not be able to continue operating. Mr President, I would like to Since the administration plays a crucial role in ensuring the intended effect of short-term aid, the problems encountered in the past cannot simply arise again. The Moderates are therefore keen that the Swedish Agency for Growth's experience and measures to correct the problems are passed on and taken into account. We can hopefully begin to see the end of this pandemic, but nobody can say that for sure. It is therefore of great importance that we learn from the mistakes we have made, so that we are better equipped if a new pandemic or other severe crises arise. I therefore support our reservation.
i-QYunzZgXhBrRjjok1Dx223	Mr President, I would like to Today, then, we are debating the report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy No 4. The report – and the proposal – deals ultimately with which should be the processing authority when companies apply for support in short-term work. In my speech, I would like to say something about the business support that has existed during the pandemic. I would also like to say something about the law on short-term work. I was also going to say something about the changes proposed in the bill we are now discussing, and finally I will say something about the reservations of the Moderates, the Centers and the Christian Democrats. Mr President, I would like to Everyone realizes that the pandemic has exposed the strengths and weaknesses of society. I am convinced that together we will build a stronger and better society after the pandemic. In this work, it is important that all people have a job to go to, and so these kinds of issues are important. That is why economic policy is central. As always, the foundation of a strong society is that people have a job to go to. After all, we entered the Corona crisis with 300 000 more people in work than in 2014, when the current government took over. We also entered the crisis with a strong economy, which meant that we were well placed to deal with the pandemic. The proposal we are discussing today, about changes in the law on support for short-term work, is about an adjustment. It is not about how to get out of the crisis, but rather about how to be better equipped in the next crisis. The pandemic has affected companies in various ways. Some have not been affected at all, and others have gone better than normal. Some have been hit hard, and some have been hit even harder. In this context, the support that the government has developed and that the Riksdag has decided on – often in unity, which I think is very important to emphasise – has been important. The support has enabled many companies to overwinter during the crisis, which means that they now have the opportunity and will to grow. I therefore believe that we are facing a period of strong growth and more jobs. As I mentioned, there has been considerable support. We are talking about aid for short-term work, which we are talking about today, to turnover aid, conversion aid, deferral of tax payments, event aid, tax reduction for investment in furniture, increased provisioning to the accrual fund, government loan guarantee, rental aid, the possibility to suspend companies and the reduction of social security contributions. In conclusion, I think it can be said that aid has been important, correct and necessary. It is equally true that the subsidies have not been perfect. It is in the nature of the matter that they have been produced under pressure of time, and that is why there is now an important period in which we have to evaluate the aid that has been used. What is crucial, however, is that we genuinely evaluate these efforts to learn, not to make short-term points. Mr President, I would like to The law on short-term work came in 2013. In the same year, the then government took a decision on a regulation under the law. The idea is basically that aid can be provided if there is a particularly deep recession or is likely to be imminent. The aim is to support employment and curb unemployment. The rules on short-term state aid mean that the State, employer and employee share the costs of this measure. The support is activated by the Government issuing regulations for a period of support – often twelve months – which can also be extended once. During the pandemic, support for short-term work was updated and an additional support was introduced. Today, therefore, we have two aids that exist in parallel. Today's proposal mainly proposes that it is not the Swedish Agency for Growth but instead the Swedish Tax Agency that should handle this support. That is a wise and reasonable conclusion, and on this issue the committee agrees. That is why we Social Democrats are calling for the proposal in the report, and therefore for the proposal, to be approved and for the motion to be rejected. The Pandemin has shown that the managing authority must have more opportunities than the Swedish Agency for Growth has to free up resources to handle this support. No one realized in 2013, when this law was voted through, how extensive this support could be or how extensive it would be during this period. In short, the Swedish Tax Agency has a reasonable size and experience to manage this support in the future. In the spring of 2021, a unanimous Committee on Economic Affairs proposed that the Riksdag support an announcement on support for short-term work. For us Social Democrats this was reasonable; we saw a problem in these systems. At the same time, we felt it was important not to politicise important issues of support for businesses. It must be said, however, that we saw it as impossible to change the administrative authority in the midst of a burning pandemic. We were also not prepared to reduce controls, because we have also seen that these rules are actually being used for cheating. What the committee argued was that the government would ensure that the length of proceedings would continue to decrease. We had already seen that the processing times had been reduced, but we wanted to find more ways forward. The government would also urgently review the proportionality of these regulatory frameworks and how to simplify recovery rules. I would like to stay for a moment on this issue. We Social Democrats believe that this issue is too important to be politicised. Therefore, we are pleased that we were behind this announcement. In September last year, the government set up a committee which would mainly look at the operation of short-term aid. This committee basically has a mandate to investigate the issues that a united Committee on Economic Affairs supported last autumn. This was wise of the government, and I think it shows that we want to develop the system of short-term work together. The task of the Committee was, inter alia, to evaluate the aid, to consider whether it has mitigated the effects of the pandemic on business, employment and the economy, to analyse whether these two parallel aids are reasonable, to analyse whether the regulatory framework can be made more flexible, to analyse whether the compensation is appropriate and to submit the necessary legislative proposals. This committee will make a proposal later this year. There are many of us waiting for the Committee's conclusions. I believe that those who listen to this debate realise that it is unreasonable, as the Moderates propose, to vote through a reservation which is actually about exactly what a committee is already set up to investigate. Unfortunately, the Moderate reservation strikes open doors. Unfortunately, I understand that this is more about a political marking and playing. I find that unfortunate. This issue is too important to become a pawn in a political game. That is why, Mr President, I would like to say in this context that there are many of us who are eagerly awaiting the Committee's proposals. During the time we wait for the Committee's proposals, I propose that we reject the Moderate reservation. I also propose that we support the proposal in the report and the proposal.
i-98UBsJQtE8U6DsVphe2kyn	Mr President, I would like to The subject is regional growth. After all, this report deals with all the business sector and all the conditions that we have in our elongated country, from north to south. This also includes many policy areas outside the area of regional growth itself. There are also the EU funds that Swedish regions are looking for to develop at home. We in the Moderates want people to be able to live, live and work throughout Sweden. We see potential and development opportunities for the Swedish countryside. The focus of this reasoning is on companies and supply. When people can live in rural areas, income comes to the municipality. Then the wheels spin. They are the driving force for a living countryside where people can feed. Among other things, by making it easier to start and run businesses in rural areas too, more opportunities can be created for people to live, grow and operate. It is therefore important to identify and remove barriers and to promote the possibility of living, running and creating jobs. The high prices of fuel have created problems for agriculture, the haulage industry and other industries. It has become expensive for people to commute to work, get to activities and do errands. In addition, farmers have received prices for fertilizers that make them bear even higher costs. At the same time, a change is taking place that makes it easy to see that they are changing their machinery from one day to another. The reasoner has not really seen the everyday life of agriculture. Farms have been closed down, and I've probably never had as many conversations with farmers as I've had recently. On social media there is talk of refueling a tractor for 9 000 crowns. What will it be like when we start the spring sowing, someone wondered in a comment. It's a desperate nutrition that takes the floor. We have a food strategy from the government which, instead of developing, creates a crisis package for farmers to survive at all. This is the wrong way to go. An important decision affecting rural areas and the tourism industry is the question of being able to sell wine on farms. It is part of the strategy for tourism and rural jobs. This is an issue that is important in the context that the tourism industry needs to make many moves and really kick-start the wheels. One would have to offer the fantastic wine tours that we could have in our country. Regional growth in our country is about long distances and extensive rural and sparsely populated areas. Interregional cooperation is needed to keep the country together with infrastructure networks. It is about working road, rail, broadband and air transport. These different modes of transport constitute nodes and networks so that Sweden can be well planned for both transport, export and import. Europe is a major part of the market for our products and services. We Moderates believe that technology development goes hand in hand with sustainable development. We do not want to phase out but develop. Apparently, when the Green Party left the government, it was possible to provide aid to airports. That's good. Angelholm and Mora are two examples of this. However, I am concerned about what might happen in the future if the Social Democrats choose to hook their arm with the Green Party again. Our country needs nodes that make it possible to get around Sweden, and it will work. Mr President, I would like to Far from everyone has been able to reset their jobs and work from home during the pandemic. Some professions require access to the workplace. The clearest example is health care. Elderly care is another example and industry is a third, just to take a few. Far from everyone lives in Stockholm County and can buy a monthly card for SEK 970. There are workplaces around the country that are not accessible by public transport. Many women have their jobs in the public sector. They work weekends and nights and have to use the car to get to and from work. These women are the losers in the Social Democrats' policy of transition. If they also live in southern Sweden, they will pay high electricity bills. All in all, this makes people poorer. This is the wrong way to go to put thumb screws on people in our country. Mr President, I would like to In December, just before Christmas, we debated sandwich death, or fuel stations if you like. June 30th this year is the last day when sandwiches can have old equipment for fuel pumps. New blends of propellants make it necessary to change to prevent the pipes from being shredded. This issue has been discussed for a long time, but we have not yet been able to get an answer. Last week, however, Mikael Damberg in an interpellation debate with a party colleague said to me that the money can be applied for. This led the organisation Small Entrepreneurs to react and act. They want to know how to do it, because that information doesn't exist. Perhaps we are getting clarity here today from the Social Democrats. While I am at filling stations, I would like to say that the Moderates are in favour of continued increased operating aid to small shops in vulnerable and vulnerable sparsely populated areas. The impact of the correct impact of the aid is very important in order not to disrupt or affect other activities. We therefore want the enhanced support to be carefully monitored and evaluated by the responsible authority, so that it can be ensured that it has the intended effect. There is also a need to review the possibility of carrying out a more needs-appropriate examination when applying for operating aid, in addition to the basic requirements currently in place. In granting operating aid, account should also be taken of costs resulting from any forced investment, such as new laws and EU rules to be complied with. This week I had the privilege of listening to a seminar on the University of Applied Sciences. I see it as an important part of matching the workforce. Strengthening the supply of skills in the long term requires education and training – adult education, higher education institutions and universities of high quality. But in the short term, for the sake of jobs, businesses and welfare, we need people to choose professions that enable us to cope with growth. In my own country we do not have the growth we should have with our conditions, and now we have an increase in unemployment. The same part of the country stands without planned base power after Ringhals 1 and 2 was shut down by the government, which hit huge numbers of people through high electricity prices for both businesses and consumers. It is expensive to have freezers, to run kitchens and ovens and to keep properties heated. Mr President, I would like to Sweden looks different, and many issues affect parts of the country that are located outside the big cities. By way of example, I can mention forestry. Local potentials and barriers affect. Unemployment has increased in my own county. Then we are talking about a county where there should be greater growth. These are disturbing signals. Matching needs to be in place, and Arbetsförmedlingen's assignments should be fundamentally changed, preferably the day before yesterday. It is not enough to measure how people look for work. The focus must be on people getting jobs. It is also not possible to have a system in which the work-proven person must report illness in three places. But as it is now, the company, the client and Arbetsförmedlingen must have the information. The Swedish thresholds of bureaucracy that have been built up are anti-jobs. Right now, Sweden is in a time of a lot of problems created by government policy. I hope it can be changed in September. Mr President, I would like to Of course, I support all our reservations, but for time winning, I only agree to reservation 1.
i-2A3X8KWsBYN4eBM7iRHV7n	Mr President, I would like to Initially, I call for reservation 20 in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs' report 11 on regional development. But, of course, we in the Swedish Democrats support all our reservations in the report. In today's debate on regional development, I will take the liberty of speaking from a Norrbotten perspective. It may be that it is perceived as both anecdotal and a flirt with its own constituency, but the purpose is to describe a reality that people in both Norrbotten and other parts of our long country can recognize in. I live in Gällivare. If my family and I want to go and look at SHL hockey, for example, we have quite exactly 25 mil easy way to drive down to Luleå. Then we are not talking about motorways, no, but mostly about ordinary highways without meeting separation – road which, moreover, is in rather poor condition. If my family and I want to shop at one of the larger retail chains or hand in my Volkswagen at a brand workshop, it is at best 12 mil to Kiruna but usually 25 mil down to Luleå that applies. If any of us get sick and receive a referral to Norrlands universitetssjukhus in Umeå, we are talking about 500 km one way to go to the doctor. It is therefore not possible to talk about regional development without talking about fuel prices and the disadvantaged road infrastructure. Here's the thing, Mr President and honourable Members: regional development is based on ordinary people wanting to live, live, work and run businesses throughout the country. If ordinary people perceive it as unattractive or simply too expensive and too difficult to live outside the urban bog, parts of the country will be depopulated. Entrepreneurs are disappearing, the labour force is moving away, schools are being dismantled, gas stations are being shut down and businesses are going bankrupt, while the companies that are left are becoming increasingly difficult with the recruitment of workers who no longer feel able to afford to commute. We can stand in this Chamber and swing in fair words, but when Swedish workers are forced to pay the world's highest price per litre of diesel to get to and from their jobs, something is fundamentally wrong. The Social Democratic Government, now in its own majesty but earlier together with the Green Party, pursues some sort of reversed Khmers's rouges policy in which people living in the countryside are its primary target and should be driven away, not by force, but through various taxes, charges and deteriorations of living conditions. These are harsh words, may seem, but the discontent and anger, not least about fuel prices, are so compact that they can be put on in many places in the country. As a former colleague of mine said when I met him in the shop the other day, that Prime Minister of the Labour Party would only dare to come here to the mine, and she will see what we workers think of her. That's it. It boils among a lot of people you meet. But it is not only the scandalously high fuel prices that make ordinary people pissed off, although fuel prices are among the hottest potatoes right now. The threat of long road distances – now I mean very long distances that are tens of miles long – speed reduced in order to avoid the necessary reinvestments frightens. The threat of a severely reduced travel deduction frightens. The threat of losing its ADSL wideband for Telia to dismantle the copper network far faster than fast fiber is being expanded scares. The investigation directives for a new breed of reindeer that could lead to fewer opportunities for hunting, fishing, snowmobile skiing and other meaningful recreational activities frighten. Closure of sandwiches and therefore also small shops in the countryside frightens. Villages that have entire landscapes destroyed by flashing and noisy wind turbines frighten. Forest properties that become more or less worthless when they are no longer allowed to be used scare. That's how I could do it, because the list doesn't end here. I wonder, Mr President: why does the government persist in pursuing a policy that frightens ordinary people? To this will be added a general experience of Stockholm as a kind of colonial power that grabs off the natural resources extracted and produced in the country. Two of the things that are repeatedly mentioned in this context are the regulated rivers with their lagged fishing waters and mines that force entire communities to move while the profits go to the state rather than to the benefit of the local population. Now this is not the whole truth; I am aware of it. The mines, perhaps not so much hydropower, create lots of jobs and tax revenue locally too. At the same time, we must allow ourselves to note that relatively little of the natural resources that take place in Sweden's rural areas seriously give rise to clutter in the treasury locally and regionally. No, it's not all night black. There are many who actually want to live in the country's small towns and in the countryside. But in the vast majority of cases, they require that there should be fast internet access and good communications to and from the place they choose to move to. It is therefore up to us decision-makers to rake the manage if we seriously believe that the whole of Sweden should live. Mr President, I would like to Therefore, the Swedish Democrats propose regionalisation of the property tax for industrial properties and power generation units. In this way, substantial sums would be transferred to the regions in which natural resources are withdrawn. We are absolutely convinced that this would be seen as more just. Even if the proposal were to benefit the four Norrland counties most, it would strengthen the potential of all regions for strong regional development. As you know, the Swedish Democrats are also pushing the issue of reducing the diesel price by several SEK per litre at a pump. We simply do not believe in the philosophy of hitting ordinary people who lack alternatives to their own car. We are also opposed to the Malus bonus tax on cars, which has meant a substantial transfer of tax resources from rural to urban, because Malus cars are usually bought by people outside the metropolitan areas while the expensive bonus cars roll in the city centres. We want to see infrastructure investments throughout the country rather than high-speed trains in southern Sweden. We also want to ensure that laws are not passed that in practice mean that an individual industry carried out by a few threatens everyone's right to a meaningful leisure time in Sweden's mountain world. The Swedish Democrats are also pushing the issue of reviewing the support available for commercial services in rural areas to ensure that the levels are right and that the regulations are effectively designed. We suggest that the terms and conditions for traders acting as retailers for example Apoteket, Systembolaget and Postnord be reviewed and improved. We also imagine that the design of the transport contribution criticised by the Swedish National Audit Office could be reviewed and would welcome if the government took the initiative to do so even if we do not have a strong proposal on this in the report. Mr President, I would like to Furthermore, we have been driven to bring about regulatory changes to prevent a new wave of sandwich deaths this summer when new environmental regulations come into force. We have also been a strong driver when it comes to getting new beach protection rules. As I said earlier in my speech: Regional development is based on ordinary people wanting to live, live, work and run businesses throughout the country. Then, from a political point of view, we must also make sure that ordinary people see it as attractive. If the whole of Sweden is to live, we simply cannot afford to pursue a policy that leads to the depopulation of certain parts of the country. Mr President, I would like to All in all, the Swedish Democrats' policy in this area and other areas that have direct bearing on the opportunities for good regional development aims to enable people and businesses to stay and thus keep all of Sweden's regions alive with housing, jobs, schools, trade and so on. We believe that it is necessary for the whole of Sweden to live – for real.
i-RR5RjqhbAQjE1oHs5VSE3E	Mr President, I would like to Of course, the Center Party supports all its reservations, but for the gain of time I only ask for reservation 5. In this report on regional development, the Center Party has a number of pleas in favour of women and men having the same conditions for developing and running businesses in rural areas. In the green industries, the conditions for men and women differ. This is shown, among other things, in the statistics on public aid. The diversity of public support measures can partly be explained by the ownership structure and the fact that many farms are run as family businesses. This can also be explained by the fact that women are calling for support measures other than those provided by the public. For example, it has been shown that women in rural areas are more likely to apply for investment aid for horse activities, restaurants and cafés than for traditional farming. There are also differences in how much investment women are planning compared to men. For green industries to achieve their full potential, men and women must be given equal opportunities to run and develop their businesses. Public support measures therefore need to take account of the needs of both men and women. Mr President, I would like to Today, about 40 per cent of Sweden's private forest owners are women. Together, they form the single largest entrepreneurship group among women in Sweden. Nevertheless, the conditions for men and women still differ. The Center Party therefore works to ensure that men and women have equal opportunities, rights and opportunities to work in the forestry sector and be active forest owners. In the Alliance government, the Center Party actively pursued these issues, and among other things, it developed a national gender equality strategy for the Swedish forestry sector with goals for three focus areas: working life, education and individual forest ownership. In 2019, Skogsstyrelsen carried out a follow-up of the strategy's results, and fortunately, it seems that in all focus areas it is moving towards a reduction in gender segregation. Although much work remains to be done to achieve the strategy's objectives, it is important that the government continues to promote greater equality in the forestry sector. The constitutional property rights in the forest, which we have discussed so much here in Parliament, are of course equally important for both men and women. Mr President, I would like to I will now raise an important tax issue, or indeed a question of fairness, namely regionalised tax bases. For the Center Party, it goes without saying that people should be allowed to retain the fruits of their own work to a greater extent. Equally obvious is that regions that contribute valuable production may retain parts of this value. Tax bases are an effective tool for increasing people's influence over their everyday lives, and so the Center Party wants tax policy to be used as a tool for growth creation across the country. This is an important part of fiscal policy in a forthcoming tax reform. Using tax policy as a growth tool for the whole country can be made possible by regionalising more parts of the state property tax in order to strengthen the regional level of decision-making and the ability of the regions to pursue growth-enhancing policies on the basis of their own conditions. The Center Party wants to explore how a number of tax bases can be regionalised so that regions retain a larger share of the values created by them. A first step is to regionalise the property tax on hydropower and wind turbines. I am aware that many parties here in Parliament do not want some of the profits from the extraction of natural resources to end up where they are produced, but rather see them end up at a head office in Stockholm or some other major city. One objection I often face is that it will affect the tax equalisation system. The tax equalisation system is supposed to maintain equivalence throughout the country. At the same time, we see significant shortcomings in the current system. Today, much of the tax equalisation goes to growth municipalities, which are basically well placed for a strong economy. There is a need for a review, and in December 2020 a notice was issued to the government to investigate the entire equalisation system. For the Center Party, it is essential that a new tax equalisation system rests on a series of fundamental principles. On the one hand, the system should be based on a guaranteed level of service throughout the country and, on the other hand, it needs to be designed to create incentives for entrepreneurship, jobs and growth. It must pay for municipalities to make reforms to strengthen entrepreneurship and job creation, and then municipalities cannot be deprived of responsibility for their economic policies. For many sparsely populated municipalities, however, it is clear that structural conditions exist that make it difficult to cope with the need for municipal services without a system of tax equalisation. Therefore, the Center Party considers that sparseness should be taken more into account in the context of the countervailing system. An average income earner in northwest Sweden pays over SEK 3,700 more in municipal taxes than the national average, although she often has to wait longer than others for an ambulance if she becomes ill or a police officer if she is subjected to a crime. In order to offer welfare equivalent to that in the rest of the country, many rural municipalities have chosen to increase the tax. The average municipal tax rate for municipalities in northern Sweden is currently just under 34 per cent, compared with just under 30 per cent for Stockholm and about 32 per cent for the whole country. This development not only puts rural areas at an economic disadvantage; it also represents a deep structural injustice. Rural people have the right to a care, school, care, security and infrastructure equivalent to that of everyone else. Mr President, I would like to I would like to conclude by talking about decentralised, strengthened and more effective authorities. Authorities and municipalities are increasingly and increasingly putting information and services on their websites, which makes it easier for citizens. The Center Party has also contributed to the creation of more government service offices and that no new agencies will be located in Stockholm during this term of office. That's good. However, there are over 1 million people who do not use the internet. We who use the internet a lot also sometimes need to meet a knowledgeable person. It is no secret that the state has abandoned the smaller and medium-sized cities and towns. Many new government jobs have been created in Stockholm. But it is probably even more common to move activities from smaller towns to the residence city or university city, which is sometimes the same. I myself have been involved in this when I was a municipal councillor in my municipality of Mora who lost both the Swedish Tax Agency and the Kronofogden. Both of these authorities moved to Falun. They meant when I asked them that they took their regional responsibility by staying in the county and not moving to Stockholm. Dalarna is Sweden's fourth largest county. The distance from the northern part of the county to Falun is 28 km one way. It takes eight hours to drive back and forth. The staff who worked at the tax office in Mora are now commuting to Falun, which is just under 200 km round trip per day. It is easy to see that the smaller municipalities, smaller towns and rural areas in particular have had less access to public services. Since the days of Thorbjörn Fälldin in the 1970s, the Center Party has pushed that the tasks of the authorities must be more decentralised. In addition to the positive efficiency gains that decentralisation can achieve, this means an increased public service across the country. Mr President, I would like to Incidentally, I stand behind the people of Ukraine.
i-QN92v84z8ZfwrT5piKNhHs	Mr President, I would like to We are now debating the report on Regional Development. The report deals with a lot of motions which, according to the motionaries themselves, would lead to development in the country, including, of course, myself and my and my party's movements. I shall begin by requesting the approval of reservation 25. Of course, I support all our reservations, but for the benefit of time, I only ask for it to be approved. It is about compensatory measures for the rural population, which have no alternative to the car. This is, of course, linked to the high fuel prices. I will dwell on this subject for a while, Mr President, because it is something to which I have a lot of reactions. I understand the spinal reflex of the Finance Minister when he said that it is enough now to support a doped industry. At least he said something like that. I can actually agree with him. But why is it suddenly so easy to dismiss a doped branch when it is not the only branch that is doped? When it comes to electricity bills that swallowed households' budgets in areas 3 and 4 in particular, support is provided for households. Understand me correctly: it is of course a good thing to take responsibility for the situation that has actually been achieved with a policy that has led us to this situation. Then we would have liked to have seen a better distribution of aid so that those who are really most affected would have received more of the aid, and especially those with the smallest margins. Well, back to rural people who often think into their cars at least as much of the household economy as the electricity customers who are now receiving the support. Mr President, I would like to I had the parliamentary investigation service check how much energy taxes households pay in each municipality and then for petrol and diesel. It is divided between the population aged 15 years and older in the municipalities. The figures are for reference year 2023. It means what the tax is then when the tax is reduced by amazing 50 cents, to which the current bourgeois budget together with SD will contribute. I make it easy and refer to my municipality of residence Pajala and compare with Stockholm, because it will not be said that I have chosen a certain municipality. There are more frightening examples if I had taken another municipality. In Stockholm, one person in the category I mentioned just now contributes 546 SEK in petrol tax and 152 SEK in diesel tax per person, i.e. 698 SEK per person. In my municipality of residence, Pajala, it is SEK 1,245 in petrol tax and SEK 903 in diesel tax, i.e. SEK 2,148 per person. Mr President, I would like to Thus, those living in my municipality of residence contribute SEK 1,450 more per person to the state with tax money through the fuel tax than a person living in this city. Then add that those who work pay 6 SEK more per hundred in tax, otherwise, with poorer service and longer distance. Yeah, you get it. Then I come to the travel allowance, which government representatives highlight as something to be reviewed. The investigation has left the memo Tax relief for work trips – a simpler and transport-neutral regulatory framework. The government refers to the proposals to do it well for the countryside. Mr President, I would like to Once again, I had the investigation service look at how it will hit those who again lack alternatives to their own car. Simplifiedly, it says: For those who can make travel deductions under the current rules for travelling by car, the proposed rules will mean a lower tax reduction. On the other hand, the proposed rules may allow more people to make travel deductions. That is to say, some people who, with today's rules, cannot make deductions at all will be able to do so with the proposed rules. That's good. Then let's look at how it beats a rural settlement that already pays more fuel tax than a big city dweller. The person earns 35 000 SEK and drives 60 km one way to work. Today, the person receives SEK 11,398 tax reduction for car travel to and from work. With proposed rules, they will receive SEK 9 450 reduction. It is not enough that the fuel has gone up nearly $1 (U.S.) in the last 13 months. The tax reduction is planned to be reduced by SEK 1,948 for the commuter. If the commuter only calculates work trips of 12 mil per day, the car draws 0.7 litres and the person works 200 days per year, the cost for the commuter has increased by 8 400 SEK in one year. Add to that what I told you about earlier. This is how the differences continue. Of course, if there are more people who can carpool, there will be more people who can make deductions with a cleaner conscience. But who will win? Well, look at it and be amazed: One who can travel collectively in the metropolitan areas of the same distance can be a winner of $5,000. Now I have given you examples of how fuel prices actually hit those who lack alternatives to the car. It is easy to dismiss support. But remember that when people who maintain social function stay at home because it is impossible to reconcile everyday life with all of this. Then perhaps the sinner will wake up. Then I haven't even mentioned companies that can't put the price increase on customers the next day. There are works that have contracts that run where prices cannot be listed at the rate that the changes have taken place. It will be impossible for me to list all kinds of examples, with long distances to everything. It is not supposed to be rocket research that is required to understand that the consequences hit the rural population harder with long distances to everything. I will be the first to admit that reduced taxation is not the way to compensate fossil-powered vehicles. But there should be some system in the meantime until the transition reaches the social classes that cannot afford or simply lack the ability to use the alternatives. Mr President, I would like to What I have seen in the form of rural declines as a consequence of missing regional policy is simply too difficult to explain in an eight-minute speech on regional growth or development. But one thing that I am convinced has played a role is the EU's agricultural policy. All food producers on a smaller scale are gone. The small farmers who combined agriculture with small jobs and even labour market measures – and without hushing, sometimes even A-kassa – and had agriculture as a secondary job are now gone, with empty villages as a consequence. I am not saying that we can get everything back as before, but we have to do something so that sparsely populated regions and their people see that we want people to live in villages that today contribute to society but lack charging poles, school, business, and perhaps even functioning telephony. We are rich in a lot in this country, but then the distribution must take place differently from today. Tons of studies, help packages and problem descriptions have been written about why municipalities have been drained and so on. However, if we are to get the change that is now to take place in the light of the climate threat, we must bring people with their different conditions so that the price paid by a rural resident will not be excessive before the transition has even begun. For example, we cannot allow foreign investors to build a socially important function where not only the profits produced end up abroad but where production is also recorded for decades to come. Then the rural people probably feel cheated several times, I can imagine. When LKAB delivers SEK 12 billion to the Treasury – money that has been dug up in the ore fields – it seems a bit unreasonable that there is still a BB missing in an industrial city like Kiruna. The women tell the horrors of births that take place along an accident - stricken road as well. The question then is, Mr President: do we have the right distribution of resources created out there in the regions?
i-S7EvH5y4xNMKGHfo8AXkPU	Mr President, I would like to Of course, we support all the reservations contained in the report on regional development, but for the sake of profit, I would like to ask for reservation 9 only. In large parts of our country, the country store is the heart of the district and so much more than just a store. In addition to school, it is perhaps the most important function for a society to live. A grocery store is not just a place where you go to buy food. It is very often the place where you can do postal errands, submit the tip, pick up your medicine or get delivery from Systembolaget, which is located many miles from home. But maybe it's mostly a social hub. Facebook, Instagram and other platforms in all honor, but we people want and need to meet other people in real life. The agricultural trade is a physical hub where you can get just this under unplanned and very simple forms. This small talk that takes place in connection with purchases is an incredibly important health care factor, and it promotes community. In addition to being a water hole for Community-stricken people in sparsely populated areas, it is also a very important factor for local business. We Christian Democrats therefore want to see that government activities are given the task of working in a spirit of making it easier for more stores, for example, to become agents. Mr President, I would like to We Christian Democrats want to enable the whole country with its different conditions to develop and be attractive in different ways. It should be possible to live an urban life with the city's offering and vibrant lifestyle or to find your own pace in a landscape characterised by deep forests and the great silence – and everything in between. But then there must be a basic infrastructure that ensures security and predictability for citizens and businesses. We realize that different parts of Sweden need each other to be able to forcefully stop any attempt to create a we-and-dom thinking. It's not land to town or south to north. Sweden is a country with a need to see the strength of cooperation. Mr President, I would like to It has become expensive to be Swedish. After electricity and fuel have been paid, less and less will be spent on food for Swedish families. We have to do something about this. We Christian Democrats want to lower the diesel price by pump. It is about reducing the requirement for the incorporation of biofuels in diesel. Our proposal had quickly reduced the diesel price by 3 crowns at the pump. This is equivalent to about SEK 200 per tank for a regular family car. It also relieves the burden on farmers, haulage companies and others who are now falling below the world's highest diesel prices. It is also about the elusive prices of electricity, which are absolutely impossible for Sweden. The result of the government's energy failure is clear. Closed-down reactors and the absence of forward-looking energy policies have contributed to increased electricity prices. Families' private finances are rocking, and Swedish companies sometimes experience a crisis. In the short term, we Christian Democrats want to reduce electricity tax temporarily. Long-term nuclear power must be given a key role. Sweden is at a critical crossroads. The next government must create the conditions for new reactors in order to cope with climate change and provide companies and households with electricity at a reasonable price. Mr President, I would like to When we Christian Democrats propose more care places, lower electricity and diesel prices or more police and more security, it is because we love Sweden – the whole of Sweden. There are many things that are good in Sweden and many that are good here where we live. But there are shortcomings, and there is much that we can do to improve for this country. When we talk about that we love Sweden and that the whole of Sweden should work, it is not a whale freckle. It is deeply rooted in the deepest values of Christian democracy about community and that the country we love should stick together instead of being torn apart. Then we need more consensus between ordinary people and us that the citizens have chosen as politicians for the whole of Sweden to work. Mr President, I would like to Swedish healthcare still has a good reputation and stands well in international comparisons. The medical results in particular are many times in the top class. In other respects, however, the impression is that our health system has lost compared to the past. We believe that the responsibility of the regions for health care needs to be reviewed. The unacceptable waiting times and queues for health care are the clearest example, where the debt of care is only increasing and increasing. We Christian Democrats are working for equal care throughout the country. However, in order to improve equality and the quality of care, action is needed both in the long and short term. We believe that it is essential in the long term for health care to become a state responsibility, which provides better opportunities for development. In the short term, it is necessary to create coherent care processes for patients so that patients become more involved in their own care and receive better care throughout the care chain. Many of the health care problems with waiting times, care queues and lack of patient safety stem from this difficulty in creating coherent processes. It is therefore urgent that we also start to talk about health issues in terms of regional development. Mr President, I would like to I'll end by talking a little bit about natural resources. Today, income from natural resources goes directly to the state, and municipalities only receive tax revenue from the labour income of residents. We Christian Democrats are open to increasing the share of these very natural resources for local residents, but the issue needs to be examined in depth. A study should therefore be set up on the pros and cons of a model where the profits from the Swedish natural resources are primarily located in the municipalities and from there are redistributed according to a defined principle rather than as at present, where revenue goes to the state. In this context, it is worth studying, among other things, the Norwegian model.
i-NQiD6c68LW1RPiNUDg4pTK	Mr President, I would like to We are now debating the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on regional development. If we raise our eyes from the capital and look out into our elongated country, we can see many obstacles, injustices and challenges. In short, the conditions are very different depending on where in the country you live. I myself live in Värmland, but I grew up in Småland. The conditions for the different regions are completely different, although there are of course also many similarities. On Monday when I took the train to Stockholm it was with some scepticism, given the storm that had pulled into the country – would I arrive in time? Despite the storm, it is rather strange that I should have that attitude even before I had even got on the train. But my gut was right. We arrived only an hour late in Stockholm, but as a regular traveler you are also used to looking closely late. On the train, I even ran into an old friend. Before her trip from Karlstad, she had ensured that the journey up to Järvsö in Hälsingland would go as planned. It didn't really happen that way. 24 hours later, 24 hours on the train, she finally arrived. Today we are not debating the infrastructure in Sweden, but both my own experience and my friend's experience show the great challenges we have for the whole of Sweden to grow and live. It is an indication that there are many challenges we have to solve. Working communications are important for jobs and sustainable growth throughout the country. This calls for continued investment in rail, road and other infrastructure. Efficient and well-functioning transport is also central to companies being able to deliver goods to customers and suppliers. Our regional airports are also facing major challenges. Swedish aviation must, of course, become more sustainable, and measures are therefore needed to reduce emissions from the sector. But we also see that electric aircraft are under strong development. Electricity Elflyg may be an important factor in the development of the country's regions and provide fast transport, not least for business. This would be a huge boost for regional airports, for the regions they operate and for the climate. Mr President, I would like to Later today, we will also be debating industrial policy. But we can already say a few things: where there is no job, there is also no spirit of the future. Where there's no job, no one wants to live. Where there is no job, there will be no development. However, if there are jobs and growing companies, it attracts new residents. Therefore, economic policy is at least as important when we debate regional development. A generally improved business environment with reduced taxes and less red tape benefits all businesses, especially those in sparsely populated areas. Each municipality and region has a responsibility to implement the necessary efforts to improve the economic climate. Access to state risk capital is also an important issue. Private capital is, of course, the main solution, but sometimes public capital may be needed as a complement to private capital. For example, it may be more difficult to find private capital in sparsely populated areas, where state capital may be a decisive factor. Capital is also a gender equality issue, where state actors have a special responsibility for the distribution and distribution of capital to both women and men. Out in the country – it doesn't really matter in which municipality or part of the country we are – we have a major national problem, and it spells the supply of skills. Companies' skills supply problems and the lack of matching between unemployed and job vacancies have a major impact on Swedish growth and wealth creation in both the long and short term. At the same time, a key solution is, of course, education. The long-term supply of skills requires high-quality adult education, higher education institutions and universities. The University of Applied Sciences has an important role to play here, as it is an effective education linked to the regional labour market. Mr President, I would like to You shouldn't have to go miles by mile to take part in government service. It is important that the state services to citizens that have disappeared from large parts of the country are restored. We would like to see more service offices where conditions are provided for continuity and long-term planning between Försäkringskassan, the Swedish Pension Agency and the Swedish Tax Agency. In some offices there must also be cooperation with Arbetsförmedlingen. Liberals believe that the expansion of local service offices should continue and that more authorities should be organised into or assigned to interact with the State Service Centre. There may also be a need to review the possibility of creating the conditions for increased interaction between local service offices and local and regional authorities. Now that we're talking about government service, we also need to talk about government pointers. Sweden should have a policy that reduces the regulatory burden and lowers the costs of entrepreneurship and work. Small business, which is so important for rural areas, is often hampered by government pointers and too much squareness on the part of the authorities. The perspective of the authorities must be changed. More promotion tasks to government agencies need to be formulated. The tasks of the authorities should not only be to control and stop errors but also to help people and businesses to do the right thing. For example, a review of the regulatory letters for the managing authorities should be carried out in order to clarify their responsibilities to protect the business environment in Sweden. Mr President, I would like to I also wanted to highlight the economic challenges that we see around the country. We have a running electric crisis in Sweden that has meant that a lot of people have been affected and where the wallet has really been affected. Liberals would have liked to see a reduced energy tax, initially by 4 billion and eventually a halving. All of Sweden's 4.8 million households had benefited, and it would have been a long-term solution to the challenges we see in terms of energy prices across Sweden. It has also been discussed to reduce, for example, diesel prices. Liberals do not see it as the right way to go; on the other hand, our solution is that we would like to see the travel allowance increased over three years, from SEK 18.50 to SEK 23 per mile. Almost one out of every three rural municipality employees benefit from this support, so it would be good to increase the travel allowance. We would also like to adjust vehicle taxes in a crisis. The rural deduction of SEK 32 per month is not enough. On the other hand, it is a deduction that benefits all car owners in rural and sparsely populated areas, whether they have a diesel car, a petrol car or, for that matter, an electric car. Nor does it counteract Sweden's obligation under the Paris Agreement. We would also like to put the reduction obligation in a fast track to find a good solution to this. At the same time, it should be remembered that what is incredibly important when we now change the climate and become more green is the charging infrastructure that needs to be put in place. There we Liberals wanted to add 3 billion in our draft budget. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to highlight the issue of border barriers. As I said, I live in Värmland, and the proximity to Norway is crucial for Värmland. Many other counties like Värmland are located in border regions, of course, have great opportunities but also challenges. This also applies, of course, to counties close to Denmark and Finland. Border barriers discourage regional development. Cross-border cooperation must continue to be given high priority. Unnecessary and unwarranted barriers to the development of two regions on each side of the national border must be dismantled. With the pandemic in close memory, we must also learn lessons from it about what we need to do and what measures must be taken urgently to counter border barriers in future pandemics. With that, Mr President, I would like to thank myself. Of course, I support all the Liberal reservations, but in order to save time, I only ask for reservation 7.
i-WBpUonhjqXh5eHTz8L6FZT	Mr President, I would like to I hope that rural policy will be one of the most important issues in the elections. The Green Party hopes so, too. I do not hope, however, that we will have a debate which only deals with the reduction of diesel prices and the pursuit of wolves. Rural development is based on Sweden being at the forefront of climate change. It is also based on the fact that climate change is fair. There are great opportunities to develop Swedish industry, sustainable forestry, food production, small farms, the tourism industry and the reindeer industry. If we really want to, the rural debate can be about this. Clean air, fresh nature, green forests, beach protection, gender equality – this is Sweden's best sales argument. We are dependent on exports, and then we should not forget that the export industry is also based on our being able to meet the international, global sustainability goals, climate change and biodiversity. Mr President, I would like to Sweden has a surplus of electricity generation, especially in northern Sweden. However, electricity generation is not evenly distributed between north and south. Transmission capacity is improving, but at the same time more electricity needs to be produced closer to the user. The Green Party wants the whole of Sweden to participate in the energy transition and that those who participate and contribute should also be rewarded for it. We believe that regions that contribute valuable electricity production should retain this value. We therefore believe that Parliament should make it clear to the government that property taxes on wind and hydroelectric power plants should be regionalised. I would like to endorse Amendment No 16 on this point. We see broader support for these ideas. We have heard the Centre Party highlight the same issue in the past, and I know that the Social Democrats have just recently taken a Congress decision to just bring back money from wind power to the municipalities. I hope that the Social Democrats and the government will make such a proposal shortly. You are also welcome to support the proposals that already exist today. On 14 October 2020, the Government appointed a special investigator with the task of producing proposals that strengthen legal certainty and increase predictability for the testing of wind power installations. In this study, it is estimated that financial compensation would facilitate both the continued expansion of wind power – and it is needed for Swedish industry, for Swedish households and for climate change – and the development of municipalities and local communities affected by wind power formations. Financial compensation would also facilitate the authorisation process. The compensation agreements currently in place at local level are developed through negotiations in each case. The regulation of these financial compensations is in line with the overall objectives of increasing predictability and legal certainty in wind power trials. The State has a responsibility to improve regional development by delocalising state authorities. Let me give you an example. SGU has its headquarters in Uppsala, my hometown, but they also have an office in Malå, Västerbotten. Nothing is more appropriate than that SGU is located in Malå, which is both a place located in the Skellefte field, which is a mineral-rich area, and an important Sami village. SGU's collection of cores consists of more than 3 million meters of cores from 17 000 boreholes throughout Sweden. There are geological libraries and a very important collection of information about where minerals are located in Sweden and where to look. A large part of the material is also digitised. The material could be used much more if SGU and the government invest in the office in Malå. You need to maintain the core layer, and you also need to develop the operations so that you can not only show where there is mineral but also where it is appropriate to mine minerals in the future. All new explorations and mineral mining will affect the environment and also the reindeer industry. This should be prevented by developing the activities at SGU in Malå. Mr President, I would like to Climate change is acute, but it must also be fair. Everyone's coming with us when we build the new green folk house. When people who depend on cars are hit by high fuel prices, the parties here in the Swedish parliament – yes, not the Green Party – compete to lower the price of climate emissions. Instead, the Green Party wants to see a policy that can both support the people affected economically and at the same time reduce emissions. The Christian Democrats' proposal to reduce the involvement of biofuels in petrol and diesel would increase climate emissions in Sweden by 24 percent. Do the Christian Democrats even want us to leave the Paris Agreement? Sweden needs a policy that strengthens the regions and ensures that those affected financially are also supported, and then a green redistribution policy is needed. The Green Party contributed in the government to lower taxes for rural people. Now we want to make increased investments by 4 000 SEK per year. Together with the previous rural deduction it would add 500 SEK in your wallet every month. We want to raise the climate bonus for electric cars for everyone who lives in sparsely populated areas and buy an electric car. We want to introduce a scrapping premium for the oldest cars. We want to build 100,000 new charging poles. We want to expand public services, schools and health centres throughout the country. We also want to ensure that the strong development that the state can contribute to around our regions in small towns, villages and communities also strengthens commercial development. With reduced tax rates in rural municipalities, increased climate bonuses and new green investments, regional growth will be strengthened. Now there are elections, and I hope it is the climate that is being elected in that election.
i-QoWCM1uiVhGbN5Fgxh7RG6	Mr President, I would like to During Mr Gardfjell's speech, one could initially hear what the Green Party hopes rural policy will be about. Personally, my view is that it should be about what is asked of those who actually live, live and work there and not about what the Green Party hopes it will be about. This isn't a hit. I think that politics should be based on what the people of the country are asking for. I come from a sparsely populated county, Norrbotten. There, the Green Party received 2.76 per cent in support of the previous election. Does it not send some kind of signal to the Green Party that they live up in the blue, that they may not be in favour of the policies that are best for the people it actually affects?
i-3f3RNYmd3tJBtcws2HpDs9	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question, Eric Palmqvist! Norrbotten is an interesting county for the Environmental Party. There are two municipalities in Norrbotten where we are very strong, where we even have our only chairman of the municipal board. The environmental party is strengthened in many parts of rural areas. In Jokkmokk, where the struggle for Kallak mine stands, the Green Party is growing strongly. It is important to remember that the Swedish Democrats are pursuing a populist line when it comes to Swedish rural areas. Many of the arguments may go home in the cabins. But is it responsible, Eric Palmqvist? Don't the Swedish Democrats also have to take responsibility for the climate change? I believe that we are many politicians who today have great reverence for the people of Ukraine and what is happening there with the conflicts that Russia is pushing for militarily. These conflicts will affect energy prices throughout Europe. We know that. It's gonna be hard. It will not be easy for any government to compensate for it. However, we still have to take the costs that this also entails. I am very sorry that world market prices have increased so strongly.
i-DGXfkf6A381isiJKrHDeZH	Mr President, I would like to Gällivare is one of the municipalities where we have three councillors. It's a small municipality with three councillors. The majority cannot agree on who should rule. That is why we have, among other things, an environmental partisan municipal councillor. I believe that the voter's verdict will be quite hairy over that constellation in the autumn, but that is not what we are debating here today. Maria Gardfjell asked me, among other things, whether it is responsible. We can do a little ball about what things are like in real life. Today, even in rural areas, people are encouraged to buy electric cars. They say it should be the best solution and claim that it is possible to rely on home charging. But the distances we have presuppose that there should also be fast chargers. The last week I have been in contact with a housing company, a haulage company and a gas station that is denied the insurance needed by the power companies to build fast chargers. This is a lack of capacity. If there is a lack of capacity and it is not possible to expand fast chargers, this whole idea falls. Yet, people who have no alternative in their everyday lives are punished. They don't have an option. The energy policy that makes it impossible to secure the gas stations, the haulage companies and the housing companies is not the policy of the Swedish Democrats, but the policy that Maria Gardfjell's party and the Social Democrats are behind. Is it responsible?
i-W6SeBMPEarmghK2kSjYEUb	Mr President, I would like to The lack of capacity is an issue for which I have been committed for many years. I've been a municipal councillor in Uppsala. In the big cities of southern Sweden, and especially in southern Sweden, we have major problems with capacity shortages. However, this lack of capacity does not exist in the same way in the hinterland of Norrland. In the case of rural and rural areas in particular, this is an advantage in the conversion to electric cars. Just being able to charge the electric car at home and that it is relatively much cheaper than buying fossil fuel for your car is a huge advantage. We know that the car companies are now launching new cars, and the bonus malus system brings those cars onto the market. In three years' time, a large proportion of cars sold will also be second-hand cars, second-hand cars, which people in rural areas will also be able to benefit to a large extent. Eric Palmqvist said in his speech that it is a problem that the tax is too high in sparsely populated areas. The Green Party introduced a tax cut for rural people. We now want to increase this tax cut by SEK 4 000 per year. I do not see that the Swedish Democrats have that policy.
i-Gs93aK2d1uMk52afvosYrm	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating NOW11 Regional development with movements from the general exercise time. I call for all motions to be rejected and for the committee's proposals to be approved in the report. As usual, they span a wide range of areas ranging from growth and entrepreneurship to commercial services, the location of government agencies and the return of funds and production values from natural resources. Mr President, I would like to In the concept of regional development, you can put in virtually anything. We have also heard this in the debate today. In my world, regional development means that there is a well-being – school, care and care – that works, simply a strong society. It must work if there is to be any development in our elongated country. If we don't have the basic service, we can't live, live and work. This also applies to a shop, a gas station, a meeting place and more. Of course, there must also be jobs so that we can make a living, either as an employee or as a self-employed person. You also need meaningful leisure time. All of this is the basis of regional development. So, as I began by saying, that is basically anything. In Sweden we now see that many companies want to be part of the green transition. They invest a lot of money in ensuring that their production is sustainable. We have battery factories and production of electric motors and fossil-free steel. A new industrialization is taking place in Sweden here and now, which generates wealth in large measure. In the budget for 2022, the government wanted to invest 500 million to restart SMEs after the pandemic through regional priorities supporting climate change. This initiative was voted down by the Parliament together with some other investments in small and medium-sized enterprises that had been important for these companies. Mr President, I would like to What was not removed from the 2022 budget, on the other hand, are many important investments in regional development: 中 investments in road maintenance in the fine-meshed road network
i-PhENS5aEqpRZ1JzNXjH6ps	中 additional operating aid for grocery stores, which will also be permanent
i-VfrqxZU4sdsKhcB32jzsNy	中 efforts to counter the increased stock of wild boars and control of spruce bark
i-Qkt1WMB83TwxYtmdnz2hPc	This is just an ax. Last time, we have also spent 1 billion on a farmer's package. Regional development, of course, is not just budgetary effort. It is also important to ensure that there are conditions for the whole country to develop on its own merits. Mr President, I would like to In the letter National strategy for sustainable regional development throughout the country 2021 – 2030, the government describes what it wants to achieve. It shall contribute to a sustainable transition in all parts of the country. Its actions need to have a regional perspective, which is different depending on where you are in the country. The government will also develop an action plan for the strategy that will describe how to achieve the objectives. Of course, regional development work takes place mostly in the regions of the country, and that is how it should be. The Government's task is to create the conditions for regional development. Over the last two years, much of the work of the regions has been re-prioritised to face the consequences of the pandemic, which we have still not got out of. This has meant that part of the strategic and long-term work has had to stand back in favour of faster and shorter efforts. Today, when we are standing in this Chamber again and we are allowed to be here all the time, it feels a little unreal that we have been sitting at home for two years because of a pandemic, even if it is not yet over. We're lucky to be here. What will this mean for regional development? We don't know for sure. I'm sure it'll be both positive and negative, and we've seen that to some extent already. Mr President, I would like to Commercial service throughout the country is important. In my introduction, I mentioned that it is not just a place where you can buy food and other things, but it is also an important meeting place for us who live sparsely. There are sometimes libraries, as in Lidhult in Ljungby municipality. There is a café and restaurant, as in Häradsbäck in Älmhult municipality. There is post office, pharmacy, gambling store and parcel and S ystembolags utveckling som i Liatorp which is also located in Älmhults kommun. As I said, these places become a meeting place. For some of these shops, support is a prerequisite for survival, but of course it is not the case for everyone. It has also been shown in evaluations that the distance to the nearest store has decreased in recent years, indicating that the support has been important. Looking at the location of government agencies, we are very much in agreement that they should exist throughout the country. Point. That's great. This is something that the government has done in its time, and it is something that we need to do more of. In the Parliamentary Rural Committee, we noted that more than 10 000 government jobs had moved from the rest of the country into the Stockholm region over the past ten years. Now is the time to relocate them into the country. It's really important. It is about important jobs, but also the service provided by the state authorities is important. We are also constantly expanding the number of service offices. As I said in my introduction, we can put a lot into regional development, and it is clear that everything is connected. If we have jobs and entrepreneurship, it generates welfare. When I see the log cars that drive at home, which they often do because I live in the middle of the forest, I think: There goes the welfare. That log car will generate welfare.
i-QTXq8xegEorfG6qZXrT7Gh	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Monica Haider, for your speech. I wonder if Sweden will be a better country when ordinary people are punished in their everyday lives with higher costs to get around. This issue has been discussed here before. They can't afford to buy an electric car and change. It will soon not be worth getting to work, as I have to tell myself by nurses I meet. And they make up the welfare. I am interested to hear what Monica Haider from the Social Democrats receives in everyday life. How do people who live in Småland reason? A baker in Växjö was interviewed in an article about the costs of electricity. To keep the ovens running and to be able to sell anything at all, they do not charge any wages. They live on tight terms and have to give up pay as long as possible to fix this. When the log cars drive for welfare, I wonder how long they can drive. The industry is very vulnerable and has major problems. We have long distances. That welfare that we're about to get – school, health care and care – comes from somewhere. That's why these companies and jobs are so important. The last thing I think about is money for a farmer's package. The Swedish food strategy means that we should be able to sell, produce and do good things in agriculture for our country. But why do we create a situation in which agriculture gets into trouble and then gives them back subsidies because of it? I would like an answer to that.
i-8KUhS4v9ZUEuDV7GE32gyd	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson, for your questions! When you hear the debate in this House, you can sometimes wonder if we have a really similar world view. I do not want to deny that we have problems with high fuel prices and that they affect both entrepreneurs and private individuals. Similarly, high electricity prices affect both entrepreneurs and private individuals. But at the same time we see a fantastic development in Sweden for entrepreneurship, climate change and all of this. That's why I sometimes wonder what different worlds we live in. Where I am in Småland, of course, I also get many questions about both fuel and electricity prices. But I also get many cheers for the three-month electricity price compensation we have done. At the same time, of course, many feel that this is not something that can be done over time, but that it is an exceptional measure that is being done here and now to compensate for the high electricity prices. The farmer package is also an exceptional measure. We also had a package in 2018 when the farmers were hit very hard by drought. This is about the same bet we made back then. Maybe we need to do this. But farmers and farmers must also ensure that they can operate with profitability on their own merits.
i-Uda1aetRRbHkoJjeumxobm	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Monica Haider. Yes, we have a fantastic development in the parts that are about to change. They're important, and they're coming in. But I think it's strange that you make a system when you just have to go from one place to another. It's like when you build a house with a staircase, but you remove the stairs so you don't get up to the top floor. First, you pull things away. You shut down nuclear power. You have high electricity prices. There are exceptional measures. But there is an essential difference between drought and having high taxes on things. One is about weather that you cannot influence, and the other is about political proposals. Once you have done this, it is no longer there. Then there is no way forward. How do you get there? You screw things so hard that people and businesses end up in a position that makes them unable to deliver anything. They get no growth and no profit, and as a result there will be no welfare. Sweden is also a country of knowledge that should be at the top and be able to take us forward. We're doing amazing things. Why, then, are we putting away the bones of what is working and which are already done instead of keeping it there and ensuring that everyone comes to the new, as the Social Democrats themselves say? That would have been more reasonable. Finally, I wonder if Monica Haider has any new information on fuel stations. Will they receive support before it is too late so that they can make this transition?
i-6ETtxicxz2BBWTbKvfr4wq	Mr President, I would like to There has been support for fuel stations all along, including the last parliamentary term, and it is running on. I haven't heard anything else. We in Sweden are at the top both in terms of knowledge and innovation. That is what we are seeing now, and that is why companies come here and want to invest. If it had been as miserable as Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson describes it, the companies would not have been in line in northern and central Sweden to make these billion investments, so I think it is really strange. Besides, your blacking out could help them not actually want to come here. But they come here on their own merits because we have clean and cheap electricity. We still have cheap electricity in Sweden, although it is very expensive right now, so I do not really understand your saying there. Then, unlike Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson, I do not believe that nuclear power is the answer to everything. We are not going to shut down nuclear power. We have not made any political decisions about the closure of nuclear power, but it should be allowed to roll on its own merits. We haven't said we should put it down. On the other hand, people are in line and want to invest in wind power. There are lots of applications around the whole of Sweden's coast regarding, for example, sea wind power, because they want to invest in that. But anyone who believes that nuclear power is the solution to everything risks talking this down. New nuclear power plants in Sweden can be completed in ten to fifteen years at the earliest. So that is not the solution to today's problems, but the fastest thing we can do is to expand offshore wind power and wind power.
i-8DQXmhEohLZQAxsjbaRj9w	Mr President, I would like to We support all the reservations, but in the interests of rationality we are only calling for reservation 31 under paragraph 11, on competitiveness, and for reservation 47 under paragraph 18, on measures for restaurant and hospitality. Mr President, I would like to We have to debate a motion report, but the year has been marked by other things. Another year lies behind us who put a wet blanket over Sweden for the whole country and especially for the business community. It has been a year in which we from the Moderates, together with the opposition parties, have against the government in front of us to get through efforts to save jobs and businesses, a year in which the work of the Committee on Economic Affairs has largely been about being on the toes and proposing support measures which the committee will then carefully follow up on the effects of. The pandemic has not been predicted. That's how pandemics work. Keeping your ear to the rails and monitoring how the various supports work has been crucial to trying to save as much as possible from the Swedish business community. Mr President, I would like to Swedish business is crucial to our prosperity. It is thanks to a strong and innovative industry that a relatively small country such as Sweden, which is one of the world's most trade-dependent countries, manages to be in tenth place in the welfare league, according to OECD 2020. Only by maintaining our innovation and competitiveness can we be among the world's top ten welfare countries. Business issues are multifaceted. In order to include just the most important, my limited speaking time is not enough, but I will try. Mr President, I would like to Our motion for an announcement to the government to make it easier to create test beds for new technology in defined locations is important. We want to do this through a simplified and standardised regulatory framework in order to achieve a more permissive, open and innovative climate. Among other things, there should be simple, predictable, technology-neutral and standardised procedures for this. We also propose to send a notice to the government that Sweden should announce a number of innovation competitions to drive development in areas with less commercial power and encourage and take advantage of technological development. Furthermore, we believe that innovation competitions could be a model for promoting and creating increased interest in innovation. This could include environments where AI applications can be used in a new way in pilot projects. Technology development and digital innovations could even better strengthen Sweden as an enterprise nation. Mr President, I would like to We have seen, not least during the pandemic, that there are major shortcomings in support schemes for companies. We therefore believe that business support systems should be refined and impact evaluated. Business support programmes should be clearly defined, defined and follow-up, and the different types of business support should be assessed and monitored to ensure that society obtains the best possible exchange of tax money. Furthermore, we believe that Sweden at EU level should work to ensure that the regulatory framework for business support is focused on being an initial support in activities. Then these will carry themselves. Furthermore, common programming documents to be used nationally should be developed in order to be as user-friendly as possible and based on objectives and measurability. Mr President, I would like to We believe that there is a need for an announcement that the government will instruct the county boards to follow up the state venture capital used and to carry out an analysis of the results of this follow-up. There is a great risk that the funds paid out are not good enough in terms of how they are disposed of. The objectives are also too unclear. Mr President, I would like to Crime against companies has become a real social danger. Who wants to be an entrepreneur if we cannot find a cure for this scourge? We support the motion that wants to announce that the government will make it more difficult for fraudsters to hijack companies. The exerciser argues that a bank ID requirement should be introduced to identify and confirm itself when making the change notification to the Swedish Companies Registration Office. Betty Malmberg from the Moderates points out in her exercise that Sweden, in terms of total entrepreneurial activity in early stages, is significantly below the average compared to other high-income countries. More entrepreneurs are needed to strengthen Swedish welfare and competitiveness. The exerciseer therefore requests an announcement to the government in claim 1 about the importance of increasing Swedish entrepreneurship. Without entrepreneurs – no companies! Mr President, I would like to Sweden needs more new companies and more women entrepreneurs. We need to create better conditions to increase the number of women who are innovators. Women's choice of education and profession is crucial. Setting up and running businesses is affected by structural factors. We therefore believe that the government should take measures to counter structural barriers to women's entrepreneurship. It must not be ugly to be an entrepreneur in the professions and professions where women are active, for example in schools, health care and long-term care. Good quality follow-up and clarity that entrepreneurship is encouraged by policies are crucial to promoting entrepreneurship. Entrepreneurship is needed to drive development and create freedom of choice for both users and workers. Increasing women's entrepreneurship is a strategic growth issue. The exerciseer, whom we support, believes that equal entrepreneurship is positive from both a growth and a fair perspective, which is why it is important for the government to work systematically on the issue. We need to set targets and take concrete measures to enable more women to become entrepreneurs in their industries.
i-DcCavoS1Laic6HWMqdt6tB	Mr President, I would like to Now we are debating business policy. It is a sensitive political area. What I mean is that small political interventions in the field of free enterprise can have major and direct consequences. Rather, not making the right interventions can also have far-reaching consequences over time. The current government belongs to the second of the categories. We have a relatively good business climate in Sweden in relation to other comparable countries. It's true. But is it a self-playing piano? I don't know. I don't think so. Sometimes you need to put your ear to the ground and listen to what the different industries and industry need to take the right measures. It is also important to be prophetic to see where there are shortcomings so that the industry can have measures taken to be able to stand on its own feet and manage in a crisis, for example. Although there is a good business climate, I think there are a lot of worrying clouds in the sky. Not only do I mean this, but it is enough to meet entrepreneurs so you quickly get the picture that the clouds really pile up in the sky. So sometimes you need to look up and see which clouds need to be fixed. Yesterday I read an article about a survey by the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise in Västra Götaland. There has been a study on crime against companies. Approximately 50 per cent of the companies in Västra Götaland have recently been victims of crime. 50 percent! Many entrepreneurs are the victims of crime in this country today. According to Entrepreneurs, between 20 and 25 per cent of enterprises have considered closing down because of increasing crime. I myself worked in the retail sector before entering the Riksdag. I was an agent for a variety of brands, and I had the privilege of travelling among entrepreneurs throughout Sweden. It was an incredibly inspiring and fun job. During the moments I was in stores to meet shop owners and store managers I had time to experience a number of different things in the short moments. For example, it was shoplifting, and I had to make sure that they ended up on the right side by grabbing them. On one occasion I came to a store in Örebro at 10 a.m. At night a car has driven right through the doors of the store, what is called smash and grab, and you have picked up a lot of expensive brand jackets and then left. In another store, also in Örebro, I was shown how it works with the theft leagues. They have demagnetization functions in the buckles of their belts. A person comes in and tries jeans, takes off the alarms from the jeans and puts them back. Then another person comes, picks up the jeans in a bag and pulls. Another store in Gothenburg was visited by criminal gangs from the suburbs. There were big guys who went right into the store, took things in the shopping cart and went right out of the store. Nobody dares do anything. It'll take a long time before the police arrive, which means the guys will be able to disappear. This is a daily life for a huge number of traders in our country today. Recently I spoke to an entrepreneur in a municipality outside Gothenburg who rents out machines. The entrepreneur is basically on call during the night because the alarm goes so often when there is a break-in in the machinery park. Madam President, I would like This is serious, and I am genuinely concerned about developments. We live in a service economy that depends entirely on the balance between companies, workers, state measures and the freedom of the business community itself, reasonable taxes and welfare. However, if confidence in politics and the state is lacking, the consequences will be enormous in the longer term. Other examples of anxiety in addition to crime are the simplification work. Year after year you say you should take hold of the work. Action is now being taken, and now there will be strong efforts. Yet the cost of businesses increases by 1 billion annually. The energy crisis, fuel prices and the supply of skills have also emerged as a huge challenge for business today. Then there is long-term unemployment, while employers do not even get the labour force for easy jobs. What are the shortcomings in the Swedish Public Employment Service? There are a number of other issues that can be highlighted here. For this reason, we can stand here in the speaker's chair and raise these details on matters of substance. We can do it indefinitely. But if hardworking people lose faith in the system, our welfare state is at risk, I mean. I know I paint a dystopian picture, but it is unfortunately the everyday life of many people and entrepreneurs. When you meet entrepreneurs, this picture is reminded. I am sure we have all met entrepreneurs in this House who say that they do not understand why they should pay taxes because they do not get anything back. They don't get the promised welfare. Crime is on the increase. Rules and bureaucracy are increasing. Employers' contributions are so high that they cannot hire. The profit margin in the restaurant industry is 2 – 3 per cent. How will they operate under those conditions? We need a new government that not only extinguishs fires but has a long-term vision and an idea of where we are going. I believe that the role of companies in our welfare is to withdraw taxes. In nearly 200 municipalities in Sweden, small businesses account for the majority of tax revenues. We in the Swedish Democrats see small businesses not only as a welfare factor but also as a labour market measure. Why should you do the same thing over and over again and expect a different result? Today's industrial political editor PM Nilsson compiled a series of ineffective measures to exemplify the issue. I'm gonna draw some of them cards. In 1996 the internship came. It was a six-month subsidised practice, and it did not significantly increase employability. In 1998, employment support was received. It was subsidies of 50% of salary, and it created displacement effects and lowered the chances of real jobs. In 2000 came the job coaches. It increased the chances of real jobs by 2%. In 2007 came the entry-level jobs. It was also a subsidised venture, and it increased the chances of real jobs by 7 percent. There are a number of other examples that I do not have time to take up now. Here comes the extra services. Yesterday I spoke to the Minister for Labour. The Minister for Labour was happy to say that an advance ruling has now been received from the European Commission that the start-up jobs should be put in place. It will save us from long-term unemployment! But Albert Einstein said it was foolishness to do the same thing over and over again and expect another result. I mean, that's the way it is. That is why I have no confidence in new subsidised jobs to save us from long-term unemployment, which existed long before the pandemic. I was in Australia with the Labour Market Committee before the pandemic to study their labour market policy, social policy and also entrepreneurship policy. Australia has the model that we have used in the reform work of Arbetsförmedlingen. They do not use subsidised employment at all to any great extent. It can work sometimes, especially for people with functional variations. It would have been a great measure if it had not also been an integration measure. I think subsidised employment is the wrong way to go. What needs to be done is to simplify for small businesses because that is where four out of five jobs are created, and that is where growth and innovation for the future lie. That is why we have a series of proposals that would make it easier for small businesses. For example, the tourism industry has been an extremely affected industry. We believe that human resources must be modernised and simplified. It's simple, and it doesn't cost anything. Furthermore, we propose a reduction in energy taxes. Furthermore, employers' contributions must be reduced. This does not only apply to a particular target group, young or newcomers, but it should be permanent and substantial for everyone. Then we propose relaxed requirements for alcohol serving and to enable farm sales. This is as a proposed announcement, so just go through. Furthermore, we propose to simplify the regulatory framework for dance permits and hotel permits. Make ex post payments of fees the rule, the so-called Rättviks model that everyone in here knows about. Remove sickness pay from small businesses. A way in for notifications and changes in operations. These are examples of measures that are quite simple and not directly cost-driven – some of them, anyway. But we must hope for a new government that has a slightly bigger vision and a little more of future ideas about business and the labour market. With that, Madam President, I would like to say that, of course, we in the Swedish Democrats support all our reservations, but I only ask for reservations 33 under paragraphs 13 and 52 under paragraph 22.
i-71UWYkWgwhY3d4vsxFuCpJ	Madam President, I would like We are living in a troubled time, and through Russia's action against Ukraine we are again approaching a cold war between East and West. The security situation around the world affects Sweden more than in a long time, and cyberintelligence and strategic takeovers have become something that we seriously need to relate to – not least when it comes to our business community. Did you know that billions of dollars are lost every year because of cyber espionage? That's what the Secret Service reports. It affects Swedish companies and businesses by acquiring their information and knowledge from other states. Therefore, we need to be careful when dealing with, for example, public procurement and the purchase of socially critical infrastructure. One current example is Swedavia's procurement of new X-ray equipment, or screening equipment, to Arlanda recently. A Chinese company won the contract. This company is blacklisted by the United States and has close links to Chinese military and government. In addition, the company has engaged in such low bids that no other companies were able to match the sum. The same has happened in other European countries that procured the company's equipment. Now the current case of Swedavia is to be reviewed by the Swedish Transport Agency, but no matter how the outcome is, it points out that we need to take measures for greater safety. The same applies to wind power. We have discussed it a few times in the Committee on Economic Affairs. Electricity is an important social function, so how should you view different types of foreign ownership here? In some other European countries even airports and ports have been sold to Chinese companies. I am a great free trade friend, but we do need to think more about these issues – both in politics as a whole and in business policy. Madam President, I would like Now I am rushing to a completely different subject, although it also has to do with geopolitics, namely mines and industry and permit testing. This is a subject that we are happy and often discussing in this grouping in the Committee on Economic Affairs, but it is not important. Mining is important for Sweden and contributes thousands of jobs, not least in rural areas. However, the length of proceedings has been discussed over and over again. It became very clear to the Swedish people this summer, when Cementa had problems and many industries became worried because the lime mining was stopped. This means that not only industries are reluctant to invest in Sweden but also mining companies. This has made Sweden less attractive as a mining country. At the same time, we need to open new mines in Sweden, not least given the need for innovation-critical metals for the green industry. It is not reasonable for mining companies or other industrial companies to have to wait up to seven years, in some cases even longer, to receive information. And the fact that different authorities can appeal each other's decisions instead of speaking with one voice creates enormous uncertainty and unpredictability for companies. It is also the case that the licensing processes are different around the country. It is not acceptable for companies to have to decide on their location – if possible – on the basis of which county administrative board can best balance issues of conservation of natural areas and sustainable industrial development. It's supposed to be the same all over the country. There is not always a balance between different values. It has become a bit too strong a list to preserve, for example, cultural landscapes and key biotopes versus building wind farms, even when the impact on the cultural landscape or species richness is almost minimal. There are also too many different legislations and review bodies involved. It places an unreasonably heavy administrative burden of proof on companies and opens up to both arbitrary and lengthy processes. Madam President, I would like About a year ago, the company Boliden announced that it was considering moving more business abroad because of the difficult-to-transparent licensing processes. If companies like Boliden were to do so, thousands of new jobs would simply be lost. Not only that – it can also make Sweden miss out on the lead sweater in the fossil-free green transition, which we want. Swedish environmental legislation is among the strictest in the world. Nobody does not want to continue it, but we want simplified licensing processes. They should be transparent. It should not take up to seven eight years to get information. If these companies choose to move operations abroad, there is also a risk that extraction and processing will be carried out in a less sustainable way there. It hardly benefits the environment, the climate or the planet as a whole. Today we import copper and many other minerals from countries where environmental thinking is far less developed and where extraction takes place under very poor working conditions, i.e. while we have every opportunity to extract our own deposits in an environmentally sustainable way. The government recently appointed an investigation to review, among other things, the issue of environmental permits and how this process can be streamlined and shortened without compromising the environment. It's good and welcome. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to focus on an issue that I know the President is also involved in, as are many others. It's women's entrepreneurship. Everyone, regardless of gender, should have the opportunity to start and run a business. That is not the case today. There are significantly more men than women who run businesses, and women find it more difficult to obtain funding for their entrepreneurship. I do not know if you have read it, but there is a new survey from the Federation of Small Enterprises that shows that Sweden is the worst of all EU countries in terms of women's entrepreneurship. Only one company in five with employees is run by women. It is a bottom-up rating and, to say the least, a failure. This survey shows that we have seen a negative trend for several years. The proportion of women who are entrepreneurs is decreasing in Sweden. Over the past three years, the proportion of female entrepreneurs in our country has fallen from 29% to 27%. As a result, Sweden deviates from the positive trend that can be seen in the EU as a whole. Sweden's jumbo place is even more in the eye because Sweden is a role model when it comes to equality between men and women. There we are in third place after Iceland and Norway, according to the World Economic Forum. Many of these problems are well known and are about the need to make it easier and cheaper to hire. Security systems must be adapted to the reality and needs of entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs. Today, these systems are adapted to suit those who are employed. But it is not just policy that needs to bring forward the necessary reforms. Business, too, must do its part. For example, only 1% of private venture capital goes to women's entrepreneurship. This is deplorable and reflects an outdated view of where tomorrow's entrepreneurs are.
i-TdrTG58ezRcnabGvY4AsFq	Madam President, I would like I am here to give a picture of how the Left Party views nutrition policy. Sometimes we are accused of being anti-business, which is not true at all. I'd like to sort something out. Our goal as a party is full employment. When all people have the opportunity to have a job, society works at its best. Jobs are created when innovation and innovation are translated into new products and services, not by competing with lower wages and lower working conditions. We do not believe that lower wages, poorer conditions or circumvention of environmental and climate objectives should be the global or national order. This can be translated into thinking that it is possible to create a society that is better for all, which we can responsibly hand over to the next generation – but not by creating contradictions between each other to benefit some. We want to see a major green and modern transformation of society, which creates development and jobs throughout the country. In our policy we have proposals which benefit small and medium-sized enterprises, which benefit rural areas and which strengthen women's entrepreneurship, among other things. Companies need a stable democratic society, with less economic gaps, where we build common infrastructure if necessary, where workers have a place to live without much of their pay going to pay the rent, where if you are ill you can feel sure that there is a security system that receives and where groups are not discriminated against, whether it is the female entrepreneur who has to bring a male expert to get a loan granted by the bank or the racist worker who does not get a job and is forced to become an entrepreneur in order to earn a income. Yes, there are a lot of things that have to work for companies to have a stable and good development. Madam President, I would like The future lies in sustainable entrepreneurship, where even single entrepreneurs can take parental leave or be protected when they simply become unemployed. However, entrepreneurs who work responsibly to change or who invest in contributing to the transition should also be able to feel that it is an advantage to go that way. We face many challenges. Time has passed for growth; we must find other ways. We need to think carefully about how we extract our resources, what we use them for and how much we use. Are there things that we can recycle or reuse? All to make the best use of what we have, within the planetary boundaries. The Left Party wants to see a transition to renewable energy production and smart grids, investments in railways and electric roads, extended public transport and new construction of premises and climate-smart housing. These are initiatives that will have a major impact on industry. It is both about jobs and about opportunities for people to have a place to live and work, and about companies having an infrastructure they can trust. State-owned companies operating in industry should be actively used to build a more secure society that is more equal and economically and ecologically sustainable, increase competitiveness and, not least, even out inequalities between urban and rural areas. For this to happen, the state needs to take greater responsibility for the governance of its companies, and the ownership directives for several of the state companies should be developed. State ownership can mean greater transparency and power and allow for transitions at a faster pace. In some parts we see a need for this. Much of the material that comes from industry is of a social nature. It may be material needed for the well-being, construction or conversion. There must therefore be a common responsibility for the socially decisive industries. We therefore need a clear strategy on how we deal with those industries that over time are of great importance to our society. That is why I would like to vote in favour of Amendment No 12 in this report. Policy can and must demand that industry re-establish and help companies with a massive green investment programme and investment in new technologies – a programme based on updated climate targets for all emissions that we have an impact on, which responds to the latest research and is based on solidarity towards future generations and other parts of the world. It is about investments that increase state ownership and thus the democratic influence of all persons. It is not possible to leave the future to market forces – the future belongs to all of us. Madam President, I would like I mentioned earlier that we need to strengthen female entrepreneurship, and this report highlights the need to ensure that at least half of state innovation grants go to women. Women's innovation is a frequently neglected area. There is a need for both an equal research policy and an equal innovation policy. Many of the contributions to innovation show an imbalance, and many women experience difficulties in doing so. By taking the lead shirt via state financiers, we can influence one of many areas where the patriarchate appears and perhaps push on the private part of the financiers. Another area that we have pointed out in recent years is the cooperative and employee-owned companies. We have highlighted both that more research is needed on these forms of business and that their status needs to be increased. They're gonna meet more open doors. Why? Well, they are both more sustainable and have higher resilience to crises, and more democratic – the workers have more transparency and power in the company. Today we have several examples where entrepreneurs have not had the opportunity to change generations and then choose to resell the company. Sometimes it works great, but we have also seen that larger companies sometimes buy up less, just to close them down and thus get rid of a competitor. One example is Boxholm's dairy, where production was shut down after Arla had bought it up. Arla moved the production of Boxholmsost to another city, and Boxholm lost jobs and businesses. The rescue was that the municipality bought up the dairy to prevent it from disappearing completely. Fortunately, a cooperative company was formed. It was dairy farmers who joined forces and saved the company. But if we had a system where we facilitate the takeover of such companies, Boxholm would have avoided all tours around one of their most important companies. People would have felt confident that jobs would stay. We believe that the government must investigate how the state can facilitate employee-owned companies and the takeover of threatened production. There are examples of this around the world, from which we have something to learn, including in Spain and the United States. Madam President, I would like I choose not to go through all the policies that we have put forward in this area, but to invite those of you who are not familiar with the Left Party's industrial policy to read our motions. There are several options to choose from, such as an active industrial policy or an improved rural policy.
i-FPmaaTo65tqiMYDrwemhZv	Madam President, I would like We support all our reservations in the report, but for the benefit of time, I would only like to endorse reservation 32. Sweden needs a business environment that lays the foundation for more jobs. New jobs cannot be commanded by politicians. They are created when people find it worthwhile to start and develop a business, realize an idea and risk their savings. It is important that laws, taxes and rules are designed in a way that makes it easier to start up and run businesses. SMEs, which are often family businesses, should be at the heart of enterprise policy-making. We Christian Democrats believe that family businesses are long-term and stable owners. Our policy sees local society and civil society as a resource that stabilizes society. Family companies see their ownership not only in reports for Q1 or Q2, but for the first decade and the second decade. Since family businesses are based on the next generation taking over, stable rules are needed over time. We Christian Democrats will not contribute to the introduction of inheritance and gift taxes; on the other hand, capital tax rules must be designed to facilitate generational shifts in companies. Sweden's family entrepreneurs are getting older and it is becoming more and more common that their children do not want to take over the business. Many Swedish companies are in danger of having to close down unnecessarily. Only a few decades ago, it was common for family businesses to be taken over by children, but today this is done only in about 30% of cases and the trend seems to be going down. The problem is greatest in sparsely populated areas. In Upper Norrland, nearly half of entrepreneurs have passed retirement age. More than one in five entrepreneurs plans to retire in the next five years, and one in three believes that their businesses will need to be closed down. This is a waste of jobs and entrepreneurship. In the KD-M budget adopted by the Riksdag in autumn 2018, we ensured that generational shifts could take place without being disadvantaged in tax terms. Now we want to take the next step and investigate the possibility for staff who want to own and run companies to do so. There are several international examples of how this can be done, and an investigation should look at how ownership shifts of this kind can best be promoted in a Swedish context. We also want to ensure that there are a number of ownership change offices spread across the country that can provide advice and support in ownership change processes, both within families and for entrepreneurs who want to transfer their business to their staff. Madam President, I would like You usually say that what you measure, you try to improve, but what you do not measure lapses over time. Against this background, I am sure that it would be wise to give an assignment to the Swedish Agency for Growth to set a competitiveness target. This objective should then be linked to a specially developed competitiveness index that allows Sweden to follow developments in this area. Only yesterday, the Entrepreneurship Forum produced a report showing that Sweden's competitiveness has lost ground in the last decade. The report shows a mediocre Sweden with potential for improvement. It points to several difficulties, such as labour market matching. Overall, this means a loss of wealth of several hundred billion SEK, according to the researchers and authors behind the report. We are a country that is very heavily dependent on international trade and exports. We may have a large geographical area, but our population is not large enough to be an engine that runs regardless of how other countries develop. We must therefore stand on our toes to reach as far as possible in order to sharpen our country's chances of good welfare. Madam President, I would like There is a real threat to the whole well-being because some parties on the left want to introduce what they call a profit cap for private operators, which in practice would mean an almost total stop to the long-term operation and development of these activities. I would like to turn it around and instead say that the aim must be to stop losses in welfare. The fact that companies in the welfare sector also have to make a profit is crucial if freedom of choice is to be preserved. Companies that cannot or must not profit can only be loss-making, and this means that no one will invest in these companies either. In the same way as it is obvious that companies should be able to make a profit, it is also obvious that healthcare and care are not just any market. They concern people in vulnerable situations, and the ability to operate in areas such as health care, school and care should be associated with high quality requirements. This applies to both private and public activities. It is also self-evident that those operating in these sectors comply with the tax legislation and that the activities carried out here in Sweden are taxed here. A diversity of actors in the welfare sector is also a prerequisite for the development and operation of non-profit-driven and idea-based care. More needs to be done to enable such organisations to operate in the field of welfare. To close the possibility of privately driven welfare activities in corporate form will not improve the opportunities for non-profit-driven care to be started and run, on the contrary. When freedom of choice systems such as LOV are abolished, it also affects idea-based activities. Those who build retirement homes, hospitals and health centres work in private companies. Usually these companies are founded by men. On the other hand, those who work with health care in these buildings have for a long time been referred to a public employer and have often been women. When freedom of choice reforms were introduced in the welfare sector, this meant a major change for employees in this women-dominated sector. This created new opportunities for people to create creativity and entrepreneurship. New career paths were opened. This had a positive impact on women's wage development, not least as the number of employers increased. Reforms have had positive effects on women's entrepreneurship. Freedom of choice in welfare creates the conditions for an equal Sweden. And above all, every tax chandelier is created by companies. Without companies, we have no welfare.
i-LCUe3aVB6oGwi7d1Bshs8Q	Madam President, I would like We are now debating the Committee on Economic Affairs' report on nutrition policy. For me, as an old entrepreneur, the heart is beating for an extra time now that we have the opportunity to debate the opportunities and challenges of entrepreneurs. Although today there will be a lot of fine words about entrepreneurs and business in this House, we should remember, Madam President, that the understanding of the importance of entrepreneurs for society differs significantly between parties, especially between the left and the bourgeois sides. If we are to have high ambitions with welfare, people have to work and businesses grow. It is by the willingness of entrepreneurs to hire and invest that we collect tax revenue that finances our welfare. The Pandemin has meant a steel bath for many companies. This is evident not least in the bankruptcy statistics. In 2020 6,500 companies with a total of 20,000 employees were declared bankrupt. Last year that figure was slightly better, but let us remember that we have still not seen all the consequences of the pandemic. It will also take a long time for many industries to recover. Even before the start of the pandemic, the unemployment rates in Sweden were high in comparison with other EU countries – madly high, if we are to be honest. As a result of the pandemic, unemployment temporarily increased dramatically. Although we can now see a certain recovery, long-term unemployment continues to remain at a high level. The exclusion of certain groups is strengthened and regional disparities are increasing. I am proud of the work that the Liberals did to save Swedish jobs and companies. We can see that if the Liberals had not been a driving force within the framework of the then January agreement and if more parties in this House had not been like a leeger to the government, the package of measures would not have come as quickly as they did and been the size they were. Furthermore, we would not have had the palette of measures that have been in place for companies. This is very good. Recovery requires a policy of action that understands entrepreneurs, but also workers' opportunities and challenges. It's something this government lacks. We need a policy that creates the conditions for business. With a stronger focus we strengthen Swedish competitiveness. Our companies are growing and flourishing, and many new jobs are being created. A strong business community enables people to get a job and to move from exclusion to inside. Madam President, I would like Nutrition policy must be broad. In our motion, which is dealt with in this report, but also in our budget motion, we explain the changes that we would like to see. At least one thing is clear. If we are to succeed in creating a prosperous economy and thereby also reduce unemployment, a new liberal and bourgeois government is required. In our exercise we lift several parts. Among other things, we want the government to set up a start-up commission based on business and society, with a broad mandate, to develop proposals to remove barriers and facilitate more start-ups. There should be every opportunity for our country to be a world-class environment that attracts young, fast-growing companies, i.e. start-up companies, to establish themselves in Sweden. We also want to set up an investigation aimed at identifying and changing legislation that places competitive disadvantages or undue regulatory burdens on social enterprises and companies in an emerging sustainable collaborative economy. The cooperative, with its liberal roots, has for at least 150 years contributed to a positive social change and has, with a business model based on democratic foundations, made economic and social benefits for both its members and society. Liberals want state venture capital to become more sharp and strategic. One of the main obstacles for entrepreneurs wishing to expand or recruit is the difficulty of obtaining funding. At the same time, a functioning financing system for small and medium-sized enterprises is creating an expansion of jobs, growth and increased revenue for our common well-being. Private capital is, of course, crucial for starting, running and developing businesses. However, in some cases state risk capital may be needed to supplement private capital. Another important issue is the collaborative economy. It grows rapidly and is a phenomenon that arises in the wake of digitalisation. Some of the major benefits of a growing collaborative economy are that resources can be used more efficiently, that goods and services can benefit more and that there are potential environmental benefits in sharing and exploiting resources better. The Liberals therefore want to simplify and adapt the regulatory framework to a digitalised and sharing society. Madam President, I would like Today, I would also like to take the opportunity to highlight women's entrepreneurship in particular. Of Sweden's approximately 490 000 entrepreneurs, around one in four are women. It is a very low proportion from a European perspective. In the EU, on average, one in three entrepreneurs is a woman. In one of the world's most equal countries, 93% of the invested capital goes to men. It is clear that factors such as lack of role models and the existence of norms, prejudices and perceptions of women's entrepreneurship play a crucial role. A new report from the Equality Agency shows that it is a disadvantage to be a woman if you apply for state aid. This is confirmed by the report from the Parliamentary Investigation Service previously commissioned by the Liberals. It shows that, on average, only 9% of the companies that Almi Invest considers interesting to make any investments in which only women are involved. Gender equality is achieved through economic reforms and through policies that are effective in crushing gender inequalities. That is why we must give women the right conditions to run businesses. Women's entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship are one of the most important pieces of the puzzle for a successful and equal country. Money is power, and women today do not have access to capital. Liberals are therefore proposing a number of strong measures. Among other things, we want state venture capital to reward women's entrepreneurship in the short term. Each year, the state pays out approximately SEK 30 billion in business and innovation support. A clearer direction in which state capital goes to women's entrepreneurship is essential for achieving more equal investment in the short term and also in the long term. We want to develop the grid reform. The route deduction has played a crucial role in opening up the Swedish labour market to more people and in turning black jobs into white jobs. It is an important reform, both for those who have been given the opportunity to buy domestic services and for those who have been able to start a business or get jobs in one of the many new businesses that have been created. We also want to start a mentoring program for entrepreneurs. Mentoring offers important opportunities for, among other things, exchanges of experience and contacts and can thus be of great importance, especially in the start-up phase of a company. Both gender equality and the quality of entrepreneurship have much to gain from effective efforts and support for a mentoring programme. Madam President, I would like In Sweden of opportunity entrepreneurship thrives, and gender equality is at the centre. We therefore need to change government – to a liberal and bourgeois government that stands for action. Of course, we in the Liberals support all our reservations, but in order to save time, I only ask for reservation 40.
i-27QvLrNY4CJNptA8sj51ow	Madam President, I would like Members! The green industrial friend – this is how the Green Party has been described in the media. Just over a year ago, Dagens Nyheter, Flamen och Dagens industri wrote about the Environmental Party's business policy. It is interesting that this comes from so widely differing newspapers – left, right and middle. We now also see that Isabella Lövin is a columnist in Today's industry. It is a mission that she undertakes with great commitment. Today's industry wrote about a year ago: a change of government is in reality a business risk if the green pressure on business disappears or weakens. If you look at the whole parliamentary context, you can see that it is precisely this pressure that is loosening up. We see a fossil populism spreading. The political landscape, so to speak, has moved. And one thing I'm very concerned about is that climate facts and climate science are increasingly being questioned. The debate is in one place. Facts and science are in another place. Actually, we can't have that. We need a strong business community for welfare and jobs. We need a business sector that drives climate change, that takes account of the environment and that stays within the planet's borders. We have worked with the Social Democrats for a long time on these green pieces of industry. I think it would be incredibly good to be able to continue like that. We have been critical in many ways, but we also see that the very best thing would be to continue working together with these pieces. There are two parts to this green industrial friend. One is clear regulations for future-proofing industries. The second is to share risks with companies. As far as regulation is concerned, we have the climate law and the current territorial climate target, which is an incredibly good example of how companies know what to set their sights on. We have Fossil-free Sweden. And the industries develop their roadmaps and graze these things. It will also be clear to politics how to support. At the moment, a consumption target, a target for reducing climate emissions from consumption, is being debated. We already know that Fossil free Sweden works with the companies' value chains. There we would also have to set the scope. We'll see where this lands. But it would have been incredibly far-sighted if we could have had a clear target for companies' value chains. We have several sharp regulations that really need to be put in place. I am thinking here of the climate justice investigation, which has a proposal for the best possible technology for the climate. We simply need to get it done. Now it is very late when it comes to stopping proposals. But the next mandate only needs to be implemented as soon as possible for strong competitiveness and for strong companies in the world. The climate justice investigation also proposes that recycled materials should be used if it is also good for the climate. There is also a bill on financial guarantees for mines. These are excellent regulations which should be introduced and which simply ensure that the polluter pays. Then I think: Just do it, either this term of office or the next one! When it comes to sharing risks with the companies, the Environmental Party was the architect behind the Industriklivet and then also the green credits. There is a great deal of support for these instruments. Green credits are now being greatly increased. They also remained in the budget, which is very good. So we need to keep working on this. I would also like to highlight public procurement. There you can really demand climate-smart and circular services, and new markets can really emerge. I know that there is a great deal of support for this from other parties as well. There was an investment in the budget for fossil-free and circular procurements. It's still there, too, and that's very good. Unfortunately, however, something that was removed was a upgrading of skills aimed at companies. It originated in the industrial cooperation programmes. This would be directed precisely at climate, circular economy and digitalisation. The disappearance of this situation is affecting thousands of companies' upskilling in this particular sector. This really is something that needs to be put back. Unfortunately, money for the county administrative boards was also deleted from the budget. This is needed in order to be able to have early consultations in the permit process. As far as licensing processes are concerned, I would like to nuance this a little. It's important that we work with them, and they need to get better. Precisely this early consultation is very important. But here we also need to look at the statistics, and 90% of cases take a maximum of two years. Today's industry recently wrote that only 2.5% are rejected. So it is important to keep the facts in order so that the powder is put in the right place. Then I think that early consultation and clarity are very important. Mineral issues were raised by the Center Party. I fully agree that we cannot stand by to see that there is child labour and so on. If you can ensure that there are high environmental standards, I think you can open mines in Sweden. But then one must be able to ensure the environment and water with respect for indigenous peoples' rights. Some places are suitable, others are not suitable. However, if you seriously believe that you actually want to take on the fight against child labour and discourage unfair wages, you really have to look at the liability law that will be presented by the European Commission at any time, the one called due diligence. It could be called the law of liability or company law on human rights and the environment. It will therefore soon come, and here Sweden has had a positive attitude so far. And I would really like to say that it would be incredibly good if we could get a broad consensus from the Parliament on pushing for this legislation, so that European companies also take responsibility through their value chains to ensure that child labour and unfair wages do not occur. I'll sum up. We simply need to keep up the green pressure on the industries. We need to have these stringent regulations and share the risks with the business community through the Industrial Cluster and green credits. We need both of these bones. It can certainly be difficult at the beginning, but this means that the industries will be able to secure the future in the long term. It's taking the green industrial friend seriously. We also need to work through the value chains. The further down the value chain you get, the worse it can look, so to speak. Here we really need the liability law, but we also need to work on the consumption target, traceability and such tools for the climate, for jobs and for the environment. I support the Green Party's Amendment No 25 and the Committee's proposal in the report.
i-Q3hBfugHWERu5RMSrGrDH8	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the Enterprise Committee's report NU12 on enterprise policy. It is based on the exercises that have been submitted during the general exercise period. About 200 claims we have to take a stand on. During the previous year's debate, we were faced with a challenging situation. The majority of Members mentioned in their speeches: no one could believe that we would be here. We were still in the midst of the pandemic and in an uncertain situation. The world and Sweden have lived in a vacuum, and no one could predict that new waves of covid variants would come. Now we finally see the light in the tunnel. Business and the tourism industry shout out loud: Finally! Here we go. We quickly saw an increase in the number of people on dance floors, in outdoor life and on afterski in Åre and an increase in hotel and air travel bookings. It is a start, and it is gratifying. Nutrition policy is wide-ranging. Although everything is important, speaking time is not enough to cover everything. My colleague Åsa Eriksson will later discuss start-up companies, innovation and research. Madam President, I would like I would like to take this opportunity to support the committee's proposal and reject the other forms of order. I'd like to talk a little bit about the hospitality business. A large part and many claims are about it. I have had a dialogue with Visita, Sweden's largest visitor organisation, several times. The industry, including hotels, cafés, restaurants and dance and village associations, will finally be able to start its activities. Although the industry itself, together with organisations and politics, should do everything, it is important that we all help. It is together that we reboot Sweden. According to the latest statistics from the Swedish Agency for Growth, the number of guest nights increased sharply last summer. The number of foreign guests increased by 167 per cent from the year before. The biggest increase was in Stockholm County. Overall, there are large increases compared to the previous year. It is gratifying and a positive basis for the restart. In my conversations with Visita and entrepreneurs, they mention that the reduction in employers' contributions was very good. The short-term lay-off was very good. It was good to defer payment of taxes and charges, among other things. However, they must be paid and have been extended to a full 24 months. Visit Sweden is very important to strengthen Sweden's attractiveness. Our wholly owned state-owned company creates long-term benefits for our tourism industry. They have an important work ahead of them to strengthen Sweden's attractiveness and competitiveness. Now that the other countries around us are opening up, it is important that we continue to market and show Sweden from its best side. It is gratifying that the government has now presented the new strategy for sustainable tourism and growing tourism. The strategy aims to make Sweden the world's most sustainable and attractive destination, built on innovation. The hospitality industry is a big part of the fun of our lives – let's take care of it! The government has had short-term support, turnover support, conversion aid, event support, rental aid and tax deferral. Work is under way to carry out a structured evaluation of the overall impact of these pandemic support measures and will be reported later this year. Madam President, I would like Thanks to the government's policy of 400 billion in investment in support measures, we have recovered the whole bnp phase. The number of bankruptcies is also the lowest in nearly 15 years. I will mention some committee movements that have been written. Several have pointed out the development of V erksamt.se, and there are also a number of simplification rules. As early as September 2021, the Government presented a simplification policy for strengthening competitiveness, growth and innovation capacity. The government has invested large resources, and digitalisation offers great opportunities. Therefore, we Social Democrats continue to invest in developing Swedish competitiveness and in facilitating people to start and run businesses. Therefore, 15 million are permanent to strengthen V erksamt.se. Another investment is made in the Swedish Agency for Growth, the Swedish Companies and the Swedish Municipalities and Regions in collaboration with Visita through the project Serverat. The aim is to reduce and simplify reporting and to simplify contacts with authorities, which helps to improve the efficiency of the handling of cases. 69 municipalities are currently connected. Thanks to the positive feedback, there is an expansion of work on industries and various types of permits, which increases the interest of municipalities. The value creation of this is estimated at over SEK 100 million each year. Sharing economy is also something that is coming more and more. We need to become more resource-efficient and abandon what we call the slit-and-slip society. In Sweden alone, we consume four and a half globes per year in terms of resources. We need to use our resources efficiently and strengthen digitalisation. The Social Democrats have spent 5 billion on broadband development during their government, which is important not least for rural areas. Social enterprise is also on the increase, and a strategy has been developed to promote this. For social enterprises, the surplus is reinvested into the business rather than being primarily taken out of profits through returns to the owners. Almi, an engine and partner, is one of our state-owned companies. They are present throughout Sweden and help entrepreneurs and companies in the start-up with advice, business development and venture capital through Almi Invest. Almi has noted in a study that companies with equal boards have higher profitability. Almi has been focusing on women for several years, and it is good to hear that diversity increases profitability, as we have heard earlier in the speaker's chair. It needs Swedish business. I thought we were five in the world in terms of gender equality, but I heard someone say we're third. That's even better. The government has also set up an investigation into how we can strengthen the security system so that even more people can start a business. This initiative is mainly aimed at getting more female entrepreneurs, as women, in particular, mention the social security systems as a reason not to start a business. It's important. Madam President, I would like Not to mention, as a social democrat in the industrial debate, the huge green industrial revolution – that is not possible. We see it, we notice it and it is on everyone's lips both in speech and in the media. There are SEK 1 100 billion spent in Norrland alone. Our competitiveness will increase with the green transition, which is taking place all over Sweden. We see an investment in fossil-free steel through Hybrid, H2 Green Steel and more. Norrland is facing a gigantic expansive phase where the growth challenge is now about labour and housing, which is something new for many. We are in an eighth place in 140 countries in terms of competitiveness. The latest news was Northvolt's initiative in Gothenburg, with 3,000 employees. Vissam moves its factory from Asia to Östersund, with hundreds of employees. It is gratifying for the industry and for our Swedish companies. It is also gratifying that foreign companies want to invest in Sweden for sustainable development and for our good business environment. Social Democratic enterprise policy aims to bring more and growing companies so that we can increase our common assets and invest in a strong welfare for all of us. Business Sweden's latest report on the export manager's index shows that Swedish business managers have a very optimistic view of exports. The conclusion to the Committee on Economic Affairs was that the export market is strong and touches the highest record recorded since the investigation started. Energy is also a continuous and important issue for the competitiveness of industry. With our transition, more energy will be needed in the future, and therefore 100 billion will be invested in our electricity grid. Last time we saw the electrification strategy with 12 main points and 67 measures for more electricity. A long-distance and cogeneration strategy will be developed, as well as a charging infrastructure for the whole country and an action plan for hydrogen, to name a few. The latest of the initiatives is the sea plans, which in the first step means an extension of 20-30 terawatt hours. It is planned for another 90 terawatt hours, which is almost double what Sweden consumes today. It is to take responsibility for Swedish energy and industrial policy. In the case of small businesses and the Smart Industry initiative, thousands of industrial companies have been trained and coached towards sustainability, digitalisation and innovation. The Swedish Agency for Growth notes that Smart Industry is a good example of regionally adapted industrial policy. It is regrettable that the aid was removed from the last budget by M, KD and SD. The important thing for all of us, regardless of this, is the drive for a sustainable society. We need to continue our energy efficiency journey while remaining one of the world's leading countries in terms of industrial production and innovation. New industrialisation is driving the green transition with investment throughout the country, and we are in the midst of this amazing era. That's how the climate improves, and that's how emissions are reduced. The future is here and now. The efforts are under way at this time – jobs are being created, the unemployed see a future and the industry is under pressure. What Sweden needs is to continue to be a leader and active in this transition, so that the jobs of the future also end up with us. It is Social Democratic policy – for jobs, for business and for the green transformation of our green revolution.
i-JaaeDNNsjsYUzN5v26Wg9Y	Madam President, I would like We can endorse the importance of entrepreneurship, and I share many of the views that come out on the green transition. We also see that a lot has happened in Norrland. There you have access to planable – and enough – energy while the industry is changing, which is very beneficial. What we see, however, is that the highest unemployment rate is currently in Skåne. Skåne really has all the possibilities – you have close to the continent, there are no long distances and so on – but there is the highest unemployment rate. I would like to ask how the Social Democracy defends the fact that this is how it has become. It is also very sad that a large part of the municipal equalization money goes to regions in Skåne that we think should be strong. These are regions that should manage on their own and instead generate a surplus. That's too bad. We are very happy about all the business support that has come in place, but one should also be aware that we have an economy that is extremely doped. Much of this money will be paid back later. For example, in the restaurant business, many people have really sucked into the framework, and when the money is then to be paid back in the form of taxes that have not yet been paid, it will be problematic. I want people to be aware that it is actually 400 billion that has gone out of the treasury. So the economy has not kept itself going, but has been doped, which we in itself think is good. I'll start like that.
i-tcemkLDZ61iKTxa369NNN	Madam President, I would like I am somewhat unsure whether I heard a question from the honourable Member in addition to the question that the southern parts of Sweden have a high unemployment rate. But it is really gratifying for the whole of Sweden that we have an extremely large, green industrial revolution. We are still seeing investments across the country; last time we have seen investments in Gothenburg with 3 000 employees. For me as a Northerner, this is a little different to hear. We've always been the opposite. Now Norrland finally comes with big bets. I do not know if I understood the Member of the Moderates correctly – was this a disadvantage? Does Lotta Olsson Norrland see it as tiring, as I have heard in other debates? I wonder what the honourable Member means. Now we have a strong workforce. We have a livelihood. We have a lot of companies that want to hire, so we have a pleasant problem. This means, as always, that we need to move labour and train it via the Knowledgelift; it is about 14 000 places. That's where we've had about 160,000 seats. We need to expand with college and university of applied sciences to get people where they're most needed right now. Now we have this industrial revolution, so let's take care of it.
i-YJeXuGAb8e6xKuJoTacBd6	Madam President, I would like I'm definitely not ragging. I am very happy that Norrland is moving forward, and I am very happy for the green transition. However, problems need to be addressed – how is it that the green transition has come about in Norrland? It's great, but how come Skåne can't carry itself? I want to consider the energy policy we have. Why is it that one of the richest regions in the country has now become the worst in the class? What do the Social Democrats want to do so that we do not have it like this? We naturally want a development in Norrland – I am the first to sign on – but we also want a development in Skåne. It is always devastating when you get high unemployment figures. We see that social problems and many other things come with this. I would also like to get into gender equality. The honourable Member mentioned that there is a lot of work on gender equality, but that is only done in some ways. Women are supposed to be engineers if they're going to run a business. For example, I would consider running a health center. Here it is very much about profits in welfare. Maybe you teach at a school and want to run the village school at home. I cannot understand how the Social Democrats put together a business policy while not asking for quality in welfare, but instead attacking that there should actually be entrepreneurs in women-dominated professions. Then we must all become engineers. I don't really understand the logic.
i-NbUhBrU4LoGToPCxwix3Sd	Madam President, I would like It was a big question; only the question of profits in welfare would need a few more minutes. I start with Skåne and that problem. You, Lotta Olsson, brought up the investments in Norrland. You really meant energy policy. It is problematic that it has been decided not to expand offshore wind power by approximately 65 terawatt hours. This has mainly to do with moderate-led municipalities. The expansion of these sea plans would have meant an enormous number of jobs and corresponded to the electricity supply for half of Sweden. The sea plans adopted by the government are now in place, and I thank you for that. In the past, for example, nuclear power has been involved. It is great as it works today, and this is nothing against which the Social Democracy is opposed. We got it. We're the ones who started the hydropower. We're the ones who started the nuclear power. It is also we who are now expanding wind power. In order to correspond to the expansion of 65 terawatt hours of sea wind power, it would take about 200 of the SMR reactors that you have talked about – but not just today. I find this regrettable. As far as equality is concerned, it cannot have escaped anyone in this House that we Social Democrats are in favour of equality. After all, we have our state-owned companies, where we are fighting and where we have laid down certain directives. There we have over 50% women. The state companies take precedence, but the business community must also do its part. We have invested in a lot of investigations and put in place an investigation into how the security system can be strengthened so that even more people can start businesses. This is mainly to get more female entrepreneurs.
i-DuTfHfJSwCS3NeeK6idiFn	Madam President, I would like Sweden is a knowledge nation. Our country depends on having a strong competitiveness. That is why our country needs to put measures in place to ensure this competitiveness in an increasingly globalised market. I take this opportunity to highlight an issue that is extremely important to Swedish people: intellectual property. We have gone from a time where production – that is, material – was the greatest value of companies. It has served our country well, but Sweden must be on its toes as a country and take advantage of the large amount of company values that exist in the intangible. Knowledge in our country needs to increase, and our country needs to train those who will work with companies on these issues. Many companies do not think about protecting their intangible assets. Therefore, it is necessary to disseminate knowledge about the importance of taking advantage of these values. They need to be there and come forward. This is extremely important. There is a dual use of resources in the form of a lack of control over what has already been patented. So funds are used twice, and the cost of this is unnecessary. It is therefore necessary to review this so that the application is made only once and so that these systems are controlled. Sweden is well placed with innovation but can become much more sharp at turning these innovations into business ideas. My call to companies is to secure intangible assets. Sweden's neighbours Denmark and Finland have developed an intellectual property strategy for their countries in order to be at the forefront. Denmark was on its way when I last checked, and Finland is into its 2.0 version. Finland has also done what I believe Sweden should have done and which we have been talking about for a long time, namely creating a platform – a university – where business, politics and academia meet to boost innovation and transform it into real-life exploitation, that is, business, or, if you like, bang for money. An invention developed in Umeå seems to come from another country. That's not how it's supposed to be. We need to plug the lack of knowledge and ensure that knowledge enters the education widely. We need to be on our toes and push matters in Europe and Brussels rather than react and be driven. We need to continue to work together with the rest of Europe on regulations so that our companies' competitiveness does not lag behind, but is ahead and so that Sweden is at the forefront. Madam President, I would like I will also say a few words about the tourism industry. A new strategy is on the way. It is gratifying that, after debating infrastructure last week, we have perhaps left behind the air force and that we can link up all the traffic teams in the country to make the country live. Technology and opportunities are important instead of stopping and banning. After the pandemic and restrictions on the timing of restaurants and other principles in other contexts that have caused the industry to wet heavily, we are now standing in this House and are going to move forward. There is a mismatch between a large number of people who have become unemployed during the pandemic and are at the disposal of the labour market. The hospitality industry has a pressing need for people – hotel rooms should be fixed, dinners served and guest nights filled. If this is to work in the future, it is important that all those who can get into the labour market. At the same time, the heating of facilities, kitchens, bathrooms etc. eats up large amounts of income for the tourism industry, not least in southern Sweden. We heard a social democrat call this "oring". I think it is a sad situation that we find ourselves in, and many live on scarce resources. A family in the tourism industry in Skåne has received 28 000 SEK in electricity tax in a couple of months. They are now at a crossroads. They just got through the pandemic, but maybe they can't make it last. Many of the companies have received electricity bills in the mailbox that have been up to five times higher than they usually are during the same time. We can't be like this. We do not need a longer queue to the Employment Service, but we need people waiting for jobs when they are needed.
i-Qjp47Taue3NGuPdoLcRk6X	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by paying tribute to my moderate colleague, AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson, who raised the incredibly important aspect of intangible assets. Gold star for you! Madam President, I would like The positive news about foreign investment, new businesses and more jobs across the country thanks to the green transition is doing well. It's fun to be Swedish, and it's extra fun to be sosse. Both reasons for the boom we are now seeing are the new industrialisation strategy that Stefan Löfven went to elections in 2014 and the security and education systems that we have jointly built up in our country. But whoever's tearing still quickly gets overtaken. In order to continue to be world leaders in several different areas, so that our companies can contribute jobs and tax revenues to prosperity, we must constantly sharpen innovation policy. That is why I am standing in the speaker's seat today. Madam President, I would like The goal of the Social Democratic Enterprise Policy is to strengthen Swedish competitiveness and create the conditions for more jobs in more and growing companies, including through investments in innovation and collaboration, so that we can build the strong society. Recently, Sweden has again been ranked the second most innovative country in the world after Switzerland and at its best on innovation in the EU. But we do have more to do, especially with regard to innovation within the smallest companies, the gender dimension and the number of companies applying for patents. The goal of the Social Democrats is that Sweden will continue to be ranked as one of the most innovative and creative countries in the world and that we will succeed in reaping the greatest possible benefit from the technological revolution that we are in the midst of now. My economic policy vision for innovation is that: Innovators, regardless of size or gender, should be able to enter creative, innovative open-eyed partnerships and a long-term plan for how to use what is created and preferably commercialised Innovators, regardless of size or gender, shall have sufficient knowledge to determine when and how an innovation should be protected. 中 all public research funds will be used efficiently and strategically and will contribute to Sweden's future leading innovation nation. Madam President, I would like The Government decided in 2016 on Smart Industry to promote digitalized, in ovative and sustainable production in Sweden. It was an incredibly clever move. However, it was very unsmart of them that removed it during the budget. Together with the strategic collaboration programmes, the National Innovation Council, Startup Sweden, the accelerator programme, Swedish Cleantech and a lot of other important assignments to government agencies and companies, we have, with the help of politics, paved the way for the world-leading innovations that have been developed and that can also be transformed into new, green jobs throughout the country and contribute to the global transformation. Inn ovators, entrepreneurs and investors do the actual job, and they should be hailed for that. M a policy ensures that there is a playing field that enables ideas to see the light of day. Need I mention Hybrid in Luleå, H2 G reen S tee in Boden, Dana in Å goal, In m otion in Tyresö and Northvolt in Skellefteå to remind you of what Swedish innovation and trade policy has made possible around our country? And this, my friends, is just the beginning. What else needs to be done? Yes, we need the share of innovations and research results that are commercialised. There is an improvement potential. There is also untapped potential among female innovators. More women need help so that their ideas can see the light of day. Otherwise, a huge potential will be lost. With increased knowledge of more, developed collaboration between different sectors of society and security systems that allow people to venture, we can continue to be world leaders in innovation, have a successful business and face complex societal challenges in a long-term wise way. We Social Democrats want to strengthen Swedish competitiveness with continued strong innovation. I therefore call for the proposal in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy's report to be approved and for all reservations to be rejected.
i-RF6S8BMEXBKVZEpX5ZxB2D	Madam President, I would like I'm so sorry for pressing the wrong button. My opinion was not to agree with the speech but to ask for a reply to Åsa Eriksson's fantastic speech. It's really exciting with innovations. Sweden needs innovations. But we need them in all areas. What are the chances if you work in a municipal retirement home and develop new smart ideas on how to change care and create new products? We know that the products that have improved the care of the elderly most in the country are the microwave and the roller. But why shouldn't a nurse come up with new smart innovations? If so, how do municipalities take advantage of them? The Social Democrats are clearly pushing that they do not want profits in welfare, as they call it, i.e. companies in welfare. In that case, you need to have an innovation plan for how even people who work in those industries can develop ideas. Or you have the view that people in these industries are not as innovative, don't have as much ideas and don't care as much that the people they care for should be well and get the absolute best. For me, innovation policy does not make sense when it is only for certain sectors to benefit from this. It makes me so sorry for all those who actually have good ideas and who put a wet Social Democratic blanket over. They don't get the chance because this is ugly and something that sucks tax money and takes from someone else. I want answers to these questions. They're hugely important.
i-7G4MBrdiUfucE99DMKreCn	Madam President, I would like I thank Lotta Olsson for agreeing with my speech, although it was not the intention of the honourable Member. First of all, I have to say that innovations in care for the elderly are extremely important. We need to constantly stimulate and develop all activities everywhere. However, as the honourable Member knows, care for the elderly is a municipal responsibility. It is the municipality that must have strategies and plans to take advantage of the innovations that exist. I know that there are municipalities that have great programmes that encourage employees to contribute new thinking in different ways and reward them when it happens. With regard to private care for the elderly, I hope that the same is true of the desire for employees to contribute to development. For everyone who has ideas, regardless of the industry and sector, there is great public funding to get in order to realize their idea. There is venture capital, help to develop business plans and so on. This is something the government has been making sure to support all along. Profits in welfare should be for those for whom welfare is for, not for those who will pick out tax money and put in their own pocket.
i-HQrr1so7MTyFdMxxSFTZjZ	Madam President, I would like The profit must be made to benefit the taxpayer. But it doesn't look like that if I build a hospital and have a construction company, if I shoot the parking lot outside a hospital, if I sell dressing materials or if I make ventilators. This applies only to certain parts, in fact the parts where women are active. I would like to say that it is a strategic social democratic repression against certain working groups. If I work in the care of the elderly and get a brilliant idea that I could patent, I'll go to the manager of my unit. The municipality will then receive venture capital according to Åsa Eriksson's words. Then we'll run that idea within the organization. Or how would I have done if I had come up with the brilliant idea of the roller? Unfortunately it wasn't, but if, where would I have landed this idea? There is enormous oppression, but I don't think you're even thinking about what it looks like. We need food, clothing and many other things that we cannot live without. It's okay to make money from it and invest them in new ideas, research and so on. But ajabaja if you are good and best at caring for the elderly. We can't have that. That's not true for me.
i-XMYxQxknimDWLRvh7sKAkG	Madam President, I would like I did not quite follow Mr Olsson's reasoning, and I do not know whether there was a specific question asked to me. But I can take this opportunity to clarify if there is anyone wondering: Of course, all employees, regardless of where and in which sector they are employees, should be encouraged to take initiatives and develop so that all activities are as good as possible. Anyone who has a good idea should have the opportunity to protect it and also be able to get support in how to do it. Innovations are incredibly important in small and large companies and in the public sector in order for us to take the business forward.
i-CTvLdQykVizEyRsPBXSjw9	Madam President, I would like When I was up last time, I forgot to agree to a reservation. Of course, I support all the reservations of the Center Party, but for the benefit of time, I only ask for reservation 11. Finally, I must comment on Åsa Eriksson's statement that it is thanks to the Social Democrats and the new industrialisation strategy that we now see the green new industrialisation wave in northern Sweden. Let me point out that this is not the case. Northvolt and H2 Green Steel are established thanks to brave entrepreneurs who dare, and they have themselves invested their or borrowed billions. So it's not because of the sossies. I'm sorry, but it's the entrepreneurs we're here to celebrate.
i-Ja9rbM6gEsVRv26hqggLkQ	Madam President, I would like It is in agreement with the Constitutional Committee that the report KU18 presents certain issues of confidentiality when the Chancellor of Justice is guarding state law. Nevertheless, I intend to present some considerations on the matter, as the proposal amends the Publicity and Confidentiality Act. The proposal is based on a balance between publicity and confidentiality, and the committee has come to the conclusion that the considerations put forward by the government in the proposal justify the adjustments proposed. One of the aims is for JK to be able to make good use of the state's rights in litigation under the same conditions as other authorities can do. This proposal is due to the fact that in a memorandum to the Government, JK highlighted the difficulties of arbitration and cases in particular before the Court of Justice of the European Union. Madam President, I would like For this reason, a new confidentiality rule is proposed for information received or produced by JK on the basis of a litigation. In this way, Sweden will be better able to fulfil commitments resulting from international agreements and from EU law. I therefore support the committee's proposal. Madam President, I would like Today, the Chancellor of Justice has a number of tasks, all of which can be summed up fairly well under the name of the State's lawyer. In short, it concerns supervision of the authorities, voluntary settlement of claims, prosecutors in cases of pressure and freedom of expression offences, supervision of lawyers' disciplinary activities, protection of privacy, supervision of legal aid, representation of the state and adviser to the government. In the role of representative of the State, the Chancellor of Justice represents the State in certain trials concerning the law of the State, in particular damages cases. JK is always competent to take the State's action, but often this is the responsibility of other authorities, such as the Swedish Tax Agency, Försäkringskassan, Kronofogdemyndigheten and the Swedish Police Authority. There is a strong public interest in JK's activities. An important starting point, therefore, is that public access as a general rule prevails. When JK represents the State or assists the Government with advice and investigations in legal matters, confidentiality applies only to a limited extent, which is regulated in Chapter 42. Publicity and Confidentiality Act. Madam President, I would like The general rule allowing for the confidentiality of legal disputes in order to protect the public's position as a party is therefore not currently applicable to JK's activities. This also means that general rules on foreign secrecy are not directly applicable to the activities. Instead, for JK, confidentiality for the protection of State law as a party applies only to information provided by individuals. Foreign secrecy also applies only to information provided by individuals and only if a qualified element of injury is fulfilled. Madam President, I would like In the bill, the Government states that JK regularly needs to exchange information with the relevant authorities in the context of an ongoing litigation and to make ongoing consideration of confidentiality. The fact that the Chancellor of Justice may be obliged to disclose information on legal assessments and strategies in an ongoing case impairs the ability of the State to exercise its right in a dispute. In view of the general economic interest, the proposal therefore provides for the introduction of a new Section 4(a) of Chapter 42. the Act of Publicity and Confidentiality, which allows for confidentiality if it can be assumed that the public position as a party will deteriorate if the information is disclosed. According to the Government, the new provision should be designed in such a way that it is essentially consistent with what applies when an authority other than JK participates in a litigation. The starting point is therefore that the data are public. However, as with other authorities, the confidentiality of the new provisions should cease when the matter has finally been decided. The confidentiality of a particular in a public document shall be valid for a maximum period of 20 years. A further aspect is that JK has no legal capacity to disclose documents of the opposite party in connection with settlement documents, thereby reducing the conditions for reaching amicable settlements. Thus, the government's assessment is that the regulation needs to be adapted. It is also about the fact that disclosure of the data could affect Sweden's relations with the EU institutions and the Member States concerned. The committee supports the government's considerations and believes that, on the basis of the considerations made, Parliament should adopt the legislative proposal.
i-LQZpfcnGHoZj1Y2DCaBKCR	Madam President, I would like The report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs (KU18) deals with certain issues of confidentiality when the Chancellor of Justice is guarding state law. I support the committee's proposal. As I said, the committee is united and there are no reservations. Nor did the Council have any objection to the proposal, nor did most consultation bodies. However, two referrals raised objections, which is why the text should be slightly expanded on this complex and important matter. Madam President, I would like The Chancellor of Justice is the authority that checks that other authorities comply with Sweden's laws and regulations. It is an important part of Swedish democracy as it is the law enforcement, the central administrative authority. The office is governed by the government, and its existence and activities are partly determined by constitutional law. The role of the Chancellor of Justice is to supervise, on behalf of the Government, that the authorities, their officials and lawyers carry out their duties in accordance with the legal provisions in force. The supervision applies to both central and local government authorities, but not to authorities during the Riksdag. The Chancellor of Justice is a prosecutor and can prosecute for freedom of expression and press crimes. The Chancellor of Justice receives complaints from individuals and is a form of Ombudsman. The Chancellor of Justice is also the Ombudsman of the State and represents the State where the State is required for damages. Thus, one of the tasks of the Chancellor of Justice is to monitor the law of the State and to bring the State's action in cases relating to the law of the State. The Chancellor of Justice is thus to represent the State in damages cases. We can see that there is a strong public interest in the activities of the Chancellor of Justice. This applies in particular to international litigation involving claims for several billion SEK. These may include large environmental objectives or other damage that has occurred in nature during the extraction of raw materials. An important starting point, therefore, is that public access to justice should apply as a general rule to the activities of the Chancellor of Justice. That will continue to be the case. When the Chancellor of Justice is watching the law of the state, it assists the government with advice. It also assists the government in investigations into legal matters. There's a problem here. The usual confidentiality rules do not apply to the activities of the Chancellor of Justice. This means that general rules on foreign secrecy are not directly applicable to the activities of the Chancellor of Justice. The Chancellor of Justice has therefore stated in a memorandum to the Government that the confidentiality rules create difficulties for the Authority to adequately carry out its task of safeguarding the State's rights in international litigation. The Chancellor of Justice also highlights difficulties in maintaining Sweden's international commitments in connection with arbitration and cases before the EU Court of Justice. The fact that the Chancellor of Justice is unable to comply with the confidentiality requirements of arbitration may lead to Sweden being unable to comply with its international obligations. Moreover, when the Chancellor of Justice lacks legal means to disclose documents of the opposite party in the course of conciliation proceedings, the conditions for reaching an amicable settlement are reduced. Both the EU institutions and the other Member States taking part in a preliminary ruling have a legitimate expectation that opinions in an ongoing case will not be disclosed to any third party, under EU law. If the Chancellor of Justice nevertheless discloses this information, it will affect Sweden's relations with the EU institutions and the Member States concerned. Had it been an authority other than the Chancellor of Justice who had the information, the foreign secrecy could have been brought up to date for those very reasons. There is reason to change the rules. My colleague in the Constitutional Committee, PerPer-Arne Håkansson, presented the concrete changes. I will not go into them more explicitly here, Madam President. I can only note that the new provisions have been designed in such a way that they are essentially in line with what applies when an authority other than the Chancellor of Justice takes part in a litigation. The starting point is therefore that the data are public. However, as in the case of other authorities, confidentiality under the new provision should cease when the matter has finally been decided, and the confidentiality of an item in a public document is proposed to be valid for a maximum of 20 years. Madam President, I would like With these changes, which respond to a real need that exists, and in the context of a balanced assessment, we in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs have unanimously considered that the interests of transparency do not go too far.
i-ujLfn6LUfcrYqoutXmq7m	Madam President, I would like At first, I would like to express my support for reservation 2, while at the same time we, the Swedish democrats, support all our reservations. The report we are dealing with today highlights important issues for our society as a whole. This applies from official holidays and flagging to our national anthem, our national symbols and memorial days. Hopefully these areas invite some form of reflection and national appreciation and not necessarily just that we look forward to a day off from work or studies. It is memorable days, celebrations and symbols that enable community and cohesion, as well as an opportunity to appreciate and reflect on what Sweden stands for. This applies not only in the present, but also historically and how we have reached this point. It is also an indication on the way into the future. All the points in the report should be seen as contributing to the creation of a national identity of which we can all be proud. Perhaps the main symbol of our country would be the beautiful blue-yellow flag with its rich history that we can trace until the mid 1500s. Ours today celebrated Swedish National Day was known to be the Swedish flag's day. It is a day celebrated on Skansen since 1893 to pomp and glory, with music, festive speeches and the distribution of banners, always with the royal family present. There are no clear regulations regulating flagging, although there are various recommendations to address. Without a more concrete regulatory framework, some authorities sometimes flag with flags other than the Swedish one, even those representing political or ideological organisations. It is unfortunate on the part of the Swedish Democrats that non-official flags are used when flagging public buildings, as this may be perceived as the authority in question taking a political or ideological position. The Swedish flag is a symbol of our country and thus also applicable to our authorities. Against this background, we as a party believe that the regulations for flagging should be brought together in a more concrete flag law. This should specify everything from the size and appearance of the flag to the days it should fly. This also applies to which other flags may be included in this flag law, such as the UN flag or the EU flag, as well as various regional or government-specific flags. The flag law should, of course, refer to public and official use, while private flagging is something that we should encourage rather than impose in any way. With this, Madam President, I thank you for the floor for this time.
i-LFSf6KF9XqyyVJT12Y5oRf	Madam President, I would like The blue-yellow Swedish flag is the banner of the whole people. As a private person, each person can lift the flag to celebrate jubilees or to slippery it on half pole and then lift it on full pole to dignifiedly remember relatives who died. Of course, sometimes it feels extra solemn when you pass a place or a house where the Swedish flag sways on a pole. It shows that there is something to celebrate or otherwise pay attention. The KU25 report by the Constitutional Committee deals with 17 motions in motions from the general period of exercise relating to flagging and public holidays, as well as issues of national anthem, commemoration days, public reward schemes and national symbols. I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report and therefore reject the motions. I am also going to discuss some of the considerations that have been made. A motion sets out rules for flagging. The exerciser believes that the flag law should contain rules on the appearance of the flag and the ceremonial of the flag and that it should specify which flag days should be considered to be official. The exerciser also believes that authorities should only carry the Swedish flag, regional flags and any guest-specific flags. There is also a motion to introduce the official status of the Scanian flag. A general reflection, as I see it, is that flagging should be based on popular anchoring and not primarily dictated from above. It should come from the depths, in the everyday life of the people. We can also highlight local and regional self-government in this context. The fact that we have today to take a stand on motions specifically on flags and flags is undoubtedly a clear example of the popular interest which, after all, exists in the question of flags. As a background, reference can be made to what is stated in the report on bill 1981/ 82/109 with proposals for new legislation on Sweden's national weapons and Sweden's flag. This pointed out that there were no binding regulations for flagging on specified days, except in the Armed Forces area. However, Madam President, the issue is that so-called 'public days' have been included in the usual calendar since 1939. This list of flag days had the character of unofficial recommendation, and it had been created on the initiative of what was then called the Board of Directors of Svenska Flaggans Dag. The idea of imposing an obligation to flag buildings containing government authorities and institutions on public days was then rejected for economic and practical reasons. It was considered that the flag issue should therefore, as until then, be left unregulated, except then within the Swedish Armed Forces. This meant that, on the basis of practical and other considerations, each civil authority had to decide to what extent flagging on the general days of the flag could be appropriately maintained. In view of the fact that the Constitutional Committee has dealt on several occasions with the wish that the general days of the flag should be listed and officially set, it was proposed to do so. With regard to the issue of which days should be taken up as flag days, the bill pointed out that the flag days had in principle remained unchanged for more than 40 years and that they have grown into public awareness. Therefore, no day should be excluded without strong reasons. The then 15 days of the flag were thus – if you may put it that way – considered to be the measure all of them. Two new flag days were proposed with regard to statements by the Riksdag. This was the day of the parliamentary elections and the UN Day on 24 October. Madam President, I would like In order to make it possible to amend the list without parliamentary treatment when the conditions for the Royal Flag Days were changed, the memorandum on which the bill was based recommended that the general flag days should be specified in a regulation. It was also issued in 1982 and contains only one list of the 18 days of the flag.
i-MFsdm1gHf8Uh8WtKtkRmCQ	The existing law on the Swedish flag regulates, among other things, the appearance of the flag, and it also mentions the general days of the flag. The committee has stressed on several occasions that issues of flagging by the state authorities and institutions should be decided by the authorities and institutions themselves. The committee has also previously noted that there are rules for flag times within the Swedish Armed Forces and other military authorities and that there are recommendations for when the flag should otherwise be raised. The flag should, as I see it, be used. As I understand it, there is also a focus from the committee working with the Swedish flag's day and Sweden's national day that it is important to use the flag. It is important that we flag when there is reason to do so, as we see it. For my part, I am thinking of the collection of flags from all over the EU at the port entrance of the pier in Helsingborg. Each flag in the EU and the Nordic countries is represented. Here we can say that municipal self-government is behind the flag. The gateway to the continent or the gateway to Europe should show openness and welcome. The document also mentions May 1st. In the popular movement I myself belong to, we celebrate the first of May by marching on demonstrations. In the trains I have walked in since childhood, one general rule has been that the blue-yellow Swedish flag is always primarily in line. In sports, the flag is used extensively as well as on school graduations. A local community association I have close contact with is responsible for flagging at the home district farm. Voluntary forces stand for it. It can be in line with the tradition and custom behind the creation of the general flag days and how the Swedish flag law has been developed. That in itself is a strength to highlight. It is not nationalism or provincialism that is behind the flag initiatives, but people's community, their own initiatives and cohesion. Similarly, I look at some other motions about the national anthem You old, you propose and so on. Tradition and custom weigh heavily. Legislation is not needed in all contexts, but popular support is what gives power.
i-L6mStSWqupsdm4ZZa5Yvsy	Madam President, I would like The report we are debating today deals with a series of motion requests on public days, on rules on flagging, on the status of the Scanian flag, on our national anthem, on national symbols, on commemorative days and more, and also on public reward schemes. The majority of the committee's proposal for a parliamentary decision is that all motions are rejected. I'm going to go in a little bit on the parts that are here. We believe, as on several occasions in the past, that the number of holidays should not be changed and that no one should be removed or added. In the case of motion requests for flagging and flag days, the majority also propose rejections, with reference, among other things, to a forthcoming proposal on the basis of the so-called "Miscellaneous Investigation" proposal, which is likely to entail some changes in the number of flag days. Our rejection of a motion on the status of the Scanian flag is based, among other things, on earlier statements of a state-heraldic nature. Nor do we believe that there is reason for the Riksdag to take any initiative for a general flag law. I would like to make a personal addition here. For a number of years, I was a member of the Swedish National Day Foundation, whose work has led, among other things, to the Swedish flag's day becoming a holiday and our real national day. The Foundation also manages the regulations around the flag. The focus of the foundation's work can now be summed up with the words, "Flag rather than not," even if you don't know all the rules. ..................................................... I believe that a flag law with rules on ceremonial etc. could cause many people to be afraid of making mistakes and thus refrain from flagging. Nor does the majority of committees think that the national anthem needs specific legal recognition; it is firmly rooted in the people's soul. There is also no need for an initiative to increase the use of national symbols of different kinds. We believe, as in the past, that there is no reason for Parliament to initiate the proposed commemoration or special days. We therefore reject such exercise requests. Finally, we propose rejecting the motions on awards of various kinds. Here, too, this is mainly motivated by the upcoming proposal based on the earnings investigation's proposal regarding, among other things, reward systems. Madam President, I would like I would therefore like to call for the majority of the committee's proposals to be approved.
i-BQBxvaCFfYz3zT5vKxJhqV	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to endorse reservation 8 of this report, the KU26, on electoral issues. In addition to reservation 8, I will also highlight other Swedish democratic proposals in this area. Of course, it is appropriate to discuss election issues in the Swedish Parliament. It is through this autumn's free and general elections that the political power in Sweden is distributed. It is through the elections that the will of the people manifests itself and ultimately determines how our country should be governed. The elections and the electoral process itself are also one of the most fragile points of democracy. Election fraud, sabotage and unclear regulations and practices risk damaging the legitimacy of the election result, a legitimacy that is a prerequisite for healthy and revitalized democracy. Having said that, we find it difficult to understand why the other parties do not want to close certain obvious holes in our electoral system. One such example concerns the training of municipal election informants. Prior to the 2018 elections, it was discovered that a municipal official tried to sell votes in favour of a particular party. That this kind of behavior and activism can be allowed seems to me very strange. The state must make a clear mark here and do so at an early stage. When this type of corruption is not suppressed, it may be difficult to eradicate the phenomenon. We in the Swedish Democrats believe that clearer national guidelines for municipal election informers where impartiality is emphasised would be a good solution. It is difficult, Mr President, to understand what the disadvantage would be. We also believe that the activities should be checked for the next elections. More national coordination on incident reporting is also important. At present, there is a lack of a central collection of incident and incident reports from all the different bodies dealing with the elections. If we cannot compile incidents, which in practice means different forms of manipulation of the election result, it will be difficult to get an overview of where the electoral system does not work. The first and most important step towards solving a problem is actually knowing what is wrong. Central collection of incident and incident reports is therefore necessary. But the voting process itself also needs to be further secured. In short, we believe that there should be an absolute requirement for those who vote to legitimise themselves. Today it is possible for another person to confirm the identity of the other voter. You can also allow a person to vote if the voter recognizes the voter, which can be a rather arbitrary assessment. There is a danger that the current system will become a gateway to cheating, clan voting and other things. A further advantage of our proposal would be that we could introduce a mechanical crack on the electoral roll in order to remove the risk that the wrong voters might be cracked off and thus lose their right to vote. The election authority has also highlighted the need for clarification requirements in relation to identification. The government should urgently investigate questions about the absolute requirement for ID control and return to Parliament before the 2022 elections. In order to keep pace with technology development and take advantage of the digitalisation that is taking place, we believe that the voting process itself should be broadcast live. In those countries where there have recently been discussions on electoral fraud, it is precisely the correctness of the vote-counting process itself that has been criticised. Voice counting in Sweden is public, but it assumes that you are in place physically. In order to encourage and promote democratic engagement, one can look at the possibility of live transmission of the counting of votes as well. A greater degree of civic insight in this could be a good way of safeguarding the legitimacy of the democratic system.
i-PuAAHSRpqvm3Vgu7Tvm988	Mr President, I would like to In Sweden, democracy is ongoing and exercised daily and not only at the polls every four years, although this particular debate is about election issues. In several countries, authoritarian forces in recent years have weakened and, in some cases, dismantled democratic and constitutional institutions. The electoral system and the right to participate in free, secret and direct elections are an important part of a strong democracy. It is therefore important to safeguard and safeguard the integrity and robustness of the electoral system at all times. This year the celebration of Sweden is still going on for 100 years with universal and equal suffrage in the so-called democracy anniversary, in memory of the years 1918–1922 when the Riksdag made a number of decisions that allowed almost all adult women and men to vote and stand in the elections. My year of birth, 1975, reduced the voting age to 18 years, and 72 percent of the population got the right to vote. In 1989, government regulations were repealed so that a person who had reached the age of authority could no longer be declared unenforceable. Thus, only in 1989 did all citizens over the age of 18 have the right to vote. The struggle for the right to vote has not come of its own accord. Women's right to vote, reduced voting age and to regard each other equally as competent citizens of society have come out of a conscious and active struggle, driven by dedicated men and women, politicians and civil society – all possessed by the principle of equal rights and value. Mr President, I would like to The Parliament has recently decided on measures that strengthen the electoral system and increase accessibility for disabled people to participate. Further steps in this direction are proposed by the 2020 Elections Survey, and they are welcome. Young people's drive, skills and commitment need to be harnessed for better social development. The Center Party considers it important to strengthen the influence of young people. This can be done, among other things, by municipalities being able to use youth councils as a consultation body and in other ways. Strengthening young people's confidence in our common society is also a very important task. We know that good habits are established early. In the research on voting turnout, it can be seen that the proportion of voters is higher among those aged 18 than among those who are slightly older. This ratio has been observed in several Swedish elections. A likely explanation is that a large proportion of 18-year-olds attend upper secondary school in connection with the elections. The school works with democracy and election issues, which increases awareness and interest in voting. It has also been highlighted that 18-year-olds often live at home with their parents, which has a positive impact on their ability to vote. Today's system means that a large part of a year's run is not allowed to vote on election day, with the consequence that you have to wait several years to vote for the first time. As research shows that the tendency to vote falls the years after the 18th anniversary, it is important for the democratic anchoring and participation of voters that everyone in one year's term can vote. The Center Party therefore believes that young people should be allowed to vote in the general elections of the year they turn 18. I therefore propose that point 3 be added to paragraph 3.
i-CdRXxovb8mYADJqDS5kz6e	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 2. In Sweden you get the right to vote in the elections when you turn 18 regardless of gender. But that has not always been the case. As the President is well aware, the entire parliamentary term draws attention to the fact that 100 years ago decisions were taken for a universal and equal right to vote. We are now approaching the end of this term of office, and just over a month ago it was noted that it was then 100 years since the first five women MPs took their place in the first and second chambers of Parliament. They pioneered something we see as self-evident today, namely women MPs. But, Mr President, not everyone was allowed to vote after 1921. Those who had been sentenced to prison, those who were in personal bankruptcy and those who received contributions from the poor, i.e. today's subsistence support, were not allowed to vote. Nor were you allowed to vote if you had tax debts. It was not until 1989, more than 30 years ago, that all these different voting restrictions were removed. What do I want to say about it? That voting rights and our electoral system change and improve over time. Mr President, I would like to 100 years is a very long time for each of us as a person. We may be lucky enough to live so long, but in a historical perspective, 100 years is a short time. What will the voting rights and electoral system look like in 100 years' time? What, then, will we consider to be obvious? As in the past, the Left Party believes that voting rights should be valid from the year it turns 18. We also want to see a reduced voting age to 16 years on trial in the municipal elections. Today you can only vote if you turn 18 by the day of the election. This means that everyone who is a member of the same year-olds must not vote in the same election, just as Linda Modig explained before me. Those who turn 18 the day after the election day do not have the right to vote in the elections but have to wait another four years until the next election. We find this system unfortunate. The practice of voting is established at a young age, and we know that voting turnout today is lower among first-time voters than in the rest of the population. The election information given to upper secondary school pupils during the election campaign by, for example, youth associations and parties is therefore particularly important. But the mobilizing effect is weakened when many of the students who are invited to vote in the elections and who sit in the classroom do not have the right to vote. Especially in matters relating to school, leisure, community planning and other areas that directly affect young people's everyday lives, we think it is reasonable and desirable for young people to have more influence. The average age of first-time voters in Sweden is now 20 years, and it is Europe's highest. We believe that the age of voting rights should be reduced to 16 in an attempt to reduce the average age of first-time voters from 20 years to 18 years in the municipal elections, as suggested by the Democracy Investigation. This would mean that a majority of first-time voters go to high school for the first time they have the right to vote. It would also allow the school system to develop and expand its democratic work and support first-time voters who need to navigate among political ideologies and proposals. Mr President, I would like to For democracy to work, a well-functioning electoral system and a high turnout are crucial, but also the sense of participation and the possibility of democratic influence. Today there are many people in Sweden who are permanently resident here but who are denied voting in certain elections but who have the right to vote in others. The Left Party believes that the electoral law should be amended so that permanent residents of Sweden are given the opportunity, conditions and confidence to vote also in parliamentary elections.
i-DEFwCZpCVpY3mQ32UBm4LN	Mr President, I would like to We cannot take democracy for granted. It is usually said that democracy must be won by every generation. The Green Party also believes that democracy must be developed by every generation. Democracy will not be finished. It has evolved in many different ways for a long time and must continue to evolve. During the 20th century, the age of voting was gradually reduced. In 1919 the voting age was reduced to 23 years. In 1945 the voting age was reduced to 21 years. 20 years later it was reduced to 20 years, and in 1975 the age of voting was reduced to what we have today, namely 18 years. It is therefore almost half a century since the last reduction took place. We think it is time for another reduction. It is time to broaden and strengthen our democracy. It is high time we moved on to this issue. There are many players who also highlight the importance of this. The democracy inquiry proposed in its report Let more shape the future! a trial with reduced voting age at the elections to the municipal council. Reducing the age of voting to 16 would provide an incentive for young people to take an interest in local policies and thus motivate more people to become involved and take a position of trust, for example. LSU, the Council of Sweden's youth organisations, is also pushing the issue of reduced voting age. Around the world, developments are also moving in this direction. For example, Scotland and Austria have already reduced the voting age. It is very positive that there is a wave of democratisation going on around the world, and that wave should of course Sweden jump on. The young people I meet and have met for many years often feel that democracy is something that goes on far from them. There is something strange, perhaps almost scary, going on far away in Stockholm. Every other young person today does not feel included in society, and I think it is a danger to democracy. We must do much more to include young people in society and in our democracy. For us in the Green Party, it is not obvious that the voting age should be precisely 18 years. Today we have a variety of age limits in Sweden. The age of the criminal authority is 15 years. You get to start and run a business from the age of 16. Mr President, I would like to I engaged myself politically long before I turned 18, just like many others. For many years in the youth movement it became very clear to me that young people are competent and want to contribute. Young people have much to contribute to our society and to our democracy. And the experiences of today's young people have no others. To broaden democracy is also to bring more life experiences into democracy and thus create better conditions for making wise decisions. Mr President, I would like to Let me make a brief personal reflection. I am a young and elected politician myself. We know that young people today are under-represented in politics. Of course, there may be many different reasons why this is the case. One may be that young people are not sufficiently welcomed into our democracy. Another may be that our democracy is not suited enough for young politicians. The young person entering the municipal council, regional council or parliament today is often clearly in breach of the norm. Lowering the age of voting and thus involving more young people in our democracy would also pave the way for several young elected and elected representatives. In this way, the under-representation of young people in our democratic assemblies today could be reduced. The Green Party wants to lower the voting age. We believe that a good way to do this would be to carry out a trial with a reduced voting age in the way proposed by the Democracy Investigation. I would therefore like to ask for the approval of reservation 4 on trials with a reduced voting age.
i-23YC9ujL4FitL1ic3yRXGQ	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the rejection of the motions for unusuality. We Moderates have long been pursuing a series of questions relating to our electoral system. The need to make it easier for people with visual impairments to vote without revealing their electoral secret to anyone, without needing assistance, is one such issue. The need to make it easier and more accessible for Swedish citizens living abroad to vote in the Parliamentary elections is another. The need to take action to reduce group voting, family voting or so-called clan voting is a third. These issues, however, are those which, thankfully, we have got through here in Parliament and which during the parliamentary term have been dealt with in the election inquiry of which I myself, among other things, have been part, and in the two proposals adopted by the House. Within the framework of them, we have achieved much of what we have been pushing. What remains, but which we have received a recent announcement of, are further steps to overcome group voting, that several people go behind a booth and vote together without there being any obvious reason why one of the people might need help. There, too, we have got through announcements that were dealt with in connection with the latest proposal in this area. Hence we do not have any motions or further proposals in this motion report. Election systems should and can of course be constantly developed. There are certainly more things we can do to make our electoral system even better. However, the electoral system is an area in which we believe that there should be broad consensus and that changes should be made gradually and not with too many moves and cuts at a time. It is important that we can be sure that the changes we make can be safely implemented and implemented and that the legitimacy of the electoral system cannot be called into question. The fact that people recognize themselves in the electoral situation when going to elections is a factor that can affect the trust and security of individuals when they go to vote. That is why we think it is good if the reforms and proposals that are now on the table and that are to be implemented in future elections are allowed to do so and that we then go further and develop our electoral system further.
i-45qWcWaJCFu9Mbd7kzd2Pf	Mr President, I would like to Our democracy is rarely as clearly manifested as when we go to the ballot box and vote. That day is about a citizen, a vote. It is therefore incredibly important that we be careful with our electoral system, which forms the basis of the representative democracy that we are so proud to have. Mr President, I would like to The fact that Sweden's citizens know and are confident about how our choices are made builds trust and legitimacy. It is an incredibly important component that contributes to the stability of our society. Therefore, we should be careful when making changes. Among the exercises are those that have been lifted up many times before. I am thinking of voting age, separate election days, personal elections and information for those who are going to vote. They are all important contributions to an ongoing debate on how our democracy can be refined. But changes in our electoral system should be made with thought and after careful consideration. As late as December last year, some adjustments were made which will provide additional protection to those who vote. The government is also working on several of the issues raised in the motions. It is a good and reasonable order. Mr President, I would like to With those words, I would like to thank the members of the Constitutional Committee for their good work and to support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-RvYn9orLR6vBTW2x2TvzjG	Mr President, I would like to Public administration is the key to a strong and well-functioning society. It is based on the availability of services and the well-qualified and well-equipped handling of cases by those working in administrations and authorities. Often when I meet people who work in the various functions of society, in authorities and administrations, and the reasoning comes to how they see their job is precisely the mission itself, to act in the service of the kingdom and society, supporting. That in itself, as I can see, is a driving force to take advantage of. Then, of course, it means a special responsibility for the individual to live up to. In this context, the employer responsibility of both the state and municipalities is important, as is the relationship between elected representatives and officials as well. Respect and trust are concepts to carry with them. The KU27 report by the Constitutional Committee deals with around 80 motions from the general period of exercise on issues of local service, digitalisation, civil responsibilities, governance – in short, issues relating to citizens' relations with the various parts of the public administration. As regards the position under paragraph 7 on the issue of civil liability, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 15 by the Social Democrats, the Centre Party, the Left Party and the Green Party. I therefore propose rejecting the motions on the matter. Otherwise, I agree with what is highlighted in the report. With regard to increased official responsibilities and the reservation to which I request approval, I would like to refer to the recent investigation. The investigation was launched in 2020 as a direct result of an announcement by the Constitutional Committee. The Directives stated that the public has a legitimate requirement that state and municipal activities should be carried out responsibly and properly. Strong public confidence also requires an effective system of accountability when errors are committed. The assessment made by the investigation is that the current framework for tougher penalties for misconduct is sufficient. There have been no strong reasons to delimit misconduct or to make other changes to the criminal code. One reason to lean on is that sharpened service errors can lead to increased detail management, and this in turn can lead to reduced efficiency and reduced quality. There is also disciplinary and damages liability in the current regulatory framework. It can also be stressed that both the Chancellor of Justice and the Ombudsman have important functions and control bodies. Mr President, I would like to It is spoken in the announcement of a modern system. It is true that current challenges may differ from those of the past, not least in terms of digitalisation and speed. As the report also shows, the current rules on the liability of officials were laid down in the 1975 so-called reform of officials. It was a radical reform that led to significant decriminalisation. Prior to that, a far-reaching special criminal liability applied to civil servants who could be convicted of misconduct or misuse of their duties. In addition to ordinary punishment, they could be sentenced to disposal, suspension. For senior civil servants, crimes in the ministry would instead be prosecuted. The disciplinary responsibility of municipal employees was mainly regulated by collective agreements. In 1989 there was a new reform that extended criminal liability. Criminal liability could also be imposed in the event of negligence and not only in the event of gross negligence or intent. It is the Swedish Government's Responsibilities Board that examines issues of disciplinary responsibility, dismissals, suspensions and medical examinations with coercion in the case of state employees in senior positions. These include heads of government, judges, prosecutors and professors. I also note that the Federation of State Officials, ST, expresses relief over the investigation's proposals. There are already a number of ways of punishing officials who do wrong, says the League. I share that view on the basis of the considerations made in this case. Mr President, I would like to In order for the whole of Sweden to live and develop, the state's presence in different parts of the country is important. Although digitalisation offers opportunities for remote service, there is a great value in citizens being able to get to state public institutions at close range. A number of motions address these very issues. In this case, particular attention can be paid to the efforts being made in the State Service Offices. Since 2019, the National Service Centre has been the principal of these offices. The business is still under development. The Government's budget proposal for this year states that the State Service Centre has continued to develop local government services for citizens and businesses. At the moment, the activities are covered by 118 government service offices, where the Swedish Social Insurance Agency, the Swedish Pension Agency, the Swedish Tax Agency and the Swedish Public Employment Service are gathered. The offices are open to unbooked visits for guidance, advice and help with forms, permits and the like. In 2022 and 2023 additional service offices will be opened. They're 28 in number. This year there are openings in Gothenburg, Helsingborg, Laholm, Sölvesborg and Åre, to name a few. Next year, openings are planned in Eskilstuna, Lysekil, Tingsryd and Växjö, to name a few more examples. Cooperation with local bodies and public accessibility is the focus of this activity. The investment that is being carried out is welcome and requested. In the report, the committee points out that there is no reason for Parliament to take further initiatives in relation to the demands for exercise. The questions will, of course, be followed up. In this context, it can therefore be mentioned that the Swedish National Audit Office has announced that it will carry out an audit of the activities of the State Service Offices during the current year. It is reportedly due to be completed in December and takes into account the effectiveness and efficiency of the State Service Offices. Mr President, I would like to Some sports highlight digitalisation and digital mail via digital mailboxes for those who wish to do so. In the Budget Bill, the Government stresses the importance of the various functions of society developing the possibilities of digitalisation. The Digital Administration Authority has the task of providing an annual overall analysis and assessment of digitalisation in the public administration. The Authority's assessment is that the common digital infrastructure has long been lagging behind, but that Sweden is now on the right track with good conditions to catch up with comparable countries. In order for Swedish administration to be the best in the world to use the opportunities of digitalisation, the establishment of the administrative digital infrastructure needs to be a priority. This includes ensuring that everyone in need has access to eID, as this is an important prerequisite in this context. The use of digital mail, which is mentioned, is voluntary, and the state letterbox option My government post is not today a strong option for users in general. Instead, a large majority of Swedish users have a private letterbox operator. In many countries other countries, such as Denmark and Norway, there are state procured operators, and mandatory legislation has been chosen either from the user side or from the dispatcher side for mail to go digitally. Security and integrity are important to stress. An investigation into this issue, the IT operational investigation, points out that the coordinated provision of government services should be based on a flexible and transparent solution involving IT services from several private operators. State actors must, however, be advised of the overall supply and it is emphasised that the defence and the Security Service should be excluded.
i-BNNbo4vfFES3gmaTz7QJzR	Mr President, I would like to Almost four years ago, I was standing here in the speaker's chair talking about exactly what we are debating today, namely public administration and the introduction of a modern and clear civil servant's responsibility. If a unanimous parliament were to take a decision with an invitation to the government, it would have been believed that these four years had been used in such a way that the government had carried out what was called for by the Riksdag. Unfortunately, this has not happened. The investigation, which took place after two years, was tasked with investigating the need for civil liability, not how it could be introduced. That is why we are standing here today without any proposal as to what a broader civil servant's responsibility could look like. Let me remind you what I said four years ago. It is the opinion of the Moderates that this is still true today. The responsibility of officials is about demanding responsibility when those responsible do wrong and about allowing irresponsibleness to have consequences. Without consequences, demands and responsibilities are nothing more than empty words, and if that is something we have too much of in Sweden today, it is empty words. Too often we reward people who make mistakes by giving them parachutes when they do wrong. It can't be okay. Excluding a job by, for example, receiving three years' wages cannot be seen as a penalty. As a moderate, I don't believe in detail control. Those of us who want experts to take more responsibility must also dare to demand responsibility when things go wrong. It's not really any weirder than that. It is time for us to stop dwindling, and it is time for us to reintroduce real civil liability. This is what it sounded like four years ago, and this is what we in the Moderates are sticking to even today. We believe that more acts than today should be punishable. Today's legislation is obsolete, and it is rarely used despite the fact that around 7 000 notifications are made per year. As few as a handful go to trial. It is an indicator of the obsolete nature of legislation today. Thomas Bull has gone through cases, prosecutions and complaints and has found, contrary to the investigation, that more and more cases today are considered to be minor misconduct. This is one reason why they are not brought to court. As the previous speaker was partly concerned, small cases are instead raised in disciplinary and staff liability boards. The cases are then decided by parties, such as trade unions and employers. Many times they are determined by those who direct the person in question, i.e. those who can in no way be considered impartial. The ability of a Disciplinary Board to make a decision in a way that inspires trust and security in the public – whether it releases or convicts the person in question – is very weak. The process is not transparent. It is not open, and in these cases it is not objective, impartial persons who give the ruling. It is very likely that some cases in the future should continue to be regarded as minor and should be decided in staff liability boards, but not all and not as many as today. The report looks like we have a majority in favour of the government re-examines the issue of enhanced civil liability and urgently returns with proposals. We have that majority in committee, but unfortunately not in this House during the vote later today. It is we Moderates, Liberals, Christian Democrats and Swedish Democrats who continue to stand by what we said four years ago. Courttrots, violations of public access and confidentiality laws, obvious errors in purchasing, very negligent errors in dealing with taxpayers' money and withholding public documents are some examples of situations where misconduct is not currently applicable. We question whether it is really reasonable that this should continue to be the case. We have heard from the speaker that trust is important. I am the first to agree with that. It is very important that we have confidence in civil servants. The vast majority of officials do an excellent job. That is precisely why, and because officials are particularly important in our democratic system, threats to officials as well as the mistakes of officials need to be punished in particular. It is about maintaining the relatively high confidence that we have left in Sweden today. I would also like to endorse our reservation 9, which deals with opinion-driven activities. On the same theme, it is incredibly important that our authorities are objective and impartial. When authorities are politicised and involved in opinion formation rather than information, it risks damaging our confidence in the impartiality of the public system and our authorities. Politics is biased and should be biased. It's about opinions. But our authorities shouldn't be. I would also like to endorse our reservation 10, which deals with language interpreters. We believe, unlike what it is today, that people who have permanent residence permits in Sweden and yet need interpreters should pay the cost themselves.
i-2tvFfizvMiehaWwPrJ6kri	Mr President, I would like to The KU27 report is one of the most important today. This has to do with almost half of Sweden's GDP being public. Like the previous speaker, I intended to focus on this with the responsibility of officials, paragraph 7. In April 2018, the Swedish Parliament called on the Government to come back with an investigation and proposals on how increased criminal liability for misconduct could be designed. Recently, a few weeks ago, the investigation came. Unfortunately, the investigation has concluded that criminal liability for misconduct should not be extended beyond what is currently in force, that is, in the exercise of official authority. We think this is quite a pity. There are so many other things in the public sector that must be able to have consequences if you are careless or engaging in the corruption of friendship, political activism or whatever it may be. In the private sector there are various market economy mechanisms built in that if a company is mismanaged or a middle manager collects money, there will always be people who have their own personal financial incentives to prevent this. You may think what you want about capitalism and the market economy, but this is one of the benefits. That is why most of the world's countries today have some form of market economy, because there is a personal responsibility. We all own the public sector together, but at the same time it is owned by no one. There is no automatic control mechanism in the public sector in the same way. That is why, a very long time ago, official responsibility was introduced to satisfy what otherwise happens automatically within the private sector. The study that came – it has taken four years – is quite academic and dry to read. I do not think it is clear what is the very purpose of increased criminal liability that goes beyond the exercise of the authority itself. The aim is, of course, to promote a corruption-free society and a society in which the authorities comply with the requirements of the Constitution for objectivity and neutrality. Political activism should not be carried out at the authorities, but we should do so in the political assemblies. Even gross negligence on the part of high-level decision-makers must be able to have more consequences than at present. It must not lead to a reward with a parachute. The report refers to the responsibility of officials in our Nordic neighbours. It says, among other things, how Finland has done. After all, they still have greater criminal liability in addition to the exercise of the authority itself. It's kind of interesting to read. When determining the consequence of an act, an assessment is made of the purpose of the act: Was it about acquiring personal benefits? Was this about gross negligence? It is important to look at this. We do not want to go back to the official responsibilities that existed before 1975. That was very far-reaching. It was for everyone in the public sphere, and it was for the slightest trifle. That is not what this is about now. At the lower official level, in addition to the official's responsibility in the exercise of authority against the individual, there are a lot of laws that regulate this: LOA, LAS, IVO and such things. That is not what this is about. What is at stake here is to be able to hold senior executives of various types, senior executives, municipal directors, directors-general and senior decision-makers to account, for example, for the corruption of friendships, political activism or gross negligence. It is important that this dimension is taken into account. This is supposed to meet those who really make decisive decisions and can cause great harm to taxpayers. It is not hunting individual officials, because those laws are largely already in place. I think it is a good idea to try to understand the basic purpose of this. The Swedish economy consists almost half of the public sector, and there must be some mechanism that has consequences for gross negligence, for different types of services and compensations and things that we do not currently achieve with existing bribery legislation or with any other legislation. I am pleased that the committee is in favour of a proposal for an announcement that the government will come back with proposals, but unfortunately the proposal will not go through the House today. Finally, I support the committee's proposal for a decision on the matter.
i-HPchYwtHVNzr5hZH1Vokib	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 13 in paragraph 6. Today, in this House, we are debating the report on Public Administration. It is an area that could fill the programme for a full day seminar – at least. It is an urgent area to examine, to ensure that principles of legal certainty and equality before the law are upheld – the area permeates the exercise of public power – as well as to ensure that authorities work effectively with the citizens' best interests in mind. For the small business owner who is driven to develop his business idea, the meeting with the authorities can sometimes, unfortunately, cause the air to go out, albeit not entirely so at least temporarily. The commitment that the entrepreneur has and the time that he is prepared to spend implementing his ideas should be understood, as far as possible, to be used to develop the company – not to interfere with authorities. Of course, our business community needs to be regulated, but it is important to avoid unnecessary regulatory problems. We in the Center Party believe that there are things to improve that would make it easier for entrepreneurs to be entrepreneurs. In a study that we were driving at the beginning of this term of office, there are several positive proposals that, if implemented, can reduce the regulatory burden on smaller companies. The study recognises the need for a more transparent and coherent regulatory process, and we share that view. We welcome the fact that, in a letter last autumn, the Government has presented new objectives for simplification policy, including that the regulations should be designed so that they contribute to promoting the growth and innovation capacity of Swedish companies, and we will closely monitor that work. But we are asking for even clearer measurement methods to assess that our authorities deliver to our entrepreneurs. Here you can find inspiration from both the Swedish Municipalities and Regions and the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise to find indices and key figures to measure from outside, so that it is possible in practice to evaluate the work with regulatory simplifications. Mr President, I would like to Today, nearly 11⁄2 million Swedes work in public administration. It is from police officers in external service, social secretaries in our municipalities, lecturers teaching at universities to officials in the Government Office. Those who serve our citizens in public employment are many, and it is we in this House, as in municipal and regional assemblies, who are the conditions for their jobs. And it is we who should be called upon to assume responsibility if the conditions that are given are not the right ones. Another aspect of the coin, which has been discussed a great deal in recent years, is the responsibility of the person who, in the context of his public employment, commits inaccuracies. In other words, how are we to ensure that all those operating in the public sector really comply with the laws and regulations that apply? There have long been several types of sanctions against the wrongdoer. For example, a person who fails to apply for employment can be warned by the employer, receive a reduction in salary, shut down or even lose his job. The official who, in the exercise of his authority, does something, or does not do anything, that goes against what is determined for the task can be prosecuted. This applies even if it was not the person's intention to act in breach of existing regulations but only due to negligence. In such cases, the person may be prosecuted and sentenced for misconduct. Mr President, I would like to We in the Center Party, together with several other parties in this House, have seen a need to review the criminal liability of officials to see whether the current system is effective in demanding responsibility when it is committed in error. Following a joint initiative by several of us here, the issue has been investigated and the results were presented the other week. Having taken careful note of this investigation, we in the Center Party believe that the risks of negative consequences of extended criminal liability are high and outweigh the potential benefits that such an approach would bring. The investigation has also concluded that the current liability rules work well in practice and no difficulties in applying them have been identified. Unfortunately, we are living at a time where threats and harassment of government officials are becoming more common in trying to influence them in their decision-making. This applies not only to police officers in external service who meet gangs on the street, but also to many other officials. In particular, several studies have revealed that these people are all too often, in an unacceptable way, exposed to hatred, threats and attempts at influence. In recent times, this group has been caught in the eye when protestors have gathered in several parts of the country, claiming that social services have taken their children without due cause. These accusations stem, among other things, from cases where social services decided to take children from criminal settings. The prevailing social climate makes it hard enough for public servants to make offensive, but often necessary, decisions. If the fear of doing wrong is greater than the desire to do right, it risks paralyzing decision-making. The extension of the criminal liability of a very large group, often hard-working, civil servants, is not the way forward.
i-8vrktXZ96jS5Xze6odrYg4	Mr President, I would like to I forgot to endorse our reservation 11 in paragraph 4 concerning language interpreters.
i-ERo9wQYDLv1aJiCizYvEaM	Mr President, I would like to Mikael Strandman spoke in his previous speech on the issue of extended responsibilities. I have a question for Mikael Strandman about what the extended official responsibility should look like. It is stated that the Swedish Democrats, together with several other parties, want this to be investigated with a focus on its introduction. How have the Swedish Democrats seen this going about and looking like, while maintaining the aspects that naturally exist on criminal liability? The question is that there should also be a legal certainty aspect for the official who is at risk of being prosecuted for misconduct under such an extended provision.
i-3N3TP1uGiXssx2fbZv5GUF	Mr President, I would like to First, you have to ask yourself what the purpose is. If you do not understand the purpose, it is also difficult to come up with a solution. When it comes to criminal liability for misconduct, it is not always seen in the same way as in a criminal case. It is more a question of an overall assessment and a different type of penalty scale. We are not talking about prison or fines, but there is, for example, suspension. If a manager is careless and the taxpayer in the municipality loses tens of millions, there is a reasonable chance that he will have to take the consequences and not get a parachute instead. I agree that this legislation is very difficult, technically speaking, and will take time and require a lot. But I believe that the benefits of it are great, and they are necessary in view of the development we have. Sweden is becoming more and more globalized. We often beat our chests and say that we have no corruption in Sweden. But we all know that there is corruption; it is just another type. It's friendship corruption with favors and favors. We need to come up with some kind of solution where there are actually consequences. Tell them that as a decision-maker in a municipality or region, I sell out property that the municipality or region has. There is no legislation on it in the same way as there is on the Public Procurement Act. If I sell out a health centre far below market price to a friend, if I place a value only on the inventory and not on the brand, should I not be punished for that?
i-4grUcHH7u2EdRcxLgRh3iC	Mr President, I would like to Mikael Strandman mentions corruption. It is, of course, extremely urgent to counteract it. I myself have worked in government for 14 years and have seen examples of friendship corruption, which is not pleasant to see. The question is what can be done with criminal liability. There I think Mikael Strandman is a little winding, and I don't really understand. If we talk about criminal law, we are talking about precisely the rules that apply in criminal law, which I have been applying for quite a few years. Then we must have clear props for what such a responsibility would mean and a clear set of rules on which the person charged with misconduct may lean in order to assess whether this person has acted outside that framework. I don't know if Mikael Strandman has any personal experience working under official responsibility. I myself have seen pale - eyed prosecutors sweat a few times that a manager has reported them for misconduct to protect his own back. That boss eventually got out of his job, but it's not a funny situation to end up in. I also have a question about this with minor misconduct, which represents a large proportion of the misconduct reported today. Does Mikael Strandman think it is important, as Ida Drougge was earlier on, to prosecute even small cases of crime? In the field of public administration, many times people work under pressure of time, and there should be room to see that in this context they sometimes find it very difficult to apply a regulatory framework to the letter without it going out on anyone else. Then there's the possibility of not prosecuting when it's a small case. I wonder how Mikael Strandman views that question.
i-TyBauJXDvxKk2RJCsuLuik	Mr President, I would like to I believe that the honourable Member confuses criminal liability for the exercise of authority with that which goes beyond the exercise of authority. As far as the exercise of authority itself is concerned, it is much easier, because there we have clear rules. However, with regard to what goes beyond that, in the public sector which is not the exercise of authority, I agree – it will be much more difficult to get to that legislation. But it is absolutely necessary. As far as minor misconduct is concerned, I say it again: the aim is not to frame lower-ranking officials who, under stress, do something sloppy wrong, but to do what they do in Finland and look at the purpose of the act. Was it to gain financial means, gain personal benefits, pursue political activism? Such aims must be seen as much more serious than if they were purely careless. Today we have legislation to remedy this. Again, I believe that one must understand the importance of having some form of accountability in a society like the Swedish one, where half of the bnp is in the public sector, for gross negligence by high decision-makers, for friendship corruption and for political activism. We've managed to send humans to the moon. I think we could create this kind of legislation, because it is absolutely necessary. We do not want our public sector to be plundered by corruption of various kinds, by welfare fraudsters or by careless high-level decision-makers who are causing losses to society. All of this must be regulated. It does not exist today, but, as I mentioned earlier, there is automatically in the private sector.
i-Xz9YKVrdD1ZL5AbxfdEzVX	Mr President, I would like to Today we have to deal with a report on the application of the Special Alien Control Act. Initially, I am in favour of the proposal but also of our reservation under paragraph 3, which concerns a proposal for an announcement following a motion by the Moderates and the KD, among others. There are two previous announcements to review and set up an investigation into further measures to address the threats in this area, not least terrorism. Legislation is very much under way. A bill will land on Parliament's table already in March to tighten the penalties and increase the possibilities for secret coercive measures. The whole section of criminal law is being reviewed in relation to these matters, and it is therefore on its way to Parliament's table. Therefore, a new announcement is, to say the least, to push the case over. A little history: We took over government power in 2014. When they marched into Rosenbad and at the Ministry of Justice they found that it was pure soaped on the desks when it came to preliminary legislation on terrorist acts. This in a situation where we had an ongoing war in Syria and related terrorist trips that had been going on for years. There was no preparation at all, no pre-work done, but the government basically had to start from scratch. Since then, we have had the highest pace, both here in Parliament and in the government, to ensure that good legislation is in place. Following the devastating terrorist attacks that have plagued Europe and our own country, we have also had good cross-block talks that have led, for example, to the 29-point programme. If the efforts made by society in terms of both resource allocation and legislative changes are taken together, it can be seen that they are historically profound in terms of the power given to society to combat terrorism. We'll be proud of that, all together. I could do a few things to list this. There are seven pages of legislation and concrete examples of what has been implemented, especially since 2015 when the products were first delivered. We are therefore taking this issue very seriously. I would also like to say that this is a struggle that society will win. It's a fight that can be won. It's not an impossibility. Historically, we have seen tremendous increases in terrorist attacks in many Western European countries. Many of them are today history and no longer a real threat. We have had terrorist attacks from the Basque separatist movement and from the IRA. We've had far-right terrorist attacks. We have had a huge amount of Russian terrorism since the beginning of the 20th century. Terrorism has been part of European history. But if you look at the statistics now, you can see that, ironically, we may have been least affected in the last hundred years. It has been a positive development, and it is because our countries have met this threat together with the greatest force. Then it is clear that one can also cope with such a scourge as terrorism. However, the events that will happen in our country and in other countries should be equipped for, and we should not be naive to the challenges that exist. Not least religious extremism is a scourge that we have learned to live with, unfortunately.
i-nVN5abK2qo76ZkN7ybPuK	Mr President, I would like to Over the last few decades, Europe has suffered a long series of very serious terrorist acts. These have mainly been Islamic-motivated terrorism, but there have also been attacks by people associated with, for example, the white power environment. Sweden has for a number of years been experiencing an increased level of terrorist threats. According to the National Centre for Threat Assessment, there are individuals, both in Sweden and abroad, who regard terrorist attacks against targets in Sweden as legitimate and who have both the intention and the ability to carry out such attacks. Historically, most attacks carried out in Europe have been carried out by people who have not trained or fought with violent groups abroad. Based on this, the National Center for Terrorist Threat Assessment has assessed that if an Islamic-motivated terrorist attack is carried out, it is likely to be carried out by a solitary perpetrator or a small group with accessible means. Against this background, it is of great importance that Sweden can forcefully intervene against foreign citizens who are deemed to be qualified security threats. There, the law on special foreign control plays an important role in enabling special measures to be taken against foreigners who are deemed to pose threats. However, there are major shortcomings in legislation. In connection with the so-called "Terrorist Agreement" in 2017, the Government undertook to review the Special Alien Control Act. Before that, the Security Service had stated in a special submission to the Government that the legislation was unclear, difficult to interpret and difficult to read. Nevertheless, it took the government more than a year after the terrorist agreement to set up an investigation, and only in March 2020 did the investigation leave its report. The investigation proposed a completely new legislation with its entry into force on 31 July 2021. The Government has announced that a bill will be submitted to the Riksdag in the spring, with entry into force on 1 July 2022. It will therefore have taken five years from the government's commitment to review the law on special foreign control until new legislation can come into force. The starting point for the Moderates is that foreign citizens who pose threats to Sweden's security should leave the country. If this is not possible for various reasons, these persons need to be kept in custody or supervised in a safe manner. In a number of high-profile cases, foreign citizens who pose security threats have been set free due to the existence of enforcement barriers. People who have been assessed by both the Government, the Swedish Security Service and the Swedish Migration Agency as being a threat to Sweden's security can thus, in principle, move freely in Swedish society. However, the investigation did not have the task of reviewing the legislation applicable to these situations, when expulsion cannot take place because of enforcement obstacles. The Swedish Parliament therefore announced to the government, only in May 2020, that the government would urgently set up a new investigation to review what additional measures need to be taken to enable society to protect itself against people considered to be security threats. Since the Government had not appointed an investigation, the Riksdag decided on a new announcement in March 2021, requiring an investigation to be set up within three months. There's still no investigation. The need for a new investigation remains. The Riksdag is therefore expected to decide later today on a further announcement to the Government that such an investigation will be in place by 31 March this year. The government also needs to take further measures to ensure that more expulsions can be carried out. For example, obstacles to the execution of expulsions should be removed by means of so-called diplomatic guarantees. Diplomatic guarantees can be concluded with other states on a case-by-case basis, but it should also be possible to go further and try to introduce the type of system that exists in the UK, whereby more general agreements with diplomatic guarantees are concluded with countries to which persons can be expelled. I would therefore like to ask for the approval of reservation 1 on diplomatic guarantees. Finally, I would also like to stress that we Moderates have also proposed that Sweden should impose requirements on countries of origin that receive Swedish aid to cooperate in the readmission of their citizens. The consequence of refusing to receive their citizens who have been denied the right to reside in Sweden should be that all or part of the aid is withdrawn.
i-NZyyHvubUXtJ6z29h2vKQe	Mr President, I would like to We are debating the report on the application of the Special Alien Control Act. This is a recurring report that comes to Parliament every year and deals with what has happened. It has historically been just as the previous speaker and the Security Service have pointed out: there have been major shortcomings in the application of foreigner control when it comes to the execution of expulsions. This is therefore a question of persons who are considered by the Security Service, and ultimately the Government, to be a risk to national security and thus to be expelled. We have been told that the government has kept pace with this issue, through the 2017 terrorist agreement between the alliance parties and the government. It is no secret that the Swedish Democrats, long before then, have also pointed out the shortcomings of the law and also the shortcomings of the directives for the investigation that is on the table in March. That is why, Mr President, it is a little ridiculous to hear that the Social Democrats sound very satisfied and satisfied. They have made historical efforts and have every reason to be proud – it was completely empty at the Ministry of Justice when they came in 2014. The natural question then becomes: Where was the voice of the Social Democrats to do anything at all during the 2010–2014 term of office? I cannot find a single motion written either by the Social Democrats or by other red-green parties on amendments to the Special Alien Control Act. It has been completely satisfied until the terrorist attack took place on Drottninggatan 2017 and there was political pressure on the issue. It was only when the Social Democrats began to act on the matter, and also in the deliberations that excluded the party that historically had the most views and criticism of this law, namely the Swedish Democrats. Unfortunately, the result was, not surprising, weak. Despite the directives which will now give some tightening up in certain respects, some additional possibilities for controls, penalties for infringements, and so on, people who cannot be expelled will still be able to reside freely in our country. As late as Monday, I was able to read in the Gothenburg-Post about a case involving a person in custody charged with, among other things, aggravated robbery and blackmail, which would have been expelled under the Special Alien Control Act; however, there are enforcement obstacles. The person in question had certain restrictions, as the law today allows, but it was also reported in the Gothenburg-Post that this person had violated the restrictions imposed. To understand what we're talking about in here, I usually take an example. It is quite possible to hijack a truck and go on Drottninggatan with restrictions and reporting obligation to the police twice a week. It is quite possible to ride a truck on Drottninggatan with an electronic anklet. This is where we must begin to understand the seriousness: how do we protect our country from people who are at risk of terrorist attacks? The Swedish Democrats, and now a majority in Parliament, are once again demanding that we broaden this investigation and ensure that we talk about safety for real and not just about what restrictions can be imposed on people. For example, the Swedish Democrats want to investigate the possibility of detention based on the aspect of Sweden's security. If a person is radicalised or close to him or her in other ways finds that he or she may commit a serious crime, he or she shall be taken into custody. Today, detention is only possible for the purpose of facilitating expulsion, but if expulsion cannot be carried out, the persons are released. That is what today's legislation offers. In this sense, the Social Democrats or the government do not want to make any major changes when it comes to being able to arrest people who pose a threat to national security. There we still differ. We are told by the Social Democrats here that an announcement of a new investigation is completely unnecessary because we already have two announcements in the past. These two previous announcements from 2020 and 2021 apply precisely to the Additional Directive on a broader perspective with new measures not covered by the study that is being put on the table in March. That is why we want to address a new announcement to the government today to do what was not done in 2020 and 2021, namely to set up a new investigation investigating further possibilities to protect Sweden from people who pose a threat to national security. There is a reservation here, and the Social Democrats are therefore voting against investigating further measures. This means, Mr President, that the government expects to be very satisfied with the measures that will be presented from the current investigation. It is believed that it is an adequate protection for Sweden from people who pose a threat to national security. I get a little serious when we hear from the Social Democrats that they are incredibly happy with what has been done. I think it's substandard, to be honest. There are announcements from 2020 and 2021, and now they are voting again 'no'. For the Swedish Democrats, there is no doubt that foreigners who are in Sweden and pose a threat to national security will be detained until they are expelled. That's our line. If you're in custody, you can't commit serious crime. Then you can't, as in Gothenburg, commit aggravated robbery – where that money ends up somewhere we don't know. Serious blackmails, terrorist attacks or other serious crimes against our country cannot be committed. If you're in custody, that means absolute security. It is not a universal human right for foreigners to be free in Sweden. On the contrary, Sweden has an obligation to secure Sweden from foreigners who pose a threat of terror. That is our entry into the talks that we want with parties to ensure security. We are perhaps not quite there yet, but we are still confident that we have two announcements, among other things, about diplomatic guarantees, which the Swedish Democrats raised in connection with the other parties having discussions between the government and the then alliance parties. Rather, we have a broader support in the Swedish Parliament for an announcement of a new investigation that could actually include an extension of work with diplomatic guarantees. To conclude, Mr President, I would therefore like to ask for reservation 1 on diplomatic guarantees.
i-Vj7KUdb48xr5bqzbL2vCPe	Mr President, I would like to Sweden is currently subject to a very serious impact campaign organised by international famous Salafists. This is an extremely serious threat to Sweden and to staff in social services and the school, as the cape is aimed at our social services law and LVU legislation. The Agency for Psychological Defense describes that these rumours and lies and disinformation exploit feelings of alienation, ignorance of Swedish society and mistrust of the authorities that exist in the Muslim target group. They are looking to divide Swedish society. This is countering integration, but it is also a threat, Mr President. Why am I referring to this in a speech on the application of the Special Alien Control Act? I am doing this precisely because it involves a person who has been decided to be expelled from the country because that person poses a threat to national security. It is about Abo Raad, Gävleimamen, who in the mosque in Gävle on Friday prayer has asked those who have listened to him there to participate in the demonstrations at the Coins Square outside the Riksdag a few weeks ago. So he continues a very serious activity, so serious that both the Security Service and the Government think he constitutes a threat to national security. But he continues that activity as if nothing had happened. We can't have that in Sweden. We must ensure that the application of this legislation is actually made real. That is why it is so important to correct the wrong that the government did from the beginning when it missed the part on measures to prevent enforcement in the investigation that Mikael Damsgaard mentioned. As he said, it will take five years from the time it was said that something would be done until legislation is in place, and yet it has not closed the gap that the opposition has repeatedly raised a majority on the need for the government to remedy. Today, we stand here hoping for the third time charm and that the government is finally closing this hole. You should not be able to continue your business as if nothing has happened. The starting point of the Christian Democrats is, of course, that foreign citizens who pose a threat to national security should be expelled from the country. If this cannot be done because of obstacles to enforcement, all possibilities offered by diplomatic guarantees must be exhausted. I would therefore like to ask for the approval of reservation 1, Mr President. We think the government needs to do more. If, however, it is not possible in this case to expel because of enforcement obstacles, further measures must be put forward so that he cannot continue to participate in incitement, disinformation and campaigns aimed at Sweden and Sweden's security, ultimately social services and our social services law. So it is amazing that the government has not even set up this investigation despite two announcements. Let's hope for the third time. We also need a new government in Sweden, Mr President – a government that takes these issues and this threat seriously, which can combat Islamism and extremism and secure Sweden's internal security.
i-QLMH9qNZPJxNVSK8s5Fhu6	Mr President, I would like to The law on special foreign control is a subject that we have put a great deal of political energy on over the years, and there are good reasons for that. The issue strikes right into the extremely delicate balance that we must take between the security of the nation and of our citizens and the rule of law, human rights and the rule of law. This is therefore a substance that must be treated with the highest quality that we can ever propose. Anyone who claims, suggests or implies that this is easy has either seriously underestimated the complexity of the issue or understands but does not care either for one or the other value that is central to democracy. Whatever the case, it is quite clear that we are not ready to deal with matters of this weight. A few years ago, the investigation that followed the agreement between the government and the alliance parties on how terrorism should best be combated in Sweden was presented and addresses the gaps in the law that, among other things, Säkerhetspolisen highlighted. The investigation was good. It covers a large number of robust measures which can make a real difference to our country's security but which, at the same time, is based on the obvious fact that we are building our security on the principles of the rule of law. That work, Mr President, has taken us a bit on our way, but we need to do more. Parliament has made it known to the government, and we should be able to expect more from delivery. The debate has mainly focused on how we deal with people who are considered potentially dangerous because in their political or religious extremism they support violence. But in these times when war actions in our near world are shaking existence, we must not forget another central aspect of the regulatory framework that we are now discussing, namely the possibility of expelling people who engage in antagonistic activities against Sweden and who do so on behalf of foreign power. Mr President, I would like to To be honest, it is remarkable that this aspect has not so far been touched on in a single word by previous speakers. But, dear friends and colleagues, feel reminded! That is an important aspect. Mr President, I would like to A few concepts tend to come up when we debate the subject: the European Convention on Human Rights and diplomatic guarantees. As far as the European Convention is concerned, we now seem to agree that it should be respected, even though it has been a bit back and forth from different parties. The fact that we must not expel those who are at risk of torture or the death penalty is an important principle and part of the European Convention on Human Rights. But sometimes it almost sounds like this is something regrettable, something necessary evil that we would like to renegotiate or get out of. However, the important thing in this, Mr President, is not that we are bound by the international convention. The important thing is that we do not want to expel anyone to torture or the death penalty. I hope that is also a position on which we agree. Diplomatic guarantees can be used in some cases – it makes sense and makes sense. However, we should bear in mind that many of the states that are present in these contexts have regimes that oppress their population and that commit serious abuse of their population. That is why there is an obstacle to enforcement. Hooking arms with such regimes is exceptionally weak. That is something that cannot be fully trusted. Mr President, I would like to The Center Party has been working on some solutions regarding how we can deal with the problem of people who pose a risk to national security. No rule of law can lock people up indefinitely without a legal basis. Legal bases must be found in order to do so. One idea that the Center Party has launched and which should be part of the forthcoming investigation that we are hopefully launching today is to link the ground for detention to violations of reporting obligations or other restrictions. Then anyone who violates the restrictions that exist, such as notification obligations, can be put in custody. It is a legal basis, Mr President, and something to lean on. Incidentally, I would like to express my support for the people of Ukraine.
i-Y7T6qH5ooBSgVrFfLYG6YV	Mr President, I would like to This is an extremely urgent and complex matter. It is, however, a statement. There is also another statement on the table of the House today. It is about the necessary secret, but in substance rather unpleasant, coercive measures that the state has the right to use in case of suspicion of crime or in order to prevent crime – very serious crimes. Now it's about the law on special foreign control. In fact, we are dealing with it for the last time because we have new legislation on the way which, according to everything, is a step in the right direction. But as far as the Liberals are concerned, it is clear that we are behind another announcement to reverse every stone – it is a popular expression in political rhetoric these days that we should turn every stone around. That's what we're doing to make sure we get away from element 22. This is so weird. We're deporting a lot of people. The state must have a real right to defend itself. In fact, we have a democratic duty to defend ourselves. Then we must be able to send out people who are undesirable from our country without an ordinary court trial, which we demand in all other cases, because it is not a question of Swedish citizens. We sometimes have to debate it, whether or not it should be allowed to occur. The government is ultimately responsible for this. It is necessary," says the Liberals. But the strange thing is what it's like when people come to our country-- that we want to be characterized by our constitution, peace, freedom, freedom of speech and tolerance-- that argues for all sorts of insane and planning terrorist acts. It may sound like speculation, but it's happened. We heard some examples in previous speeches. Then we can't send these gnomes back... or what to describe them as. It is people with severe delusions and people crying out for the Middle Ages again. No, they must not be sent back to the country where they should be, because there they can risk inhumane treatment and torture. I agree with the previous speaker, Johan Hedin, that we should stand behind civilisation and that we should not send them away, but forward I hope that we can look at new measures to ensure that they get even harder to work in Sweden while waiting for expulsion to take place. As far as diplomatic guarantees are concerned, we have a history in this House. We all remember the decision of the then Foreign Minister, Anna Lindhs, that we should send two Egyptians away. It didn't go very well. We took quite a beating in international assessments and in international conventions on human rights that we had signed. We can send off if these are acceptable countries, but if it isn't, it's very difficult. Mr President, I would like to With additional measures in relation to preventive interception and combating serious crime, there is an increased chance that these people can be locked up in real life. If they do not understand that they should be kept on the carpet with the restrictions that exist, they will be more easily judged. I promise that Säpo has these figures on his radar and under his supervision, but it is a difficult dilemma. The government has to do more. That is why the Liberals are supporting another announcement. We must be able to stop the Middle Ages and delusions in Sweden that threaten life and limb in this country.
i-B4fTPDLUcVZ1XApdBsWGVk	Mr President, I would like to Today's child doesn't understand the pling from the corn cob in Kalle Anka on Christmas Eve. To understand that pling, you have to understand that before the computers we wrote on typewriters that planged every time we were going to change lines. This is a reminder of how times have changed, that there was a time when there were neither mobile phones nor encrypted apps. With technological inventions, with different lifestyles and with new cross-border communications, crime has also changed its nature. Crime today is considerably different in many parts from the time the laws were written. Anyone who wants to crack today's crime cannot blindly rely on legislation that was written on winding typewriters. Criminal law must be modernised. It's as simple as that. Mr President, I would like to Among the finest things I have heard since I confirmed myself was: We participate in the construction of Sweden that will never be finished. If I have the words right, they come from our President Andreas Norlén. I am proud to participate in the construction of Sweden. I am proud to be involved in the work of the Committee on Justice from location 87 as well. We have a solid to-do list. It is not a small wallpapering that is now going on, but something that can be likened to an extensive renovation bordering on new construction when it comes to justice issues. One example of this is that, since we had a Socialist Minister of Justice again, there have been some seventy penalties. Of course, there are many holes and cracks in the Swedish legal system. And sometimes when we tear down the walls, we encounter really moldy parts. For example, a person sentenced to prison can stay away from prison and then avoid punishment. We're talking about cases where men have threatened and abused women in a close relationship. So they avoid punishment if they stay out of it. And there is no one outside the prison walls in Sweden who thinks it is a reasonable order. But now we are well on the way to plug this loophole, and we are many parties here in Parliament who are behind it. Thankfully, we do not disagree as it sometimes sounds in the criminal debate. There is much that we agree on. We have laws that should never have been implemented regardless of time. Nor should they have survived any Minister of Justice. But the criminal justice system is man's work and can be changed by elected representatives. And that's what we're doing now. I also know that there are a lot of parties in here that put an honour in not building a democratic cheat. It is therefore important that we find the right balance between a sharp judicial system and an effective defence of fundamental human rights and freedoms. Citizens must be protected against all kinds of abuse and intrusion, both from individuals and from the state and whether it is a crime or disproportionate action by the public. What we are discussing today is how we can prosecute criminals using secret coercive measures. It is as necessary as it is difficult to discuss. Eavesdropping and searching are major interventions in people's lives. It affects those who are subject to the measure but also others who are in the vicinity of that person. That is why today we have high demands on the state to use these funds in the fight against crime. However, I believe that we must be able to use this type of measure in more cases than today against those who are active in organised crime. Often police investigators face a wall of silence in investigations involving organised crime. Witnesses have not seen or heard anything. And the suspects don't have a version of their own, but they're silent through interrogations after questioning. The Government decided on 14 October 2020 to instruct a special investigator to review how to use more secret coercive measures to combat serious crime. The investigation should mainly look at the use of secret coercive measures in the framework of a preliminary investigation, i.e. where a concrete suspicion of a specific crime exists. The assignment must be presented no later than 14 April this year. In addition, the Government decided on 2 November last year to instruct a special investigator to consider more questions related to the possibilities of using secret coercive measures for preventive purposes outside a preliminary investigation. According to the Directive, the mandate was to be presented by 2 February 2023. However, the Government decided on 22 December 2021 to shorten the investigation period. Instead, the assignment will be presented on 14 October this year. Let us now wait and see what these investigations come up with. Let us then build on a better and sharper judicial system that takes back land from organised crime. Let's not incite a cheat. Let the foundations of our democratic rule of law be strong. Against this background, we Social Democrats are not prepared to support such an announcement of an additional directive to the investigation that is now being proposed. I therefore support the reservation contained in the report.
i-Mw9sCkYMNQwQU1kJykRazj	Mr President, I would like to I am convinced that the greatest well-meaning lies behind the suggestion that the police should be given the opportunity to listen to people without any suspicion of crime. No one can fail to feel anger at the ruthlessness shown by gun violence. And equally great is the frustration that law enforcement authorities do not succeed better in preventing or even investigating more such crimes. One natural reaction is to seek more measures, and certainly several of them must be in place. At the same time, however, we must keep our heads cool and put our energies into things that we really believe will have a real and lasting effect on law enforcement capabilities without causing excessive disadvantages. For a couple of reasons, I and the Center Party are sceptical about the proposal on interception without suspicion of crime. I shall say, Mr President, that I do not rule out that this is a method which could, under certain conditions, be effective. At the same time, however, there are a lot of risks with the proposal that need to be taken seriously. First of all, we must understand that it is extremely difficult in a legislative text to limit its application to criminal gangs. I think I understand what kind of gangs are meant. It's about a certain type of individuals in some parts of the country. But that is not how a legal text can be formulated. The risk is very great that the definition will either be too narrow, so that almost no criminals meet, or that it will be so broad that virtually anyone can be subject to interception. Accelerating the preparation of such a sensitive legislative product is shaky. If you turn it around, you can of course ask yourself whether it is so serious if the definition is so broad that anyone can be bugged. Privacy is important, and it understands everyone. I'll get back to it. But there are also reasons for efficiency. One should know that it is resource-intensive to use secret coercive measures, and without a good criterion of discernment, our law enforcement authorities will spend a lot of time and money on efforts that risk leading nowhere. Is it that serious to be bugged? It is usually said that if you only have pure flour in the bag you have nothing to fear. But it's not that simple. Friends, close friends for many years, can joke with each other on the phone in a way that is both gross and inappropriate. Things can be said that the two who understand the conversation are not serious. But for a person who secretly listens, the conversation can be interpreted as an indication of serious crimes. Such things can be said that require the initiation of a preliminary investigation. Hopefully, no one will ever be innocently convicted. But just being served suspicion of crime would at least be a very unpleasant event for me. What if it goes so far that the suspect is arrested and detained? What would it do to someone innocently affected by it — someone away from work, away from family and children? No, Dad can't pick up from football because he's in custody. What does that mean for the children, speaking of them? It may sound like an absurd description taken from a Kafkaroman. But this happens, and it happens in Sweden, already with the regulations that apply. Opening up to an even more widespread use of secret coercive measures without suspicion of crime will lead to more cases where innocent people have their lives completely inverted. Mr President, I would like to If you turn over the steak again: Is it really so dangerous if some innocent people get caught in the net? If you're innocent, you'll still be released after a while. Yes, perhaps it would be worth the risk if there were good support for the effectiveness of the method and if there were no alternative ways of achieving the same increase in law enforcement capabilities that would not involve the same risks. The answer to the first question is no. There is no support in the research for the method to be effective. And the answer to the second question is yes. There are alternative ways that are both more accurate and reliable. It should also be added that some of the parties that push for interception without suspicion of crime also want mandatory arrest for multiple crimes, regardless of whether there is recurrence risk or collusion danger. Some of them also think that there should be no limit to how long someone should be detained. It creates, Mr President, a cocktail effect which, in our view, seriously challenges civil liberties. The police and the prosecutors are doing an amazing job, and we should trust them to use the tools they have at their disposal in a responsible and correct way. But they are just like all other people, and people make mistakes. We must construct laws based on that understanding and set clear limits as far as possible. Instead, in order to tackle gang-related gun violence, the Center Party wants to clamp down on crime with other measures. A few of them may be mentioned, such as what we call restrictions. It is a sanction that can be imposed in addition to a prison sentence and which means that someone convicted of a crime can be subject to restrictions that make it very difficult to commit new crimes after serving a sentence undetected. A similar approach has been implemented on trials in the UK, with good results. Another method is to review the penalties for preparatory crimes so that more coercive measures can be used even before the most serious crimes are committed. Mr President, I would like to Another misunderstanding that is being cultivated more or less deliberately, perhaps right now, is that the Center Party does not want to introduce measures that violate privacy. But let me be absolutely clear: we are prepared to go far to break the gangs. Action will be required to blur both personal integrity and important principles. But we do not intend to contribute to what we do not think is better than the alternatives that exist. Incidentally, I would like to express my support for the people of Ukraine.
i-X5GFyoppGCRNHEvrKoLjv9	Mr President, I would like to Let me begin by agreeing with the last thing our friend Johan Hedin said. I really want to give all the support to the people of Ukraine too. Now, however, we are going to discuss something else, namely the issue of secret coercive measures and pro-active interception. The situation in Sweden is extremely worrying when it comes to gang crime, violence, shootings and the insecurity that is spreading. This is nothing new, but we said exactly the same thing years ago. We said then that the situation was about to escalate completely in the wrong direction, and yet we still stand here – at the beginning of 2022 – and see not only the same problems as before but also that they are even bigger. This is what Sweden looks like. Only in the last 24 hours have there been a number of very unpleasant things that would have led to extra broadcasts on television if they had happened a few years ago. But they do not lead to it today, because today it is normalized. People have gotten used to this. You wake up in the morning and you don't ask yourself if something happened tonight but what happened. In what places has the night been shot to today? This is what Sweden looks like in the spring of 2022. Mr President, I would like to From the horizon of the government parties, the sun shines. Sweden is on the right track, and most of what is needed is in place or will come into place. That is also something we have heard for a long time – already years ago, the government claimed that it was about to crack organised crime. If we back up the band just a year ago, responsible ministers held not one without several press meetings and told them that there would finally be a change: Now the shootings would be reduced, now the police would connect an iron grip on the criminal gangs and now things would really start to happen. So far this year there have been more than 50 shootings in Sweden, and we are not even through February yet. It's actually embarrassing how this government has been doing. Time and again it has made promises and given the Swedish people hope that things will now happen. It has voted against concrete legislative initiatives in this House. But the truth is that none of what the government has done in the next eight years has bitten on gang crime, Mr President. It's not about doing the most things, and it's not about having the most press hits. Instead, it's about doing the right things – what can really push back crime and make it really, really hard to be gang-criminal. None of that has happened. None of what the government has put forward has proved to bite the criminal gangs. Had it done so, the question is why it looks as it does today. Why do we not see improvements? We don't even see a turn. This is a question of preventive coercive measures. It is interesting that the government was extremely early to welcome this when it came to help from other countries. I don't know how many happy press meetings there were about Sweden getting help from other countries linked to this. At the time, I never heard any major objections from the government about the rule of law, and I did not hear much comment as to where the information came from or how it was made. When it was other countries that had to take that blow, it went well, but when we say that Sweden also needs to have greatly improved opportunities to listen to the heavy gang criminals, it suddenly becomes difficult for the government to take a step forward. This is not just any question either. When asked the police and the police's management, they mention that this is the single most important thing if we are serious about pushing back the heavy gang crime. It is not just any question, but it is the single most effective. When we highlighted this in the Committee on Justice a year ago, several parties opposed the issue and voted against it. They didn't want to give the police this opportunity. I regret that, because it means that we lost valuable time – additional time – in the fight against the criminal gangs. If more parties had chosen to listen then this legislation could soon be rolled out. The responsibility for not doing so must be borne by those parties. Lately, they have now agreed to set up an investigation. As by chance, it would be ready long after the election campaign. We criticised this and said that the possibility is now needed of the crime that – remember, Mr President – is a threat to the system, in order to use the police's own words. When we made that criticism, the government chose to shorten the period of referral, and that was a good thing. It is now after the elections, but we believe that it is possible to do this even more quickly, while maintaining respect for both the rule of law and accuracy. It's possible if you want to, and it's possible if you're mobilizing the action that needs to be taken if you're going to be able to crack these gangs successfully. We therefore believe that the investigation periods can be shortened further, and we also point out that the investigation should not be unconditional. We have seen several such examples before, i.e. where the government tells an investigator that the investigator will decide whether or not to introduce a system. It often gets weak and toothless. We saw exactly the same thing on the question of anonymous witnesses, Mr President. There were a lot of words and hopes, but there was nothing of it all. If you are to be successful against the criminal gangs, you must be able to show much more political action than that. This investigation should not be unconditional in that part. There is also a big difference between being able to detect crime and preventing crime. If this system, this wiretapping system, is to have the effect that the police have pointed out and asked for, it is important that the possibility of using it be extended to allow the detection of serious crime, not just to prevent it. Mr President, I would like to As I said, the situation in Sweden is extremely worrying. It cannot be stressed enough. Of course, there is no party that is in favour of crime, and there is no party that thinks that what is happening now in our country is nice. But the difference is about both the view of this and the view of what to do about the problems. It is good to say that you should turn on stones, which we have heard for quite a number of years now. However, the question is whether it is not time to start overturning some mountains if we are serious about pushing back crime, because as long as this continues and the criminals are in an undisturbed nest, it is the victims who lose. It is all decent people and indeed our democracy and freedom that are losing. It is time to do something about this and to start giving our judicial system the resources, tools and legislation that are actually required. That is why we have put this committee initiative on the table of Parliament.
i-Q4q9imvk3abqGDks8eH67F	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal for a decision to be approved. Since I entered the Committee on Justice, there are actually two requests that have been raised from virtually everyone I have spoken to within the law enforcement authorities. These two wishes could be a little carelessly summed up as more resources and better tools. What may have been most frequently aired in this area are more police officers and improved conditions for the use of secret coercive measures. When I sat down in Gothenburg with both the prosecutor and the police a few weeks ago, they described the work that has been going on with material from Encrochat and Anom, how this has lifted the entire law enforcement activity because there was actually evidence to base it on to prosecute actors in serious organised crime and what it has done with everything from the mood to the ambition of colleagues who had concrete basis to operate from outside and who have seen results. Police and prosecutors throughout the country have worked hard, and today, well over 1,000 prison years have been condemned as a result of just the Encrochat tasks. I do not think I have a fully updated figure, Madam President, but at least around 200 serious criminals have been punished after chatting about serious crimes against Encrochat. Madam President, I would like This must be seen as an incredible success for the Swedish judiciary. More is also to wait, not least from the Anom. However, it is worth pointing out that not only Swedish justice is to thank for these successes against organised crime in Sweden. Had it not been for police and intelligence services in other countries, the evidence that was so decisive in these convictions would never have come to the attention of the Swedish police or Swedish prosecutors. I got an appreciation from a prosecutor I was talking to. The prosecutor said that based on these breakthroughs, there is a basis for further work for one, two or perhaps three more years. However, the appeal to politics was that corresponding material in the future should be secured in Sweden by the Swedish judicial system. This requires both more resources and better tools. The material from Encrochat and Anom will, of course, begin to be outdated, prepared and, above all, inadequately ensured that new crimes are committed and that the tools for fully and effectively combating this are lacking. Against this background, we politicians must act, including with regard to preventive secret coercive measures, which is what this debate is about. Madam President, I would like A little context may be appropriate. For a long time and time and again, Parliament has been on the government on various issues of secret coercive measures. Several announcements have been made over a few years. There is really nothing strange about it; much of the government's legal policy comes from earlier announcements by the Riksdag. In other words, the government's proposals and – it should be acknowledged – improvements in this area are not out of any genuine will to act in this area but should rather be explained by pressure from both opinion and opposition. Having said that, as a Swedish democrat, I welcome the fact that the government has acted and set up an investigation into secret coercive measures for preventive purposes, after some if and but and without reaching all the way through. That it was planned to be presented only after the 2022 elections – as far up as February 2023, it was intended from the beginning – I was not as positive to. Thanks to the opposition, the date has now been brought forward somewhat, but the committee's view is that the final report should be made before the election day. However, there is still potential for improvement in the investigation, which is why I am pleased that we have succeeded in getting a hearing in the committee on this committee initiative, which aims to remedy these shortcomings. The government has tried to leave a safety valve through which they can avoid making a blow to the cause by allowing the investigation to be unconditional rather than clearly asking for suggestions on how such a system can be designed. It is a classic social democratic tactic to boast that one is investigating something in order to gain the support of the electorate, and then not to go on with the issue and blame it on the final report of the investigation that has been conducted with its directives for the result that one has wanted. The government has also tried to limit the area in order to use secret coercive measures preventively by requiring that use must be aimed at preventing crime. The committee believes, instead, that there is also a need for the tool to detect serious crime occurring within the framework of criminal networks, even if we do not know in advance whether or not crime will be prevented. Madam President, I would like Once again, the opposition in the Committee on Justice shows that more can be done than the government is prepared to do in the fight against serious organised crime. We intend to continue with that.
i-7Mh2Ev9USVfdmsK67Jyzvx	Madam President, I would like The beginning of 2022 has been the deadliest start in a year since the police started keeping statistics. The shootings in the tracks of serious organized crime are moving towards new records. Behind each figure are grieving fathers, mothers, brothers, sisters, and friends who lose their loved ones and friends in a ruthless war going on in our country between gangs. Innocent people risk suffering if they stand in the way of bullets in almost every town in our country. This is a threat to the system. This is very serious, and it requires us to do exactly everything we can to face it. That is why it is so amazing that the government repeatedly draws the really sharp measures that could be put forward on a long bench. They do not do as they did in Denmark, where the then Minister of Justice listened to the police, received exactly all the requests, needs and questions about additional funds to push back gang crime and then carried it out. Our Minister of Justice in Sweden does not. The most important proposal that the Police Authority has made recently concerns precisely what we are discussing here today, namely proactive interception. We have seen the government celebrate the victories and successes of using other countries' legislation to do exactly what the Christian Democrats are proposing that the Swedish police should be able to do in Sweden, namely secretly use interception and reading of various messages to combat crime. As Gustaf Lantz said, this becomes extremely important when witnesses are silent and nothing is heard. Then it is extremely important with this evidence, and we have also seen what the effect was when the police got access to the Encrochat material. The government finally had to accept this, and an investigation was set up. However, when the Commissioner for the National Police says that this is the most important thing we can do, it is not the time to include this in the directives to be considered, but to come up with a proposal on how this is to be carried out in the investigation that has been set up. It should not be unconditional. This is the first point on which the Christian Democrats criticise the Government's proposals. The second point concerns the need to broaden use, just as previous speakers have mentioned. It should not only be about preventing but also about detecting serious crime. The third point is that the investigation time must be shortened so that we can get this out quickly. Every day that the police lack this tool is a lost day in the fight against the gang criminals, for the police are practically blind and deaf when looking for those who today put terror in city after city. It is time to start listening to the police and the judiciary and to hear what is needed for us to turn not all the stones, but the situation that we have, which is putting terror in our country and which is actually systemic. That is why, Madam President, I support the proposal of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights in this report. In fact, when it comes to shortening the investigation period, the budget on which Sweden is currently governed has the means to increase the pressure in investigations that could combat gang crime. The Christian Democrats, together with the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats, have seen to that. It's possible to speed up. The Minister of Justice says it can't be done, but it can be done. When the chief of police says that you need this, we have to listen and start acting. It is possible to make it much faster. We cannot lose day after day in the fight against the gang criminals. Today, there are 200 days left before the elections. There must not be 200 days lost in the fight against gang crime. I can promise everyone listening to this debate, Madam President, that a new government will use every day to fight gang crime when we can take office in 200 days.
i-LVACsSyF5i966WkS4w4Ah3	Madam President, I would like We have now dealt with some of the most difficult cases, the serious criminals. The coercive measures used by the state last year are reflected in the previous report, which we did not debate. But it is well reported that these tools, the secret coercives, are very important for combating serious crime. We have also been told how, with international cooperation, not least within the framework of the European Union and the important police and prosecution cooperation within the European Union, we are receiving information that will enable us to obtain the evidence that is so difficult to reach, so that we can lock up more than just the minions of criminal networks. The Liberals are behind the initiative in committee, because we think it is very important to investigate this without preconditions and ensure that it can be used to clear up crimes. It is sad but absolutely necessary that this should be done. But we are also in favour of a shorter period of time, for this is urgent. Maybe the head of the state police is begging, but he's asking for this. It is absolutely essential if we are to get somewhere to fight serious crime and put criminals where they belong: behind bars. This is difficult, but we are facing a crossroads. This is a struggle between the rule of law and barbarism. It is a barbarism that we see, with the executions that take place on the open street and the gross crime that is eating into our social body. To make some political polemics: We heard the Social Democrats refer to corn cobs and Kalle Anka on Christmas Eve. What I think about most then is the parasol that is unfolded as a beautifying picture of what it looks like. As we all know, Janne Långben drives the caravan on this holiday. He pulls over, and the parasol goes up. You might actually think it's during the Olympic Games in Beijing, at least if you look at advanced ski jumping. This is what it looks like. You'll hear: We're on the move now – gang crime is about to be crushed! Yes, but the Attorney General said gang crime would end last year. He has also said that it would be the year before and three, four and five years ago. But nothing happens. The situation is extremely serious. Then we must take these measures. Madam President, I would like The Liberals' support for this is because we know that the basic rules of the Code of Procedure on the need, purpose and proportionality will exist when the investigator is given this task. After all, it is the civilised society that we defend, the open society, the free society, where people have their own power and where it is not the gangs, clans, threats and violence that govern. That's the freedom we defend. It's hard for some people to absorb. However, we are at such a level that in Sweden we must have the same tools as several other countries in the European Union in order to combat this crime. That is why, Madam President, for civilisation and against barbarism, the Liberals are behind this committee initiative.
i-Nx6W3f4cqqXbaGMN52d8D9	Madam President, I would like We are now going to debate the Social Security Committee's report 11 on social security contributions, where there is a slightly mixed compote of subjects. I intend to deal with pension provisions as well as Swedish outdoor activities and employers' contributions in my speech. I am in favour of reservation 6 in the report. Madam President, I would like Swedish pensioners deserve better. People who have worked, worked and paid taxes throughout their lives today receive a shamefully small share of their salary in retirement. There is currently a lack of confidence in our pension system, and a majority of the Swedish people are concerned about their pension. Against this background, we believe that the Pensions Group, which consists of all parliamentary parties except the Swedish Democrats and the Left Party, has failed to strengthen Sweden's pensions. There have been some patchy and legal solutions from the Social Democrats, but it is far from enough if we are to really and long-term strengthen pensions. Therefore, if pensions are really to be strengthened in the long term for everyone, including those who have worked throughout their lives, we believe that pension provisions need to be increased. In our budget, we from the Swedish Democrats put forward such a historically great reform. It was an initiative that could really raise everyone's pension by about a thousand. Swedish pensioners simply deserve better. In this report we have a request that the government should in any case examine our proposal to increase the pension provision for employers' contributions while reducing the general wage contribution accordingly. By switching in this way between lower general wage contributions and higher pension provision in employers' contributions, individuals will be able to receive an equal or higher pension compared to today without increasing the general retirement age and without imposing higher taxes on entrepreneurs. It has been promised that the Government and the Pensions Group will look at the issue of strengthening pension provision. Our Minister for Social Security has also gone out and talked about this. But it seems to be mostly talk and not so much workshop. The Social Democrats, the Left Party and the Green Party have now instead developed another short-term patch-and-paper solution in the form of a guarantee supplement. Of course, we welcome all forms of increases in pensions. That is something we have been pushing for for a long time. However, much is still unclear in this proposal. One thing that we think has been missed is to strengthen pensions for more people, including those who have worked throughout their lives. However, I hope that we will soon be able to find out more details about how this guarantee supplement will be designed and financed. Madam President, I would like This report also deals with the inclusion in our Committee on Public Health Friluftsliv (Public Health) of the half basic amount rule of the social security contribution law. This is an issue we have long been pushing for and have long been the only one to push for, and we believe it is important for the conditions of outdoor life in Sweden, especially in the footsteps of the pandemic. Outdoor life reaches many social groups, and many use the Swedish nature for sports, tourism and recreation. It is also an important resource for regional development and thus an important part of the palette of industries that interact and create the conditions for a vibrant economy in a vibrant countryside. During the pandemic, outdoor life has increased significantly in Sweden. Many families, instead of other sports activities that were cancelled, have gone out into nature instead, which has been very positive. It's something I like to do with family, too. However, this has also meant that outdoor organisations have faced new challenges and problems, such as wear and tear on vulnerable nature and litter. This makes the organisations in need of additional support for the activities to function satisfactorily in the future. The Swedish Social Security Act's rule of half the basic amount is an initiative to which the Swedish Sports Association is subject. It aims to promote sporting activities and public health. We believe that outdoor life also plays a very important role in public health work and that Swedish Outdoor Life with its sub-organisations should therefore also be covered by this rule of half the basic amount, just like the Swedish Sports Federation, as part of the work for increased public health in Sweden. That is an obvious proposal, in my view. It is positive that the Left Party is also raising the issue with a somewhat similar proposal, and that the Christian Democrats believe that, in any case, an inquiry should be set up to broaden the benefit by half a price base amount. It is therefore moving, and I hope that more parties will support this so that it can become a reality at some point to support Swedish outdoor life, which is so important for public health. Madam President, I would like In the report, we also have a proposal and a reservation concerning employers' contributions. The Swedish Democrats want to protect our self-employed and thus also the creation of jobs and the economy as a whole. Therefore, we think it is important to reduce the employer's contribution and the cost of sick pay for Swedish companies. In order to support companies, we believe that the temporary reduction of the employer's contribution for up to two employees should be extended to up to three employees.
i-BzDAjQJ4L5tkknjFvhD7tB	Madam President, I would like Around our elongated country, organizations and associations create meeting places and contribute in different ways to increased well-being. Encouraging these is certainly important, not least now that we can hopefully return to a more normal life after this pandemic. We Christian Democrats have a reservation on this issue of social security contributions to broaden the reduction in employers' contributions, to which I hereby request approval. Madam President, I would like I have devoted a large part of my life to sports. When I became a parent, the commitment continued as a trainer and through various board assignments. Not a single crown has I received for the probably thousands of hours I spent on ice and grass fields and in boardrooms. For me, the reward has been to see the joy of children, young people and adults when they have the opportunity to practice the sport they love. I share this with thousands and thousands of other non-profit-working associations. The lion's share of my active time has been spent in the sports movement, but I know, not least through our three sons, that there are a number of other civil society associations and organisations that also create great added value for children, young people and adults. As a Christian Democrat, I have been proud to note that my party has chosen to increase support for civil society and the sports movement in addition to the efforts made by the government. What we are now debating is whether we are going to broaden the current exemption for sports associations to pay employers' contributions under half a price base to other associations and civil society organisations. We Christian Democrats believe that this is an important measure, and we have also set aside funds to make this a reality. Unfortunately, there is so far no majority for this in Parliament. The importance of associations not having to pay employers' contributions for the remuneration of people who spend their time cannot be overstated. I experienced this during my years as chairman of Örebro SK Bandy. Although the vast majority of associations are supported by non-profit-working people, many times the symbolic compensation we are talking about is very important. We Christian Democrats are therefore very much in favour of the favourable tax rules for sports associations that are members of the National Sports Federation. We do not want to change that at all, but we propose that they be broadened. Madam President, I would like When I read the explanatory statement that this opportunity to avoid wage taxes should not be broadened to associations and organisations other than the sports movement, I encounter some arguments from the majority that raise questions rather than give answers. I would therefore like representatives of the majority to explain to me and to all those who follow the debate what they mean. The explanatory statement states that it does not want to broaden the scope of the directive, since it would mean a erosion of the individual's pension cover. Furthermore, it states that whether or not a particular non-profit association is to benefit from the exemption is a matter for the application of law. Madam President, I would like As an old sports guy and also a non-profit-working chairman and coach in squash, football and bandy, I get a little bothered when I read this. Does the majority of the committee mean that it is okay to undermine the pension cover of athletes but not those of others? That's what it says. Then, friend of order, how does the majority of the committee view all those who today receive compensation for their involvement in sports associations as they so easily undermine their pension cover? Why is their erosion of pension cover okay when, according to the majority, it is not okay for active outside the sports movement? Let me add that in my decades of association activity I have never met a single person who demanded this symbolic compensation of a maximum of half a price base amount as a basis for his future pension. It is therefore at best a constructed pseudo-argument that is offered. Even more confusing is the next argument put forward by the majority of the committee: that the exception applicable to sports associations should also apply to other non-profit organisations is ultimately a matter of legal application. To say that the legal practitioner judges in a certain way based on the law and that it is therefore not possible to do so much is a limping logic that can possibly be cited in a study circle somewhere in the country – but not in the Swedish parliament that actually makes the laws. Madam President, I would like In view of the weakness of the majority of the committee, I would say non-existent, justification for rejecting the Christian Democrats' proposal that reduced social security contributions for associations should be extended to include civil society organisations and associations alongside the sports movement, it is reasonable for me to call for our reservation on this matter.
i-WDdytrRgMQBXs4CX2HcHNu	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for the committee's proposal to reject the motion for a resolution on social security contributions. I am one of the few in parliament who were children when Swedish welfare began to be built up. When I was born, there was no general child benefit. There was an income-based contribution from 1937 that had been proposed by Alva and Gunnar Myrdal. The purpose of this was to support more needy mothers, such as widows and the disabled. There was also previously a child deduction which was a tax relief that primarily benefited high-income earners. Already then, the right-wing parties were operating deductions instead of insurance. We also see this today when the right-wing conservative parties prefer deductions instead of the general welfare that we Social Democrats stand for. When I was four years old, the general child benefit was introduced. It completely replaced the child allowance and was a pillar of the modern welfare state. It was first time SEK 65 per child and quarter, and it was paid out quarterly. I remember very well on October 21, 1957. At that time, child benefit was a down payment for the purchase of a TV, the first in the family. Why? Well, the following year the World Cup and the European Championships were broadcast on television in athletics. I also remember how my great-grandmother, who lived until I was 15 years old, told me how amazing it was when the national pension was introduced in 1948. She, who had been widowed early with five children, was surprised that at the age of 68 she could receive money every month even though she had no employment. Still, she continued to wash with fine people a year or so. They needed to get their clothes clean. Of course, this affected me. That is why I became a social democrat and started to get involved at the age of 16. Madam President, I would like Why do I tell you this when the Riksdag is today going to deal with social security movements? It is because social security contributions are charged to finance social security systems. It is important to maintain the link between the social security contributions paid and the benefits which the contributions are intended to finance. We also know that the modern welfare state that has been built up for many years can very quickly be demolished. That is why we must continue to fight for an equal and equal society. However, there have been some deviations in recent years from the principle of that link that I have just mentioned. One measure taken to stimulate job creation, increase employment and encourage entrepreneurship is the so-called growth support introduced in 2017. The aid initially applied for a limited period but has now been permanent. There is a temporary reinforcement that extends the scope for reduced social security contributions for companies employing one or two new employees. It has been in existence since 1 July 2021 and is valid until 31 December 2022. That is why we Social Democrats do not believe that there is currently reason for Parliament to make an announcement to further increase support. The so-called R & D deduction was reinforced in 2021. In the context of the reinforcement, the committee stated that it was assumed that an evaluation of the deduction would be carried out. We Social Democrats believe that there is no reason to make more radical changes to the deduction until an evaluation has been carried out or to undertake a specific review of the application of the acquis. Madam President, I would like Under current law, there is a possibility of reducing the social security contribution base in certain assisted areas. This possibility has been designed in such a way that it is relatively beneficial for small businesses in sparsely populated areas. In view of the support measures in the form of reduced social security contributions that already exist, we are not at present prepared to support further reductions. Nor do we find any reason to change our view earlier on the subject of income in connection with sports. This could mean erosion of the individual's pension cover. We shall be careful of the future pensions of sportsmen and women. Madam President, I would like As I mentioned earlier, the purpose of social security contributions is to finance social security schemes. There is no room for an employee to choose whether he or she wants to be covered by social security schemes or parts of them, so that the employer, instead of paying social security contributions, can pay the employee higher wages. In our opinion, that should not be introduced either. The statutory employer's contribution consists of various sub-fees. Many of these are linked to social security schemes such as parental insurance and old-age pension. In addition to that contribution, agreed social security contributions are also agreed upon by the social partners. These include insurance for the transfer to new jobs, insurance for injury or illness paid with some premiums. Together with, for example, the child benefit, it constitutes our Swedish welfare society. The Swedish model is very competitive. I know many cases where young people, for example, have studied or worked in the United States. When they have acquired a partner, they move back home to Sweden thanks to our welfare, including parental insurance, the education system and health care. Competitiveness is very little about low taxes, but more about how we take care of each other regardless of conditions and income. Madam President, I would like We Social Democrats are working to take back democratic control of welfare. We do not want to deteriorate but to improve social security systems, which include social security contributions.
i-AsQ3DHy9f1LGboJwa9YeJp	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Elsemarie Bjellqvist, for the speech and for the historical review. There's one thing I'd like to agree with. It is that our Swedish welfare system and our Swedish security system are something we should protect, beware of and preserve. That's where we're in complete agreement. One of these systems is our Swedish pensions. In this respect, we believe that pensions are far too low today. Pensioners receive far too little of their salary in retirement. One measure we have proposed in our autumn budget is to strengthen pension provision. We also have in this report a request that the government should at least examine such a proposal to strengthen pension provision. It is in order for us to be able to strengthen pensions in the long term also for those who have worked and worked a whole life. My question to Elsemarie Bjellqvist from the Social Democrats is why the Committee and the Social Democrats are opposed to a proposal such as investigating this. As I have heard, several Social Democrats have said that they want to strengthen pension provision. Our Minister for Social Security has stated that this is an important measure to strengthen pensions. Have you changed your mind, or does it still state that it is important? When will something happen? To say that it is important to win some voters is good. But when will something happen on this issue? It is very important that we strengthen pensions in Sweden. They're way too low.
i-9A3cVrBBugCkSjHPbunuda	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking. We agree quite well that we want to increase contributions to the pension system. We need very clearly higher contributions, which benefit both today's and tomorrow's pensioners. We are protecting the long-term stability that is so important. It is therefore important to have broad support in the Pensions Group. Now there is a review, and we do not want to anticipate that review. There is no doubt that we want to increase the fee. The next item is the debate on pensions. We will then have the opportunity to debate this further.
i-9esJTVBcFt3BU1jQS3tobU	Madam President, I would like I look forward, Mrs Bjellqvist, to the fact that the Pensions Group can move forward on this so that we see something happening in strengthening pension provision. It is regrettable that in this House today, when we put forward a proposal to at least investigate this, the Social Democrats cannot support it, if that is what is being discussed in the Pensions Group. Now that not all parties are represented in the Pensions Group, I hope we can also discuss and decide on pensions here in Parliament and that such a proposal to investigate is supported. This is regrettable. If the parties in the Pensions Group now agree that this should be done, something more could be written in the report than simply saying that the proposal is rejected. There is no justification, no support or anything positive about strengthening pension provision. I wish it could have been a little more full-bodied. It is good that we agree on this. I hope there will be more concrete proposals in the future. We will come back in the next debate on even more about pensions.
i-JaMZGTY9Tm1VsSTACYFHYK	Madam President, I would like There is a review in the Pensions Group. We hope that it will come up with more money. But it is about that more parties should also support it. I hope that we will see this in the Chamber in the spring.
i-UYh6pAuZEBKLG5cyj1FLTz	Madam President, I would like The honourable Member said in his speech – and here I fully agree – that we should be careful about the pension cover of athletes. Then I still have to ask you a question. Now, if you are concerned about sportsmen's pensions, how can you at the same time state, because that is exactly what the majority does, that you do not want to see a widening of the possibility of not having to pay employers' contributions if the compensation is less than half a price base amount? You are doing so on the grounds that you do not want to broaden because you do not want to undermine their pension security. Both arguments cannot be put forward at the same time. Either the regime that we have for the sports movement – that they do not have employers' contributions if the compensation is less than half a price base amount – is an erosion of their pension cover or so it is not. If this is not the case, we cannot argue that we should not broaden this possibility to other parts of associations and organisations on the grounds that it would jeopardise their pension cover. Does the honourable Member understand my question? I would like to know what argument the honourable Member actually supports, because both arguments cannot be put forward at the same time.
i-JW7vkfE1qrmEPi8ibdKNc6	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking. There are a great many exceptions to the charging obligation. Perhaps we do not think it needs to be extended further, because, as I have said before, it would undermine the individual's pension cover. We need employers' and social security contributions to cope with the welfare we have, which also benefit sports organisations and outdoor organisations.
i-NR7Pi8YHJdVRBt8ytq7Z1	Madam President, I would like I agree with the honourable Member that we need different types of taxes and charges to finance the common welfare. And perhaps that is the real argument for not wanting to broaden the exception of the sports movement. Again, it cannot be argued that athletes and the sports movement do not suffer from a reduction in pension cover if they are given this exception and, at the same time, argue with the same argument that they cannot broaden it. I had two questions in my speech. The second question to the Member of Parliament concerns the second argument put forward by the majority, namely that this is a matter for the application of law. We are now in Parliament's chamber. This is where we make laws. It is, therefore, precisely here that such decisions must be made. I cannot believe that this would ultimately be a matter for the application of law. It is precisely for this reason that we Christian Democrats are putting forward the proposal, that is to say that we want to change it so that others, outside the associations associated with the national sports movement, also have the possibility of this exception. A price base amount in Sweden for 2022 is set at SEK 499 300. So these are not astronomical sums. A half price base amount means that you can give a compensation equivalent to SEK 2,054 per month, I have calculated. If you have a maximum of such compensation, you can also avoid paying the employer's contribution. After all my years as president of sports associations, I know that this is an important limit for the reason that we want to give a symbolic compensation – because that is what it is all about – and an encouragement for the time that people fold to help the association. But you do not want the fees and taxes on top of it, because then you will not be able to give the compensation. I would like to know where the decision should be made if not in Parliament.
i-Grrh9xVBTMCL2Z6ESoTQfx	Madam President, I would like It is so much more than this that the sports movement needs to be able to carry out its activities at all. For example, it needs premises. This is my first debate, and I'm quite new. I will admit that I do not know the details of all of this, but I have full confidence in the majority in committee that has called for the motion to be rejected. I stand by it.
i-M9tujbfCbb9cyB2LA96XSg	Madam President, I would like The report contains a motion by the Left Party proposing a study on the amendment of the rules on social security contributions in association. We have heard a lot about the issue before here. We see that this could lead to the possibility of affording more leaders who are prepared to stand up with their time and commitment. It is therefore very much a matter of leisure-time assignments; I think it needs to be clarified on the basis of previous lines. After almost two years of coronapandemia, there is not only a health debt but also a large public health debt. Increased home-sitting, social distance and reduced opportunities for organised sports are some of the ingredients that risk giving both physical and mental ill health in the short and long term. Active and systematic public health work aims to enable the population to live longer and healthier lives regardless of class, gender and origin. Today we know that there are major differences in health and life expectancy based on, for example, class membership. The research shows that exercise, sports and outdoor activities are activities that strengthen health. Policies at all levels need to contribute their part in order for us to create good conditions for this. We have a lot of members in both the sports movement and outdoor life, but too many are outside. Madam President, I would like Many children and young people who have not found their place in sport can thrive in an association context that is less performance- and competitive. For them, outdoor associations can fit very well. However, it became clear during the pandemic that a large proportion of the leaders in outdoor life are older, and they were forced to refrain from activities for a long time. It showed a vulnerability in outdoor life, and it was noted that new leaders needed to be replenished. In the latest evaluation of outdoor policy, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency stated that a change in the Social Security Fees Act could help outdoor life and its associations to organise more. There is uncertainty today as to whether the associations affiliated to the umbrella organisation Svensk Friluftsliv should be subject to the exemption of associations affiliated to the Swedish Sports Federation. It looks like it should be the same regulatory framework, but there are different outcomes in terms of social security contributions today. The sports associations can thus pay their leaders up to half a price base before you have to pay social security contributions, while the Swedish Tax Agency has made different assessments in different parts of the country for outdoor organisations. Associations within the open-air area conduct activities that in many cases are very close to what is done by organisations within the Swedish Sports Federation. You can sail in different associations and end up on different sides of the regulations. We do not think that is reasonable, and we must do something about that. Many associations are also double connected and are included in both the Swedish Sports Federation and Swedish Outdoor Life. Here politics needs to step in and clarify what is to apply. An appeal has been lodged, and the appeals have produced various results throughout the country. This is an uncertainty that is unfortunate both for the association life and for the authorities who are going to apply the rules. That is why, Madam President, the Left Party is proposing an amendment to the Social Security Fees Act in order for us to be able to investigate and equate various leadership positions within the society. We regret that there were no more parties to this today, but I am in favour of our reservation 4. We will have to come back to this in the future.
i-YD4qR7ioswwMuHvcPcBu9u	Madam President, I would like Sweden has about 2.3 million pensioners who have a general pension, and more than 20 per cent of Sweden's population are 65 years of age and older. Most people have a long working life behind them, struggling to build our welfare. Every year, more and more people grow to be 80 years old and older, and fortunately, most of them are healthy and alert longer up in the years. For society and for the individual, it is therefore important to show that seniors can be a resource far up in the years and a force to be reckoned with. It is important to facilitate active working life even as a senior, as long as you want and can cope. Research shows that learning as well as development and creativity are actually possible far up in the years. So we must look at old age with new eyes. With new hip and knee joints, cataract surgery and other things, you can actually have an active life as a senior. Therefore, many people also want to work after retirement, to improve their finances but also because they enjoy working in a workplace. Information and knowledge about the positive impact of a longer working life on the budget should be communicated by society in a much clearer way. In fact, parental leave, vab days, part-time jobs and other leave reduce pension, which is something that not everyone thinks about. Unfortunately, not everyone understands our pension system either. It is particularly evident when we hear and see protests against low pensions. Many even say that they feel deceived, for they had thought there would be more. Therefore, it is important that people learn how it works and also get impact descriptions in order to make good choices. It is often necessary to point out that the pension system is based on the living income of work and is paid through contributions, and it must be a long-term secure and predictable system. We believe that it is important to uphold these basic principles. Pensions must not and should not become a political bat or battlefield where parties compete for who can promise the highest pension. Any decision on retirement should be based on broad political agreements within the Pensions Group. We Moderates have always pointed out that the driving forces to work and that it should pay to have worked must permeate pension decisions. The so-called distance from respect is therefore very important, that is to say that the worker gets more in his wallet than the one who has not contributed in the same way. It is therefore worrying with proposals from the government to increase the contributions to those with the lowest pensions via the state budget, because, unfortunately, it can have the opposite effect, i.e. that it does not pay to work. The addition that the government now wants to implement risks giving more to those who have worked little or not at all. Madam President, I would like Trying to buy pensioners' votes with more contributions and dividends runs counter to the pension agreement made in the 1990s, which aimed at a sustainable pension system regardless of government. It is reasonable that it is the Pensions Group that may consider and decide on any changes that may be needed. After all, in order to maintain pension levels in both the short and long term, more people have to get into work and work ever longer. Unfortunately, the government has not wanted to push this forward at the pace it should be. But it is good that we have managed to agree to raise the retirement age. The right to remain in work has been raised to 68 years and will increase to 69 years next year. The minimum age for receiving a general pension has also been raised to 62 years and will increase to 63 years. But I think more needs to be done in this area. Several studies have shown that Swedish pensioners have decent finances and are doing well on their pension. The Pension Agency's own report from January states that pensioners' living conditions are generally good in relation to the rest of the population in Sweden. The average pensioner's economic standard is 82 per cent of the rest of the population. It is also interesting that the agency writes that pensioners worry less about their finances compared to those who work. But of course there are those who have it tricky. Women in particular live alone and are over 80 years old. Their standard of living is 50 per cent of the rest of the population. On average, a single pensioner has around 4 000 to live on after basic expenditure, but anyone living with someone has as much as 7 000 left. And pensioners are mainly satisfied with their lives, according to the Pensions Agency. Nevertheless, we are mostly talking about the relatively small group that has really low pensions. The Pension Agency's reports on the living conditions of pensioners, which they publish regularly, are used as a basis for the public debate. I can recommend everyone to read these on the Pension Agency's website. These are useful facts. Since 2008, we Moderates have proposed lower taxes for pensioners, because it was before 2006 that pensioners actually paid high taxes. We have also implemented tax reductions as many as eight times, most recently this year through the M-KD-SD budget, which applies in this area for this year. We Moderates always lower the tax most, because it is by far the easiest and easiest way to give more in the wallet to move with. I would also like to remind you that, through the budget that went through 2019, we also removed the special wage tax introduced by the Social Democrats. It was a special tax that employers had to pay for pensioners, who made it more expensive to hire older people – a rather stupid tax when we want older people to work more. Mr President, I would like to We Moderates have been exercising for years about the strange exception and injustice that refugees and other persons in need of protection automatically receive full guarantee pension, regardless of their previous working life. Of course, the same qualification rules for getting a pension should apply to everyone in Sweden, and we have urged the government to correct this injustice. We have now managed to get an announcement from a united committee, for which I thank you and for which I am pleased. Another absurdity to which we, together with KD and SD, react is that those who live in an HVB home, for example, and are thus supported by tax funds, can also receive survivors' support if one or both parents are deceased. It is not reasonable to receive double compensation from the public. There is a ready-made proposal prepared by the Ministry of Social Affairs, and we believe that this should be implemented urgently. Mr President, I would like to I therefore call for reservations 1 and 14 to be accepted.
i-3ddXb1cVkBVpwGE2Eg2qV1	Mr President, I would like to As I have said, we are debating today the report by the Committee on Social Affairs which deals with the motion for a resolution on pensions. I would like to begin by calling for our reservation number 2, so that I do not forget it later. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats have a number of proposals to strengthen and raise our pensions. For us with our social-conservative political foundation, it is fundamental that Sweden should be a country with a strong welfare, where we treat those who worked and toiled and built this country with awe and respect and give them economic security. It is unworthy and unacceptable that there are now older people living on the poverty line and that you receive such a small proportion of your salary in retirement. Mr President, I would like to We have therefore previously, in our budget last autumn, proposed to increase the guarantee pension by an additional 800 SEK. In our autumn budget, we also presented a major reform to strengthen pension provision into the pension system so that those who worked and worked a whole life will then receive a larger share of their salary in retirement. This would also ensure that the distance of respect between those who have worked and those who have not worked can be maintained, even if the lowest pensions are strengthened. Mr President, I would like to I am also very pleased that the joint draft budget from us Swedish democrats, the Moderates and the Christian Democrats also made important proposals to strengthen pensions, where we both reduced the tax on Swedish pensioners and strengthened the housing supplement. These were important steps to strengthen pensions, but not enough. Mr President, I would like to For a long time, in my opinion, the debate has been far too quiet about the shortcomings of our pensions. The idea of a pension group that would deal with long-term solutions for pensions was certainly good from the start. However, if it is a tangle of pension reforms at the same time as it boils down to dissatisfaction among the country's pensioners, and that Sweden's third largest party and the Left Party should continue to be kept outside the Pensions Group, I think it is unsustainable in the long run to deal with pensions in this way. Mr President, I would like to One of the reforms agreed by the Pensions Group was that the retirement age would be raised by a new general target age for pensions introduced and then gradually stepped up. Of course, there is a logic in us being able to work further up the age line as we live longer. However, we believe that this general increase does not take account of the fact that there is not a single common retirement age suitable for all individuals in all occupational groups. Those who are worn out as a result of a long and demanding working life should not be forced to stay in the labour market against their will and health. In addition, there have been reports showing that it does not have as much effect on pensions as one might have expected and wanted. If you want more pension, work longer, you don't find yourself as well for all professions, for example bus drivers, child care workers, nurses and cleaners. Two extra working years after 65 can give for some professions only a few hundred bucks a month in retirement, shows estimates that SPF Seniors have made. Mr President, I would like to We also believe that longer-age work should be achieved by means of a much greater degree of flexibility and targeted incentives rather than by coercion. This may, for example, involve the right to go down to part-time by introducing a special job tax credit for older people who voluntarily remain in the labour market. Having said that, however, I would also like to say that it is a good thing that the government has in any case tried to find a solution for those who are worn out by lowering the threshold in order to be able to receive sickness benefit something for people who are close to retirement, through the proposal on what is called a security pension. It was a good thing that the budgeting for that proposal went through in the budget here. Mr President, I would like to Another reform that the government, together with the Pensions Group, wants to implement is to severely limit the freedom of choice regarding the premium pension. On 1 November 2018, more stringent demands came from the government on the funds that exist in today's system. This was good and necessary to access rogue funds. In a second step, an investigation proposal was submitted in November 2019 on a regulatory framework for a new, controlled and procured fund square. A bill on this is expected in March. However, I have some concerns and I am critical of the risk of the reform leading to a deterioration in pensions for future pensioners and drastically limited freedom of choice in terms of pension savings. In addition, the future fund square will significantly decimate the range of funds through its restructuring and governance, which may affect the eligibility of funds. It can also lead to larger global index funds being rewarded over smaller small corporate funds. Of course, rogue funds should be counteracted and requirements tightened, but we believe that the government must first try to follow up and evaluate the results of the demands made on funds in 2018. But, Mr President, it is in any case positive that we have a united committee here today on one issue, namely that the same requirements should apply to everyone with regard to the right to benefit from full guarantee pension. The basic rule for entitlement to a full guarantee pension is that you must have lived in Sweden for at least 40 years between the age of 16 and 64. However, there is an exceptional rule whereby a person who has been granted a residence permit such as a refugee or an alternative need for protection as an insurance period for the guarantee pension can also be credited with time that he or she has been in his or her former home country. Today, a united committee is proposing a declaration to the government to remove this exception so that the same regulatory framework will apply to everyone, which should be self-evident. At the same time, the Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left Party have made proposals for a new form of addition, what is called the guarantee supplement. However, the legal framework for this addition remains unclear, and it would be useful if it could be clarified. Should it be the same legal framework as for obtaining a guarantee pension, or should it be the legal framework that applies to receive the housing supplement because it is said that the guarantee supplement should be within the housing supplement? Or should it be a whole new regulatory framework? It is good that there are finally proposals to strengthen pensions, because we have been asking for this for a long time. However, I think there are many issues that are still unclear in this new proposal. Furthermore, Mr President, I would like to touch on the importance of equal pensions. Several reports from the Swedish Pension Agency address differences in pensions between men and women. Among other things, the report shows Can pensions be more equal? the fact that a large proportion of the gender difference in the earnings of couples occurs when they have their first child, not only because women take a larger share of parental leave – there strengthens the pension rights of children – but also because many women fall in working hours during the early years. Several studies also show that women's wage development may be worse because women are on sick leave more. Here we see a worrying development in which many women are on sick leave due to mental illness and where stress and burnout are common, partly due to poor working conditions in the public sector. Mr President, I would like to There are two ways of tackling this problem. One way is what the government and the Social Democrats have adopted: to assume that women themselves are unable to make decisions about how much time they want to spend with children during childhood years. It is believed that this is imposed and something that the government must force away through legislative quotas for parental insurance. We do not deny that such situations may arise and that we should, of course, encourage joint parental responsibility, but we still believe that the starting point must be that families themselves have the freedom of choice to distribute parental allowance and working time. On the other hand, it is quite unreasonable that increased responsibility for family and children, whether it is a woman or a man who takes that responsibility, should affect pensions to the extent that it does today. It is also unreasonable for increased parental responsibility to have a negative impact on wage developments to the extent that it does today. We therefore see it as self-evident that parental leave and part-time work in order to give children and families a more decent life and to be able to put together the puzzle of life during childhood years are something that should instead be valued higher and have the least possible negative impact on pensions. Here we think that solutions should be looked at by further strengthening the pension rights for children's years, and more should also be done to prevent sick leave in the public sector. It is about preventive work both in terms of the working environment and in health insurance. I see time rushing away and would just like to conclude quickly by saying that we also believe that there is reason to review the regulatory framework that currently reduces the guarantee pension if you are married. However, the same rules do not apply if you are a common-law spouse. We think there may be reason to review this. We also have reservations, including a joint reservation that addresses this issue with survivors' payments and that it is paid to children and young people even though they have their livelihoods provided by the municipality. The legislation on survivor's benefit is different for children who have lost their parents when they were in another country. Here, there is a proposal from the Ministry of Social Affairs that there should be a more equivalent regulatory framework, and we believe that the government should move forward as a matter of urgency with drawing up such a proposal.
i-XAD4cAUBgTZXFHDvaikAxZ	Mr President, I would like to Our pension system in Sweden is basically a secure system. It's predictable. It's financially sustainable. It is based on the fact that each generation saves for its own pension, and it is based on the fact that work should pay off. We have basic protection in the pension system based on guarantee pension, housing allowance and old-age supply support. These are important pieces to secure for those who have not had a wage job or have had short years of wage labour, so that you also get a pension. I would say that we have a good system in Sweden, but in the debate it sounds like we have a very bad pension system – a system that does not deliver what we want it to deliver. There are certainly people who have very low pensions, but we should also remember that if we compare how it was a number of years ago, we can see that we now have a pension system that gives today's pensioners a much higher level. Today, 66-year-olds have 72,000 more pensions than they had twelve years ago, and today's 69-year-olds have 46 000 more pensions than they had nine years ago. To try to define poverty, there are many different concepts to use. But we can talk about relative poverty. This means that you have 60% of the median income. Today, some 300 000 of our pensioners have less than this, or 2.2 million pensioners. It has declined since the 1990s, when there were 1.1 million relatively poor pensioners. I do not deny that there are still pensioners who have very low pensions, but I would like to show by this that we have a pension system that provides much higher pensions today than before. These 300 000 are about 15% of our pensioners. They have less than 60 per cent of median income, and that is roughly comparable to what it is like in the working population in Sweden. Then we can talk about those who are materially poor, that is, those who cannot afford the most basic things. We have some 30 000 pensioners in Sweden who are materially poor. I have taken that figure from the autumn budget from S and MP. As the previous speaker has also mentioned, the Pensions Agency is providing many good knowledge reports at the moment. In one of its reports, the Authority shows that the group with the lowest pensions is single older women. They have a very low disposable income, and it is a group that we need to find a way to reach within the framework of the pension system. If, on the other hand, you look at pensioners living together, you can see that they have disposable income that is just over 80 per cent of the working population. Mr President, I would like to When we introduced the pension system that we have today, we said that the goal would be to have about 60% of your salary when you retire. No, we can't reach that today. That's absolutely true. But if we put occupational pensions on the table, we will achieve that goal, and we will exceed the target set in the discussion, that it would be about 70% when we introduced the pension system. Today it is around 73%. If we raise the retirement age in the future, as we are planning to do, pension levels will also automatically go up in relation to the salary you earn when you retire. You can look at another report that has come up with recently, namely the one that comes from mypension.se. It provides a forecast of what actual pensions will look like in the future. If you work after the age that we are now going to introduce, based on life expectancy, you will reach almost 67% of your salary when you retire, and that is without an occupational pension. Thus, by raising pension levels, we will achieve and also come higher than the target set. However, there are certainly pensioners who have a very low pension, but that is not the large proportion of our pensioners. And I want to continue to work to improve for those pensioners who have the lowest levels in the framework of the work that has been going on for many years and which I hope will continue. There we work together with Moderates and Christian Democrats, Liberals and Social Democrats on these issues. What we want to do in the future is to continue to increase knowledge and information, so that we can all make good choices throughout life and understand what it means for the entire life income. We need to continue working with the equal labour market. As previous speakers have done, unequal pensions are based on the fact that we have different incomes. This is also reflected in the report I spoke about just now, from mypension.se. There you can also see that the differences are narrowing, although it is difficult to determine what is going to happen with the pension for those who are the youngest today and have not yet started a family. It is also important to get more pensioners to apply for housing allowance, because it is an important part of basic protection. Today, the Pensions Authority suspects that there are many who do not apply but could do so and thus strengthen their low pension. I look forward to the report announced by the Pensions Authority, which will tell you who the poor pensioners are. When that report comes, there is really something we can take into account and see how we are going to do within the system to support up in this. Now the gas is being discussed. So we have a lot of money in the pension system. Our buffer is now so large that we need to see how we can use it to raise pension levels. Mr President, I would like to As I said, there are people with very low pension levels, but it is not the whole pension system that is the problem. With this, I would like to endorse Amendment No 3 and refer to my particular opinion.
i-VVdCLCvzx9wmB45C97aadu	Mr President, I would like to It's supposed to pay off working, it's said. The person who works must have the right to safe insurance, good pay and, after a long working life, a decent pension. But that is not the case today. No other party has been as clear as the Left Party that today's pension system is not working. As early as the rescheduling of the current system took place, we pointed out the obvious. Pensions will be far too low. The one who has the most gets the most, and the low- and middle-income earner gets out. For decades, the pension issue has been buried in the Pensions Group. That is why many people are now shocked to see how low a pension they are actually going to receive. But soon we will be able to do something about it. It will then be up to the evidence of all parties in this House. Do you belong to those who are not just talking about improving for pensioners, or are they stopping the calls for some kind of placard policy, ready to pick up in the electoral movement's voting fishing? The Left Party has now achieved the greatest increase in pensions in modern times. The proposal for a guarantee supplement will be placed on Parliament's table during the spring. As early as 31 August, 1 million pensioners can take part in a first, in my view and in the eyes of the Left and the Left, well-deserved increase in pensions. Those who have built the country deserve a decent pension. I assume that this is not the view of the Left Party alone. Around 500 000 of today's pensioners receive 1 000 SEK tax-free a month with the new left-hand pension. Nearly 1 million pensioners are covered by the entire reform, and the average for all will be over 700 SEK a month. It is not affected by the housing allowance. You'll get it anyway. And those who do not have housing allowance are also entitled to the allowance. You don't have to apply, you have to pay it automatically. Just take the opportunity to ask the questions you have, because I'm awfully good at this stuff. I heard there were some thoughts, so you can bring them up. The Left party already made this demand for this year's budget, and our own draft budget includes an increase. But the government did not meet us until there was a sharp situation in connection with the Prime Minister's vote. We said our mandates aren't free. If we are to have the support of our constituents in a prime minister's vote, we must increase pensions. We stood by that. Mr President, I would like to Pensioners are not valiant by empty promises or fancy valet numbers. The Pensions Group has failed in its mission to guarantee decent pensions to everyone. Today we Swedes are among those who work the longest throughout the EU. At the same time, we are at the bottom of the Nordic countries in terms of the level of pensions. Over 300 000 Swedish pensioners are at risk of falling below the EU poverty line. Nearly half of all women who are now old-age pensioners have a guarantee pension as a share of their pension. Compared to the other Nordic countries, the basic protection we have in Sweden is record low. We will have a decent bottom plate in Sweden. Today you blow people. It argues for the distance of respect by saying to the one who has it quite bad that there are at least those who have it even worse. Increased basic levels will lead to higher pensions for all low and middle income earners. The low basic level in Sweden has long helped to keep pensions down. Now we hear right-wing politicians clinging to the fact that the proposed increase has a few indirect marginal effects. This means, in clear terms, that those who have a high rent can, according to all rules, receive housing allowance, which those who have the same income and low rent cannot receive. All parties have made this type of increase in the housing supplement and the consumption subsidy. Last time it was done by the right-wing nationalist bloc in the budgetary vote. But now it suddenly sounds like there's something weird. If you really want more work to pay off, there is only one solution: increase contributions to the pension system! But today, in the Pensions Group, it is amusingly blocked by the same party that claims to be most concerned that the size of the distance of respect will decrease, that is, the Moderates. Mr President, I would like to Seven out of ten municipal councillors had a guarantee pension a few years ago. Those who are called coronah heroes and who have been applauded from right to left are now told that they have not worked and that, after all, they would not be worth a thousand more a month in retirement. That's about 30,000 of the 700,000 who haven't worked. So that's a very small percentage. Nothing could be more wrong than to say that Sweden's pensioners have not worked. One such, in my opinion, ungifted perception is for those who themselves have never had to roll up their sleeves and touch and who look down on those who work with the body and wear themselves out. The rest of us know better. Pension working groups, reports and respect distances you can talk about – or about wasteful multi-billion-dollar industry support to hamburger chains or, for that matter, bonus schemes that benefit the absolute top. But don't come and tell me, as a worker child, what hard work looks like! I have a grandmother who's been working on the laundry in Ockelbo while taking care of four children. I have a grandmother who, in her profession as a cleaning lady, has cleaned both factories and school premises. I have parents who have worked on the floor in the shop and in care. I know. This is in my body and is part of me. They've been working. They've been working hard, and they deserve a higher pension. Mr President, I would like to The pension system, which everyone says they want to protect, is a disaster for low and middle wage earners. And that's not because the retirement age has been too low. These people will still not be able to work after the new rich age proposed – their bodies are worn out. This is a disaster because pensions have been too low, because payments have been too low and because the system looks like it does. According to Kommunal's calculations, each individual worked year after the age of 66 gives about SEK 150 more a month. Is this what it means to pay off working? Mr President, I would like to Anyone who retires today will receive only half the salary, and worse will be the case. The anxiety is constantly gnawing in the one who doesn't have everything. As a child, one was worried about how the parents could afford it. It's about single mothers struggling on or about parents like mine, who actually argued about how the holiday fund would be enough at Orsa Camping. I offered them my five-krona tube, which I had saved up. As an adult, you worry instead of parents not being able to afford and their future pension. How can they afford to live? Older people are forced to live on their children in the welfare country of Sweden. It's bad. Since the Left Party's agreement on increased pensions has been made, I have received thousands of emails.
i-Y2QvwLsEWtEJeBhuLm7DdV	Thank you very much. Finally, someone who sees it, we're working hard on the carers! It would mean everything to me if the proposal on the guarantee supplement were to take place. Anders e-mails and tells about his father, who receives money from him for the rent every month and how humiliating it feels to him. Eva writes and says as it is: We pensioners must also live. Take it to yourself now, you who sit here, because you're in charge! Mr President, I would like to It is dangerous when politicians get far away from the voters they are elected to represent. We are elected by the people. People's security is the responsibility of politics. It's our most important mission. For the same group that the Left Party has pushed for the pension guarantee supplement, the right-wing nationalist bloc has arranged 50 bucks a month. At most, the reform with a tax reduction gave SEK 150 a month to those who already had the most. There was no more in spite of the Swedish Democrats and Christian Democrats' wrath for pensioners. It's easy to talk. When it comes to concrete action, it is not much to hang on the Christmas tree. The Moderates are in charge, and the others are folding down. When the Left Party ensures that the proposal comes to Parliament's table, the same parties try to wriggle out of their previous promises to the country's pensioners because it is the wrong party or the wrong parties that have made sure that the pension increase is on the table. We are simply not prepared, in the end, to give priority to pensioners who have built up the country. Mr President, I would like to Sectoral aid to the already profitable companies in the form of reduced social security contributions costs more than giving hundreds of thousands of pensioners SEK 1 000 tax-free a month. What is at stake here are priorities and nothing else. It's about how our money is going to be spent and what our abandoned payspace is going to be. Mr President, I would like to The security of Swedish pensioners is the responsibility of politics and our responsibility. We're going to take back control of the pension system and raise our pensions considerably. Me and the Left Party will do everything possible to ensure that more parties take that responsibility. I would like to support the Left Party's reservation 4 in paragraph 1. I apologise for having oversold the reported speaking time.
i-5eE4ooZwGuM9gtg51g2TDt	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr Ida Gabrielsson, for your speech. I respect Mr Gabrielsson's commitment to raising pensions. We share that commitment. We certainly do not have an unwillingness to prioritise. In our own autumn budget, we presented a reform of 22 billion to strengthen pension provision to raise everyone's pension by approximately SEK 1 000 a month. We have said that it is positive that there is now a proposal for strengthening pensions. We are always in favour of strengthening pensions. But there are still some questions. The honourable Member offered to answer questions. I am simply taking the opportunity to ask a few questions and see if we can sort out some things. It concerns the warranty supplement. One question is: what will be the regulatory framework for assimilation? We have now discussed the guarantee pension. We have a united committee in favour of removing the exception for the need for protection. It's supposed to be the same set of rules. You should have lived 40 years in Sweden. How long should you have lived in the country? What will be the legal framework for assimilation of the guarantee pension? Is that how you now remove the exemption and then introduce another supplement where there should be other rules for getting the warranty supplement? I think that is a question that needs to be answered. Another question is: how will the EUR 9 billion be financed in the budget when the proposal is presented? Has it been discussed at all in the settlement how to then strengthen pensions for more people? It is about those who have worked and worked their whole lives and that they too should receive a strengthened pension. That's three questions.
i-NTe3z9e7NDfNwNMtiKKg5n	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much, Mrs Julia. It's about 1 million pensioners. Most people have worked and worked. 1 million can't have been at home on the couch. You can still figure that out. It is a large part of the country's pensioners. Of course, the Left Party has pushed for more demands. For example, we have some of those proposals in today's report. As regards the refugee derogation, the rules that will apply to the guarantee pension are the rules that will also apply to the guarantee supplement. If the refugee derogation is removed, it will also be removed from the guarantee supplement. It will comply with the rules on the guarantee pension. I did not understand whether the honourable Member had any further questions.
i-TS8C3cHE66PybnYCc995wx	When it comes to funding, it is, as the honourable Member, Julia Kronlid, and certainly most Members of Parliament, realise, in an additional amending budget, usually through the result that an adjustment is made. Then it is financed within the scope of reform as it is for all the other reforms that are presented. That's how we fund things in a budget. There will be no specific funding linked to this proposal. As with all possible proposals, it will also be financed within the scope of reform available for 2023.
i-B9yAdup8irszsMQkdo6t1k	Mr President, I would like to I think it is positive that today we have a united committee behind the removal of the opt-out. It's supposed to be the same rules for everyone. I also thank you for the message here from Ida Gabrielsson. I also hope that it will then be true when the proposal is presented. I would simply like to thank you for the answers to the questions. I'll take them with me. Strengthened pensions are a real priority. I would still like to ask how the Left Party will push for the strengthening of pension provision. There we had a very big proposal in our budget. We believe that it is something that must also be done in order for people to receive a larger share of their salary in retirement simply.
i-L5f3bsyByKAAp3GGZtGwc9	Mr President, I would like to The Left Party has written in its own pamphlets, its own budget movements and articles that we want to raise pensions significantly. It's not about any small coins. What I and the Left Party still think is telling is what really happens in Sweden when it comes down to it. The Left Party gets SEK 1 000 tax-free to the same group that the Swedish Democrats managed to get through 50 more bucks. It is, however, about our priorities. We put it first. Swedish pensioners go first. That is why it will also be SEK 1 000 tax-free. Now we're going to move on. We will make great demands and we will come forward with more pension proposals. The Left Party does not want a retirement group. We believe that it has failed. We want to increase the payments in the system. Last of all, what will be most important: What will people get in their wallets? As we see it, there will be substantial increases in the future as well. We will take every opportunity to push ahead so that we can have it.
i-2ie4uE7qT97Wu2QJt7qDR8	Mr President, I would like to It was a thought that was aroused in me during Ida Gabrielsson's speech. In my speech, I presented a number of reports showing that we have a basic pension system that delivers to the vast majority. I do not deny that there are those who have a very low pension. But there are reports that show that we have higher pensions now than we had in the 1990s. Aren't they true? Another issue that is very important to me concerns the pensioners of future generations. If we put aside the bones for a sustainable, funded pension system where each generation saves for its own pension and removes it, how will future pensioners get a pension? Or should we have the same discussion in the future about how much we should put in from the state budget that we can then withdraw if the state finances get much worse? Those are my questions. Are the reports lying? How can future pensioners have a pension?
i-6qQycqT95KLx64JyLeZVze	Mr President, I would like to Depends. There's a lot of reports. There are a lot of people you can read. Some take up occupational pension as a proportion of the general pension in principle and present it as a very clever idea. It is only that those with low income and middle income also have the least occupational pension and the absolute worst private pension agreements. Some of these reports include assets that are stuck in the dwelling. It is still the case that we have 700 000 people in this. It is certainly fewer than we had before, but there are very many who have a share of their pension in guarantee pension. Those who have not worked at all are older older people who did not have the opportunity to have childcare. They had to be at home with the children when the man was working shifts. They are the type of people who make up the 30 000 - 40 000 who have not worked at all. So there are 700 000 people and 300 000 are below the EU poverty line. For me, it is just common sense: Pensions in Sweden are too low. We should certainly not do any such funny things that lead to pensioners not having money in the future, but we should increase the payments in the system and ensure that they are distributed more equally. The guarantee supplement is part of the guarantee pension as a supplement. It is part of a different design, but it goes to the same target group. All the parts that go to this target group go through the state budget. It is not part of pension rights in the pension system, so that is absolutely the way we are doing it today. I have noticed that the Center Party on its own website with exclamation marks writes that they want to increase the guarantee pension. This proposal harmonises perfectly with it, so you will be very happy when you read this in the future.
i-YGeGNZzsnXvK4YJUVtVFnz	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. Of course, the occupational pension is on top of the general pension. However, as I mentioned before, if you look at future pensions, occupational pensions are not included, and yet you are approaching 67% in the level of compensation. I have not denied that the group raised by the honourable Member himself, the elderly, has a very low level of pensions. I said it in my speech: the very oldest women are the ones with the low pension level. Looking at increased payments, today we have at the same time a buffer that reaches over 100 billion that we can use. It is one way of using this to increase earnings-related pension. The fact that you have part of your pension via the guarantee pension is not the same as belonging to the poorest group, because you also have income pension on top of it. If we are talking about the 700 000 pensioners mentioned by the honourable Member, 300 000 are below 60% of the median income and are counted in relative poverty. This is in relation to the income that we in the professional population have. In terms of material poverty, Sweden has the smallest number of pensioners in that group in Europe. That's because we have high wages. That's what makes it look like it does. You can turn this around and turn it around, as the honourable Member told me already last autumn. Nevertheless, I would like to say that we have a system that works basically. I want to raise the pension for the lowest-retirement groups, but I do not think that this is the right way to do it alongside. Do it together, as a whole, so that even future generations can feel that they have a pension and do not have to be afraid of not being able to live when you retire!
i-MYKu5Sj5sP4dQM6bhfB3Uh	Mr President, I would like to The guarantee pension is managed through the state budget. It's the way you use it. You yourself voted so that the right-wing nationalists' budget went through, and there was an increase in consumption aid. It is a pure contribution that goes to a group of poor pensioners. In Norway they have about SEK 17 000 in retirement. In Denmark and Iceland you get several thousand more than we get in basic pension. In Sweden we have compared to others an incredibly low base plate. It is a low basic level for the 700 000 who are in some way covered by the guarantee pension. There we are much worse than the rest of the Nordic countries. That is what the Left Party recognises and wants to remedy. So can health care workers, nurses and those who have had low incomes and worked and worked in a long working life and may have worn out the body and had to retire prematurely also get a good pension. It should not only apply to those described by the Centre Party Member – those who have good occupational pensions, who have been able to work from home and who have saved themselves for the wonderful days of retirement. Also others who have had to fight on should have this golden edge in the autumn of their age. When it comes to the remaining schemes, it is absolutely the case that those who have private pension savings, who have bought a right-of-occupancy apartment and who have a fine occupational pension may manage. However, the vast majority of pensioners need to raise pensions in the future. The surplus in the system can certainly be used, but it can also be used backwards to ensure that people who have already retired receive something when raising contributions. The Left Party will come back with many such proposals, and I look forward to receiving many approvals from the House on that occasion.
i-Rb6QtMPNuddTTmNZ6m2vz1	Mr President, I would like to Women and men who struggle through a long working life, who start working at an early age and who may not choose academic studies but instead choose to work in physically heavy jobs deserve better, of course. We Christian Democrats have been putting forward proposals for financial reinforcements for pensioners here and here at Parliament's table for years and we are actively working in the pension group that exists to make our pension system even better. We have several reservations, but I only support reservation number 5. Mr President, I would like to Our pension system is basically both stable and good. But even what is good can be better, and where there are shortcomings, they should be solved. The fact that we have an autonomous pension system, that is to say, one that is at the side of the state budget, was a central idea in order to create a long-term sustainable pension system that provides security not only for pensioners present today but also for future generations. We must not loosen this basic position. In this context, adjustments are being made to what are called the guidelines and the premium pension. The announced increases in the retirement age will have to be made in order to guarantee everyone a reasonable level of pension as we live longer and longer. The pension is also an important part of the pension. It has certainly delivered added value, but for savers there is also an interest in making savings in the premium pension both more secure and improved. At the same time as raising the age group, we must also enable a good conversion system that makes retraining possible and ensures that new jobs can be taken up later in life. For those who have such a physically heavy job that the body can't take it anymore, or where the transition and rehabilitation are both complicated and prolonged, it's not as easy to just extend the working life. For these groups, we believe that there is a need for financial reinforcements but also for changes in security systems. Mr President, I would like to The task we have as politicians is not only to secure a good pension for today's pensioners, but also to secure a good pension for future pensioners – for future pensioners. We Christian Democrats therefore believe that an important part of debating and discussing the pension system must be the fact that you have both the short and the long term in your way of reasoning. How we Christian Democrats reason is explained in detail in our motion on pensions. Mr President, I would like to Undeniably, we are approaching an election movement. It can therefore be valuable for those listening to the debate to look at the promises that are now to see the light of day in the hope of winning votes in the forthcoming elections. It is valuable for listeners to actually nail danger how the parties have acted historically, when the election movement was not as close in time. I can see that we Christian Democrats have long been the driving force for improving the economy of the country's pensioners. During the alliance governments in 2006 – 2014, we negotiated a total of five reductions in tax on pensioners, and we also raised the housing supplement three times. We have also been involved in the Pensions Group to ensure that the guarantee pension and the ceiling of the housing supplement were raised just a few years ago. Together with the Moderates, we abolished with the 2019 budget the special salary tax for the elderly introduced by the Social Democratic-led government. It was an extra tax for seniors who both want to and can continue working as nurses, teachers, nannys, craftsmen and so on. For many years now, in the budget after the budget, we Christian Democrats have put forward fully funded proposals that completely remove the difference in taxation on labour and pensions. We have also regularly put forward a series of proposals for a reinforced employment tax credit for those aged 69 and over. We need to send clear signals that the Swedish labour market needs seniors who want and can work, and such a signal must also include economic encouragement. Our deductions would provide an additional tax relief of about $1,000 a month for those with a monthly income of $5,000. Mr President, I would like to These were some examples that each one can easily verify their accuracy. We Christian Democrats give priority to the situation of the elderly, not only when it is an election year. Mr President, I would like to I would like to conclude by mentioning again this year that we must give priority to work on equal pensions. Female old-age pensioners generally have lower pensions than men. This is mainly due to the fact that women have fewer years in the labour market and an average lower employment rate, inequalities in the wage structure and the fact that men and women are simply found in different types of occupations. One of the proposals we have put forward is that the premium pension should automatically be divided equally between parents, that is, exactly the opposite of how it works today. If you do not want to share equally, you can apply for this, we mean. Today you have to apply for the opposite. Married couples and registered partners can transfer the premium pension to each other. Few people know that this possibility exists. It is a pity, we believe, because if it were used it would lead to a little more equal pensions. The pension is evened out for those who have been at home and may have taken greater responsibility, so that those who have been allowed to go out and work have to give up a small part in order to get more equal pensions together.
i-KaxNRv9ApHJauHV8myAxoe	Mr President, I would like to The generation that has trampled up our paths and built Sweden into the amazing country it is deserves our respect and gratitude. Above all, however, they deserve to be able to retire with a reasonable income. We Social Democrats have set ourselves a target for the total pension to be equal to 70% of the final salary. Many people already have a good pension, which exceeds that 70%. But that is far from everyone, and far too many pensioners in our country have too low a pension. In particular, women have taken a great deal of responsibility for their families and households at a time when society looked different. Women's pensions are on average SEK 7 000 lower than men's every month. Of course, this is not a coincidence, but a direct consequence of the unequal distribution of unpaid work in the home. The pension system is gender neutral, but pension is a reflection of working life. And as we all know, it is still mainly women who suffer from part-time work, low wages and tough conditions that also lead to more stress, more sick leave and, ultimately, a worse pension. Pension is part of the welfare system. It's social security. We earn our pension mainly by working, as we pay into the pension system. Then we will get a safe pension when the working life is over and we go into the next phase of life. A small part of the contributions to the general pension are funded in the premium pension scheme – I will return to that – but the main part goes into the income pension system. On top of that, the employer hopefully allocates occupational pension in accordance with the agreement of the parties in the collective agreement. The collective pension scheme has become an increasingly important part of the total pension. It is an important complement but, note well, not a substitute that legitimises a low general pension. However, it is clear how urgent it is for pensions to have collective agreements, since collective agreements guarantee the important occupational pension provisions. According to the Union, about half of all companies that do not have collective agreements are also without occupational pensions. For those who, due to different circumstances, have not worked together a pension that is viable, there is also a tax-funded basic protection. The guarantee pension and the housing supplement, which is the main issue, are crucial to counteracting economic vulnerability, especially among older single women. Mr President, I would like to Sweden is a good country to live in. Many are well off, and our general welfare model means that we have very few people living in material poverty. Unfortunately, however, we have far too many people who still have a low pension and low income relative to the population on average. This means that we have large gaps in Swedish society, and large gaps are bad for society's community and ability to stay together. This, in turn, creates tensions that have a negative impact both on social development and on the individual's potential and power. That is why we Social Democrats are committed to narrowing the gap and counteracting economic vulnerability. It is clear to us Social Democrats that pensions need to be increased. We have made a number of improvements in the area of pensions in this parliamentary term. We have increased the guarantee pension. We've raised the housing allowance several times over. Step by step, we have also removed the unfair tax gap introduced by the old moderate-led government, which meant that a pensioner had to pay more tax than the one who worked. We have introduced a targeted pension supplement of up to SEK 600 per month for those who have worked a full working life but who still receive a relatively low pension. Just before Christmas, we also decided on a new insurance pension. It is quite simply unreasonable for those who are being used out prematurely to be forced by their old-age pension and thus to be sentenced to a low pension for the rest of their lives. If you have turned 60 and the transition is not a realistic option when your body says no, you should still be able to finish working life dignified and get a decent pension. Yes, Mr President, a great deal has happened during the parliamentary term. But we Social Democrats are not satisfied. We want to take back control of welfare and strengthen pensions. Therefore, the Government is now putting several proposals for long-term increased and safe pensions on Parliament's table during the spring. The pension shall be renovated in accordance with the agreement of the Pensions Group on a tendered fund square. The pension is part of the pension system and exists for pension savers, not for fund companies or venture capitalists. You shouldn't have to be a financial shark to feel secure in your pension. Despite the improvements already made to basic protection, which I have just mentioned, we see a continuing need to increase the income of the most deprived pensioners. Therefore, the housing allowance will be increased once more during the year. We also want to introduce a new benefit which will give nearly half of the country's over 2 million pensioners a substantial and tax-free, and also automated, increase of up to SEK 1 000 per month, starting as early as autumn. If this new guarantee supplement becomes a reality, it will depend on whether a majority of the parliamentary parties say yes or no, so we will have to come back to that. We'll just see. Mr President, I would like to As I said, we Social Democrats want to raise the lowest pensions. But we also think that it should pay off having worked and that pensions need to be increased for wider groups. That is why we are at least as clear that we also want to increase the provision for the pension system so that the general income pension can be increased for virtually everyone who has worked. Of course, we must also ensure that more people are able to cope with a gradual extension of working life as we live longer and longer. Otherwise, a premature withdrawal of the pension will reduce the level if our earned pension is to last for the more and more years we then receive as pensioners. However, the reports of the Pension Agency show that the planned higher target age is not sufficient to ensure that the general pension is delivered at the level that was intended when the pension system was launched. It may not be surprising because it is not paid in as much today as it was originally decided. In this sense, the pension system is underfunded, and that is why pensions do not reach the level that pensioners had expected. It is, of course, a major problem, and it is our duty to do something about it. For several years now, we Social Democrats have clearly taken a stand in favour of allocating more to the pension system. So far, there have not been political conditions to implement it, but we have, fortunately, agreed in the Pensions Group to review it. We will begin with that in the near future. I hope, of course, that this will result in broad support for increased pensions. It is not only possible but also reasonable to increase pensions, and we shall do so in a stable and sustainable way for both the most deprived pensioners and broad groups of employees and for pensioners today and tomorrow. It is now up to the parliamentary parties to prove themselves. Let this be the year of pensioners! I support the proposal in the committee's report.
i-8UmZM7WVrDSnwPeWPZU9rM	Mr President, I would like to There is no doubt that the Swedish Democrats have also pushed for increased pensions. We have several times proposed a strengthened guarantee pension, at the latest with SEK 300 in addition to what the government has proposed. I would like to take this opportunity to correct a figure I said in my previous speech. I think there may have been something slightly wrong there, so I want to make sure it is correct. We have also presented a major reform to increase pension provision by changing the employer's contribution, the general wage contribution and deposits into pension provision. It is an investment of as much as 22 billion. So there is no doubt that strengthening pensions is a very important issue for us. With regard to the proposal that has been made on the guarantee supplement, we are naturally pleased that more parties want to take the initiative to strengthen pensions. I received previous answers that it should be the same regulatory framework as for the guarantee pension, and if the exemption for the qualification rule is removed, it should also apply there. My supplementary question, then, is: when will this proposal be presented? The Special Opinion of the Social Democrats states that the abolition of the rule on the transfer of residence time is being prepared for the Government Office. Will this proposal to remove the derogation be tabled before 22 August or at least during this term of office, or is it just something that is promised but will not be done in practice? That is a question to which I would like to have an answer as to whether it is possible to give any information on this.
i-GybitcC5oVbbGdBFMAz77o	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Julia Kronlid, for the question! As far as the time for the government to make proposals is concerned, I think the government is better placed to respond than I am, but my assessment and hope is that it will be possible very soon, not least now that we have a united committee behind this. I see no obstacle to that proposal being able to arrive in the near future. At the same time, it should be remembered that at the moment there is a high pace of reform in the area of pensions, and it is people of flesh and blood who write legal texts and put together proposals on paper. Precisely when it can be presented, I do not have a good answer to that, but I think you have to ask the government about that. But, as I said, I see no obstacle to this happening in the near future, so we will have to come back to that then. I can also take this opportunity to ask Mrs Julia a question because she is now so clearly taking a positive position on our proposals. I am, of course, pleased to hear that. I welcome the fact that Julia Kronlid and the Swedish Democrats, like us Social Democrats, want to raise pensions. My question is: Do the Swedish Democrats ask these questions to their friends in the Moderates and Christian Democrats, where there is doubt? If the Swedish Democrats want to make an effort here for increased pensions, I would recommend that they also try to influence those parties in that direction.
i-HqVmXcEQrYazhrjrpqMw9V	Mr President, I would like to The problem has been that this proposal has been tabled but that there have been many ambiguities about these issues – now I thank you for having received some of them here today – and about funding. We are not in the Pensions Group, and it is also a problem that many issues should be dealt with there and we are not sitting there – and now this proposal is being developed outside the Pensions Group. So it has been a little messy, I think, about this. So there are some questions that need to be clarified before we can give a clear idea of how we are going to ask ourselves about this. In the long term, it would be better to actually increase the guarantee pension instead of making a new guarantee supplement, a new construction and temporary patch-and-tag solutions. Having said that, it is nevertheless positive that initiatives are being taken to raise pensions, and I am taking these issues back with me. Of course, it is very important for us to strengthen pensions, and it is regrettable that more has not happened for our Swedish pensioners during this term of office when the Social Democrats have been in power. More needs to be done. I believe that, although this is a good proposal for raising the lowest pensions, more must also be done for other people who have worked and worked for a long life and who come above the level for which the guarantee supplement is to cover. It is also a question: what will the Social Democrats do to raise pensions for more people who have worked and worked their whole lives and to raise pension provision?
i-GQHFAtdJAbWYrsYD3R5pXo	Mr President, I would like to Julia Kronlid says it's been a little messy. Let me take this opportunity to explain that we Social Democrats want to raise pensions for the most deprived pensioners by means of a new targeted supplement, which we call the guarantee supplement, to about half of the country's approximately 2 million pensioners. It would give an average of $750 a month and a maximum of $1,000 a month tax-free. At the same time, we also want to increase contributions to the pension system so that income pensions can be increased for broad groups. So we want to do both. The fact that one proposal is dealt with in the cross-border Pensions Group and the other is not simply due to the fact that it is the income pension that is dealt with in the Pensions Group, while the other is part of the basic protection and that we therefore fund through the state budget. Then Julia Kronlid also says that little has happened in the area of pensions during our time in power. I would just like to take this opportunity to remind you that we have raised the guarantee pension, increased the housing supplement several times over, removed the unfair pensioner tax, which Julia Kronlid's party, the Swedish Democrats, also voted to maintain on a couple of occasions during the term of office when it was possible to remove it a little faster, and addressed a special supplement to pensioners who have worked and toiled a whole working life but who still receive a fairly low pension. So now we want to move forward with a new guarantee supplement and increase contributions to the pension system. I repeat: If you want to make it a reality with the increased contributions to the pension system, I recommend that the Swedish Democrats have a talk with their friends in the Moderates and Christian Democrats and try to influence them that way so that we hopefully get a broad majority for that proposal.
i-2kZkyvE3gQuHwxFbpsR4DG	Mr President, I would like to Here comes one of the friends from the Christian Democrats. The Moderates are allowed to speak for themselves. When I listen to Teresa Carvalho, not least in line with Julia Kronlid, I note that these friends, KD and M, together with SD, have made sure that pensioners have more money this year, 2022. Thanks to the budget adopted by Parliament, which was supported by KD, M and SD, eight out of ten pensioners have 360 – 840 kroner a month this year – the year of pensioners, as Minister of Social Security Ardalan Shekarabi called it. I understand that, because this was a clear improvement compared to the proposal put forward by the Social Democrats. I have two questions for Teresa Carvalho. Do the Social Democrats believe that the income of life should continue to be the basis for the future pension? Sometimes it sounds almost like it is the state or the Social Democratic Party that is going to fix the pensions. Is it the income of life that will form the basis for the future pension? That is one question. The second question arises from the fact that I believe that Mrs Carvalho, just as I have been listening to the debate, was not allowed to ask for a reply because we had not been in the speaker's seat. But I would like to give Teresa Carvalho the opportunity to adjust some of the claims regarding the EU's poverty limit. The EU has a limit on relative poverty of 60% of its average wage. A knowledge issue for Teresa Carvalho is: If you measure absolute poverty, that is, what you can buy for your pension, is there any Member State in the EU that has fewer poor pensioners than Sweden?
i-FiNvHxNKuaeoMAT1nRtZAW	Mr President, I would like to It is very gratifying that the Christian Democrats have finally realised that it was a bad idea to allow pensioners to pay more tax than those who are still working. After all, we must not forget how the pensioner's tax came about. The Christian Democrats were very much involved in creating it, even if you might not really think so – what do I know? But it was in fact when the Christian Democrats were in government that that injustice came about. Now we Social Democrats have gradually removed the unfair tax gap. And no one is happier than I am if we now agree that pensioners should pay no more tax than those who are still working. Hans Eklind further asks whether the pension system should be based on the principle of living income. Yeah! I also think that we should safeguard the principles on which our pension system is based. We basically have a robust and sustainable pension system to protect. But it has the small defect that it gives a too large group of our pensioners for low pensions. I believe it is our duty to do something about it. We Social Democrats want to increase contributions to the pension system so that more people receive a higher income pension. However, in response to the next question, we would also like to introduce a guarantee supplement so that those who cannot live on their income pension also have it decently. We see that we also need to raise the lowest pensions. Finally, I will answer the question of knowledge. I don't know if it's an attempt to see if I'm up to date or not, but I hope I can answer right. In my memory, we have absolute poverty of about 11⁄2%, which is sort of the lowest in the whole of Europe. We'll be happy about that. But we have a higher relative poverty than many other countries. As I said in my speech, we Social Democrats want to combat the great divides in our society. They are not good for the national economy or for pensioners.
i-3DPsg63jRNR8oxD5uK8X9f	Mr President, I would like to Actually, I didn't ask the question to put Teresa on the pot edge, but I felt that she knows this. So I thought it would be good if that knowledge came out. It shines with its absence not only in this debate at times, but not least when the evening newspapers are going to go into explaining how miserable this pension system is. I think that Teresa Carvalho knows – she should know, but she does not say it, of course – that the Christian Democrats are year in and year out, while the Social Democrats have led this government, have put forward draft budgets where we have completely removed the difference between taxes on labour and pensions. It took a lot of years. Social democracy talked about it, but it failed to deliver. We did so in our budget year in and year out. So I would be happy to say: welcome, when it comes to removing the difference between taxes on labour and pensions! We did so many years earlier in our budgets. I think it is important to consider how to remedy the shortcomings that exist. We Christian Democrats want to correct the shortcomings of the pension system. The guarantee supplement, which came to the evening before the vote of confidence if Magdalena Andersson would become Prime Minister or not, is like crossing the river for water. That, in my view, is the fundamental problem with it. If we want to correct the problem of basic protection in the pension system, then let us do so within the pension system. Now the state budget is confused with the pension system. I'm not so worried about myself. But will my children and future grandchildren have a pension system to trust? The basic principle is to keep the pension system away from the state budget. Then it is sustainable in the long term.
i-JvJik77qZZcsBeh68wTeMD	Mr President, I would like to Mr Eklind knows, as I do, that the guarantee supplement that we are now proposing to increase the minimum pensions by up to SEK 1 000 per month is part of the tax-funded basic protection. It should be accommodated within what already exists today for the housing supplement, but there will also be some principles similar to the guarantee pension. But it is not something that we put into the independent pension system, but it is part of the basic protection. We must be able to keep several thoughts in our heads at the same time. We Social Democrats want to raise the lowest pensions but also raise the income pensions for broad employee groups. We believe that the best way to do this is to increase contributions to the pension system. Today we are not paying in as much as we originally said we would. That is why pension levels do not go up to the levels that it was said they would or, for that matter, as pensioners have expected. We must correct this, not least in order to regain the confidence and legitimacy of the pension system. Today, there are far too many people in our country who have low pensions. Seven out of ten women municipal workers receive some kind of guarantee pension because their income pension is too low. This applies to about 45% of all female pensioners. At least that tells me we need to raise pensions. And we Social Democrats want to do this in several ways. It is also so nice that all parties will have the opportunity this spring to take a position on the guarantee supplement here in the Riksdag. This spring we will already have the opportunity to vote in favour or against. I hope that, in parallel, we will be able to agree within the Group of the European People's Party on long-term pension increases for tomorrow's pensioners as well. But it could also benefit today's pensioners.
i-8mm8eYPUjBjNjS8sfSiLjs	Mr President, I would like to Sweden has one of the world's most stable pension systems. When you listen to this debate, it may rather sound the other way around, like we do not. But Sweden has one of the world's most stable pension systems. Simply put, today's pensions are financed by those who work today, apart from the premium pension that each of us saves for himself. The more you pay in and the later you retire, the more you get in the pension envelope. Citizens are constantly protected from political whims and profit from working more and paying more taxes. At least that's supposed to work. However, this stability is now at risk through agreements between parties on allowances and non-pension schemes. This risks leading to the creation of a new pension system that comes from the state budget in parallel with the current pension system. It falls outside the stable and long-term policy approach that prevails. This is deeply worrying. Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, there is widespread age discrimination in Sweden. The knowledge, skills and experience of older people are not being exploited in the way they should. They must be able to be better used in working life. The Liberals therefore want the age limit for how long you have the right to remain at work to be raised from 67 to 71 years. You should be able to choose to stay at work. In the long term, the retirement age and the right to remain in work should be linked to the increase and development of life expectancy. Moreover, those who work after 65 need, we believe, financial incentives and rewards, for example by paying lower taxes. Mr President, I would like to No one should have to worry about their finances when you get older. It is therefore important that those living in Sweden have access to financial security after the end of their working lives. Therefore, the Liberals were a key driving force for the establishment of today's pension systems. This was done not least through Bo Könberg's eminent work. He is still a netor on these issues. We are now in a time, Mr President, when new reforms are needed to secure more money in the pension envelope for today's and tomorrow's pensioners. At the same time, the liberals uphold the principle that it should pay off to work and to have worked. That's the foundation. It should pay to save and take responsibility for your pension. It requires a policy that ensures a distance of respect between those who work and those who do not work and that more are encouraged to save. It is increasingly heard in the debate that the pension system itself is the problem and that it is underfunded. It is said that payments are too low, that the money is not enough and that that is why pensions for many are far too low and have fallen behind. There is no disagreement in this House. That's it. These people exist, and we must take this seriously. But if you say it's underfunded, you go with untruth. The truth is exactly the opposite. The system is very well funded. There are large surpluses. This is because of good investments in, among other things, the funds. It is the big party, but there are also other parts that are important to remember. This has been proven by the Pensions Authority in a report after a report. Mr President, I would like to One way, among others, that pensions can be raised very quickly would be to use the surplus in the pension system. A buffer has been built up over the years and totals at the turn of 2021/ 22 to approximately SEK 1,200 billion. This is available as money in the pension system today. Today, assets exceed the liabilities of the pension system. It is a surplus that, predicts the Pension Authority, will continue to grow in the future. Other elements for raising pension levels include targeted tax reductions and further revision of housing allowances and other benefit schemes. What we are talking about, Mr President, is making changes within the stable pension system that we have. Liberals therefore propose the introduction of a gas in the pension system, just as there is a brake. A gas would be a far better and faster change in pensions than raising pension contributions. As I said, today there is already a brake on the income pension, which means that pensions fall when revenues or Sweden goes too badly, when the balance figure is too low and falls below 1.0. Similarly, a gas would be introduced. When things go well, the pension scheme would be increased so that the money is spent on today's and tomorrow's pensioners rather than on top of it. The advantage of such a system, Mr President, is that it will be possible to implement next year, while it will take time for an increase in contributions to have an impact and increase pensions. The Liberals therefore propose that such a gas be introduced as soon as possible. Finally, an important part is that, with regard to everything we are talking about today regarding pensions, regardless of our positions and starting points, we must not forget that everything we do in the pension system must also have consequential effects on the sickness and activity benefits received by people with disabilities. This group must not be left out again. We have already done that far too many times. From the point of view of income, this can very well be equated with pensions and pensioners.
i-FrG372nBn4aXRCey5xndzu	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin with a motion for approval of the Moderates' reservation number 1. Citizenship is the most precious thing that Sweden can give to a person. A Swedish passport, which you get when you become a Swedish citizen, is one of the most attractive passports you can have in your hand in our world. For too long, however, Swedish citizenship has not been subject to duty. Let us look at what Sweden looks like today and what it has been like for the past 10, 20 or 30 years. Most of the major social problems we see today can be linked to the large immigration we have had to Sweden with an inability to integrate people who have come to Sweden as well as our own inability to make demands at the right time. Therefore, we Moderates want Swedish citizenship to be linked to duty. If you want to become part of the Swedish community and fully enjoy political and social rights, you should have done certain things. It is about requirements for basic knowledge of the Swedish language and requirements for approved social studies. You're supposed to be able to support yourself, and you're supposed to have lived an honest life. This is what it looks like in many other countries of the world around us. Why we stand out, we can have a longer discussion. Is it because of our naivety or because we have been spared many things that other countries have had to go through? As I said, there are many views on this. But somewhere, this is about what society we want to live in, what society we live in and what society we want in the future. If you choose to come to Sweden, i.e. immigrants here, and want to become part of the Swedish community, it is first duty that applies. Once you have done your duty, we will welcome our new Swedish citizens with full rights, the same rights as those that were born in Sweden by Swedish parents and have Swedish citizenship. Mr President, I would like to This was part of the report. Other matters that we have dealt with in committee are matters relating to children's rights and liberation matters. It's about children under the age of 18. I am incredibly proud of the Moderates together with the Christian Democrats, the Liberals and the Swedish Democrats. We had similar writings. In committee, it is a matter of obtaining a majority. The proposal concerns children under the age of 18 whose parents are asking for their children to be released from their Swedish citizenship. Every case of this kind shall be subject to judicial review. When we four parties chose to write us together, the rest of the committee joined. Now the committee is united. Children under the age of 18 who are at risk of being married and who are subjected to oppression of honour and violence may, if they have dual citizenship, be deprived of their Swedish citizenship. When they are abducted, Sweden cannot fulfil its commitment. That is why I am incredibly proud that, on certain issues, all eight of us can put aside our party name and say: this is right, and that is wrong. A unanimous committee, a unanimous parliament, will tomorrow vote for the government to present a proposal in which relief cases for children under the age of 18 will always be examined in a Swedish court before granting or rejecting the matter. Good must always stand up to evil, and in this case it is about standing on the side of the weak, that is, children who are not of age. Mr President, I would like to I won't be long. We have had this kind of debate last year too. The government has pulled things along, but if you follow the Swedish political debate you can see that the Social Democrats have woken up a little bit compared to when you were in coalition government with the Environmental Party. It is a question of going from dalting to being clear, that is, if we are to solve our integration problems and have an acceptance in our society in order for new people who come to Sweden, do their duty and get their rights to become part of the Swedish community, then we must make demands from day one. The Moderates also want the residence requirement, i.e. how long they should have lived in Sweden in order to obtain citizenship, to be raised from today's five years to eight years. I look forward to a good debate!
i-AH5CUhERxbxwGaYgMRW1PS	Mr President, I would like to Being a Swedish citizen is not anything. Being a Swedish citizen is to be a part of the story about Sweden, about equality and equality, about democracy, about the right to their own body and sexuality, about their own development and their own life choices. To be Swedish is to be part of a collective community where you still have the right to your individual choices and the right to realize yourself based on your own conditions. This is something that we and our ancestors have built up together over centuries, and it is something to truly cherish. Mr President, I would like to I am proud to be Swedish, and I think it is beautiful that there are foreign born in Sweden who strive to become Swedish citizens and part of the Swedish story. Let me take an entirely fictitious example of what it could look like when Muhammed from Somalia – one of our largest immigration countries – is going to make the journey towards becoming Swedish. Muhammed came to Sweden several years ago, on the run for various reasons. He had dreamed of living in a country like Sweden, and when he came here he decided to really do his best to make this country his own. All the signals he received from Sweden were that he had to learn Swedish, get a job and stay in the skin. He must learn about equality, freedom of expression, democracy and equality. He must try to forget the clan thinking and the culture of honor that permeated his old homeland. Muhammed fought on. He took all the lessons he could in Sfi, he went to language cafes at the local church, he worked as a volunteer and he stayed away from those who just sat all day at the café at the square in the center. As soon as he could, he first got a job, and it led to another one. There he spent time not only with old compatriots but also with native Swedes and those who had lived in Sweden for a long time. This gave him the opportunity to learn more Swedish and more about Swedish culture, Swedish expression, Swedish behaviour and Swedish values. He understood the importance of women participating both in the labour market and in political talks on the same terms as men and that it does not matter at all if you love men or women – things that were not at all obvious in his former home country. So came the big day when Muhammed had lived in Sweden for ten years, that is, long enough to be a Swedish citizen. He had been careful and had never committed crimes or been in criminal circles, so he met the requirement. He was fluent in Swedish and passed the language test. He had adopted parts of Swedish culture and became a part of society, so he had no problems with the cultural and social studies test. He had also worked for many years, always contributed to society and met the supply requirements. He was in every way an example. And so, Mr President, on the big day Muhammed finally got on stage swearing the citizenship oath and under the power of a handshake becoming a Swedish citizen – part of our large, warm, Swedish family. Mr President, I would like to This still sounds pretty good, doesn't it? Can there really be something controversial about making demands for the Sweden we love to continue to be the world's best country? As I said at the beginning, this is unfortunately a fictional story. All the small parts of the story that led Muhammed step by step towards a better future are missing in today's Sweden. You do not need to learn Swedish to become a citizen of Sweden. You don't need to learn about our culture or society. You don't need to embrace our common fundamental values. You do not have to conduct an honest conduct other than in the most limited sense. You don't even have to have lived in Sweden for very long; in many cases, three years in the country is enough. And even if you are young and healthy and fully workable, you don't need to have supported yourself in the least. Our friend Muhammed could from day one have received one and the same message from Swedish society: If you want to become a part of us for real, you must meet a number of requirements. You have to make an effort, and you have to reach certain goals. Clarity and straightness! This would be the case with a Swedish democratic policy on citizenship. But today's immigrants from Somalia or other countries do not receive such a clear message from Swedish society. Rather, it is the opposite. You can do virtually anything, however you like, for as long as you want, and you will still get the citizenship. It's basically as simple as finding it at the bottom of a cereal package. Muhammed in our fictional example does not have to make this journey. He can, if he wants, lie at home on the couch for a few years, fiddle in his navel, live on grants and still become a Swedish citizen. Then, Mr President, we ask ourselves a little wonder why integration in Sweden does not work. Last year, over 80 000 citizenships were distributed. How many of these new citizens know Swedish? How many people can support themselves? How many have abandoned their homeland values such as homophobia, misogyny, anti-Semitism and contempt for secular society? No one knows that, Mr President, because there are no demands. Some have argued that making demands would be racist. I think it is exactly the opposite: not making the same demands on everyone, regardless of foreign origin, nationality, skin colour, religion or sexual orientation, would be discriminatory or, at worst, racist. To make demands for someone to be admitted to Swedish citizens applies equally to everyone. It sits in your ambitions, in your will and in the choices you make– not in your skin color. We in the Swedish Democrats want citizenship to be something worth fighting for. To make demands is to want to see solutions, not only for the individual but also solutions to major societal problems such as long-term exclusion, high unemployment, declining school outcomes and increased gang crime. We must do what is best for Sweden when we continue to write the story. Mr President, I would like to In a report that is far too weak, there is, in any case, a small gleam of light, as Mr Arin mentioned earlier. All parties have chosen to support a proposal from the Swedish Democrats, the Moderates and the Liberals that courts should always consider children's liberation from citizenship. Simply explained: No parents should be able to deprive their children of Swedish citizenship in order to be able to marry them more easily abroad. Mr President, I would like to I think this is great. All steps in the right direction are important. But this is not going to be enough. So in the next parliamentary term, I really hope that we can take elephant life rather than ant steps to upgrade Swedish citizenship to what it should be worth. I would also like to ask for the approval of reservation 2.
i-YTGcjtfpfPjXmzzzu1fBnL	Mr President, I would like to When a person is allowed to become a Swedish citizen, we Christian Democrats believe that it has both a real and a symbolic significance. With citizenship, a person has the right to vote in a parliamentary election and the right to apply for certain types of services within the police, court and military. But it is also an unconditional right to reside in the country and also to receive consular assistance in the event of problems abroad. The symbolic meaning should not be underestimated either. Citizenship takes its place in a wider community where there are obligations and rights towards others and a sense of participation, solidarity and strengthened identity. We Christian Democrats believe that citizenship should be upgraded, and we believe that it is necessary to make clear demands in order to obtain such citizenship. Swedish citizenship is not a human right, and it is therefore important that we do not confuse objectives and means. Citizenship is a goal, not a means. We have a few reservations on the matter, but I only support the Christian Democrats' reservation number 3. Mr President, I would like to It is against the background of our view of citizenship and the importance that we believe it should have that I acted last year to strengthen the handling of citizenship issues. I had then received information that administrators at the Migration Agency's review units, as well as other operational personnel such as decision-makers, team leaders and assistants, were not classified. The system then in force meant that an administrator responsible for assessing whether an applicant poses a danger to national security, which has not been classified as security, and – listen now! – did not need to be a Swedish citizen, had the right to make irreversible decisions. It was a bit difficult to take this in, that is to say that it was a matter of a system in which a person who does not even need to be a Swedish citizen owns the right to decide whether others should become a citizen. It was an unreasonable order that could have, and possibly has – we do not know – had far-reaching consequences. The seriousness of the lack of order was also underlined by reports that criminal clans had infiltrated both Försäkringskassan and Arbetsförmedlingen. Then why not the Migration Agency? Undeniably, officials with the authority to examine a citizenship matter are sitting on a tremendous power over another person's destiny. I naturally asked the then immigration minister what measures he intended to take with regard to the information. Last autumn, the head of security at the Migration Agency announced the following: Everyone who works as an administrator, decision-makers and executives and handles citizenship matters will be classified in security class 2, and Swedish citizenship will be required. It was decidedly a partial victory for us that values Swedish citizenship. Mr President, I would like to The fact that we are tightening up the conditions for Swedish citizenship is quite reasonable. Citizenship gives far-reaching rights and, when compared with other EU countries, it turns out that they have more far-reaching conditions for becoming a citizen. It is well founded that knowledge of the Swedish language is of great importance for integration skills. Being able to speak Swedish means that you can assimilate education, get a job and get into the community. The Christian Democrats therefore want to see the introduction of an approved language test as a prerequisite for obtaining citizenship. It should be a higher language requirement than what we want to see in order to be granted a permanent residence permit. Applicants for citizenship must also have received education in social orientation and passed an approved test. Through a good knowledge of Swedish society and what human values we have, values that characterize us and still characterise our society, cultural divides can actually narrow. In addition to the approved language test and social orientation test, there are two other things that we want to add to get Swedish citizenship. The first is that you should have had an honest life. Since Swedish citizenship can scarcely be considered a human right and comes with a host of benefits, we must also be able to reserve the right to disqualify people who do not deserve to become Swedish citizens. The Christian Democrats therefore believe that those convicted of serious crime or repeated crime should be disqualified from the possibility of Swedish citizenship. The second thing is the ability to make a living. There we mean that the supply limit should be equal to the reserve amount. In that case, income from subsidised employment shall not be included. Mr President, I would like to Citizenship must also be revocable. It is logical to claim that citizenship is important. We Christian Democrats see some clear examples of when a citizenship can be withdrawn; for example, if it is possible to prove that the person who has received a citizenship has received it on false grounds. It may be a matter of stating false identity or leaving false documents. The same applies to persons with dual nationality who have actively participated or been involved in terrorist offences or war crimes. Citizenship should also be able to be revoked if it has been usurped by bribery or bribery. The Christian Democrats are working for a review of the rules on citizenship. We therefore welcome the fact that we will soon be able to debate the proposals made by the Citizens' Inquiry. Hopefully we can then have a clear parliamentary majority based on order and order, duty and requirements.
i-7eNBujRWfGN99PWCZA1woH	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the proposal in the Social Security Committee's report No 13 on citizenship to be approved. Swedish citizenship is a legal relationship between the citizen and the state that entails rights and obligations for both parties. Citizenship unites all citizens and stands for belonging to Sweden. Citizenship represents the formal membership of Swedish society and is a basis for the Swedish National Board. This is how the legislation that regulates how a person becomes and ceases to be a Swedish citizen begins. The status of citizenship for peoples' government and for part of a community also means that there should be caution about changes in legislation. The motion report we are debating today deals with a number of proposals and issues relating to citizenship. I think, with some exceptions, that the motions we are dealing with are cautious and relevant for a discussion on possible changes to citizenship legislation. Mr President, I would like to The Foreigners' Act decided by the Riksdag barely a year ago is based on a gradual entry into and becoming part of Swedish society. The main rule is temporary residence permits, but with the possibility to qualify for a permanent residence permit. With regard to some of the citizenship requirements that some sports address, we believe that these requirements should be the main ones here. That is why we have introduced both supply requirements and practical requirements and are now preparing language requirements and social skills for permanent residence permits. A permanent residence permit, together with certain other requirements, can then form the basis for an application for citizenship. The government has set up an investigation that concerns many of the issues that the movements in this area are concerned with. Among other things, there is the question of language requirements. This would thus serve as a ladder where the first level deals with language requirements for permanent residence permits and an additional level on language requirements for citizenship. Let me mention a few other elements that are included in the investigation and which are also the main reason why we reject motions because the preparation is already being done by the government. The question of automatic acquisition of Swedish citizenship for stateless children born in Sweden is included. The investigation concludes that such a system should not be introduced. However, a proposal has been made on how it could work. It is therefore a good thing that we are now waiting for the government to prepare the matter further. Another issue on which several of the motions in this report are concerned is the fact that children and young adults can obtain citizenship through registration, and that they do not do the practical tests for adults. This has been addressed by the Government and has therefore been included in the directives for the investigation that has now submitted its proposal. The investigation proposes the introduction of such rules and should apply to persons over 15 years of age. All in all, this shows that there is a great deal of consensus on many of the pressing issues raised in this debate. Then there can certainly be differences of opinion on how to regulate it in detail. But now there is the investigation, and the questions are being further prepared in the Government Office. A further issue raised by the previous speaker is included in the investigation but also in a joint announcement by the committee. It is about the possibility of rejecting an application for exemption from Swedish citizenship. In previous speakers, it sounded like that question was fresh in the motions and has not been up to date before. It has, and it is part of the investigation that the government has previously appointed. Of course, we all resent situations where children are forced to marry or people are forced into marriage against their will. In order to protect children as far as possible from being placed in such situations, the investigation was also commissioned to look at how this can be counteracted in terms of exemption from citizenship. The investigation has made urgent proposals that would strengthen children's rights and increase the possibilities for the Migration Agency to reject an application. Now we have a motion from the Liberals, who want this possibility also to be tried in court. We are in favour of this. We believe that all measures should be looked at to address the problems involved in child marriage. As I said at the outset, it is important to have sound proposals when making changes concerning citizenship. It is about rights and obligations and being part of our democracy and community. That is why we need rules on how to get into that community, but also guarantees that the state will not be able to throw one out of it lightly. Citizenship matters. So let us be careful with too drastic changes and populist moves. I think that this report strikes that balance.
i-VQwUhHpyMJdTPnnAKxAx6M	Mr President, I would like to Rikard Larsson says here that you absolutely want to see requirements. That's what it usually sounds like. My question is when Rikard Larsson and the Social Democrats intend to introduce these requirements and what they should look like. The report presented and referred to by Rikard Larsson proposes language requirements from 2025. At the current rate of distributing citizenship, this means that hundreds of thousands of new citizenships will be distributed until 2025 without any requirement whatsoever. The language requirements that the inquiry for e beats are, to say the least, weak – level A2 for reading and listening comprehension and level B1 for written skills. For those who do not know what it means: That's about what a weak-performing ninth grader is expected to pass in a third language such as Spanish or French for minimum grades. Is it really enough to be a naturalized part of Swedish society? According to the investigation, each and every other should also be exempted from the language requirement. If, for example, you are illiterate, you can ignore it. My question is why it is so important for Rikard Larsson and the Social Democrats to continue to distribute citizenship at a rapid pace without any demands. Why does Rikard Larsson so much want several hundred thousand people who have lived in Sweden for just a few years, perhaps completely lack knowledge about Swedish society and in many cases do not even understand Swedish should be allowed to vote in Parliamentary elections 2026?
i-CaKf4CU84AxzDbA8zxnByY	Mr President, I would like to I think it was the case that in his speech Jonas Andersson asked some rhetorical questions about how many do not know Swedish, how many have committed crimes and so on. Then Jonas Andersson himself stated that they do not know that. Yet he stands in the speaker's chair and paints a picture of hundreds of thousands of people who do not know Swedish and who commit crimes that can become citizens of Sweden. How many are there, Jonas Andersson? How many people who have become Swedish citizens do not know Swedish? I think the most dangerous thing we can do in this kind of debate is to throw ourselves with half-truths or fictional truths that confirm prejudice and paint the image of a society in chaos. The best thing we can do in this kind of debate and in this House is to ensure that what we say and think are reasonable rules also happens. One question was when we faced these requirements. With regard to the requirements of livelihood to stay in the country, we should remember that citizenship is not a prerequisite for staying in the country. It is the permanent residence permit that allows you to stay in the country. You can stay in Sweden for many years, all your life, without being a Swedish citizen. The question can then be asked when we introduce supply requirements for permanent residence permits. That's what we said in the Migration Committee that we would do. We've done that. We have introduced those requirements. Now we are gradually introducing the requirements for knowledge of the Swedish language that we talked about for a permanent residence permit. We are in the process of preparing language requirements for citizenship. We are therefore introducing this. But let us be careful only to spread prejudice.
i-2L9gk1Sn3dxutp6WESWG5s	Mr President, I would like to Rikard Larsson wonders how many there are. I told you, you don't know that. If you had made demands, you could have known how many there are, because then everyone who has distributed Swedish citizenship could have met those requirements. Otherwise, they would not have become citizens. But the Social Democrats obviously do not want such demands. I note that Rikard Larsson does not wish to answer the question of language requirements, either in terms of level or when they are to be introduced. For some reason, it is very important for the Social Democrats and Rikard Larsson that we continue to distribute citizenship at a very fast pace without demands. Why this is so, Rikard Larsson is very happy to answer. I may think that a good solution if you look at some kind of precautionary principle, as Rikard Larsson talked about, would be to introduce a moratorium on citizenship. That is to say, it will stop distributing citizenship for a period until these requirements have been clarified and implemented. Wouldn't that be a pretty reasonable solution? How does Rikard Larsson feel about that?
i-KvMvUzKx77edaCNGvwdd46	Madam President, I would like We've set up the investigation. We have said that we should introduce language requirements, both for permanent residence permits and for citizenship. I think I know that the best way to do this seriously, so that you also hit it right, is through a proper basis that is referred to the consultation bodies that may have an opinion, so that you get a system that works well both for those who are going to carry out the tests and for those who are going to become citizens and get into the Swedish community. It takes a little longer, but I think it is in the end infinitely better than Sweden's democratic guesses.
i-8yda9MEFetpk8to8pL1yx9	Madam President, I would like To become a Swedish citizen is something very nice. To become a Swedish citizen means a number of rights, such as an absolute right to live and work throughout the country, the opportunity to become a police officer and the opportunity to influence our common future through the right to vote in the Parliamentary elections. With citizenship comes a range of rights, but also obligations. One of the absolute foundations of citizenship is that if you become a Swedish citizen, you are a Swedish citizen, that is, a citizenship should not be recalled. If a citizenship can be revoked, one of the most important rights, the absolute right to live in Sweden, will disappear. The number of applications for Swedish citizenship in recent years has been at historically high levels. The length of the proceedings has, therefore, been far too long from time to time. Despite the re-priorities and efforts of the Agency, we see that the processing times for citizenship matters continue to be far too long. The length of proceedings for citizenship, as for other cases where processing times are long, needs to be substantially shortened. Madam President, I would like I don't think I've ever shaken as much in this speaker's chair as I am right now. I was going to make a brief, objective speech. But when I hear Jonas Andersson standing in the speaker's chair saying that it will be more difficult to become a Swedish citizen and that we will check that people who become Swedish citizens stand up for LGBTQ rights shake my whole body. Some time ago, I did the most difficult thing I've ever done. I came out about my relationship with another man. There's only one group in society that's attacked me for this, and that's the SD tail on Twitter. It is hard to sit and listen to how we should make demands on other groups when there is a group where you are particularly hard on this issue. I choose to leave my other points of speech there.
i-B8CtQweN9WJx5F3FYAFpur	Madam President, I would like Am I Swedish? Are my children Swedish? Those questions were asked by Alice Teodorescu Måwe on Twitter the other day. Teodorescu Måwe originates in Romania. She is a well-known bourgeois, conservative debater, who has worked for the Moderates, Gothenburg-Posten and Bulletin, among other things. In the answers that came up in the thread on Twitter and that I read when I scrolled, everyone said yes. The emphasis was on identity and culture. But, Madam President, the answer to these, perhaps rhetorical, questions that were asked is very simple. The person who has Swedish citizenship is Swedish. Whoever doesn't have it isn't. The right is usually talking about identity politics, but obviously you use it yourself as well. This was the policy of the right-wing identity. Madam President, I would like The report contains an announcement which is also supported by the Green Party; it became a united committee. It is about children not being released from citizenship without judicial review. This is an important issue, not least in order to prevent parents from marrying children abroad and reporting that their Swedish citizenship should be abolished when they have dual citizenship. Madam President, I would like There are a number of amendments from the right-wing opposition in this report which would make it even more difficult than today to acquire citizenship for those who come to Sweden from another country. Making it even more difficult in the way advocated would be unfortunate. Already today, the road to obtaining a permanent residence permit, which you must first have, and then citizenship, is long. It should also be added, Madam President, that the processing time of the Migration Agency is incredibly long for these matters, up to two years now. With this, Madam President, I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report.
