i-7cVtXRgApWfqqXK8T7GPfa	Madam President and you who listen to and follow the debate! Public procurement is perhaps a seemingly small issue in many people's minds, but it is a bigger and more important issue both for all the welfare services we consume and for how the Swedish business community develops. It is about contributing to continued prosperity and so on. Every year, the public sector procures goods and services for SEK 800 billion, which is one fifth of Sweden's entire gross domestic product. That's a huge amount of money. Small adjustments and minor changes in the way the public deals with this type of goods and services have a major impact on and many consequences on the way companies and others operate. It is about everything from private entrepreneurs building schools and hospitals to buying in medicines and more complicated welfare services than that. What decisions we make in the Swedish parliament and how the legislation is designed in this area have a huge impact on what is happening out there in reality. We can do a great deal to reduce corruption and ensure that taxpayers' money is not sloppy, as well as to ensure that the hard-earned money that everyone who goes to work every day collects in the form of tax revenue is used in the wisest way, so that we get as much for the money as possible. We Moderates have a proposal in this report to instruct the Procurement Authority to see more of what is about life-cycle analysis. If we make good demands in public procurement on how services are to be produced and carried out, we can contribute to headline goals, such as ensuring climate change and much more. Then it is about seeing how the whole value chain is connected, from the beginning until we have consumed some form of welfare service, whether it is about children's schooling or something else. What we should remember is that Sweden is ranked as one of the world's most innovative countries. It has created prosperity in our country, Madam President, and a continued good climate for innovation is of course crucial for Swedish companies to succeed in the world. Given how much of the Swedish economy is just public procurement, it also matters how we conduct this type of activity. One of the things we Moderates think is important is that public procurement should contribute to a better innovation climate. You should shop for functional products rather than finished products, thereby allowing entrepreneurs and companies to contribute. So they should not only respond to exactly what we want, but actually contribute to developments in this area. If we get better at this type of procurement, Madam President, we will have Swedish companies with a large home market where you can develop not only welfare services but also, as I said, constructions and much more. Then knowledge and experience from it can also be used to make economic progress in other countries. What has made Sweden rich, i.e. trade with other countries, can therefore the public contribute by having more of innovation and functional procurement. That means not saying exactly how something should be done but saying what it is we from the public wants. Political decisions in the Swedish Parliament affect a lot, as I said. One area is food. Swedish food production has been heavily charged in terms of environmental requirements and animal welfare, for example, and much of this seems to most of us in this House to be good. But it is also a development that has made it more expensive to produce food at home in Sweden than in other countries, because we take more account of the environment and ensure that the animals are doing well. It costs more money. That is why it is a strange order, Madam President, that public Sweden buys food from other countries in the world because it has become too expensive to produce food at home in Sweden with the harsh environmental requirements and the strong animal welfare we have in Sweden. This is an issue that is incredibly important to us Moderates. We have talked about it at party meetings, and I myself – if you can point it out in this context – have received motions for approval that are about getting even better in this area. We need to have more Swedish food on the plate and ensure that the food served in retirement homes, hospitals and schools has actually been produced with better consideration for the environment. We need to ensure that the animals have been well. There must be an end to just doing what is most cheap; we must also ensure that it is procured in such a way that we get what we really want. It must be connected, Madam President. The decisions we make in relation to the environment and animal welfare must be linked all the way up to the fact that the public actually buys the food and serves it in public service. More Swedish food on the plate, Madam President! With that, I'm in favour of Moderate reservation number one, and only that, for the gain of time.
i-8iePGToWrgTQKLJ1qHfxZz	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 9 in the report. The Swedish Democrats also continue to support the motion requests contained in this report on public procurement. A large part of Swedish welfare is based on the daily work that small and medium-sized companies do around Sweden. The regulatory framework for public procurement today has the potential to improve as many companies, in particular smaller ones, lack the skills and the ability to enter into a comprehensive procurement process. That being said, about 70% of all procurement is done by smaller companies, but it is a figure that can increase. The majority of all procurements today are at municipal level, and our various regions and government agencies are responsible for the remaining share. The regulatory framework for public procurement is important and increases transparency when purchasing public services, as we have heard from the pulpit. That is something that should be further strengthened. It must nevertheless be emphasised that there are some problems when certain sensitive activities may end up with undesirable actors. Is it reasonable, for example, that protective objects should be protected by companies that have close links to dictatorships? This problem was made visible during the extensive debate on safety around Arlanda Airport, but it is only one example in the crowd. There are also other sensitive and important infrastructure that are procured around Sweden. Another example, Madam President, is the Transport Agency's IT procurement, which took place in 2017, also called the IT scandal, where thousands of vehicle data came to mind. This could be attributed to a deficiency of a subcontractor. This service had been contracted through procurement. Sensitive material or information on national security must under no circumstances be compromised. The Swedish Democrats believe that it should be possible to exclude certain actors from participating in procurements on this basis. We welcome the fact that the Procurement Authority continues to work to make the public procurement system more robust, even in the event of a crisis. The statistical database that the agency is currently developing will hopefully be able to highlight any shortcomings and weaknesses in different industries and further develop the procurement tool. Furthermore, the European Commission is working on presenting a proposal which takes into account, not least, crisis instruments for the internal market in order to increase room for manoeuvre and enable rapid decisions to be taken in the event of sudden crises, just as we have seen during the current pandemic, when the European Member States did not really stand up for European solidarity. Madam President, I would like The committee supports unison that public procurement should do as much public benefit as possible in order to promote common interests and, in the long term, to achieve important objectives such as good conditions in the labour market, environmental objectives, good animal care and reduced antibiotic use, to name but a few. The motions that we from the Swedish Democrats continue to support are largely about highlighting what I have mentioned before. We believe that great importance should be attached to public purchases being directed towards more Swedish-produced goods to the extent possible and that rules should be simplified. In the long run, a simplified regulatory framework leads to increased competition, which improves the terms of procurement for clients, which in this case is public. It sounds like there are several parties in this House that can come to a conclusion. Finally, I would like to stress the importance of the food purchased through public procurement coming in all cases from animals slaughtered in accordance with Swedish animal welfare rules. There are other parties in here that are backing this, and that is why we should urgently work for this to come into place. Of course, the meat procured must also come from animals stunned before slaughter. The contracting authority has already provided support to make this easier and to make it easier for both authorities and other actors to take this on board. We believe that this should be forced by law and not optional.
i-RZvzx262j6rrjVa2xp5sH5	Madam President, I would like Public sector procurement accounts for about SEK 700 billion of our common tax revenue each year. The Left Party believes that public procurement should be orderly. Workers working in publicly funded procurement activities shall be guaranteed fair wages and conditions. Tax revenue should not go to companies dumping wages and working conditions. After the 2014 elections, the Left Party and the Green Party reached an agreement. One of the points was the elimination of social dumping in public procurement. That part of the agreement resulted in the bill New regulatory framework on procurement. It was adopted by Parliament with some changes. The decision requires contracting authorities to impose specific labour law requirements, such as collective wage, working time and holidays, in procurements above the thresholds as from 1 June 2017. Workers are thus guaranteed fair pay and conditions. In this way, publicly funded wage dumping is countered, and our common resources are being used responsibly. We in the Left Party welcome the improved regulation although, like the trade union movement, we would have liked to see stricter requirements in connection with procurement, including requirements for occupational pensions and insurance. Madam President, I would like One problem that has not been addressed by the new framework for public procurement is the long subcontracting chains that often characterise publicly procured projects in the construction sector. Main contractors often take in several stages of subcontracting, leading to long chains. This may, for example, pose major problems in terms of coordination and control at construction sites. Often there are significant shortcomings in working conditions and working conditions further down the subcontracting chains. Black jobs, tax evasion and low-wage competition are commonplace. The Left also notes that the legislation on entrepreneurial responsibility for wage claims in the construction sector that has been introduced does not solve these problems effectively either. Further steps are therefore needed to bring order to public procurement. We believe that, as a general rule, a maximum of two sub-contractors should be required in public procurement. This could strengthen the possibilities for coordination and control. Another problem with current procurement legislation was highlighted by the media during summer 2021. In connection with the Swedish Transport Administration's procurement of the guard and bridge opening function at Hjulstabron, a new subcontractor took over the operation. In connection with the transition to the new entrepreneur, the employees offered employment to the new entrepreneur received a significantly lower collective agreement and thus significantly lower wages. Madam President, I would like This is a recurring problem in public procurement. The basic problem is that the legislation allows the client, in this case the Finnish Transport Administration, to accept the tender that is most economically advantageous to the client – i.e. the lowest possible cost within the framework of the regulatory requirements of collective agreements. This means that companies that are covered by collective agreements with lower wages and conditions very often win procurements. For employees, this means a gradual reduction in the salary of each new contract. This is nothing more than a form of government-sponsored wage reduction policy, Madam President. In order to remedy this, the procurement legislation should be reviewed. It shall not be possible for the successful tenderer to award a tender in the context of a new procurement involving a reduction in the remuneration of the employees. Employees who, in the course of a new procurement, accompany from one contractor to another shall be guaranteed the salaries and conditions that have applied in the past. A first step towards change should be a mandatory requirement for tenderers to account for the staff and salary levels on which the cost estimates are based. Madam President, I would like Having said that, and in the hope that Parliament also likes order in the labour market and dislikes unfair competition and working life crime, I call for reservation 17.
i-DtYY9bPyadjM6v4oQghEWf	Madam President, I would like In 2016, we received a new procurement law in Sweden. It was welcome and meant that we got much better, and EU-adapted, legislation on the ground. At the time, we in the Green Party felt that it would have been appropriate to get sharp wordings about the possibility to make demands in the procurement for other than the lowest price. However, it was difficult, not to say impossible. The resistance was compact. This was the case despite the fact that all logic suggested that this was the right thing to do and that it was the right thing to do. Our common tax money should go to things that do not waste as much on earth's resources, which do not increase emissions but reduce them where possible and which place the same demands on children's food at school as we make on the Swedish farmers who will produce it. But we never got that far. What should have been a so-called ska requirement then became only one should. But the issue was raised and debated, and the work moved on. Thankfully, we have come much further today. Today, the Government's Social Democrats state that public procurement should be developed with the aim of further contributing to the greatest possible societal benefit from public funds. There is great potential in using public procurement as a tool for increasing environmental and social sustainability. Among other things, it deals with: promoting common societal interests such as the environment, climate, a circular economy, reducing the use of antibiotics in animal husbandry, animal welfare and human health, and good conditions in the labour market. It is very welcome. However, wordings are still being built that risk making things unclear. It is wordings that are relevant to the purpose of the procurement. Would it not have been better simply to state that there should now be an obligation and that public procurement should take into account other than price, such as compliance with Agenda 2030 and the Paris Agreement? Then we wonder when we will see the bill. It will come in the spring, but spring is fast towards summer, and there is not much time left. We know that all emissions must be cut down as soon as possible, and then we have no time to wait. Although progress has been made and, hopefully, more proposals are on the table shortly, even more must be done that takes the procurement in a sustainable direction. Our tax money should not be used to promote low price at the time of purchase and let someone else take the bill. We need to get updated legislation now, so that climate impact and resource use become the governing factors. That is why we in the Green Party want to introduce a target for the public sector to take the lead in the transition and reach near-noll emissions by 2030. The law on public procurement must then be updated, so that all public procurement must take into account environmental considerations and climate impacts and so that low climate impacts and low resource use become controlling factors. We also want climate-smart food to be the norm in the public sector. What is climate-smart food also often coincides with what is healthy food. In this way, in addition to meeting the climate targets, it also contributes to meeting the public health objectives. We have no time to wait. In 2019, the climate impact of public purchases amounted to 23.5 million tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent, according to the Swedish Procurement Authority. We also know from the Swedish Procurement Authority that there is great potential in using public procurement as a tool to make demands on circularity and climate considerations in order to achieve the environmental and climate goals as well as several of the global goals of Agenda 2030. This is what we need to take on board and use. The Coronapandemia and now Putin's senseless invasion of Ukraine will make it considerably more difficult to reach the goals of Agenda 2030 than we thought just a few years ago. Now all the tools we have really need to be used. Our common money must go to make the world better, not to leave poverty and climate debt behind us. That is why, Madam President, I support the Green Party's Amendment No 15.
i-BrFpxCCoySECPsCJN7qCQ3	Madam President, I would like We are now debating, as you have probably all heard, the FIU34 report of the Committee on Finance, which is a motion for a resolution on public procurement. During both the previous term of office and this term of office, the government has taken many important steps to develop public procurement. The contracting authority was established in September 2015 with the aim of strengthening the strategic importance of public procurement. The following year, the Government developed a national procurement strategy, and on 1 January 2017, the new procurement legislation entered into force. The objective of public procurement policy is to ensure that public procurement is efficient, legally secure and competitive, while promoting innovative solutions and taking into account environmental and social considerations. The national procurement strategy contains seven orientation objectives that contracting authorities and entities can work on the basis of which to develop their strategic work on public procurement. On 1 January 2021, a national procurement database was established at the Procurement Authority. In November 2021, Parliament decided on a simplified procurement framework. This means, among other things, making it easier and more flexible with public procurement below the EU threshold. This also applies to the procurement of social and other specific services, including health, social services and education. There is now a specific provision for dialogue between contracting authorities or entities and tenderers in an ongoing procurement procedure and a new possibility for direct procurement in the context of judicial review. This new regulatory framework came into force on 1 February this year. At the moment, the Committee on Finance also has two proposals on its table for consideration. One is a more effective review of public procurement, the other a review of the welfare of ideas. We will certainly have to debate them in this Chamber this spring. All of this means that today we have more comprehensive legislation in the area of public procurement. As previous speakers have pointed out, the value of purchased purchases in Sweden is estimated at over SEK 800 billion annually. In other words, a lot of money is being spent within the system. For us social democrats, Madam President, it is important that these tax funds are used in the best possible way. On the basis of the national procurement strategy, the Social Democratic Government has clearly demonstrated that public procurement will be developed in order to further contribute to ensuring that public funds do the greatest possible social benefit. Properly used, it is an important tool for increasing environmental and social sustainability. These include promoting common societal interests such as the environment, climate, a circular economy, reducing the use of antibiotics in animal husbandry, animal welfare and human health, and good conditions in the labour market. A departmental spromemoria with legislative proposals in these areas was referred in the autumn and is being worked on at the Government Office right now. Madam President, I would like One of the seven objectives of the national procurement strategy is legally secure public procurement. An important part of this is that contracting authorities carry out proper supplier reviews both prior to contract writing and during day-to-day management in order not to get rogue suppliers in public contracts. Contracting authorities already have an obligation in the procurement laws to control and exclude non-compliant suppliers or guilty of any of the offences specified in the law. For framework agreements, ongoing checks are carried out during the duration of the contract. Today there are provisions on labour law conditions in the legislation. This means that the conditions must also be met by subcontractors who are directly involved in the performance of the contract. This applies regardless of the number of intermediate stages between the supplier and its subcontractors. For us Social Democrats, order and order on the Swedish labour market is something of course. This is also why, during the last term of office, the government has taken a number of measures to combat labour crime. We have made strong investments in the Swedish Work Environment Authority and in inspections at workplaces. The corporate fine for serious occupational health and safety offences has been significantly increased. We Social Democrats also want collective agreements to apply to public procurement, but unfortunately there is no support for this in this House. The Government has developed a new strategy for health and safety at work, which raises the ambition for health and safety at work policy. A safe and developing working environment is central to a well-functioning and viable labour market. The government has also announced the creation of seven regional centres against labour crime. This week we presented the location of the first two, one in Mölndal in the Gothenburg area and one in Umeå. Here, nine authorities will collaborate with the mission to streamline work against work crime. I would also like to highlight the important work of the Procurement Authority in informing and providing support and guidance as well as the work on the procurement strategy. This has meant that more authorities and other contracting activities have gained more knowledge about procurement and how to procure more strategically. Calls for tender can promote innovation, environmental objectives and various social objectives. Interest in social sustainability and the use of procurement as a tool to achieve societal goals has steadily increased. It can also be seen that even small authorities with relatively limited procurement can make a difference and lead by example. The contracting authority has also been tasked with setting up a forum for the transfer of skills and the exchange of experience for innovation procurements. This will stimulate the public sector to carry out more innovation procurements and create demand for innovations that can bring added value to society, for example by strengthening the development of a resource efficient circular economy. One of today's predestined questions is about how we take care of our environment and climate. In its latest regulatory letter, the Government commissioned the Swedish Procurement Authority to report on how the Authority works to promote the use of public procurement as a tool to achieve Sweden's climate and environmental objectives and to contribute to increasing the pace of transition to a fossil-free and more circular economy and what measures have been taken to increase the share of circular and fossil-free procurement. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to point out that much has been done to develop public procurement, but more will have to be done. As I mentioned earlier, we currently have two more proposals for discussion in the Committee on Finance, and the Government Office is working on another proposal. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved and for all reservations to be rejected.
i-TxHqyWtxYb2TGyY4EEx1cE	Madam President, I would like Research has probably never been discussed as much as it is now. There has, of course, been a lot about the pandemic, first about the disease itself and then about producing vaccines. It may be thought that vaccines were produced in a very short time, but basic research on viral diseases has actually been carried out. All research at all levels is therefore needed. At the moment, it is a lot about research into defence because of the war in our vicinity, and that is of course also important. When I applied for the word research, I found this: Research is an active, systematic and methodical study conducted by researchers to gain new knowledge and increase consciousness. It sounds quite obvious, to get new knowledge and to increase consciousness is something we all want. Research has existed since ancient times. In the past, it was thought that a scientist was someone with a hair on his butt that was a little crazy. But nowadays there are researchers in all fields and at all ages and of different genders. It is important to get people to want to research, but it takes both curiosity and patience to become a researcher. Sweden is known as a nation with a high quality of its research both nationally and internationally. We have good research results in medical research, environmental and climate research, technology, such as space research, and humanities. There is constant development to improve for humanity and society. Yesterday I visited the Royal Institute of Technology, KTH Royal Institute of Technology, together with Rifo, the Society of Parliament members and researchers. We heard a lot about the research, and it was extremely interesting and very inspiring. KTH conducts both national and international research, starting up to 250 new research projects each year. So we're in a good position. We also believe that research is important in the Riksdag. Over 200 general exercise sessions were on this subject. Of course, I support all the reservations of the Moderates, but I only ask for reservation number 5 to review the doctoral programme. What is a doctoral programme? Well, it's an education you're doing to be a full-fledged scientist. It takes about five years if you study full - time, but it can also take longer. The way education is financed varies greatly. The most common is that you get scholarships or a doctoral position at a higher education institution, which is a little safer funding. In industrial research, training can be linked to a company. Approximately 20 per cent of the education consists of teaching and compulsory courses. When it comes to funding, some companies feel that the doctoral education is too long. Many companies have short lead times and want quick solutions and innovations in a short time. In order for us to develop cooperation and funding between companies and academia, the doctoral programme needs to be streamlined – hence the approval request for reservation 5. Madam President, I would like We constantly need new researchers, but unfortunately we see a reduction in both national and international doctoral students in Sweden. One reason can of course be the economic uncertainty but also the uncertainty about what research means and what a public defence leads to. It is therefore important that universities inform students about this and about the importance of research. There is also a need to broaden recruitment and encourage students from above background who have studied basic education to do research. We want both women and men to go to the research and then perhaps stay and become docenters or professors. It is important that employers in the business sector see the importance of research and of hiring a public defender. As a researcher, they want to improve the world, but it should also give good chances in the labour market. Madam President, I would like There are many important areas of research. I can't mention all of them, but one area the Moderates prioritise is space research. We benefit greatly from space research in many areas, but perhaps above all in digitalization, the environment and climate and defence. Today, Space Forum Sweden visited the Education Committee. They pointed out many important aspects of space research but also that we should not forget the important cooperation within the European Space Agency, ESA. However, it is important that we do not lose sight of ourselves, because many other nations are involved in space research. That is why we must keep our head in space research at all times. Space research also attracts many young people to study scientific subjects. Not everyone will be astronauts, of course, but there are many exciting jobs in many different areas. Madam President, I would like Another area the Moderates think is important is medical research, ranging from basic health issues to highly specialised care. We want to see more combined strategies and increased clinical research. We can see success in cancer care, for example, as many new medicines have arrived. This also applies to many quite rare diseases. One area of research that needs priority is women's diseases. Madam President, I would like We have been living with a pandemic for quite a long time and, as I said, much research has been done on it. But there are many other viral diseases where we do not have vaccines. That is why we want to see an increased national effort in viral research. There should be both virus centres and research programmes to develop the research and be able to face possible new pandemics in the future. So we want to see a lot of research on this. Although there is a lot of investment in both viral research and antimicrobial resistance, there is still a lack of money to get the effective research we need. I request the approval of reservation 5.
i-B35VnCWMc7P9wZ5TDLEKDe	Madam President, I would like Before I begin my speech, I too would like to agree that space research is extremely important and that we should probably increase the funding. It produces so many spinoff effects. In March, I was interviewed by an academic journal and asked what we can do to improve research in our country. That is what I intended to use as a starting point for my speech, rather than rumbling up our proposals, to which everyone can read. I found three things that would primarily improve research. First I came to think of Philippa Fawcett, a British woman who in 1890 sits down on a chair at the University of Cambridge to take part in the world's most difficult exam in mathematics, Cambridge Mathematical Tripos. Women had only been allowed to take part in this prestigious test ten years earlier, which can, of course, be considered today. When all the results are compiled, it turns out that Fawcett has performed the best result of all participants. The whole of Britain is in shock. A woman, who at this time just got to take part in this math exam, will be the best on the whole exam. This is a time when the old man is forced to confess in great agony. Fawcett's performance changed the perception of what women can do in Britain and around the world. She did more for the women's movement than all the quotas in the world and all the feminists together in our country. She showed by a practical act what women can achieve and that they are in practice equal to men. That is not to say that women and men are equal in everything, on the contrary. But Fawcett showed that women can perform at the same level as men and that no quota should be required. Yes– development is slower when it occurs organically, but it is still the right way to go. The advantage of a strictly meritocratic system is that it is not only my prejudices that come to shame, but also yours and everyone's prejudices. For we all have prejudice, believe nothing else. The second thing I mentioned to the magazine was specialisation and cooperation. To get really far in different areas of research, we need to achieve a critical mass of researchers and research capacity. We cannot slip research across the country for regional policy reasons or other reasons. Regional policy is sometimes needed, but it should not include our cutting-edge research. We need research centres where we can compete with the rest of the world and where the country's greatest brains in the field gather. We also need a higher education system that is relevant and effective and where resources are best used. Now I know what some of you are thinking: this is nothing that we, from a political point of view, should govern too much. But research funding is basically tax money that asphaltists, teachers and small entrepreneurs pay into society. Research must therefore also have a certain social relevance. I have here in the pulpit previously called for research on the major challenges of our time, such as gang crime and exclusion, because a large part of the funding went to peripheral subjects while major and difficult societal problems received minimal funding from, for example, the Swedish Research Council. Now I see when I read various grant lists that a clear improvement has actually taken place here. The important areas I mentioned were even addressed in the latest research bill. Research should be free, and subjects should be freely chosen. But at macro level it is unacceptable that a lot of research money goes to peripheral and odd subjects. As a curiosity, I can mention that this year I read an application to VR for knowledge, magic and horse medicine in senantia. They received SEK 1.1 million. There is nothing wrong with researching horses in senantics, but at macro level, one as responsible politicians must see how the tax money is distributed. The third thing I mentioned to the magazine was that we should not let political influences influence education and research. Jordan Peterson recently submitted his resignation to the University of Toronto. He felt that he could no longer work there because he was so strongly opposed. Peterson also said that scientific work became impossible due to the politicisation of research at the university. According to Peterson, it was primarily about the politicisation of an identity and norm-critical paradigm. In our country, Peterson was described as a fascist and mocked at classical schoolyards. I've read Peterson's books myself, and he can be described as a conservative Christian as soon as possible – let's be a stock conservative. Don't lie about your political opponents! A lie is a lie even if it is presented in political contexts. We have the same problem here as in Canada. I do not mean that you need to think like Peterson; I myself do not agree with him on a wide range of issues. What I mean is that we must be able to discuss issues freely, from different angles and preferably with science as an argument. Politicisation, I mean, threatens the quality of our research, except that it has a lot of other disadvantages. Finally, Madam President, I would like to stress the importance of research into nuclear energy. Not least the recent events in Ukraine and the elusive price of electricity have demonstrated the urgent need for clean, carbon-free energy we have today. That is why I am in favour of reservation 20 in the report.
i-RAN7zHtBUoNhBPDeG1uwFR	Madam President, I would like Sweden should be a leading knowledge nation, and in many ways we are well ahead today. It is thanks to research, innovation and new knowledge that society develops at the rate it does. With the power of a basic research that has many years on its back, we can face a pandemic, just as Marie-Louise-Louise Hänel Sandström raised earlier. During this term of office, we have been involved in developing Swedish research policy. We have negotiated a research and innovation bill together with the Government and Liberals in the framework of the January Agreement, where a number of important efforts were made to strengthen Swedish research through increased basic grants and important investments in areas identified by society such as rural areas, the environment and climate and other important elements. I would like to devote my speech to what the Center Party wants to do in the future. Several parts have been highlighted in the report, but I would also like to broaden the picture somewhat. We look with concern at the developments that are taking place around the world, where academic freedom is opposed and restricted to many researchers, teachers and other staff working in academia. We therefore see a great need to strengthen academic freedom, for example by reviewing the composition of the board so that the profession obtains a majority on boards. We also want to see a foundation reform to increase freedom among higher education institutions. As pointed out in the Research Policy Bill, there are strong reasons why it is also written into the Constitution. Basic funding should be increased to enable higher education institutions in this way to create more secure jobs within academia. It also creates the conditions for increased self-determination at higher education institutions. This is how academic freedom is strengthened. Madam President, I would like Research and higher education is primarily conducted by private initiatives in Sweden. Two thirds of investment in research and development takes place through the private sector, and then we need to make sure that we strengthen and enable more of it. The Center Party has been involved in extending the R & D deduction and broadening it. We have extended the expert tax that enables companies to recruit experts and expertise. In reservation 6, which I would like to support, we write about a great need to strengthen the research institutes and incubators in Sweden to link academia, basic research and business and offer meeting places in a better way. It is also about creating test beds and demo facilities to facilitate the commercialisation of new innovations and research. In addition, the Center Party, as we point out in the reservation, wants to review the question of the teaching round that exists today and that makes many research results never commercialized to see if there are reasons and opportunities to change it in order to actually exploit innovations, inventions and research results to a greater extent than today from the Swedish universities. Madam President, I would like There are important prerequisites for Sweden to be a leading knowledge nation. Some are that we attract staff and competence from all over the world and that we are even more successful in expanding recruitment to higher education and postgraduate education. In this context, I would like to take this opportunity to highlight a current issue that concerns doctoral students' opportunities to stay in Sweden. I think that we, together from the Swedish Parliament, should take further initiatives to enable more people to stay and thereby create the conditions. We have dealt with it earlier in the spring in another committee, where the Left Party, the Liberals and the Center Party were behind it. I hope that more people will join in order to create the conditions for foreign doctoral students to want and be able to stay in Sweden. We also need a research infrastructure that creates the conditions for leading researchers to apply to Sweden and creates the conditions for leading research to establish themselves here. It is also important for our industry's investments to land in Sweden. There is an ongoing study that has been presented but which has not yet been referred, which I hope can form the basis for future discussions about how we can strengthen the research infrastructure so that Sweden can continue to be a leading research nation. Madam President, I would like In this report, the Center Party also highlights efforts in a number of areas, and I will mention some. We have heard in the past from the speaker how important the life science sector is. We have this fresh in mind, not least on the basis of the pandemic in which we have found ourselves. We see from the Center Party a need for it. We were also part of the research policy proposal to strengthen research in primary care, which is still the major part of healthcare, where we see a need for further initiatives. We need an increased focus on cybersecurity. It is not least important in these days with the international situation that we have to strengthen our knowledge of this. Several members of the committee participated in the meeting at KTH that it was referred to earlier, where they conduct research in cyber security. We need to work more on it, and we see from the Center Party further reasons to strengthen research efforts on cybersecurity. Madam President, I would like Finally, one important issue for Sweden and the world is that we meet the climate challenge we face. We need to change society faster, and we need to make sure to have more knowledge but also better conditions to turn this knowledge into innovation and product development. And we want to see further grips on climate and environmental work and not least the bio-based economy and strengthen it by investing further in research and innovation.
i-4UMVALgCEAqQi9ikeJAyeB	Madam President, I would like The research has an incredible importance for Sweden as a knowledge nation and industrial nation, but also for the development of society and democracy. There are many issues that are important for the Left Party and that could be addressed in a research debate such as this – the basic grant, academic freedom, research areas, the right to permanent employment, which we know affects whether or not you stay in academia – but I will make some impact in this debate on the Left Party proposals. I would like to begin by referring to a report from the Swedish Research Council that came last year and deals with women's and men's ability to conduct research. The Swedish Research Council notes that the path from doctoral degree to professor level entails more challenges for women than for men. The differences between women's and men's career development and experience of being active in the university are small, it says, but recurring and often to the detriment of women. The Swedish Research Council notes that the gender balance among newly appointed professors is, admittedly, consistent in subjects such as social sciences, humanities and medicine and health. However, since there are far more women than men who do doctorate in the field, perhaps more women than men should also be appointed professors. Many who have responded to the Swedish Research Council's survey state that they have limited time to research and write applications. Statistics from SCB show that women perform more education at basic level in relation to research than men do. In fact, the Swedish Research Council sees fewer applications from women than from men in relation to the composition of the university, especially among younger researchers and teachers. More women than men are active in research fields and in employment categories with a higher proportion of teaching and a smaller proportion of research. This means that fewer women have the opportunity to qualify for external research grants successfully. The Swedish Research Council's study also confirms that publication is seen as an important success factor and that the conditions differ between women and men in favour of men. We can therefore see that there are still obstacles in academia and also in research for women. When all the small differences are added together, there is a major disadvantage for women in research. The Swedish Research Council's study shows that the Left Party's proposal in our Higher Education and Research exercise this year is important. We note that men generally find it easier to advance in positions and that the gender equality work at higher education institutions differs. Some workplaces are forward-looking and ambitious; others see gender equality as a non-issue. This is why we propose a gender equality bonus in the universities' basic grants to promote gender balance in research. The Left Party also believes that gender mainstreaming and gender equality work is an important issue and therefore believes that the mission to the higher education institutions and the Gender Equality Agency must be long-term and not one year as it is today. We also have suggestions on how to deal with the misallocation of research funding available. Madam President, I would like It is not only between women and men that the opportunities are different. Opportunities may also vary depending on the background, depending on economic factors and not least on disability. Any external obstacles for people to work with what they want must be countered. This also applies in the academic world. Today, knowledge about accessibility for researchers and teachers is too poor. We therefore need to investigate the conditions for researchers and teachers with disabilities in universities and colleges so that we can also come up with suggestions for how they can be changed and improved. Madam President, I would like Today we see that there are sometimes gaps between research and practice. In the medical field, there are several requests for more practical research, especially in clinical research. In several places combined services are introduced, where a person researches part-time and works part-time. This is mainly in the field of education and healthcare, but there are many more areas where combining services could be a good form of employment in order to obtain more practical research. We also see this type of combined services between industry and technical universities. We heard about this during our study visit to KTH yesterday, which everyone will perhaps mention in the speaker's chair today. Today, you can apply for grants from the Swedish Research Council for a position as a researcher at half-time in the clinical environment. Today, however, it is up to municipalities and regions to set up combined services, and it is therefore different across the country. Municipalities and regions generally have research and development work, but not always through combined services. Although it is in connection with clinical research that the need for more combined services is heard in the debate, the Left Party believes that there may be a great benefit to research by having combined services also in other areas, such as preschool, school, care for the elderly, etc. We therefore propose that a study be set up on how the research and development work of municipalities and regions can be strengthened and more combined services added. Madam President, I would like Now I have made a little impact on what I will be seeking approval of. Although, of course, I support all the claims made by the Left Party, I would like to endorse reservation 7.
i-Cso9kc463eUr7b3qFq5guB	Madam President, I would like This is an important debate. It is mainly about education and research. The Liberals, as previously said in the speaker's chair, have actively contributed to trying to consolidate and retain Sweden's role and position as a research nation. I am extremely pleased that just over a year ago we received an additional investment of 13.6 billion in Swedish research. Now it is time for the government to deliver from this research bill. This applies to everything from young researchers and doctoral students' conditions to how we manage the long-term recruitment. But that also applies to free research. I listened carefully to the Member of the Swedish Democrats on the Education Committee, who began by saying that he did not want to influence academic freedom. The politicians should not interfere in how the research community uses its resources, he said. However, Madam President, I noted when listening to the speech that this was precisely what the Swedish Democrats were doing in different terms and behind the heading of macro-levels. The Swedish Democrats, unlike the Liberals, want to govern more in research policy. It's obvious. Liberals are strong supporters of academic freedom for real. When it comes to free research and, for example, the role of the research councils, the research infrastructure and the Swedish Research Council, it is about extremely knowledgeable and experienced academics. They are the ones who will examine the applications received. They are the ones who should assess and examine internationally whether a particular area is something we should spend our tax money on or not. It is not the Liberals and not the Swedish Democrats. Another important part of the research bill reflected in the report and in our proposals where we follow up are research schools. I would particularly like to mention teacher training. Two years ago, the University Chancellor's Office failed half of the country's teacher education based on a number of parameters. One of the main reasons was lack of connection to research and access to doctoral teachers in teacher education. Here it is extremely important that the UKÄ continues to have an eye on all teacher training courses. It is about seeing where you can gather more teacher education, not least subject teacher education, so that you can get a critical mass in the field of research as well. We also follow this up with excellence centres. 40 million is available this year in the Swedish Research Council's budget. When I met the Director-General yesterday in a different context, I asked: What about Excellency Centres? Are they coming soon? The resources are available, but the call has not yet taken place. It is extremely important that the research bill and what the parliament and government have decided on be delivered and become a reality so that we can quickly, hopefully this summer, announce this money and get started with excellence centres from autumn to next year. What we want to highlight in particular today, Madam President, in the debate on research policy is the R & D deduction, where we see that industry's investment and investment in research and development has fallen over the last 15 years. Although Sweden is among the best in the world in terms of research and development, it is still a worrying and negative trend. The Liberals have put forward a number of proposals in the report which the Social Democrats have unfortunately rejected. We want to increase funding for research funders and universities in order to be able to co-finance collaborative projects. In order to stimulate business research, the R & D deduction is among the most effective instruments. But even with the changes that have been made in 2020 and by 2021, we see that this for the larger companies has a marginal economic impact. We question whether a ceiling for the R & D deduction is needed at all. It is better to remove the ceilings and encourage not least small and medium-sized, but also larger, companies to invest in research and establish themselves in Sweden. This brings me to the specific research efforts in the report. Here is reservation 23, which I would like to endorse.
i-5NToFf7RhR7DCgvpRYzMXX	Madam President, I would like We were apostrophated in the speech. I wonder if the Liberals want to close down the strategic research areas. It's political governance. The profile areas are political governance. Then there is the slightly more sensitive question, which I have heard about from several students, about gender education, which is forced on all possible and impossible courses at KTH, for example, which we visited yesterday. I'd like to remove all that kind of control. Now I want to be clear: No politician should detail what research projects the Swedish Research Council or, for that matter, universities and colleges are investing in. On the other hand, I take the liberty of influencing by having opinions and views and having a debate, and that is quite another matter. We will not come up with any laws or regulations for which research areas should be invested. We will certainly not do that, but we will do the opposite. We propose, for example, that strategic research areas be reduced. They should not be completely removed, but reduced. There will be less political control of it. We also propose that the basic appropriations should be increased. There will be even less political control of that. There, universities and colleges can decide for themselves what they want to do with their money.
i-FEvseetq4sYmqeJz8PKrCU	Madam President, I would like We ourselves have made proposals that we want to depoliticise academia by looking at how to appoint and staff the boards of the country's higher education institutions and universities. We want to strengthen the role of research councils. We actively say that we want to see more money for free research, where we should not have any co-sponsors or major views. On the other hand, with regard to the strategic initiatives and the profile areas, I can say that I was there when we developed the research policy proposal. It is a huge work going on ahead of a political decision, where you meet the pharmaceutical industry, Vinnova, Formas and foundations, both private and public, and listen to them. It is clear that there is a need for some kind of democratic transparency when it comes to such large amounts of money. But it is not we who say exactly how the money is to be spent. We don't tell them exactly what to do. We do not say exactly which method to use, which people to include and which country to examine, for example, medical research. Then we've already done ours. We have identified a number of strategic areas. But what Robert Stenkvist brings up concerns something completely different. He starts rhetorically, and he says SD doesn't have any bill. But who knows, Madam President? There may come a day when Robert Stenkvist becomes Minister of Higher Education and wants to start legislating on both one and the other that restricts academic freedom.
i-DqnoQPxvEpu71pNeCACk52	Madam President, I would like On that day, the strategic research areas will be reduced, and more money will go to universities. After all, we can distrust everything we say, and we can distrust everything that is said in this House. It's part of the rules of the game. You'll have to find out who's lying the most. In my speech, by the way, I raised the matter of lying. I hate lies; I'm raised like that. Yes, there is a huge amount of work behind the strategic research areas. But that does not stop it being political governance. It's not that simple either. There are experts in the research councils who distribute money. But how are they added? Is it completely unpolitical? It's more complicated than that. That some Minister for Higher Education should sit and decide in detail what proposals the Swedish Research Council gives research funding for is absurd. That's never gonna happen. On the other hand, Madam President, Roger Haddad himself said that we must have some responsibility for the tax money. This is tax money going in, and there must be a general debate on how tax money is distributed. That's what we decide. We decide what research grants different universities and research councils should receive and how large they should be. We also want to reduce the funding for research councils so that they go directly to higher education institutions and universities – even more freedom of research. The government also controls through its regulatory letters – sometimes quite a lot, at least in the regulatory letters I have read. It's not that many, but there's a few of them. So governance is taking place today. There will be no more governance if I become Minister of Higher Education.
i-5JnbriKwkHiLxYqLkqkNsM	Madam President, I would like Liberals will continue to be the guarantor of Swedish policy to safeguard academic freedom and free research. I can only say briefly, as an audience in this House, that of those who have so far taken up the floor, the Swedish Democrats are the only ones who have devoted their speaking time to referring to, criticising and having views on how to conduct different types of research projects and academic work around the country. At least I wouldn't do that if I were serious about protecting academic freedom.
i-BER391K7GX4MevpPJBJCEv	Madam President, I would like Swedish higher education and research are building our country strongly and will be the key to unlocking many future challenges, both in our country and in the world. The foundation is built throughout our education system, from preschool and primary school to upper secondary school and folk high school. The foundation is built through access to really good higher education throughout the country and a wide range of well-prepared students who step into higher education, meet skilled researchers and teachers and maybe themselves go on to doctoral studies and become researchers. Some of them will be researching pre-school education and training the next generation of pre-school teachers. There ends somehow an academic circle. Of course, all of this is to be done in an environment of academic freedom. Today, I would particularly like to highlight the importance of strong research in humanities and social sciences and to strengthen the conditions for research without animal testing. Humanities is an area with many students and many researchers, who unfortunately lag behind when it comes to funding over time. The Green Party wants to see a national humanities lift. This requires funding, strong research environments and more subject-specific competence within the research councils, but also increased collaboration between different research disciplines. For me as an environmental party, it is of course natural to highlight climate research. A very large part of Swedish climate research has been carried out in the field of science. We have been told that the climate is changing by human influence, that the change is accelerating and that the change is threatening our planet and thus future generations' opportunity for a good life. We also know relatively well what is happening in the atmosphere and what effects climate change has on the earth. Research has determined what we need to do to reverse the emissions curves and save the planet. Here research is an important transformative force that can build the knowledge we need to make the radical transformation of our way of life necessary. But research has not yet delivered the answers we need on how to implement this transformation in our way of life. More humanities, social sciences, history, sociology, behavioural science and philosophy are needed here. There is a need for other humanistic, artistic and social science perspectives where we treat how we humans are as existential beings. We are the ones who are going to make this transition. There are keys to how we actually achieve the objectives of Agenda 2030 and the Paris Agreement. It's about how we humans work. Humanities and social sciences are needed to ask the right questions to other disciplines but also to analyse and interpret research results. Without the humanities, natural sciences, medical research and other things do not provide sufficient basis for the necessary changes that we need. As you can hear, the humanities are important to the Green Party. We want to strengthen humanist science. It is needed to question, analyze and understand our present. Another issue of concern to the Green Party is animal rights. We want Sweden to invest more in the development of alternative methods for having non-animal research and meeting the EU directive's objective of replacing animal testing. According to the EU Test Animals Directive, Member States should contribute to the development and validation of alternative methods and encourage research to steer away from animal testing. The government funding has been at a rather low level for quite some time, and therefore the Green Party wants Sweden to develop a national plan for how to move to animal-free research and action plans to reduce the number of animal experiments in various research areas. We want to strengthen the work to develop non-animal testing methods. The specific issues and solutions must, of course, be left to science to develop. Madam President, I would like The Green Party supports its reservations in the report. I would like to ask you to accept reservation 24 in paragraph 7.
i-LvFwYed28NK5UE8AwPZDrm	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating motions from the general period of exercise, some 190 different forms of motion. We propose that the Parliament reject all of them, and we can consider why we are doing this. Most often this is because work is already going on in the direction that is requested in the exercise. Once a parliamentary term, Parliament produces a report on the government's research bill, as some of you who have been up in the speaker's seat have already talked about. We are doing a solid job there. We meet a lot of interest groups and, above all, a lot of researchers. We do so partly here in Parliament, perhaps together in the Education Committee or in other committees. We have hearings. But above all, we do the work of our various parties, and then come together and unite. It is usually a very unanimous report. There are some reservations, but on the whole it is very unanimous. The focus is long-term. The research proposals not only dimming from the sky, but they are based on the earlier one that applied to the previous four years. You can see a red thread if you look at the previous research proposals for a long time. There was a lot that was important in the research proposal that came in 2020, including the infrastructure for research and funding, where we increased the basic funding. We also had the internship-related research, which I am passionate about and think is very important and exciting – especially on the educational side, where we really need to do much more research on what is happening in the classroom. We also said that a strategy would be developed for Swedish participation in the EU Framework Programme so that we can bring more money from the EU to Swedish research – very important! As I said: Very important was said and done in that research bill. One could say that we moved our positions forward and solved some challenges. Of course, there is still much to be done, but this is the big thing that is being dealt with during a term of office. During the pandemic, research actually stepped right into our living rooms every afternoon at two o'clock when the Public Health Agency had its televised press conference. I have talked to a lot of people who have said that they really got their eyes on how important the research is. There we also saw, as someone said earlier, how important basic research is. This was the reason why during the pandemic we were able to come up with a vaccine at a record speed. It would not have happened if the world's countries hadn't spent a lot of money on basic research and if not the fantastic cooperation that existed between academia and industry on these issues had existed. This morning I read an article in the Swedish Research Council's newspaper Curie where Pernilla Nilsson, who is a new educational science leader, I think it is called, at the Swedish Research Council, wrote about how important it is that we think interdisciplinaryly. She took the pandemic as an example, and felt that it was not just about health care but that there were more perspectives that now had to come in as we look at what happened during the pandemic, not least as regards what happened to those who couldn't be in school every day and the knowledge debt that we're talking about that we actually have. What happened? We are also currently in the midst of a war in which Russia has invaded Ukraine. Then it is very good that we have an international network, that is, Scholar at Risk, which actually works to promote academic freedom, which we have talked about here today. Last night we visited KTH, as some have mentioned, together with Rifo. Scholar at Risk means that persecuted researchers, or in this case Ukrainian researchers, who can no longer operate in their home country – it can also be regime-critical researchers from, for example, Russia and Belarus – can receive a temporary position in Sweden. I asked the headmaster about this, and she said they have a scientist there right now that they have received. 28 higher education institutions in Sweden and 500 higher education institutions worldwide are involved. It's a very important job just to show that we don't agree to this with threats and hatred of scientists. We must stand up for academic freedom. Even we in Sweden saw during the pandemic that there were researchers who suffered so much hatred and threats when they delivered results that were considered wrong that they chose to refrain from participating in the public debate. Such things must always be counteracted as much as we can. The importance of research cannot be stressed enough, not least in terms of growth. We know that two thirds of Europe's growth is derived precisely from research. We know that research is extremely important when it comes to technological innovations and when it comes to how we use materials in new ways. I visited Stora Enso on Friday at Skoghall in Värmland. Then I heard a number that I will carry with me: Every sixth carton of liquid sold in the world is produced at Skoghall's mill. This would not have been the case if it had not been many years of research to develop those cartons. The cooperation of industry, academia and the public sector is therefore extremely important. We have, as I started with, a lot of reservations. These are important, good reservations, but, as I said, most things are already going on or are going to happen in the near future. I want to say this: If we are to succeed in our Swedish research and with the research of the whole world, it is based on having a school where all children can be their best self and succeed and move on in life. If we do not succeed, we will not have any researchers in the future who will be those excellent researchers who will find the new materials or find out how we can use old materials. I think that is our most important task. I support the proposal in the report.
i-AaxnPLTGo54jNZCXQLod92	Madam President, I would like The research must never be taken for granted. The pandemic has put in lightning how important it is to protect free research and not least basic research. Without the basic research that began 17 years ago, it would not have been possible to get a covid-19 vaccine in place so quickly. It was also crucial with the global collaboration between pharmaceutical companies that took place and that several countries had co-financing. We must also take advantage of the good experience gained from this in order for research to provide the best possible social benefit. If we are going to try to see something overall positive with the pandemic, in the midst of all the negative, I think it is that more people have gained interest in research. There has been talk about research, and I think that's fantastically good. Madam President, I would like Sweden will be one of the world's leading research and innovation countries. To achieve this, support for free research is required where allocation is guided by scientific quality and provides the conditions for more research environments of the highest quality. Clear career paths based on merit positions are another important element for young researchers to develop into prominent researchers. There are major shortcomings here today, and I have lifted several of them in the past. Today, Madam President, I would like to go into some depth with the government's increase in basic appropriations. It is an increase that we Christian Democrats welcome in substance, but the problem is that the investment has not resulted in increased funding for research and doctoral studies at all universities. This is because the government has chosen a resource allocation model based on the number of full-year students. In practice, the distribution model has meant that Karolinska Institutet and the universities in Uppsala, Stockholm, Gothenburg and Lund have only received a marginal increase in the basic grant, and then it is the 5 Swedish universities that rank among the world's top 200. Instead, the vast majority of the increased basic funding is directed at small universities with limited research activities. The Government wrote in the bill that the purpose of raising the basic grants was to create the conditions for universities to make strategic research priorities and take responsibility for high quality research. There is now a distorted distribution as the lack of resources to older universities in particular undermines their ability to carry out the world-leading research necessary to solve the major societal problems that exist. On behalf of the Christian Democrats, we would like to emphasise that individual colleges, colleges and universities complement each other. It is therefore important that all universities are given the best conditions to create strong environments for both education and research of the highest quality. I would therefore like to call for reservation 3 to develop a new resource allocation model that ensures that the increase in basic funding will meet the needs of both higher education institutions and research universities. Finally, Madam President, Sweden must act vigorously because the death sentence against the former researcher in disaster medicine at Karolinska Institutet, Ahmadreza Djalali, is not being enforced. I would therefore appeal to the government to do everything in its power, whatever it can, to release him.
i-XczzhVqNhUNWQ24s3or5Na	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. We are now debating bicycle policy and the report by the Committee on Transport and Tourism, TU11. It is a general exercise report with a total of 115 motions and 25 reservations. I would like to begin by calling for the Left Party's reservation number 5 to be approved. I think we agree that an increase in cycling has many advantages. You know, cycling's kind of weird, you know, quiet. It is relatively cheap – most people can afford a bicycle, to compare with, for example, a car that not everyone can afford. Furthermore, there are no emissions from the cycle. And it's good for public health if we cycle more. But promoting increased cycling is unfortunately something that has been overlooked in national infrastructure planning. Of course, there is some money in the national infrastructure plan, our most important instrument for building new infrastructure, for so-called urban agreements. Where municipalities co-finance together with the state, for example, the development of bicycle infrastructure. There are county plans at the bottom, and there is a small bicycle pool with some money. At least this has been the case so far. We do not know what this will look like in the future infrastructure plan. But I cannot see that the government has so far announced that there will be some big bike ventures. These are not included in the proposal made by the Finnish Transport Administration either. It's very troubling. If we are seriously to promote increased and safe cycling, the state must be involved in taking responsibility for the development of the bicycle infrastructure. We need continuous cycle paths that do not stop at the county or county borders. They will of course go through municipalities, counties or regions. Then the state must take greater responsibility than it has done so far. Madam President, I would like During the pandemic cycle has actually been the only traffic type that has increased, and cycling has increased sharply, at least in our cities. It is positive that people discover the bike as a means of transport. Around the world we see a very similar trend. And you haven't been late in responding to the increased demand for cycling more. Cities such as London, Milan, Berlin and Paris have built temporary bike paths. Spaces for cars have been used and so-called pop-up bike paths have been built. - parking spaces for cars have also allowed space for pedestrians and cyclists and other things. Paris is perhaps the most important example of the transformation of our cities in favour of increased cycling. In Paris it has been said that two thirds of the city's parking spaces will be converted into areas for walking and cycling and into green areas. Two thirds is a fairly large reconstruction. It also builds nine regional bike paths from the Paris suburbs towards the centre of Paris to make it easier for bike commuting. In France, subsidies are also made for those who buy a new, or for that matter used, bicycle. The deputy mayor of Paris said something worth thinking about. He said something like this: The more surface we give to cyclists, the more people will also cycle. I think that's exactly the way it is. Today, many people are reluctant to cycle because they do not feel safe cycling in the middle of the roadway and are crowded with cars, buses and trucks. That is why we in the Left Party want strong government investment in extended bicycle infrastructure. Today, bicycle is seen as some sort of appendage that is thrown in like the yeast after the dough. You'll think of it this way. Maybe we should have a bike path here too. This is no longer the case. We must have a conscious expansion of the bicycle infrastructure. We also need to think about what happens when we convert paths to so-called two-plus-one paths. They are good from a safety point of view, but we are building barriers for pedestrians and cyclists. Therefore, the Left Party wants that when you build roads with middle separation and maybe take a weigher to get to two files must be on and also build a bike and walkway along the road. It should also be possible to take the bicycle with you in public transport, not least on trains. The Road Act must be amended – we have mentioned this in the Transport Committee before – so that cycling infrastructure can be built regardless of whether or not there is an existing road there. We can also change the travel allowance so that it promotes increased cycling. Such initiatives are under way. Madam President, I would like Another important issue discussed in the case is so-called electric scooters. Actually, we should call them electric scooters. There are very few people who kick their way on these vehicles. They have become a major feature of the cityscape in many cities in Sweden. If I were to come up with an appropriate definition of an urban chaotic inferno, I would say: Let them be exhibited anywhere and parked anywhere. ..................................................... This is about what we have got in Stockholm and Gothenburg and in many other places. It's not okay. An electric scooter can be a fun toy. An electric scooter can also be a good means of transport if it is used properly. However, today's freedom for large venture capital companies to exhibit their electric scooters anywhere in our cities and for users to leave them anywhere has become a freedom for everyone else in the urban space. Ask not least our disabled friends. I have talked a lot to representatives who are blind, for example. They say that it is now terrible to get on a sidewalk or other where there can be an electric scooter anywhere. It is good that we are raising the issue in this report and that we are now calling for regulations from the government so that there can be a better order for electric scooters. It is also gratifying that the government itself has come forward with a ban on parking electric scooters on pedestrian and cycle paths. That's absolutely right. It is also good that cities and municipalities, such as Stockholm, have taken the initiative to limit the number of electric scooters on the municipality's surface. It has also been won in court when it has been appealed by the electric scooter companies. But more needs to be done. For example, we should have regulation so that it should be obvious to all our municipalities that it is they who decide what should be on the municipal land. It should of course be licensed business, in the same way as if I set up an ice cream bar, falafe l kiosk or whatever it may be. Then I'll have to apply for a permit. That should also be done by the electric scooter companies. There is also a need for a definition, a classification, of the vehicle's electric scooter. It should reasonably be somewhere between moped class 1 and class 2, so that we can make demands on where they can be driven and not, on helmets and other things. The announcement proposed by the committee in the report is a good step forward. But it needs to be concrete. Some of these things are mentioned in the report by the Left Party in our reservation.
i-PygeSr2QAtUkttuti8ZXVR	Madam President, I would like Today, we are debating the report by the Committee on Transport and Tourism, TU11 Bicycle issues with movements from the general period of exercise. I would like to begin by calling for reservation 16 on electric scooters. Madam President, I would like We Social Democrats want more people – both young and elderly, those living in cities or rural areas and girls and boys – to be able to transport parts of or the whole distance by bicycle. I am therefore pleased that the Government's ambition is clear in this area. The government has taken a number of measures to increase cycling and strengthen its role in social development. In particular, the national cycling strategy, which was established during the last parliamentary term, has played a major role. It states that cycling will increase, but it will also contribute to increased road safety. This is important and a starting point for our work. But in order to achieve this goal, we need to help each other and do even more. The government wants to see an increase in cycling throughout the country. Increased and safe cycling can help reduce the environmental impact of travel, strengthen public health and contribute to a better urban environment and reduce congestion in urban areas. In order to increase the proportion of people travelling by bicycle, the potential for increased cycling in and around urban areas is to be exploited and municipalities have the tools to plan efficient and good cycling paths with good accessibility. Madam President, I would like The conditions are different in our country, which is why it is important to start from this when we talk about more people being able to cycle. I would therefore like to mention in particular the role of the regions and municipalities in the work. The municipalities are responsible for approximately 80 per cent of the bicycle road network. I would also like to mention the organisation Swedish Cycling Cities, which brings together a number of Swedish municipalities, which are at the forefront of promoting cycling and strengthening the infrastructure needed. They share knowledge and cooperate exactly as we must. We all need to help each other. All parties at different levels and in different parts of society must assume their responsibilities in order for the cycle to have exactly the place in society as highlighted in the national cycle strategy. The cycling strategy identifies a number of areas that are solid as the government's starting point. The first area is to raise the role of cycling in community planning. The second area is to increase the focus on groups of cyclists. The third area is to promote a more functional and user-friendly infrastructure. The fourth area is to promote safe cycling. The fifth and final area is the development of statistics and research. Madam President, I would like Last autumn, the Government commissioned the Swedish Transport Agency to investigate and analyse a number of issues that we saw as necessary for us to be able to move forward in increasing cycling in our country based on the national cycling strategy. The tasks currently under investigation include how the rules for one-way traffic can be appropriately amended to allow cycling in both directions where engine traffic today is one-way. The Swedish Transport Agency must also submit a proposal for a rule change in the case of one-way and other cases where it considers it appropriate. The assignment is also about how cyclists can be granted exemptions from the rules on stopping like red signals when the cyclist makes a right turn. The task is to analyse so-called all green for cyclists, i.e. when all cyclists at a intersection with traffic signals get green at the same time. It will also examine how changes in traffic rules can promote the safe re-run of cyclists. It is also necessary to see whether there is a need for clarifications or changes in the rules regarding cycling in width. Last but not least, the need for other changes to traffic rules that could lead to an increase in the share of people travelling by bicycle should be examined. Madam President, I would like The question of objectives for cycling has been much discussed. It is therefore a good thing that the Government gave the Swedish Road and Transport Research Institute, VTI, which includes the Bicycle Centre, the task of investigating and preparing proposals for targets to complement the existing ones. Taking into account the socio-economic impact of cycling, this will promote increased cycling across all ages and socio-economic groups throughout the country. The aim is to increase cycling in such a way as to contribute to increased accessibility and public health, and to achieve climate and environmental quality objectives. In addition to the actual target formulation, the task was to develop a target structure and propose indicators and systems for monitoring the proposed objectives. The investigation has just been completed and is now being further prepared, which is very good. Madam President, I would like I would like to say something about the reservation that the Social Democrats have with the Green Party and the Christian Democrats. The announcement that is likely to get a majority in this House states that the government should urgently ensure that the necessary clarifications are implemented of the regulatory framework for rented and electric scooters, not least to minimise personal injuries and parking problems. This, Madam President, is breaking open doors. I would like to emphasise that this is a priority for the government. The Government has commissioned the Swedish Transport Agency to describe the regulations that apply and investigate the need for simplified rules for electric single-person vehicles, including electric scooters and electric bicycles. We Social Democrats are clear that road safety and order and rules must be established, but we also see the need to make use of and enable new technologies and innovation in the field of transport. In no less than three reports, the Swedish Transport Agency reports various problems and suggestions regarding electric scooters. The reports have been consulted and are currently being prepared in the Government Office. In addition, the Government has developed a memorandum prohibiting the parking of electric scooters on a pedestrian or cycle path other than at parking places intended for bicycles. It is important that the government but mainly municipalities and electric scooter companies take a greater responsibility to sort out the situation around the country with sloppyly parked electric scooters. The proposal in the memo is a major step along the way and provides municipalities with an additional tool to create order and order through the introduction of a parking ban on streets and bike paths. However, I would like to emphasise that there are already opportunities to act at the municipal level regarding regulations, not least in terms of parking and road safety. Our ambition must be to create order, not to ban electric scooters. Finally, Madam President, if Sweden is really to become the first fossil-free welfare country and achieve a green sustainable transition in the transport sector, the cycle must be seen as an important key.
i-JvgGcEFnp9YKbbp1Pv73k4	Madam President, I would like I agree with much of what Elin Gustafsson says about the importance of expanding the bicycle infrastructure. Of course, municipalities manage a large part of what has been built so far. But that is also part of the problem. We place almost all the responsibility on the municipalities to expand the bicycle infrastructure. But the municipalities, bicycle organisations and others say that they want strong government co-financing to expand bicycle infrastructure. But it must not just be a small pot that is there and squalid, but it must be a powerful grant to expand bicycle infrastructure throughout the country. When we discussed the infrastructure bill about a year ago, there were no such proposals. And when I look at Trafikverket's proposal for an infrastructure plan, there is also no real investment in the bicycle infrastructure.
i-AQVsXmDCXbjQPtX6bxyHfd	Madam President, I would like I share Jens Holm's commitment to bicycle issues. So does the whole Social Democratic Party. So the answer to the question of whether and how the Social Democrats want cycling to increase throughout the country is clear, which I also tried to highlight in my speech. We have contributed step by step to increasing cycling throughout the country, both in the city and in the countryside. We have done so not least through the national cycle strategy, regulatory changes and other things. Jens Holm deals with concrete funding of the infrastructure, and in this respect too, we have gradually increased our overall ambitions. We have done so in both the previous and this parliamentary term. I would like to emphasise that the urban environment agreements have played a very important role and still do so. I myself have a background as former municipal councillor in a large bicycle municipality, Lund. There I have my own experience of how this pot has contributed positively to the development. Of course it has played a role and it does matter with the money that we have put in the form of urban agreements, in trimming measures and new infrastructure. It is important that we also continue and that we keep up that work. For us it is clear that cycling will increase throughout the country and not only in our big cities where most already choose the bike but also outside our big cities.
i-V3ByiozwyMRytzsdsL6xPT	Madam President, I would like There are very good things about the urban environment agreements. But there are also some problems with the urban environment agreements. This applies, for example, to the fact that municipalities have to account for a large part of the funding. Not all municipalities have that money. When you look at national infrastructure planning, you see that it is like cycling infrastructure being forgotten in practice. It is not included as a supporting part of the planning or funding. That is why I wanted to ask Elin Gustafsson about precisely the funding and whether the Social Democrats want a robust own grant in the national infrastructure plan to expand the bicycle infrastructure. I remember, for example, that the bicycle industry has proposed that about 10% of the development budget, which is about building new infrastructure, should be able to go to building bicycle infrastructure. This is about 10% of the national infrastructure pool. That is certainly not the case today. We have a bicycle pot that I think is SEK 100 million a year. It is not enough to expand the bicycle infrastructure on a large scale.
i-9dCxpHmnyoBNcZ41ytrc9A	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jens Holm! Now this is not a debate on the infrastructure bill or national plan. However, I note, as I did a little bit in my first speech, that at about this time last year we were able to decide on a historically large framework for infrastructure. It's good, and it's important. It is clear to us Social Democrats that we need to continue to increase our ambitions in terms of expanding the infrastructure. We need not least to make a contribution to the green transition. It is clear to us that cycling obviously has an important part to play in this. It also benefits cycling when we raise the ambitions we have made within the framework of the infrastructure bill and the urban environment agreements. It is not least linked to different regulatory and other concrete proposals. It is based on the national cycle strategy that we have. It is clear to us Social Democrats that cycling together with other modes of transport has an important part to play in the future infrastructure planning. We need to ensure that cycling can increase throughout the country, both in urban and rural areas.
i-DLtgcRDiJytgg6EunD8UvB	I would first like to welcome some in the gallery. They are parliamentarians from North Macedonia. Welcome to us!
i-21s8Mxmqz1ydx8z1sBStYH	Then I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered today by Minister Anders Ygeman, Minister for Climate and Environment Annika Strandhäll, Minister Hans Dahlgren and Minister Max Elger. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. The Government Anders Ygeman answers both general policy questions and questions within its own area of responsibility.
i-Q3PXsi1a3kXorDaj3p1VgY	Madam President, I would like Authorities and electric car manufacturers are now strongly warning that the roll-out of charging poles is too slow, which could jeopardise the transition. It is said that at the end of the year there will be twenty cars per charge – to compare with six just five years ago. The government has not been able to obtain the required electricity or expand charging poles at the rate necessary for everyone to be able to participate in the conversion. But thanks to the record climate budget that M, KD and SD got through in Parliament last autumn, the money for charging poles will now be doubled. No one should have to refrain from buying an electric car or having a lump in your stomach because it is not possible to charge, no matter where you live. Now, however, the money has to go out so that charging poles are built along our roads. Today it may take several years to get the electricity drawn or to get the necessary permits. My question is what Minister for Climate and Environment Annika Strandhäll intends to do to build them, all the charging poles that are required for everyone to dare buy and be able to drive an electric car.
i-69PF266xZjPbFFhXPKMtRh	Madam President, I would like Yes, it is a fantastic development we see in Sweden. In March this year, 61 per cent of all new cars sold were electric cars. Thanks to a sustainable climate and environmental policy over the last eight years, we are now seeing how the green transition is taking off. Since 2014, the government has been investing heavily in this particular area through, among other things, the Climate Klivet. Since 2014, we have actually quadrupled the budget for the environment and climate in this country. It is also a priority for the government to continue to invest heavily in expanding the charging infrastructure. We have so far built 65 000 charging poles in Sweden. We are almost at the top of the EU in terms of density and now have an electrification strategy pointing the way forward.
i-2vUeTdirKubcp9WbGvJG4Y	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Annika Strandhäll, for your answer! I can only say that both the authorities and those selling the cars note that the lack of charging poles today is a threat to people's willingness to buy and drive an electric car. Isn't it a concern that the government shares? That's my first question. Is the Minister concerned that the roll-out of the charging post is too slow, and what concrete proposals are there to speed up, for example, the drawing of electricity grids and obtaining the necessary permits to build charging poles?
i-8haynJ3xyKWtyVzUHHfsBQ	Madam President, I would like As I said, this has been a priority for the government all along. The first years, between 2015 and 2018, a total of 1.9 billion were allocated to expand this particular infrastructure – to compare with this year, when we allocate 2.7 billion only to 2022. It goes partly to other things than charging infrastructure. But we have now adopted a new electrification strategy and will solve this; I am convinced of that.
i-TpqbPC9E2tCgt2RHRJwdY	Madam President, I would like As early as 2017, it was decided that Mohamad would be expelled from Sweden. Even so, after five years, he's still in our country. During that time he has committed a number of crimes; yet he is still there. He is now suspected of raping a woman and pushing her down to face death in a deep pit for refusing to marry him. As if that weren't enough, he should have returned and thrown stones at her to make sure she would really die. His former wife has been missing for two years. The result of the government's policy is the breakdown of integration. Innocent people are subjected to serious crimes and are committed with their lives. If the expulsion order had been executed, the victims of Mohamad would have been spared these atrocities. Why this flatness, Ygeman? How does the Government defend the possibility of this happening?
i-VpLyEaVWdAJEjL1L9g1mTr	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mrs From Utterstedt, for the question. I have no intention of defending it. Why would I do that? Those who are refused their asylum application shall return. Those who are granted consent must be integrated into Swedish society. Since the Social Democrats formed the government in 2014, over 90 000 people have returned. It is a far greater return from Sweden than in several of the countries where the party comrades of the Swedish Democrats rule. But we're not happy with that. More will return, because our policy is clear: If you have asylum and protection reasons, you should be able to learn Swedish quickly, get a job and contribute to the Swedish household. If you don't, you're going back.
i-6Uz3ToqJj2nRGEacpE4e5T	Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, Gruv-Mohamad is only one of thousands of criminal foreigners who illegally reside in Sweden. However, against the will of most Social Democrats, the Riksdag has finally decided to carry out a census in which illegal migrants can be identified. Government! Will Sweden now, once and for all, ensure that all criminals who do not have the right to reside in our country are removed?
i-Q7QXYfF1eH2oALbxvpMFXr	Madam President, I would like I do not know if Ann-Ann-Christine From Utterstedt reads aloud from any prepared and finished point of speech. A population and housing census is carried out regularly in Sweden, but it will not get to this. It was not unknown that the person described by Ann-Ann-Christine From Utterstedt was in Sweden. Sending out a form and asking if he lives in a three or four, as Ann-Ann-Christine From Utterstedt wants to do, would have had no influence. Those who are turned down will return. The ones who get me will stay.
i-FcMnkEpoW65TCRKbvtBXVS	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Max Elger and concerns Statens fastighetsverk. The National Property Board has to manage and manage a large number of properties throughout our country as well as embassies abroad and so on. Some of them are called grant properties. Only the name makes me think a little bit. These are facilities that are highly valued culturally and touristically. I meet around the country various stakeholders – municipalities, regions and companies – who have great concerns about the actions of the National Property Board. It's about rent negotiations without reality. You have to close facilities because of racial risk. The parties that meet find it very difficult to reach an agreement in their negotiations. The real estate agency is under the Ministry of Finance and receives its assignments from the government. Does the Minister consider that the National Property Board has an assignment that does justice to hundreds of Swedish cultural properties?
i-JVHxuhzdGBfgaMCJNuz5Af	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question, Mrs Schöldberg. It is true that the Swedish Real Estate Agency manages the properties of the Government Office, foreign properties, county residences and also the culturally-historically valuable properties known as grant properties. This is well explained by the fact that it is real estate that has a very large cultural historical value but is associated with large operating deficits. There will simply be no direct revenue flows for Fastighetsverket in relation to those properties. We have contributed quite significant resources to the Swedish Real Estate Agency to manage all these properties, including the grant properties. Last time we raised to SEK 50 million for 2022, and with this budget it is the Swedish Real Estate Agency's responsibility to make its priorities and maintain the properties to the best of its ability.
i-6nf4KTZHcyzj7BFJbhC7fM	Madam President, I would like Having said that, is the Minister bere dd to work on and further develop the opportunity? There is a huge potential and a very high ambition in regions, municipalities and companies, which together with the National Property Board want to further develop these sites.
i-WejZASupmfxtUmvnWuU3Ps	Madam President, I would like I don't intend to repeat the Real Estate Agency's mission myself. But I assume that the Swedish Real Estate Agency, based on this mission, operates to the best of its ability. I might add that, for this purpose, this government has contributed quite substantial sums. Next, the Real Estate Authority must prioritise, because the stock is very large.
i-6H2wLg7dvew3TGhB7VCKc7	Madam President, I would like I have a question for the Environment and Climate Minister. From 2023 onwards, we will have a new agricultural policy in Sweden. A while ago, the European Commission criticised the Swedish proposal for a new agricultural policy because it is not in line with the Swedish and European targets for biodiversity and climate change. Moreover, the distribution of subsidies is very unfair. Large farmers get a lot of money while small farmers get nothing or very little. A few steps to correct this could be to only provide subsidies for the rearing of animals that are allowed to go outdoors and graze, to have greater environmental benefits for biodiversity and, of course, to make more contributions to small farmers and small businesses.
i-CjCtojqhqUKJJvXd9Uw93q	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jens Holm, for an important question! The Government prioritises, as Jens Holm knows very well, that Sweden should be at the forefront of environmental and climate policy and that we should also have a leadership shirt internationally. Today we have an agricultural policy that we think is well balanced and with which we are generally satisfied. But of course, when criticism comes, we always listen to it and absorb it. And then you'll see if there's a need to make any adjustments or come up with any new proposals in that direction.
i-JAhSRQEemiE2qz87o3f8UQ	Madam President, I would like It is good that the Minister wants to make changes towards more biodiversity, increased climate change and increased economic justice in Swedish agricultural policy. But I note that the Minister for Rural Development Anna-Caren Sätherberg, when asked in Swedish Radio, said that she does not want to make any such changes. In what way does the Minister for the Environment want to make these improvements to the proposal for a Swedish agricultural policy?
i-842YqvvayGp6jE8uCkc4cW	Madam President, I would like As Mr Holm will understand, this is a question that is perhaps more appropriate to ask the Minister for Rural Development. For my part, as Minister for the Environment and Climate Change, I have always to coordinate and drive forward the joint work within the government to keep our focus on biodiversity and achieve our goals in both climate and environmental work. I intend to continue with this.
i-LRSdBMMyoU2B9Qctez1K4N	Madam President, I would like Almost a month and a half ago, I asked Minister Ernkrans a question about the government's inability to assist civil society, which is making fantastic efforts to help not only Ukrainian refugees but also Ukraine. Today, I would like to address a similar question, albeit more specific, to Minister Ygeman. The mass refugee directive does not entitle Ukrainian refugees to SFI, Swedish for immigrants. The Government has instead announced that everyone, regardless of whether they live at the Migration Agency's accommodation or at home with private individuals, should be offered Swedish education via study circles, something called Swedish from day one. Our study associations are responsible for making this possible. So far I have no question, but there is one problem that I would like the Government to comment on. In the government's spring budget, there were no proposals for changes or new money for study associations and public education in terms of their efforts. My question is, why?
i-K4pw4SfM2DFGvsWMEDW1XU	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Eklind, for the question. It is true that those covered by the mass refugee directive, Temporary Protection Directive in English, are not covered by the right to read Swedish for immigrants. It is a more long-term measure, and the idea is that those coming from Ukraine should be able to return to a free and democratic Ukraine. Then Swedish is offered from day one, as Hans Eklind is at, but also a language café and various digital solutions to learn Swedish. I share Hans Eklind's view that civil society, including study associations but not just study associations, has made great efforts to welcome Ukrainian refugees to Sweden. For this work, we have also contributed a number of millions of SEK to the NGOs. However, we have not so far directed any specific financial effort at the study associations.
i-BFjnix4s2KcM2A7zRcSChm	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The problem, however, is that on 1 April – it was not an April joke – the study associations informed the government that the money was running out or was running out. The consequence, then, if more money is not added, is that we have to slow down or finish these courses, which I think the Government and I fully agree on are important. If we think it is an important effort by the study associations, the supplementary question is: Why has the government not made more money available?
i-XQVQgHAK5mPEuASdMthUB6	Madam President, I would like The background is, of course, that we chose not to direct money to the study associations but instead to make a broader effort at more NGOs which, through various other efforts, are also involved in helping with language training and language skills training for Ukrainian refugees. However, if it turns out that in time this will become an insurmountable task for the study associations, it is clear that we need to take a serious look at whether we should not target funds also specifically to the study associations and not just to civil society as a whole.
i-6Y7997UQmF9xAavKJksEv7	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Annika Strandhäll. Liberals want to reach the target of a 70% reduction in transport emissions by 2030 compared to 2010. It is electrification along with the reduction obligation that can achieve this. When the current curve for the reduction obligation was set, a very defensive view was taken of how quickly the sales of rechargeable cars would increase, which resulted in a high reduction obligation. We in the Liberals did not believe this and demanded a control station in 2022 in order to adjust the curve. It turns out now that we got it right. Already today, over 50% of the cars sold are rechargeable, far above the scenario used for the reduction obligation. My question to Annika Strandhäll is: If the Swedish Energy Agency's investigation in September shows that we can reduce the reduction obligation and still reach the transport target of 70 percent lower emissions in 2030 due to the rapid increase in rechargeable cars, is the government prepared to lower the reduction obligation curve?
i-Mj4uGXVtPZ9iH4pBtD2va6	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Helena Gellerman, for a very good question! It goes without saying that the reduction obligation has served us extremely well. In fact, it is one of our most important tools for achieving our emissions targets. I am also extremely pleased that we are seeing the development that we are seeing in the electrification of the transport sector and that it is going very fast and surpassing all the scenarios that we could have ever really imagined. But the government has announced, and brought forward, that we will take part in this evaluation in September. Of course, we will do so with great seriousness. That is why we have asked for it to be brought forward. At the same time, as Minister for the Environment and Climate Change, I am very humbled by how important the reduction obligation is for us to meet our emission targets.
i-BLh5kqNiafjsj62X3e9yBE	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. We share the idea of the reduction obligation – that it is important. However, the question was whether we are prepared to adjust it if it turns out that we are still achieving the objectives. Then I would like to hear a little bit about how the Government works towards the European Union, which we consider to be an important environmental organisation. How does the Government work to ensure that we get a high level of involvement of biofuels and electrofuels in a reduction obligation within the EU?
i-3UEQ4YpbZpRxTzRmvEDtz1	Madam President, I would like As Helena Gellerman will probably understand, I will not want to anticipate the evaluation that we have asked for in September. My role in this context will, of course, be to ensure that we reach the emission targets, and then we need to work on many different fronts. We are doing a very ambitious job in the EU, including the implementation of the whole Fit for 55 package, where Sweden will have a leadership shirt.
i-RBs1eQURUmoi2wLoUfVsPW	Madam President, I would like The tax cuts made for petrol and diesel combined with the frozen reduction obligation increase emissions. It also benefits Putin's Russia. Nevertheless, no safety policy analysis was made by the government before the proposals were put forward – I received that the other day in response to a written question. However, an environmental impact assessment was carried out. The paused reduction obligation increases emissions by 880 000 tonnes and makes it less advantageous to switch to electric power – this in the midst of a climate crisis. I would therefore like to ask Minister for Climate Change Annika Strandhäll: Why is the government making active decisions to increase climate emissions when we should do everything we can to reduce them as quickly as possible?
i-Nq2kMnuws3CXvvxu5GCiNF	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Rasmus Ling, for the question! Everyone needs to be able to get to work even when there's war in our neighborhood. What the government has presented is a very broad support package for households and agriculture, but also a paused increase in the reduction obligation, precisely to meet Putin prices. The Parliament's climate goals are fixed. The government also wants to see more biofuel production in Sweden. The reduction obligation, as I said in a previous post, is an incredibly important instrument for reducing our dependence on imported fossil fuels, which is good both for the climate and for our safety. We will simply do what is necessary to strengthen Sweden in this situation but also create new jobs by leading the climate transition. I think it is a balanced package that the government has come up with in this situation.
i-722ZQrAnR4etYtHh3Wo61g	Madam President, I would like There are an infinite number of ways to compensate households for the rise in prices. We do not have to do that by increasing emissions, by reducing fuel taxes, and by locking us even more into oil dependence. I am saddened and worried about how lightly the Minister for Climate Change is taking on the increased emissions. I can only say that these are bad policies that take us away from achieving the objectives rather than from achieving them.
i-EsmhTezKtP3uaAtHLt7MKx	Madam President, I would like I think it would have been an extremely bad policy if we had not been able to support Swedish households in a completely exceptional situation, when we have war in our neighbourhood. The package we have presented is balanced. It contains a freeze on the reduction obligation. It contains a reduced fuel tax. It also includes a 4 billion investment in increased electrification in the bonus malus system and a means of transport-neutral travel deduction that also includes public transport, for example.
i-34JgFAA4cbRh9xyCafNQza	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister for Integration and Migration Anders Ygeman. Sweden is a fantastic country, and we are unique in many different ways. Unfortunately, we have also been very unique in terms of labour migration, ever since the Alliance changed the regulations during its time in government. Companies have been free to hire personal assistants from other countries, for example, despite the fact that there have been unemployed in Sweden who, with a shorter education, could have taken those jobs. What are the Social Democrats doing in government when it comes to labour immigration and labour market testing?
i-PJbdaWNqzyHUSYpnJu1NT8	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Emilia Töyrä, for the question. Yes, we have the world's most liberal labour immigration rules, which were introduced by the moderate-led government. We have now taken step by step to get away from it. The reasons are actually three. This labour migration helps to make integration more difficult and lower Swedish wages, and it provides a breeding ground for crime and organised crime, while a number of people are exploited by unscrupulous employers. We are now moving on to the latest element, namely a study on labour market testing. It is about the needs of the Swedish labour market to control who should be able to come here as labour immigrants. Then we'll be able to bring in labor that we lack – engineers and IT technicians – but not cleaners and dishwashers, of which we have large surpluses.
i-SHanBFoDhb4gBySXcymHLG	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for your answer. It feels safe that we now have a government that actually sees the problems in the labour market and takes them seriously. With regard to this particular investigation, I wonder: what is the timetable and when will we see the directives?
i-Muy41m9y5Etmw131Njf8ri	Madam President, I would like The directives will shortly be available, and the investigation will have less than a year to produce its results, so that we have a good labour market test on the ground. But in that time we will also present more measures to tighten labour migration. So we will not have to wait for this to see clear results on the Swedish labour market.
i-6xTLySrNUtUpjFhnSAeUdc	Madam President, I would like The conference on the future of Europe, popularly known as the EU's future conference, has been going on for almost a year. The forms of it have been very strange. It's almost like it's been self-generating. Conditions are changing all the time. We have had this on French initiative, and it has been citizens' panels that have been randomly appointed in Europe. The citizens' panels make up about two thousandths of the EU population, i.e. the basis is not representative. Many proposals have been made at the conference, and now, on Monday, it is time to take stock of it. Some proposals will even be able to require Treaty changes. This raises questions: how will this be dealt with once it is in the hands of the Council, the Commission and Parliament? How will Minister Hans Dahlgren act to base expectations and realize what is needed?
i-CNiSCN6D1HE82ESFwMRVeq	Madam President, I would like I thank Mr Rothenberg for the question and for the accompanying comment, which I can largely agree with. We in the government, all the time that the conference has been going on, have stressed that it must not be seen as a decision-making body. We cannot know whether the randomly selected citizens are representative of the European population, and we in the Council have always stated that we will not take a position on the proposals now at the conference itself. When the ideas of the randomly selected citizens' panels on how to make different changes are on the table, we will have to consider what can be passed on to our own work on the future decision-making of the European Union. I will be as careful as I have been so far in anchoring Swedish positions on the proposals in the EU Board and in other ways in the Swedish Parliament.
i-96QLMaF9R5z3RbKDjYUCvg	Madam President, I would like My question goes to the Minister who answers general policy questions. All regions have goals for how quickly a treatment should be initiated in case of suspected cancer, the so-called standardised health care processes. But most regions are nowhere near the maximum lead time. For the two most common cancers breast cancer and prostate cancer, the result is frightening. Only 41% of those affected by breast cancer receive treatment within a medically reasonable time. The situation is even worse for those who suffer from prostate cancer. In that group, only 13% receive treatment within the maximum lead time. The queues have increased gradually since 2012, and it should be remembered that for a cancer sufferer counts every day. My question is this: why has the government not succeeded in shortening the cancer queues during the two terms of office in which it has been in power?
i-FWnQSZ6ixx8yhpZS3zGwev	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Per Ramhorn, for the question! First of all, I would like to say that I share Per Ramhorn's concern about long queues for cancer treatment in our regions. Then I would like to emphasise that it is precisely the regions that are responsible for health care and that it is politicians in the respective regions who are to be held accountable for it in the regional parliaments. We provide additional resources from the government. We have been involved in developing the standardised healthcare processes. I dare to argue that there is a better cancer treatment now than ten years ago, but we need to shorten the treatment periods. The pandemic has been an enormous burden on health care, which has led to the fact that it has not been possible to shorten waiting times as much as we and the regions would have liked. I look forward to the fact that we will be able to shorten the length of treatment more.
i-VUJxG1BhuXm4WncjTKfhiE	Madam President, I would like Yesterday in this House, the Parliament made a decision on an announcement to the government to review the rules on company deductions for sponsorship of sports and sports associations. This isn't working very well today. Today, associations have to deliver a return, and the value of that return is based, among other things, on the market value of advertising and the number of tickets sold. It goes without saying that this favours, for example, elite sport over outdoor and youth sport, and it benefits men's teams over women's teams because there is still more audience at such matches. Yesterday there was a majority in Parliament to review this. If this leads to unequal and unequal results, we think we need to act. But the Social Democrats do not think so, who voted against the proposal. My question to Anders Ygeman is simply: Why?
i-Si5KuoHUQvRXycjzs6d4cf	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Helena Vilhelmsson, for the question! It should nevertheless be stressed that you take leave of Parliament to become a minister, so you are not part of the decision in that way. I believe that the background is that we want to safeguard the basic principles of the tax system, namely that sponsorship is something that is done for a counter-performance and that it should be proportionate to the counter-performance. Otherwise, it is a gift of any kind, and that is the distinction you want to make. I share Helena Vilhelmsson's view that it is worth considering what can be done to achieve more equal conditions for men's and women's sport and between youth and adult sport. I am perhaps not so sure that the basis for this lies in the rules on how to assess the value of a sponsorship, but at the same time I assume that the Tax Agency is following this up continuously.
i-UeJ4ADCnhdSsiPTxBxc8vE	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Max Elger. Local consumer guidance is declining around the country. Today, only 179 municipalities offer this local service. Locally you can prevent. You can know the local business community, and you can have regular meetings with those who need it. In order to do this, support from the Swedish Consumer Agency is important. In a letter, the Consumers' Guides Association addresses how this support is reduced and eroded. They point to the importance of municipalities receiving strong and relevant support and tools from the Swedish Consumer Agency to be able to carry out an equivalent activity throughout the country. The Left Party believes that local consumer guidance is important and has budgeted for this on several occasions. What does the Minister intend to do to overcome these problems?
i-8XnH6bETuza2ArVobcxSWc	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jon Thorbjörnson, for the question! We fully share the view that municipal consumer guidance is a very important task. Unfortunately, many of Sweden's municipalities have reduced the level of ambition for this. The Government has given a commission to the Swedish Consumer Agency to review how the consumer advisors can be best assisted and the business developed. Then you should not fail to see that the Swedish Consumer Agency has also started other activities to support consumers, including what is called Hello consumer, who have contact with hundreds of thousands of consumers over the phone and the web. This also means a good consumer guide, which certainly does not fully replace municipal activities. But the Swedish Consumer Agency is working on the issue.
i-QbEo28DWj8FoE1DArW8wL3	Madam President, I would like I note that several parties believe that we will need more electricity in the future, not less, if we are to cope with climate change. We simply need to expand electricity production, especially in southern Sweden. We are discussing the efficiency and timing of licensing processes, in terms of both power grid expansion and different power types. I have noticed that the Minister for Energy has said today that he sees no reason to change the legislation on nuclear power, possibly well into the 2030s, and that there is no interest from industry either. This is completely wrong, especially in the case of small modular reactors, but amendments to the nuclear law are needed. Today, there are limitations to both where they can be built and how many. Is the statement from the Minister for Energy also the government's opinion?
i-WgYP5ZNhvyuStRYExN29Gp	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Camilla Brodin, for the opportunity to return to energy policy! I believe that the statement by the Minister for Energy is not even an opinion but a fact. Since the time of the Alliance Government and the Christian Democrats in the government, it is possible to build new nuclear power in Sweden in those places that have the best conditions, where all safety elements are made, where there are encapsulated areas and where there are wires drawn at the expense of taxpayers. It is quite possible to build a small modular reactor in such a location. If there is no interest in building a large or small reactor on that site, with the best of conditions, what does it say that there would be interest in building on a worse and more expensive location? If it turns out that this is changing and there is a greater interest than business today, we will of course have to look at this.
i-WniRJoxYM1fTgEddWqBFP7	Madam President, I would like A few weeks ago, the Equality Agency's report on the situation of foreign-born women came to the labour market. Unfortunately, I, who are working on these issues in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, can say that it is not a merrily reading. There are several systematic barriers to entering the labour market, where we see a continued increase in the employment rate of the labour force, particularly in the case of foreign born people. It is said that every third foreign-born woman born outside Europe is outside the labour force. Many of the obstacles identified, Madam President, are the SFI education and the establishment programme of the Employment Service.
i-PqonGXMUuC4B3MyNG3kkvr	Madam President, I would like Thank you to Roger Haddad for raising this urgent issue! The simple answer to the question is, of course, yes – not just one measure but several measures. We shall also say that the employment rate is rising and unemployment is falling among foreign-born people. That's a good thing. But far too many people have too low expectations of the women who come and of their willingness and ability to enter the labour market. There are too few demands, and we have a poor way into childcare for these women. That is why we recently commissioned the municipalities to do outreach work against women with children – who have significantly lower employment rates than those without children – and to ensure that there is a preschool place for them, even if they have not applied, and to inform them that that place exists. We will need to increase the quality of SFIs. We will need to change the way in which the SFI is made more flexible and more responsive to the needs of women. We need to change the attitudes of the authorities.
i-PtBqbo2e7kUc2tkpa31KzU	Madam President, I would like At 16.13 o'clock, women in Sweden start working for free. The pay gap between men and women in Sweden is closing too slowly. With a tiny minute on a working day that ends at 5 p.m., we have moved forward in the last year, while differences in property income have grown. In recent decades, the overall difference between the economic conditions of men and women has not evened out. What will the government do? When we had a meeting yesterday with the industrial partners and I asked them the question, they said that women had to make the right choices. But, Madam President, women who have chosen to work in care for the elderly or childcare have not made the wrong choices. It is we in society that have still valued women's work less than men's work.
i-NvMXsd4u2sv6kTVXhQEFkd	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Annika Hirvonen, for the question! Women should of course choose the right one, but at least as important is that men choose the right one. One of the main reasons for the differences in wages in the Swedish labour market is that women take disproportionate responsibility for the family. It weakens their connection to the labour market and results in lower wage developments. That is why we must encourage families to take more equal responsibility for their children. We must also ensure, just as Annika Hirvonen is concerned, that various tasks are valued more fairly, that the tasks of those who work and toil in health care and care for the elderly are valued up so that you get better working conditions and better opportunities to make a career in your profession. Here, I believe, we have two main points of action in order to achieve more equal pay between men and women: more equal family life and a better assessment of different jobs in the labour market.
i-Vxk4AKPuabVM1pNFSPWooX	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Finance Max Elger. We need to speed up the climate transition. Much is already happening to enable us to meet the environmental and climate objectives we have set ourselves. Sweden should remain strong in these areas, and it has certainly benefited our industry. We see that green jobs are emerging, especially in the north but also in the south. Last time we could hear about a major industrial initiative in Malmö, Skåne. My question is: how does the Government deal with these issues? Above all, how do we work when it comes to financial market policy to make the transition even faster? Another question is: Are the green credit guarantees working? What do we need to do to make them go even better?
i-5zeTkzFZoixAq76TPwx3r7	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Adnan Dibrani, for the question! It is quite right that the government prioritises climate change change and to contribute to the jobs of the future. Not least Annika Strandhäll has explained this here today, and Adnan Dibrani describes the major investments that currently characterise industries in Sweden. My lot is to look at how the financial market can become more sustainable. There are the green credit guarantees and the question of where they work. Last week I was pleased to learn that the Swedish National Debt Office made a decision on the first green credit guarantee to convert the refinery in Lysekil from going on fossil oil to going on pine oil, rapeseed oil and slaughterhouse waste, i.e. domestic raw materials that we are going to drive our cars on. It will remove emissions from about half a million passenger cars over a year. Yeah. They're working.
i-5QTToRz1mijLyLC1TkgSZQ	Madam President, I would like Saving through ISK has become Sweden's largest popular movement with over 3 million users. The Social Democrats have raised the tax on the grounds that the interest rate was extremely low and the stock market went strong. The Swedish democrats were against the increase and want to reduce the tax, because the stock exchange goes up and down over time. Some years are strong and some are worse. With the rise of the Social Democrats, savers will have to pay a high price, as the stock exchange backs heavily while the government loan rate that governs the ISK tax rises. The interest rate goes up, and the stock exchange has backed 20% this year. My question to Minister Elger is: will the government recognise the wrong tax increase and reduce the tax to the original 0.75%?
i-BvorCsX6NJbj8TtThUnJSf	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Charlotte Quensel, for the question! If you are to be strict, it is probably Minister Ygeman who will answer it, because it is a tax issue that falls under the Ministry of Finance and not me. But I'm risking a try. As we look forward to the next few years, we can see that we have huge public expenditure to finance. We are going to increase defence appropriations to 2%, which is an effort that we have not seen since the 40s and 50s. We have problems with organized crime. We'll raise and expand the police funds. We shall also ensure the quality of our welfare. In this situation, when interest rates rise a bit and the stock market moves – as it should do and reflect economic conditions – to start thinking in terms of major tax cuts, I think is unconsidered. I will certainly not give such a message today, and I very much hope that the person responsible for the questions will not do so either.
i-FtCosMQyYPyjgEbjESBtaW	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Annika Strandhäll and is about wolves. It is that the wolf is growing, and there are increasing numbers. There are also more and more people who disturb us who live in the area where the wolf has its strongest range. Parliament has made a lot of wise decisions. One of them is that you should have about 170 – 270 wolves, and the Riksdag has signalled on several occasions that this should be the case. It has also been signalled that there should be a good spread on the wolf. In other words, you cannot have them collected on a spot from Dalsland, Värmland and a bit up in Dalarna, but it needs to be a good spread. The catch is just that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency then makes its own decisions and signals that there should be at least 400 wolves. At least I see this as obstruction to the decisions taken in Parliament, and I assume that Parliament and the Government agree on our decisions. What does the Minister intend to do on this issue?
i-4iKn6mgc5Ly8DRCPvydTN8	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question, Magnus Jacobsson! The size of the Swedish wolf tribe is not only governed by decisions in the Swedish parliament, but we also have an EU directive to deal with. Among other things, we must ensure a favourable conservation status for the wolf, which means that there must be at least 300 wolves and that at least one wolf must have immigrated from Finland or Russia and reproduced with a Scandinavian wolf every five years. This is what we are protecting, because this is what is the toolbox for us. If we sink below the number that gives a favorable conservation status, we can also say thank you and good-bye to a possible license hunt. That is why we need to respect this carefully and not come up with any figures of our own that are not based on science.
i-Bf9k2WjEY9caqyyQ1ci72D	Madam President, I would like The war in Ukraine has now been going on for ten long weeks. It feels like a long time for us, but for the people of Ukraine it is an eternity. Every day we learn more about the devastation and cruelty left by the Russian troops, and I can only agree with the hope expressed by Magdalena Andersson in her first May speech last Sunday: One day Putin will be forced to assume his responsibility for the war, for the outbreak of war and for his attacks on children and civilians in Ukraine. However, we are not yet there, and Ukraine needs all the support we can give them to defend itself and protect its people. In addition to the support we already provide, it feels important that Sweden, together with Poland today, is hosting an international donor conference for financial support for Ukraine in both the short and long term. What further initiatives does Minister Hans Dahlgren and the Government consider that Sweden and the EU need to take to assist Ukraine now and in the future?
i-JHuT68394FNEscsowfs1DZ	Madam President, I would like I thank Pia Nilsson for the question. I think we should continue on the three tracks we have used so far. The first track is to put as much pressure on Russia as possible so that the Kremlin really understands that this is totally unacceptable behaviour. Tomorrow, I believe, we will decide on the sixth package of sanctions, which, for example, means blocking several banks, putting additional people on the lists of sanctions and phasing out the purchase of Russian oil. The second track is equally important, namely to support Ukraine. As Pia Nilsson told us, a donor conference is currently taking place in Warsaw. It is primarily about humanitarian aid, but we also need to start planning for the enormous reconstruction work that will be needed when peace comes to Ukraine one day. Military aid is also important, that is to say, to strengthen Ukraine's resilience. The third track is to strengthen ourselves, for example by making us less dependent on Russian fossil energy.
i-L288QTsmkNyQUbpDXsRvcJ	Madam President, I would like Consumption loans with high interest rates, often aimed at consumers with low repayment capacity, drive over-indebtedness in a negative direction. In order to overcome the problems, the Swedish Democrats launched last autumn a strong action programme against over-indebtedness. One of our proposals is to lower the limit when a credit is counted as a high-cost credit. It is common for companies to go just below the limit, which is currently 30% plus the reference rate, in order to avoid being subject to the interest rate ceilings and other rules applicable to high-cost credits.
i-MDDq3VFh77jJYSDXcfm6Gn	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question, Angelica Lundberg! Angelica Lundberg mentions a powerful programme that the Swedish Democrats presented last autumn. I would just like to remind you that the budget decided last autumn was a collaboration between the Swedish Democrats, the Moderates and the Christian Democrats. This powerful programme would certainly have had its place in a budget, but of this there was nothing. I can only regret that. On the issue of high-cost credits, how to regulate them, the marketing of credits and how to counter over-indebtedness, the issue is currently under consideration. It's about people not getting caught up in over-indebtedness. Personally, I think 30% interest is an extremely high interest rate.
i-KHurigE3AREZdHSnyj4os	Madam President, I would like Illegal waste management is a growing problem both nationally and internationally, with major consequences for the environment and human health. In recent years, the media have reported cases of waste management where companies are suspected of dumping garbage. There is also an extensive illegal export of waste. Several authorities also show that there is a clear link between illegal waste management and organised crime. Twelve authorities, including the police, the Swedish Tax Agency and the Swedish Customs Agency, in a recent report give a picture of organised crime. They note that illegal waste management is currently considered to be an undisclosed crime area where large gains are available. The overall assessment is that waste-related crime is seriously underestimated.
i-CZYAZjdveEAqKQ8G7CEGMn	Madam President, I would like I thank the honourable Member for the question. In fact, authorities such as the police and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency recently reported a report that identified environmental crimes and illegal waste management as a major and growing problem. As the honourable Member says, criminals are at low risk and can make a lot of money in this area, and there is also a clear link to organised crime. The report proposed several measures to address this, and we are now reviewing them in the Government Office. However, the report assumed that the bill that the government has put on Parliament's table on order and disposal of the apostasy would also go through, but now the opposition seems ready to stop it. That is very worrying because they play gang criminals, organised crime and money laundering right into their hands. But we are ready, and we simply hope that we change our mind.
i-M8Hk7U5hL7XrNZ7B1LccpF	Madam President, I would like Until 1989, it was natural in Sweden of the Social Democrats to be able to expel foreigners who behaved in various ways in Sweden, i.e. those who were dangerous to the personal safety of others or who conducted a grossly disturbing way of life. So serious violent crimes were not needed; they could be drug abuse, prostitution, or a criminal life - style. This expulsion was called because of antisocialism. Unfortunately, the Social Democrats abolished this in the 1990s, and the results are now: antisocial behaviour spreads throughout residential areas in the form of both gang criminal drug dealers and stunning moral police. We in the Swedish Democrats want to increase the security of ordinary people and reintroduce the possibility of expelling people with grossly disturbing ways of life. My question to Minister Ygeman is: Was it naive to remove the possibility of expulsion because of antisocialism?
i-B22phN9Di5rsuV81Ppy1Rc	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question, Jonas Andersson! The answer is no. I think you have to be very careful with the words here. If you throw a stone at a policeman, you'll be guilty of a crime that could give up to life in prison. If you are not a Swedish citizen, you will be expelled from Sweden. We have made it considerably easier to expel people who are guilty of violent riots or other crimes, and we have tightened the penalties. Of course, if you have different social problems, you should be helped. For those who are at risk of substance abuse or are prostitutes, as Jonas Andersson in Skellefteå himself mentioned, and perhaps exposed to trafficking, the measure is not expulsion but to help the person – and to put the perpetrators behind bars.
i-2ePYYLTBX881G8ARhhfuGz	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister Hans Dahlgren. After Russia's attack on Ukraine, the security situation in Europe has changed fundamentally. The European Union's response to this aggression was consistent and clear with not only sanctions but also support for Ukraine. However, there are still some European countries outside the EU that would very much like to enter, including North Macedonia, which have made great efforts and even changed their name in order to adapt as well as possible. What can Sweden and the Swedish Government do to ensure that these countries enter the European Union as soon as possible without lowering the requirements for accession to the European Union?
i-3WJ2iL1n9z2xnTUo4ey7E4	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question. It is true that both North Macedonia and Albania have for quite some time been ready to open accession negotiations with the Union. Unfortunately, this has so far been blocked by a single Member State within the EU. That is regrettable. From the Swedish Government we are doing what we can together with all the other 25 who are working together and who have the view that Albania and North Macedonia should be allowed to start negotiations. I expect that, as a result of the changes that have taken place in the Member State that has blocked this so far, there is some prospect that we can still get rid of this. It is necessary, and it is important, as the questioner said. At the same time, we should be clear that there is no automaticity here – you do not automatically arrive at membership just because you start negotiations. We must have proper institutions. We must have independent courts. But Sweden will try to help so that you get there as soon as possible.
i-NLoc6zyn8Pp9SWjLCMFMq9	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister for Climate Change Annika Strandhäll. It comes from the fact that this week I have met a young man from Skövde named Adam Fellbrant and is in grade 8. He is also in the gallery today to listen to the answer. He raised a discussion on global warming. Global warming is indeed one of the biggest problems we have in the world. Unusually early and unusually difficult heat waves – this year in India and Pakistan – are clear signs of rising temperatures. The ice at the poles is melting faster and faster, and if the ice melts, there will be tremendous consequences. Cities can be drowned. Animals that depend on the ice will die out. The golf stream can be moved.
i-EccUVMWYps6ia3wZAZ7J5c	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Linus Sköld, for conveying this incredibly important question further! The issue of climate and the environment is the most important political issue in the electoral group 18-34 years. They have understood the seriousness, and we politicians really must listen to the young. For the government, the issue of climate change is one of the absolute priorities. We're going to lead the climate transition. We are going to do it nationally, as a government, and we are also going to do it globally in the international collaborations we have. We will ensure that other countries are involved in taking on their responsibilities. But we must also take our own responsibility in this. We have climate legislation in place and ambitious climate targets. This year we have the most generous climate and environmental budget we have ever had. All of this is done in order to work towards reducing emissions and transforming Sweden into a green and future-oriented Sweden.
i-RCaW5nGyFkyxf5wYTGDLg	Madam President, I would like Less than a week ago, the tax on diesel was reduced. It was necessary and much needed, but it is not enough. We in Sweden still have Europe's highest diesel prices; prices are 10% higher than in Denmark and Finland, for example. The background to this is, of course, the unique Swedish reduction obligation.
i-5drU9y39xU4ckj3v4fyMsw	Madam President, I would like It is almost a little symptomatic that Martin Kinnunen's question comes immediately after the one conveyed by the young people here about the seriousness of the climate crisis and that we politicians really need to step up and take the climate crisis seriously. There are countries that are burning right now, and it will only get worse. That is why we must have a policy that is capable of reducing emissions. For the government, of course, people must be able to get to work even in times of crisis and war. That is why we have presented a very ambitious household package to support households in this exceptional situation. At the same time, however, we must be able to achieve the climate targets, and that must be quite possible. The most important thing we can do is phase out the fossil fuels, clearly reset and, not least, produce more biofuels in Sweden. Then we need to be clear about the reduction obligation, because it is incredibly important for us to get investments and get rid of fossil dependence.
i-QrH4fmHd5AYMxDFmWmxTrU	Madam President, I would like I'll continue on the same theme. We know that we need to electrify large parts of our society in order to cope with the urgent change that we must make. This applies to industry, infrastructure and other sectors. We also know that we must therefore double our electricity production in Sweden. We also know that the fastest and most cost-effective way to generate more electricity generation is wind power, both on land and at sea. According to a survey carried out by Westander over last year's planned wind power projects, 76 per cent of those who were refused because the municipalities said no. Therefore, I would like to ask the Minister for Climate and Environment: what is the government doing to increase incentives for municipalities to say yes to planned wind power projects?
i-R78Cqn4h8eBpjqM6y6MN92	Madam President, I would like Thank you for an incredibly important question. Sweden must have more wind power, both on land and out at sea. It's good for the climate, for safety and for jobs. Above all, it is simply the quickest way to get the cheap electricity needed to switch up the green shift and get part of the new green jobs. We will electrify Sweden. Both industry and companies are going out. We work hard to shorten the state processes. We have investors who are now waiting to invest in expanding wind power. We have sea plans in place to get more offshore wind. Nevertheless, Moderates and Swedish democrats still oppose all forms of wind power on totally unclear grounds. You can ask yourself whether they do not believe in the Swedish industry or if they let their emotions take over. They may not understand the seriousness of the climate crisis either, but we will make sure that this is put in place.
i-G875NLGx7aaR1XHVvRHKnG	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by saying that I agree with both previous speakers who spoke here a few hours ago about much of what they said. I especially look forward to cycling to Jens Holm's future ice cream and falafel kiosk. In discussing today's report by the Committee on Transport and Tourism, 11 Bicycle issues, one might think it is a small peripheral or politically marginalised issue, especially an election year. But that's not true. This is a matter of direct contact with the future of the modern city's development, public health and security. In addition, we are now seeing developments in cycling that in some ways create both jobs and growth. I can see a little in the image of cycling from my previous professional life, where cultural policy tends to be reduced to contributions for free artists but where the issues are really linked to associations, tourism and sectors where thousands of jobs, not least for young people and new arrivals, are created. Today's debate can therefore be seen as a contribution to broadening understanding of the issue of cycling. Madam President, I would like Sweden has an increasingly clear on-going urbanisation. This has been the case since World War II. People go to the cities to build a life there. Immigration, where most of our new compatriots settle in the cities, has greatly increased the number of residents in our cities. It is built and adapted here in Stockholm and in most major communities. In this context, the entire logistics of commuting and people moving is crucial for development and security. Then cycling is a very important part of many people's communication. This is a mode of transport that is completely fossil-free, smooth and fast and takes very little space both when it rolls and stands parked. In addition, those who cycle healthy exercise that strengthens public health – win-win, you could say! Madam President, I would like A modern bicycle policy needs to detach itself from old political locks and notions. The government sits comfortably in the back of the tandem cycle and has allowed the Green Party, which is most interested in political symbol trophies, to steer there. These are coffered contributions to new cycle paths, which in many cases hardly affect the conditions of cycling at the margin. Cycling, along with trains, has become one of two symbols of good and clean, while all other means of transport are evil and contribute to a coming climate disaster. That has been said in the rhetoric of the government, and that is, of course, both unfortunate and unserious. Neither Sweden as a nation nor cycling as a single phenomenon benefit from such a constructed polarization. The truth is that within just over a decade all modes will probably be fossil-free. It's amazing! The development is extremely rapid, and it is about politically prioritising the right mode of travel in the right part of Sweden. The bike is an excellent form of travel in cities because of its smallness and agility. The goal should not be to make it difficult for other modes of transport without creating good conditions for the bike as a mode of travel among many others that have an important place and their own value. Madam President, I would like The Moderates have their own committee exercise on cycling. In this, we provide a number of examples of areas that need to be changed and improved overall. It's about changing old outdated legislation about who gets to build where. It is about learning from other countries about colour codes for cycling and cycling routes. It is about facilitating traffic flows, building together cycle paths and making use of all the possibilities of digital technology. An active government with modern policies for cycling should, of course, already years ago have put in place investigations that have landed in proposals around all these parts. But the government acts as usual slowly and spends most of its time trying to use the bike as a pawn in a political game to keep the Green Party in a good mood. What should be a coherent and modern policy for cycling with a view to urban development has been divided into small political trophies. It costs a lot of money and, unfortunately, it helps to push important decisions forward. This is not good for Sweden. Madam President, I would like More than 35 000 people will attend the Vätternrundan event in June. It's the world's largest exercise bike arrangement. 4,000 officials help, and about SEK 10 million goes back to society every year. Around Sweden there are constantly new competitions by bike – individually or as part of, for example, triathlon. People train for these competitions, which is good for public health, and well on the spot live, eat, drink and shop participants and their relatives. This creates jobs and growth. The bike is becoming an increasingly important part of the tourism industry and modern man's demands for an active holiday. Many winter resorts are investing in different types of cycling for the summer season, for example. We should focus on and think of cycling not only as a healthy pleasure but also as an important part of communication, jobs and urban planning. At the same time, we know that crime is growing in various sectors of society and that, unfortunately, bicycle thefts are also increasing, with organised gangs travelling around with trucks and simply throwing bicycles on the truck which they then sell on. More police officers and better law enforcement are therefore important areas for cycling as well. People's willingness to cycle is affected by the availability of coherent cycling paths. As a cyclist, you are unprotected, and a collision with a car or another powered vehicle can have very serious consequences in the form of personal injuries. 25 people are killed annually in bicycle accidents in Sweden. Many more are seriously injured. Especially critical is it at intersections and paths where cyclists should pass car paths. As a grandfather, I want to feel confident that my grandchildren can cycle safely to school and activities. Similarly, both professional workers and pensioners must avoid the sense of risk and uncertainty of cycling on a road run by cars, buses and lorries. Against this background, the construction of continuous cycling routes is very important for cycling. Madam President, I would like To round off: The Moderates want to see a modern, safe and sustainable cycling policy. The best time for the bike is now, and it is a bright future – provided we are politically able to do the right things and give cycling the best possible conditions. However, this requires better leadership, a new government and a new policy in which the cycle is not reduced to a pawn in a political game, but in which we are able seriously to take a holistic approach to laws, cycle paths, modern technology, law enforcement and accident prevention. Mr President, I would like to I conclude by agreeing with all our reservations but, in order to save time during voting, I only ask for the approval of reservation number 2.
i-YYp36m8YiDQzDfM9ezcrxg	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by saying that we support all our reservations. However, in order to gain time, I only support reservation number 11 concerning the alignment of the regulatory framework for bicycle passages and cross-bike crossings. I do not think I am the only one who is amazed at the development we have seen for the electric scooter. Only six seven years ago, it was a rather unknown phenomenon, especially to me as a spectacle. But this means of transport has had an incredible impact, especially in larger cities. I think you'll soon be able to rent electric scooters in any city with more than 50,000 inhabitants. It is loved by some, unloved by others. It is smooth but can also be dangerous. It can increase mobility but also reduce exercise. It can give you fast transport in the city, but it can also make your accessibility difficult if you are visually impaired. Regardless of what you think of this new phenomenon, I can see that there are problems to be solved and that the legislation has not really been along with. The biggest problem is that at best they stand on a sidewalk or pedestrian street but at worst are thrown into a cluster or in the nearest watercourse. When I speak here of electric scooters, I want to make it clear that I am referring to those who are rented, not those who are owned by private individuals. There are probably quite few or none who leave their private electric scooter on a sidewalk. The problem of misplaced rental bicycles appears smaller, if not non-existent, but this may be due to lower interest in renting ordinary bicycles. The fact that electric scooters that stand everywhere are an insatiable feature of the cityscape is one thing. But when they hinder accessibility – it may be for the police, for the ambulance or for sanitation, but above all for those suffering from visual impairment – we need to take action. We have been there for a few years, but nothing has been done to solve the problem. It is therefore positive that a majority in the committee is now proposing to the Parliament to address an announcement to the government to urgently ensure that the necessary clarifications of the regulatory framework for rented bicycles and electric scooters are implemented, partly in order to reduce personal injuries but also to remedy the parking problems that I have just highlighted. The possibility of using an electric scooter should be maintained, but it must be orderly. Further issues to increase safety and reduce injuries may be a review of lighting requirements, minimum wheel size and the nature of the brakes. The Swedish Transport Agency proposes that the 250 watt engine power limit currently in place should be removed, but we believe that this can be dangerous to traffic. We therefore propose that the 250-watt limit should remain, so that the electric scooters do not have too much acceleration and so that we can avoid the same development on privately owned electric scooters as on today's A tractors, where we see a frequent manipulation of the speed controllers. Mr President, I would like to It should be easy to do the right thing, but it certainly cannot be said that it is with today's regulations on bike passage versus bike crossing. Both cyclists and motorists are often unaware of the difference, and I will be honest with you that I, too, sometimes have problems with this. For this reason, we, the Swedish Democrats, have chosen to support our reservation that the law should be amended and that the same rules should apply. Here we believe that it would probably be best if all bicycle crossings were simply redesigned and got the same rules as bicycle passages. Cyclists are unprotected in relation to motorists, and in order to reduce the frequency of injuries, we must introduce requirements for cyclists to stop and leave cars and other vehicles in priority. We also believe that there should be a review of the coloring of cycle paths. Coloring a cycle path is a great way to attract attention. However, in order to avoid confusion, this colour should be uniform regardless of the municipality in which you are located. Mr President, I would like to It often focuses on motorists when it comes to road safety. But the fact is that cyclists are the most seriously injured road users. It's often forgotten. In 2019 approximately 2,000 out of 3,850 people were seriously injured in traffic, i.e. more than half of them. 150 of these travelled on an electric scooter, which, in any case, was a surprising small percentage. The number of fatalities is fluctuating quite a lot. In 2019 there were fewer than in the previous year: only 17, but still 17 too many. One can be led to believe that a collision with a car or other motor vehicle is most common, but 8 out of 10 accidents with serious injuries are actually single accidents. Causes related to operation and maintenance are responsible for almost half of these accidents. However, it is positive in this context that collision accidents between motor vehicles and cyclists are reduced. Furthermore, we believe that greater responsibility should be taken on the part of society to ensure that children learn to ride a bike safely. It may seem that this is primarily the role of the parents, and certainly the guardians have this responsibility. M an all can't cycle, and if you have a disability, for example, this can make it impossible to teach cycling to your children. This knowledge is carried with it throughout life, and that society enters and helps here, we think, would be a cheap road safety promotion. Perhaps it would be appropriate to reintroduce the old traffic schools where children learned traffic rules and signs in a light and playful way. Mr President, I would like to The House decided in fjor a notice to the Government that it should come back with proposals that would allow the construction of free-range bicycle routes without the requirement of direct connection to roads intended for motor traffic, which is likely to entail an amendment to the Road Act. The Road Act today requires that there should be a functional link between the cycle path and the public road. By making the roads less rigid, cycle paths could be made both more embarrassing and nicer when they do not have to be directly adjacent to the public road. This decision was taken in fjor, but I have not yet seen any concrete proposal for action by the government. Hopefully we will soon have a position on this. Mr President, I would like to Very many choose to take the bike to the train, the subway, the bus or somewhere else, and unfortunately a large part of these cyclists find that someone else chooses to take the bike from there. So I'm talking about bike theft. This scourge has struck me, it has probably affected one of you in this House and, above all, it affects tens of thousands of Swedes every year. In 2020, according to Brå, 77 200 bicycle thefts were reported, and there is probably a dark figure here. More than 10 percent of the country's households are affected each year. Although it is not society's most serious crime, it is still very frustrating to have your bike stolen. My bike is usually in the basement. I either walk or drive because it's a mess to get my bike out. I would never think of putting it at the station when I go to Stockholm, even if I had preferred to ride my bike to the station. I'll go instead. I think that many like me are reducing their use of the bike because of fear of having it stolen. According to Svensk Försäkring, more than a quarter of a billion dollars are paid annually in compensations for stolen bicycles in Sweden. That's a lot of money. Of course, it is not possible to place guards or police officers at each bike rack. However, we believe that the law on camera surveillance should be strengthened so that camera surveillance could be more accessible at places such as stations, colleges, hospitals and more where there are many bikes set up. In addition, customs opportunities should be increased when it comes to stopping trucks to check if there are stolen goods to be carried out out of the country. Resources must be strengthened, and there must be better opportunities than today to curb this. Mr President, I would like to Not only should cycling be safe, but it should also be safe to have a bike and to park your bike, and you should know that you still have your bike when using it.
i-RPVu3JVy1Gb3CM7ifiTq9d	Mr President, I would like to The bike is suitable for the whole country and is not just a city issue. I live in the countryside myself and see how the share of travel by bike and electric bikes is growing fast and that the bikes are widely used. The bike is important for the whole country. It is important to highlight the benefits of the cycle. It takes less space than the car, and it does not generate any emissions. Transport by bicycle is important for sustainable urban development in the future, and it is also good for public health. We from the Center Party would like to stress the importance of increasing the accessibility of cyclists by building more local and regional bike paths and so-called bike motorways and by reducing barrier effects in the form of crossing tracks and roads. It is also important to review the need for measures, simplifications and legislative changes that enable cycling throughout the country. It is particularly important that cyclists and pedestrians are given a safer place in traffic planning through, for example, bicycle streets and safe crossings and that parking spaces along streets can be converted into bicycle fields. It is extremely important that infrastructure planning is carried out so that motorists and cyclists can work together in traffic and that it is as safe as possible for everyone. What is also of great importance is that students in urban planning programmes and correspondingly learn to think about the cycling perspective in spatial planning. Mr President, I would like to A third of our trips are shorter than five kilometres, and then the bike is often a good alternative. Today, just under 10% of our journeys are by bicycle. Interest in the bike as a means of transport has increased significantly. With good cycling trails, better winter maintenance of cycle paths and better interchange points between bikes and public transport, cycling could increase significantly more. We note that a large part of the decisions relating to cycling are taken at local and regional level. We must contribute from the national level by creating conditions in the country for regional and municipal cooperation and exchange of knowledge, simpler rules for the construction of bicycle infrastructure and the possibility of introducing adapted traffic regulations for bicycles. Mr President, I would like to In January 2021, the Riksdag decided to announce to the Government that it should return with a proposal that allows the construction of free-range bicycle routes without requiring direct connection to roads intended for motor traffic. The Center Party believes that it is important to continue to pursue the issue of reviewing current legislation on pedestrian and cycle routes and public roads with a view to simplifying legislation on the construction and maintenance of pedestrian and cycle routes. Today, the municipalities have the advice to build pedestrian and bicycle roads on municipal land, but if you want to build pedestrian and cycle roads in parallel with a state road or railway, this is regulated by the Road Act, and thus the Finnish Transport Agency often becomes the principal of the project. In practice, therefore, the current road law may make many important infrastructure investments in the pedestrian and bicycle network more difficult or simply not to take place. It is therefore important for the government to review the regulatory framework and legislation, including when it comes to investigating perspectives and aspects of a change in the Road Act. However, in the context of such a review, it remains very important that the landowner's perspective is clearly included so that cycle paths do not become another measure that leads to increased expropriation and that ownership is disregarded. Furthermore, it is important to highlight the need to make an inventory of the working routes that run parallel to roads and railways and could be classed as cycle routes. In this way we could get even better walking and cycling paths. We from the Center Party would like to emphasise that we need to work on several fronts to facilitate the accessibility of cyclists. We believe that the government should do so appropriately by giving a commission on this to the Finnish Transport Administration. It is also of the utmost importance, Mr President, that there should be clearer governance of our state authorities. In order to achieve the objectives of improving cycling in the future, we also need the resources and the right priorities for our authorities to work in the right direction. We note that the government's governance of the authorities is largely carried out by means of the regulatory letters that are sent out. Here we believe that it is extremely important that, for example, the regulations to the Swedish Transport Administration contain clear instructions to give the work on bicycle traffic higher priority. It is important that work on cycling is given equal priority as work on other roads, railways, shipping, aviation and IT. Mr President, I would like to Several Members have previously raised the issue of electric scooters. Just electric scooters have been a new feature in Sweden for some years. They are climate-smart, facilitate accessibility on the roads and occupy very little space. However, the Center Party would like to stress that there must be more order and order in terms of electric scooters in our cities. Work is under way and there is a dialogue between the municipalities, as landowners, and the companies that rent electric scooters. We believe that at national level more tools should be given to these actors to make it more sustainable solutions in the long term. The Center Party also wants municipalities to have better conditions to ensure that there is order and order when it comes to electric scooters. The government should review how municipalities can be given greater opportunities to regulate and impose requirements on which electric scooter operators with so-called free-flowing fleets may operate in the municipalities through the procurement tool. We know that the Swedish Transport Agency and the Government have presented proposals on how parking possibilities can look like for electric scooters in the future. We will simply see how the proposal lands. A lot of criticism has been levelled at that. But it is good that something is done. Mr President, I would like to The Center Party and the Moderates have a common reservation that it will be easier to take the bike with them on public transport. When traveling, it is important to think about the whole journey, from door to door. An important part of this is, as I said, being able to take the bike on the train. This applies both to the regional trains that are around the country and to the long-distance trains that cross Sweden. Many regional train operators already allow for the carriage of the bicycle on the train. But it's harder on the long-distance trains. Here, the government needs to investigate the possibilities for a simple way to take the bike on the train and how it should be freed up space on the trains for bicycles. The bike is a means of transport that will continue to grow rapidly and will be needed throughout the country. Mr President, I would like to I would therefore like to ask for the approval of Amendment No 4 by the Center Party.
i-AfCmCwhEzTBwp32WTyuTer	Mr President, I would like to We Christian Democrats are in favour of all our reservations, but for time to come, I am only in favour of reservation number 6. The bike fulfils an important function and is an attractive means of transport at short distances as well as in well-planned cities close to service, workplaces and accommodation. But often the traffic environment is not adapted enough for cycling. It is important to continue work to increase the safety of cyclists in traffic. A more strategic and preventive approach is also needed to reduce the number of bicycle accidents. Municipalities and regions have the main responsibility for building functioning walking and cycling routes. At the same time, the Christian Democrats want the state to be involved in contributing to a coherent cycling network. It should be easier to build walking and cycling routes between municipalities, and these roads should not have to be linked to other national infrastructure. In January 2021, the Riksdag decided to announce to the Government that it should return with proposals to enable the construction of free-range bicycle routes without requiring direct connection to other traffic. It is also important that the Road Act be amended so that it will be possible for the Swedish Transport Administration to build free-range bicycle routes without any requirement for connecting car traffic. It is important that the accessibility of cyclists is included in urban planning, but also that pedestrians and cyclists can be more separated. The cycle must be seen more clearly as its own mode of transport and given priority in urban planning for municipalities and regions, as well as in infrastructure investments in urban environments. Mr President, I would like to More and more people are discovering the benefits of the cycle in terms of accessibility and health. In many places cyclists share roads with motorists, and in this context road safety needs to be improved. This is particularly true when cars overtake cyclists. In order to increase road safety, motor vehicles should maintain a sufficient distance of respect for cyclists. It would also increase the perceived security, which makes it possible for more people to cycle. We therefore believe that it is important to develop a regulatory framework to prevent an increase in the number of bicycle accidents as the number of cyclists increases. Extensive research from several countries shows that overtakings where motor vehicles and cyclists share roadways increase the risk of bicycle accidents. We have noted that laws in many countries in Europe contain a specific distance of one and a half metres when crossing cyclists. We believe that it is reasonable to clarify in Sweden what is a good distance of respect when driving over a cyclist. Therefore, the government should urgently introduce a distance condition of one and a half meters for a car that overtakes a cyclist. Mr President, I would like to The number of electric scooters has increased rapidly. However, there are some uncertainties as to what rules apply to them. It is good that the Government has given the Swedish Transport Agency a broad investigation mission on electric single-person vehicles, including electric scooters. The Swedish Transport Agency has presented various problems and suggestions regarding the electric scooters. It is also a good thing that there is a proposal to ban the parking of electric scooters on pedestrian or cycle paths in addition to the parking places intended for electric scooters. Municipalities and electric scooter companies have to take joint responsibility for dealing with the carelessness of the parking of electric scooters unfortunately brings with them. Mr President, I would like to We want to highlight the need for bicycle promotion measures. Cycling needs to be strengthened among children, young people and immigrants. Many municipalities buy bicycle courses to reach new target groups in order to enable them to learn how to cycle. There are many bicycle accidents in traffic. The most common accidents are single accidents. Improved municipal maintenance of roads and removal of gravel and leaves can make a big difference in accident statistics. Increased speed among cyclists also places higher demands on the ability to slow down when required. The Finnish Transport Agency currently lacks effective means to reduce cycle speed in zones where consideration should be given, for example at schools. That's where cars are supposed to slow down speed. It is also important that the police have the resources to review so that cyclists also comply with our traffic rules.
i-rMD5QF4rYVWNWAHDNDkCg	Mr President, I would like to I support all my reservations, but I only support reservation number 7 on cycling infrastructure. Mr President, I would like to The two-year pandemic focused on the benefits of cycling. More and more people chose to ride their bikes instead of travelling collectively. You travel outside instead of in a limited space, can keep physical distance to people around you and do not have to touch surfaces. By cycling we also reduce the risks of a possible next Corona wave. Let us hope that interest in cycling will continue in the future. Other advantages of people cycling, such as better health and less congestion, make the Liberals want to make it easier for cyclists. A very important condition for easy cycling is that there are coherent, safe stretches and, above all, that they are maintained continuously. There are too many unimagined traffic environments that make it difficult for the cyclist. I am thinking mainly of the complex infrastructure in our cities and towns. We must work to ensure that the cycle track network is connected and, perhaps more importantly, that maintenance of the cycle tracks is carried out. A hole in the way for a motorist becomes a small bump, but for a cyclist it can end in an accident where you get hurt really seriously. I have several friends who have stopped cycling because of accidents that have been related to faults in the infrastructure. This is where we need to make a move. However, this is primarily the responsibility of municipalities. In order to facilitate commuting by bicycle, we want to see a coherent planning of cycle paths at regional level where municipalities interact across borders. For the cyclist, the standard of one cycle path should not have to deteriorate when cycling from one municipality to another. It doesn't make sense. We want to see more efforts on coherent regional bike paths to make it easier to cycle longer distances. I would also like to draw particular attention to the need for uniform national signs for cycling. If you cycle across municipal and regional borders, you need a clear signposting that makes it easier to see where to go. The state authorities need to cooperate with the municipalities so that the signage is carried out above all but also looks the same everywhere. The Road Act's texts on the construction of bicycle roads have been discussed here for a number of years. Cycling routes that are not directly linked to road roads are not designated as roads according to the road law, which means that it may be difficult to use land for a cycle path by means of the road law. Nor is there the same possibility of using land as for public roads. For the Liberals, it is of great importance to take great account of ownership when assessing possible changes to the Road Act in order to facilitate the construction of bicycle roads. Liberals also want to increase the possibility of taking the bike on the commuter train. By combining public transport and cycling, more people can leave the car standing and thereby make a contribution to the environment and reduce congestion on streets and roads. The new development with electric scooters is subject to much discussion, but as a vehicle to transport to and from public transport from a door-to-door perspective, the electric scooter is very interesting. It takes little space on the train and then easily takes you the shorter distances from and to public transport. Mr President, I would like to Liberals are very positive about electric scooters. These are a clear niche in how we can travel. They have now been around for a few years, and both the positive and unfortunately negative effects of the entry of electric scooters have been demonstrated. Liberals want to investigate what a clear regulatory framework should look like in order to avoid the negative effects that some cities have experienced. We need to deal with the parking problems and the increasing personal injuries; people can get but for life when they fall. The success of sidewalks for pedestrians, not least the elderly and people with disabilities, is crucial for us. The government needs to ensure that the necessary clarifications of the regulatory framework for electric scooters are implemented in order to minimise the negative effects. Mr President, I would like to Cyclists are unprotected in the traffic environment. Separate bike paths are available in many places, but at the same time the cyclist often shares the roadway with motorists. Road safety needs to be improved in many places, not least where cyclists are overtaken. Sweden has a long tradition as a leading country in road safety. We should therefore take the lead in cycling as well. The drivers' perceived uncertainty on the roads want to be addressed by the Liberals through a speed-dependent distance when driving over. The government should investigate and introduce a speed-dependent distance of at least one and a half meters for the transfer of cyclists. Such a rule would signal to drivers that more factors than just distance affect road safety and that risk compensation in case of overtaking is required. At the same time, I would like to stress that it must be easy for drivers to remember the rule in order for it to be effective. Mr President, I would like to The technology is developing rapidly, and we see a constant development of the bicycle concept, not least as electric bicycles and electric scooters. What's next? Liberals are in favour of development, while road safety must be safeguarded. In recent years we have seen an increasing trend in the number of bicycle accidents. It is therefore important that research into different aspects of cycling is supported, so that we can understand how cycling can be facilitated and how we can minimise the number of bicycle accidents in the future as interest in cycling increases. The knowledge-raising work of the cycling centre should also continue to be supported in order to ensure continuity of work. We in the Liberals support all our reservations, but I support reservation number 7 on cycling infrastructure.
i-6xqjKT3naNPT4bkheKkjyi	Mr President, I would like to Cycling issues have for many years been shamefully abject and forgotten in national politics. Among the other modes of transport, the cycle has simply been forgotten both in the debate and when money is to be distributed. That is a great pity, because the cycle has an enormous potential to reduce emissions. The bike is incredibly climate-smart. In addition, the cycle is good for public health, and in addition to this the cycle is a very surface efficient means of transport. A bike takes less space in a city than a car does. In our cities there is great competition for the surface, and if we can carry out a large-scale transition to a bicycle, traffic can take less space and instead we get more space to areas such as green areas, outdoor terraces, playgrounds and housing. Half of all car journeys are less than five kilometres, that is, distances that most people can cycle without problems. Many regions carry out cycle potential studies that show that cycling could increase very much. Several regions have looked, among other things, at how many could reach their studies or workplace within 30 minutes. In Skåne it is almost half. In Västra Götaland it is 37 percent. And in Stockholm County, 70 percent could reach study or workplace within 30 minutes provided it was allowed to cycle on all roads. This is not just a matter for the metropolitan regions. In Gävleborg, 48 per cent could reach their school or work within 15 minutes by bike. It is clear that we could reduce car traffic, and thus emissions, much by increasing cycling. In order to exploit the full potential of the bike and increase cycling, major investments in infrastructure must be made. The Green Party believes that the government should develop a national cycling plan that should include proposals for a national cycling network and also follow up the national cycling strategy with concrete measures for more people to cycle. More and better cycling routes are needed both in cities and in rural areas. Today, many important links in the cycling infrastructure between our cities and urban areas are missing, making it unnecessarily difficult to cycle between places that are actually within cycling distance. In order to connect cities and urban areas, a plan is needed for the development of a national main road network for cycling. On this issue, as several previous speakers have mentioned, it is incredibly important for municipalities, regions and the Finnish Transport Agency to work together. It is important that bicycle investments increase significantly in the national plan. Mr President, I would like to Another mistake that is often made in traffic policy is lumping together the walk and the bike. This is often done in the infrastructure through so-called GC-tracks. We clump together walking and cycling traffic, despite the fact that there are two completely different types of traffic and that cyclists and pedestrians have different ways of moving and doing so at completely different speeds. GC lanes create insecurity and lack of accessibility for both pedestrians and cyclists. GC lanes should therefore be mapped out and replaced by separate walkways and cycle paths respectively. It is not just the national cycle policy that is far too defensive and slow. Developments are also going in the wrong direction in some places. One example is that VTI has found that cycling among children has decreased in almost all places where it has carried out its observations. Today cycling is about 30 per cent lower in primary schools and 60 per cent lower in residential areas than it was 25 years ago. In addition, statistics from the Public Health Agency show that too few children reach the recommended level of physical activity. Strong measures are therefore needed to increase cycling among children and young people. A prerequisite for increasing cycling is safe cycling routes to schools, preschools and leisure activities. If there are safe roads, parents can be more confident about letting their children ride their own bikes. Therefore, the Green Party believes that the government should work to get municipalities to prioritise safe cycling routes for children to schools, preschools and leisure activities. There are good initiatives in municipalities to create, for example, car-free zones around schools. These initiatives should obviously support national policies. With this, I would like to endorse Amendment No 21. Mr President, I would like to It is easy to get a little discouraged by the situation in cycling policy. Nevertheless, it is worth recalling that a great deal has happened over the past few years. Much remains to be done. But the Green Party's seven years in government have meant big steps forward in bicycle policy. There is now a bicycle pot in the draft national plan. The Government has commissioned VTI to develop a proposal for targets for increased cycling. The other day, the VTI also presented its proposal. Through the urban environment agreements, municipalities can receive co-financing from the state when they make bicycle investments. For example, in the budget for this year, SEK 450 million is spent on bicycle investments in the urban environment agreements. The government has introduced a tax relief for preferential bicycles, which took effect at the turn of the year. In 2017, the national strategy for increased cycling came, and in 2018 the National Research Centre for Bikes, the Bicycle Centre, was inaugurated, which will contribute to increased cycling throughout the country. So things have started to happen in bicycle policy. But much more needs to be done to increase cycling and reduce emissions. There is a high level of acceleration of national cycling policy.
i-Efw9AjR3Umptc3EEd9TDrS	Mr President, I would like to Today we are talking about our water in this House. With Russia's war against Ukraine, our readiness is now also being put in focus, and with a focus on our preparedness, we are also focusing on our water supply. It cannot be stressed enough that the Russian invasion of Ukraine is unprovoked, illegal and indefensible. With us here we carry the desperate and courageous struggle of the Ukrainian people. Sweden supports Ukraine financially, humanitarianly and militarily. Together with the EU, Sweden has also decided on a number of sanctions against Russia and the Russian government. The government also strengthens Sweden by continuing to upgrade the total defence. It is about a strong Swedish public defence: A defence of the Swedish people and for the Swedish people. In addition to a self-evident and comprehensive ongoing expansion of military defence, our civil defence is also strengthened. The resilience of important social functions will be strengthened, and of course also in water supply. In war as in peace, water is a public good and a limited resource that must be protected and used in a sustainable way. For water, there are pressures from many different uses. Ten years ago, the European Commission launched a long-term strategy to protect Europe's waters. EU policies have established two main frameworks for our waters through the Water Framework Directive and the Marine Strategy Framework Directive. The Water Framework Directive is supported by more targeted directives, such as for groundwater, drinking water and waste water. The EU has made important progress on water issues. The basis of the WFD is that EU waters must not deteriorate. However, most of the watercourses covered by the EU's Framework Directive do not achieve the desired quality. We must be able to secure access to fresh water for the future as well. At the same time, for us Social Democrats, it is important and self-evident that activities that adversely affect water should not have to take more action than necessary. The European Commission has recently assessed the WFD and concluded that it is generally appropriate. When the Member States discussed the evaluation, Sweden expressed the importance of flexibility, not hindering climate action and maintaining ambition. Mr President, I would like to As regards the Sewage Directive, provisions have been introduced in Swedish law and regulations to protect the environment. The overall objective of the EU Water Framework Directive and the Waste Water Directive is to achieve good environmental status for all waters and to protect the environment from the harmful effects of waste water. These directives are of crucial importance for the improvement of water in EU rivers, lakes and seas. At the same time, we know that the so-called Weser judgment has had an impact on the application of the so-called non-deterioration requirement of the Water Framework Directive. The European Commission has announced its intention to present a proposal for a revision of the EU Sewage Directive. We see that the government has supported this initiative, and a proposal is expected to come this year. We Social Democrats believe that it is important for European legislation to be predictable and designed in such a way as to leave space for capacity building in treatment plants to meet the needs of growing urban areas. The government's intention is to actively promote this in future negotiations on the EU's sewage directive, and we therefore believe that no announcement on this issue is necessary today. Henriksdal's wastewater treatment plant is only three kilometres away. It is one of the largest works in Europe. Like Henriksdal, Sweden is about to get several of the most modern treatment plants in Europe. Our S-government has made determined measures to reduce drug residues in wastewater and wants to see even more speed in the upgrading of wastewater treatment plants, so that they can take care of medicines and other persistent substances. Efforts for advanced purification have therefore been reinforced. A trial has also started for an environmental premium in the pharmaceutical system. By setting requirements for the manufacture of medicine, emissions can be reduced. We Social Democrats want to create new green jobs throughout the country. We will overcome the climate crisis by modernising Sweden. We have the technology, the know-how and the will. By gathering Sweden, we can become the first fossil-free welfare country. During our fossil-free journey, we must also preserve and have demands on our waters. This is a challenge and a balance, but it will work. The development of cleaner seas and waters is progressing with determined political decisions. Increased circularity with our nutrients and better treatment of our wastewater can reduce the emissions of phosphorus and nitrogen to the oceans. Even more can be used in cycles, leakage from fertilizers must be reduced. The amount of microplastics in the marine environment is worrying and must be reduced. Organisms are damaged, and the particles cause problems far up the food chain. The Social Democrats have therefore been a driving force in the fact that negotiations on a global agreement against plastic pollution have now begun in the UN. During this spring, the S-government has also taken several decisions that have a major impact on our water and seas: a review and strengthening of the protection of marine areas, continued efforts to reduce eutrophication and a new action plan for the Baltic Sea environment. The Government has also decided on Sweden's first maritime plans, which will provide guidance on how different interests can coexist in the long term. To this end, the Formas Research Council has been tasked with setting up a ten-year research programme on the sea and water. The government also invests in remediation of contaminated sediments and environmentally hazardous wrecks as well as environmental monitoring of the sea and water. Environmental monitoring is crucial to see how the work to achieve Sweden's environmental goals goes and provide a basis for wise decisions. The environmental target committee's interim report The sea and man that arrived last year contains over a hundred proposals on our waters – for example, that environmental quality standards should be reviewed so that they become feasible, that nitrogen and phosphorus should be restored and that the government should analyse the aforementioned Weser judgment. The Environmental Objectives Committee's proposals are currently being prepared within the Government Office. Mr President, I would like to Cross-border problems require cross-border solutions. Water is needed, in war and in peace, day in and day out, today and tomorrow. Let the water cycle run! With increased circular thinking about our nutrients and better treatment of our waste water, we can reduce emissions to our seas. We support all the dossiers in this report except paragraph 7, where we are in favour of reservation number 7.
i-3yqf4JU9FcaApa3RhbqdBK	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 21 on a national target for the recovery of phosphorus and nitrogen. Mr President, I would like to Sweden, as you know, is not an island, but we still have one of Europe's longest coastlines. Many Swedes live with the sea, lakes or other watercourses on their doorstep. 90% of all our exports and imports are on the keel. We depend on water for food, drinking water and sewage systems. Caring for our waters is, in short, crucial for our survival and our way of life. This is not unique to Sweden. The UN has set 17 global sustainability goals, of which 2 concern water. One is about clean water and sanitation for all, and one is about sea and marine resources. No country can itself deal with problems such as marine litter and acidification. This requires more international cooperation. In Sweden, we place high demands on how we handle our waters and seas. However, since we are not alone in influencing the environment in, for example, the Baltic Sea and the Sound, it is crucial that we ensure that our neighbours do the same. A recent case is in Denmark, where the municipality of Copenhagen began the construction of the artificial peninsula Lynetteholmen in January. For the 2.8 - square - mile [2.8 sq km] peninsula to become a reality, the soft seabed needs to be dredged up. The polluted mud is dumped in Öresund, a few kilometres from the Falsterbo Peninsula and its Natura 2000 site. The contaminated sludge risks spreading along the seabed, thus entering Swedish waters and damaging important food chains. There is also a risk, according to Skåne County Administrative Board, that Lynetteholmen will affect the flow through Öresund and threaten the supply of oxygen-rich water to the Baltic Sea. Swedish authorities have previously warned that this poses an environmental danger, but the Danes have moved on anyway. During the summer, dumping will be halted. It is now important for the Swedish Government to ensure that Denmark does not resume dumping. That is why the committee called the minister responsible and the authorities responsible during the proceedings. It is important that the government now acts decisively, because caring for our waters is not only about how we design Swedish laws and regulations, but also about ensuring that our neighbours take the necessary environmental considerations. But, Mr President, we in Sweden too must continue to ensure that we take care of our waters and make effective efforts where necessary. For a long time and in several of their budget movements, the Moderates have prioritised the work on advanced treatment technologies in our treatment plants and on dealing with contaminated areas. We have also been at the forefront of a more sustainable fisheries policy, to name but a few examples. But there's more to do. The environmental target committee, whose important work all parties participated in the other year, came up with a number of important proposals that need to be implemented. One of them we take on in one of our reservations. It is a question of reducing eutrophication if we are to achieve our environmental objectives for the sea and water. We must ensure that we have a target of increasing the return of phosphorus and nitrogen to food production, as proposed by the Environmental Objectives Committee. At present, there are a large number of nutrients such as nitrogen and phosphorus in the sewers in our urban areas that could potentially be restored. The fact that it is not done is neither sustainable nor circular. We call on the government to urgently introduce a long-term target for the reintroduction of phosphorus and nitrogen and the circulation of other nutrients from the wastewater treatment plants to food production. We also want the government to review the work on eutrophication through the LEVA project, local commitment to water, and how it can be strengthened and developed. We know that it has been a successful form of action that is also deemed to have the potential to reduce the role of agriculture in eutrophication. Mr President, I would like to I am pleased that a majority of committees are proposing a clear announcement to the government in this report. As we heard earlier, Sweden's water legislation is largely governed by the EU. Therefore, it is incredibly important that Sweden is an active party in these contexts. We know that the EU Water Framework Directive – on the basis that water quality must not deteriorate – and the Sewage Directive are two sets of rules that are crucial to the quality of our waters. At the same time, as we know, the so-called Weser judgment has had a major impact on how we apply the so-called non-deterioration requirement in a way that, to be honest, puts obstacles in the way of the development of new environmentally friendly technologies – technologies that can eventually replace today's technologies and reduce emissions. This is also something for which the Environmental Objectives Committee has warned. Contrary to what should be the aim, the judgment means that activities that already have high environmental ambitions and use the best environmental technologies are adversely affected if they need to expand their activities. It is, of course, completely unreasonable in a growing Sweden where we need to expand the purification technology and develop new technologies. Unfortunately, the European Commission considers the WFD to be appropriate. On the contrary, the majority of committees believe that a review is needed and that the planned review of the Sewage Directive must take account of the problems raised by the current application of the WFD. It will be easy technically, but what the committee says to the government is: be active in these negotiations! Ensure that the requirements of the Water Framework Directive and the Sewage Directive are clear and coherent and that they are designed in a way that does not discourage capacity building and new environmentally friendly technologies! I note that some parties have strong confidence that the government is already doing this. Unfortunately, I think I have noted a rather passive attitude on the part of the government in relation to EU negotiations. We can also see this in the light of the security policy crisis we are in. A parliamentary majority has often pushed for various changes but has been told that the government is rather waiting for the initiative of other countries. We think it is important for the government to act very clearly on this important issue for Sweden. Mr President, I would like to There are many issues relating to water that are important to discuss today. We should say something about our water and sewage systems. Firstly, of course, we need to ensure access to drinking water from the ground up. On the one hand, we need to maintain and expand the infrastructure so that it is dimensioned for today's situation. We also know that our long lines leak a lot of water because they have not been maintained enough in the past years. The leak was in 2019 at levels between 16 and 25 percent. In the future, extremely large investment needs are expected, which we do not talk about as much. We may sometimes talk more about roads, railways and other parts of our infrastructure. But our va-systems are estimated to have investment needs of up to SEK 23 billion per year up to 2040. That's a huge amount of money. Here we urgently need to look into what is needed to achieve a va-system that will continue to measure up in the future. I also want to say something about our sewers. The Moderates have, as I said, invested heavily in several budget movements in advanced purification techniques. It is very important that we not only ensure that we have technology to clean the water from the substances we are able to clean it from today, but also focus on purification techniques to remove drug residues and microplastics and take into account cocktail effects, that is, what different substances can potentially give rise to when mixed with each other. Here it is incredibly important that we do not content ourselves with today's technology but continue to invest in the advanced purification technology. Much, however, is also about the individual sewers. This is an issue that is currently being dealt with in part under a different bill, but it is important to say that we should make very high demands on the treatment of our individual drains and also the 800 000 properties that are not connected to municipal waste. But we also need to see, when we make demands on individual property owners to fix their individual drains, what benefit we get for the environment through these costly investments, in relation to just what the measures cost. We must also take into account the so-called soil retention, that is, what natural purification can contribute to the water from the individual drains. With regard to the bill on sustainable water services that the government has put on the table of the Riksdag, the Moderates have some criticism. We want property owners to have the opportunity to appeal against the municipality's decision on water and sewage and to introduce a propriety requirement, which means that property owners whose va-system is better or equivalent to what the municipality offers should not be able to be compulsorily connected to municipal sewers. We also want the costs of addressing individual sewers to be reasonable and proportionate to the environmental benefits that arise. In addition, we want the Maritime and Water Authority to issue a moratorium on the compulsory connection of buildings with individual sewers that meet current environmental and health requirements. Finally, Mr President, one issue that is closely linked to the issue of water conservation is fishing. The Riksdag has been very active there. We have addressed a number of announcements to the government, such as moving the trawl line along the Baltic Sea coast and promoting revised Baltic Sea management plans that better take into account the ecosystem of the Baltic Sea. These are also crucial issues for a prosperous Baltic Sea, where we can also fish cod and herring in the future. Unfortunately, however, I have not seen much action on the part of the government since the Riksdag addressed these calls to the government. I expect action to be taken as soon as possible so that we can also get fisheries in the Baltic Sea that we all protect so much.
i-JaaGwr5zajVcbUfRhM51UB	Mr President, I would like to I am trying to understand the Moderates' approach to both the EU and the allocation of resources. I note that the interest and understanding of the Moderates in this matter of water has increased sharply only during this term of office. It is welcomed, and I sincerely hope that this commitment will continue. The more people who support us Social Democrats when we work for healthy water and seas and to solve the climate crisis, the faster we will become fossil-free. Engineering Sweden has both the technology, the know-how and the will. By collecting Sweden, we can become the first fossil-free country. I am now thinking about the great brush strokes: the resource allocation of the Moderates over the years. By allying with the Swedish Democrats, the Moderates have influenced the outcome of several national budgets. While in Moderates' own papers and proposals, investments in the environment and water management are flourishing, the Moderates have always chosen to invest in further tax cuts for those who have already invested in better environment and water. There and then, when we in Sweden are able to contribute ourselves, the Moderates are banging with a napkin sketch, which can have consequences such as bottom death and increased eutrophication. So, Mr President, how has it become that the Moderates always prioritise a tax reduction over resource allocation to water and water conservation?
i-E52Txy5NYVetfJooX4s5U	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Markus Selin, for the question! I do not know if there are old points of speech from any previous debate that happened to follow, because I do not actually follow what Markus Selin is referring to. I am very proud that the Moderate budgets over the years have invested heavily in the environment and climate, including marine conservation. I am very proud that the budget from M, KD and SD that went through Parliament's chambers last autumn was historically large in the field of the environment and climate. For example, we have made sure that we have doubled the money to public charging poles – it is possible to read in the budget table – and that we have had a historically large investment in capture and storage of carbon dioxide, to name a few examples. We have also ensured that the state has not forcibly redeemed large areas of forest from our 300 000 Swedish forest owners, which would definitely have been a problem for the climate because it is precisely the Swedish forest we need to use to crowd out fossil products around the world using our bio-based products. As far as our environmental and climate budgets are concerned, I am therefore proud of both their size and their content. I am also very proud of the efforts that the Moderates have made over the years on, for example, advanced treatment techniques in our treatment plants and on cleaning up contaminated areas in our seas and waters and so on. So I am only proud of the budgets we have put forward.
i-Qj3QgbFckt3T1YcJACDnjB	Mr President, I would like to Now I was going to raise my eyes and look at this with the European Union. The Moderates talk about the importance of strengthening EU cooperation and the EU's environment and climate action. The Moderates often express in words that Sweden can and should lead the way. But once the Moderates actually have the chance, in action, here in the parliamentary work, they don't have much of a hurry. The Moderates have become synonymous with fluffy concepts such as over-implementing. We cannot just accuse the Moderates of wanting to go ahead or want to share the EU's various processes in environmental work. Thus, when strong efforts are needed by countries around the Baltic Sea and in the EU, Sweden will suddenly wait and not lead the way at all, according to the Moderates. The Moderates, for example, only recently this autumn also expressed a critical view of the EU's framework water directive, thus playing dice with both our aquatic environment and migratory fish such as salmon and eel. What is the Moderates' view of Sweden in EU cooperation? Should we go ahead, should we go after or should we not go at all? And, Mr President, linked to this: today's announcement is, in our opinion, completely unnecessary. The Moderates want to send it to the government. The European Commission has thus announced its intention to present a proposal for revision. Our Swedish Government has supported this initiative, and the process has therefore not begun. So what is the purpose of explaining something to the government that the government already knows and already wants to work for?
i-8f3Y39ozQrqxYe5S7XgceL	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Markus Selin, for the questions! As far as the European processes are concerned, as I said in my speech, I do not have the greatest confidence that the government is particularly offensive in the European negotiations. The government will be happy to disprove us. However, I can only see what it has been like in the dialogue we have had around, for example, crisis measures, linked to the security policy crisis. Once the Moderates have put forward proposals, we are repeatedly told: no, but it is not possible to do so, because it is not a Member State that has proposed lowering the tax on energy, for example. Or we will hear: no, but we do not believe in seeking derogations from the minimum levels of energy taxation, because it is not another country that has proposed it. The government plays a passive role in this matter, and it is unfortunately also the signals that we have received from, for example, the industries concerned in recent years: that Sweden is not on its toes. I therefore think that there is every reason for Parliament to be committed and to point out to the government what needs to be done. With regard to the somewhat fluffy criticism of European legislation in general, I can only say that we are the warmest supporters of the European Union. We were also the driving force for Swedish EU membership. But it is not the same as saying yes to just anything that is put on the table of Sweden and the Riksdag or the EU. We must ensure that we have legislation that is reasonable in all its different parts. For example, we want to tighten up the EU ETS. This does not mean that you cannot have views on the details of how it should be designed. We think that there are elements that can be reasonable and sensible when it comes to how we should regulate the issue of biodiversity, for example, at European level. It is not the same as accepting that the EU is putting away the bones of Swedish forest owners because it has a misconception as to whether Swedish forestry is sustainable. If you are an EU friend and an environmental friend, I think you are active in seeing both the good and the bad proposals and trying to get good environmental legislation. I absolutely believe that it is excellent if 27 Member States can do something in common – rather than Sweden just making up its own things. That's what we're going to be at the forefront of.
i-4mmHAdUP1JuHtxqBXcLjNB	Mr President, I would like to We are debating water issues today. It is an ever-present subject, really for a single reason. Water is fundamental to life and must therefore be described as perhaps the world's most important natural resource. Given the amount of water in our country and in the world at large, it is also one of the most sensitive natural resources. Good health, growth and jobs require water, but it also affects the quality of our water. Water is also one of many areas that are adversely affected by the supply and supply problems that have characterised many markets due to Russia's war in Ukraine, the covidpandemine and the storms in Texas. These are both technical equipment and chemicals, where the industry today sees major challenges, even if there is no crisis at the moment. But this shows the sensitivity, that it also applies to our waters. Mr President, I would like to In the world, there has been good development in the water supply sector. Over the past 30 years, drinking water resources have increased by 20 percent, but one cannot be satisfied when at the same time there are about 2 billion people without access to clean drinking water. In Sweden we have good water supply. Our many fresh water sources provide us with fantastic conditions. At the same time, we have a poor overview of groundwater resources, and investments in the va-net have been too small over time. We need to improve water treatment, and we need to use new technologies to clear out even more particles, such as pharmaceutical residues. However, this is not just a question of investment problems. It is also a question of the European Union putting its backs on the line. In line with technical progress, larger populations and increased requirements for treatment, Swedish wastewater treatment plants will need to be renewed in the future. We need to be able to separate more nutrients as well as drug residues. And the treatment plants must be able to increase their capacity. The EU Water Directive is currently an obstacle to this work, and there have been rulings that have meant that treatment plants cannot be built to the extent necessary to allow maximum treatment. In this way, the directive currently partially hinders investment in new advanced technologies that can allow the treatment of drug residues, while at the same time the regulatory framework benefits less efficient facilities. It is important for the government to act within the framework of EU cooperation to change the WFD so that environmental protection activities, such as wastewater treatment plants and other environmental measures in society, can always be allowed. It is therefore gratifying that next week we will hopefully have a decision on an announcement. At the same time, Mr President, we in Sweden generally need to be better at implementing it. It is no coincidence that it is Sweden that very often has the greatest problems with the consequences of the implementation of the EU directives. It is not a coincidence, but it is a system error that needs to be addressed. Problems are likely to persist even if adjustments to the WFD are made possible. Mr President, I would like to Pollution problems cannot only be solved through better treatment. Supply must be limited and producers' responsibilities must be increased. Sweden should continue to work towards a developed chemicals legislation within the EU, where part of the work should be about harmonising EU chemicals legislation with EU water and marine environmental legislation. The knowledge base on chemicals flowing from our societies is currently inadequate. This makes it difficult to work with accurate measures. It would be desirable if Helcom could start work on waste water screening campaigns in order to improve knowledge of less known chemical pollutants in our waters. I shall conclude by calling for reservation 15 to be approved.
i-R71x1xFpvjST5oTjWdb9YR	Mr President, I would like to I should like to begin by calling for our reservation 19 to be approved under paragraph 18. Mr President, I would like to Water issues really need to be raised from every perspective. These could be water-related issues, biodiversity in marine environments or access to clean and safe water. Unfortunately, this is something that we have taken for granted far too often and far too long in ours in many ways water-rich – sometimes I have said water sickness – country. Swedish Water estimates that approximately 20 billion would need to be invested in the Swedish water network and wastewater treatment plants annually. We are projecting for 15 billion, i.e. only three quarters. And in the end, we're building for about 11. This is on top of an investment debt from the 20th century, which will take many years to catch up. Old leaking pipes are left on the hill. A large part of the water produced never comes to the one it was supposed to drink from it or shower in it. In fact, we do not even know how much waste water is overflowing when it is raining too much or when we are unable, for other reasons, to handle the amount of waste in the treatment plants. We have been critical of our neighbours on the other side of Öresund on these issues for good reason. But an embarrassment in that case is, as I said, that we ourselves do not really know how much waste water we simply empty in nature. Mr President, I would like to I am referring to this in order to put the light on the fact that we have taken clean and safe water for granted far too much, and we have treated the aquatic environment far too lightly. This is something that Swedish policy can and must remedy. Not all the answers need come from this House. It is not my colleagues from the other seven parliamentary parties who need to find every penny of this in a state budget. It's simply a matter of backing back a bit sometimes and letting the municipalities and the va-mains work more together to solve the challenges and find competent staff. It is about letting them take in investments from those actors who want to invest long-term in sustainable Swedish va-infrastructure, where the regulatory framework right now puts far too many obstacles in the way. Above all, it is a matter of making sure that money is put on high and saving up for reinvestment in a different way than it is today. There we have a luxury, Mr President, in that for once we have a major social problem that we could solve quite easily. It is something that I think more Members of Parliament should have with us when we are struggling with the challenges in our society that are really difficult to access. This can be addressed and resolved for the foreseeable future, if we just put the issues on the agenda. Now this report is about much more than the va issues, but I wanted to start with this. There are also things that will be much more challenging, for example, to clog all sources of emissions that pollute water and marine environments. It could be about removing the large point sources of eutrophication and removing the background eutrophication that comes from the landscape and the contribution of agriculture. It is a work that is already under way and which in many parts has come a long way but which in other parts will be much more challenging. It is a question of bringing advanced treatment technologies into our treatment plants and of both ensuring that funding exists and actually testing new technologies, something that is currently difficult because the regulatory framework and supervision are far too rigid. It is also a question of ensuring that not only we, but also the European Union, have a regulatory framework that works in practice. This has already been mentioned in the debate, so I do not need to take all the arguments again. But, Mr President, we already have a majority in Parliament who have said that the Water Framework Directive, in precisely the parts relating to new treatment plants and new sustainable industrial investments with the best possible technology, is not as good as it would have to be. It is not a question of someone wanting to tear up the whole framework directive or of us wanting to remove it, but it must be appropriate for the society that is developing, developing and becoming more sustainable. But a government with confidence should be able to say: Absolutely, we are on track. We know that the Sewage Directive is coming, as the Social Democrats have said here. We could have had a much broader consensus here. All you have to do is deliver exactly what you say you want, and we have a consensus. I find it difficult to understand why we should be fighting about this in the speaker's chair when, at least after listening to Markus Selin, I think we are fairly in agreement on what needs to happen. Mr President, I would like to In my meaner or perhaps more elegant moments, I have described this country, which I love, as a bit of a big marsh. Sometimes it feels like we live in a single large antland where we have spent thousands of years dipping out, dissipating water and laying drain pipes and where we suddenly stand in a position where we realize that we have probably dissipated too much. It is a huge challenge in the whole of social planning to ensure that we have standing water in the landscape in the right places, that the water actually stops on its way to the coast, that we have wetlands teeming with life, that we have water amounts that are available when it is too dry and that we have layers that can be filled up when it rains too much. Policy must also address this issue, whether it is planning or policy to get more water storage and more wetlands. We also need to continue to implement permanent projects such as LEVA and the LEVA coordinators, which are the link between the money we agree to put in from the political side and those who are going to do the measures and who want to be able to do it in the best possible way in places that are suitable for this. This is a successful piece of work that is, unfortunately, under threat now and where there should be no political conflict. It is clear that we should continue with projects that will benefit the environment, for social security and for those who get a wetland where it should be. I could talk for quite some time about the biodiversity of our aquatic and marine environments, but much of this is about solving what we are already dealing with. It is about plugging the point sources for emissions, both in Sweden and around the Baltic Sea. Unfortunately, this is a work that will be more difficult because Russia has pushed itself out of any functioning diplomatic context and unfortunately also from the common marine environment, where we also want to help Russian cities and communities become more sustainable and stop ruining the environment. It will be completely impossible to continue this type of legitimate project when the Putin regime is conducting an illegal and indefensible attack war in Ukraine. This not only harms people but also the environment. This is sad and also means that we will have to make considerably more efforts faster in other countries and also here in Sweden. Finally, Mr President, I should like to come back to a point that was said earlier in the debate, namely the brief words: the proposal of the environmental target committee is currently being prepared in the Government Office. It's getting to be a pretty long preparation time. We spent two years producing the proposals in the interim report on the marine environment, and for one and a half years now this has been prepared in the Government Office. There is no justification for the delay in proposals where we have broad political agreement on most things. And this is not a good report either to the present Social Democratic Government or to their former coalition partner, the Green Party, which has been in charge of the ministry. Here I very much hope that we will tighten up in the future and not allow proposals that should become reality to be put in a drawer.
i-Ve8hcUbuetkzFqPdBorx2y	Mr President, I would like to Water management is today's report, and that care is really mutual. We must care for our water because the water cares for us and the other creatures of our creation. As we have heard here before, water issues and climate issues are largely cross-border. The introduction to the 2020 report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on which we have heard earlier, says: Cooperation between the Baltic Sea countries is crucial to achieving environmental quality objectives in the Baltic Sea. The same applies to the Western Sea, which is affected by the status of the marine environment in the North Sea and the entire North Atlantic. ..................................................... Thus, international cooperation is crucial for us to achieve real success on many of these issues. As in climate policy, it is also important to be at the forefront of research and knowledge about new technologies. Of course we will do our best to nurture the water, but here too it is at system level that we can really make the big difference. Often agriculture has to take the big blows for eutrophication and poor water quality. It is, of course, the case that agriculture affects, but at the same time we are as dependent on the goods that agriculture provides as we are on water. That is why we must act wisely. We cannot put a stop to Swedish agriculture so that we become more dependent on imports because we set too high domestic demands. If we are to preserve Swedish food production, we must preserve agricultural land. Agriculture is not just any industry. The earth lies where it lies and must be used by farmers here in the country, whether it is by water or not. When it is no longer used, in addition to food production, the ecosystem services for biodiversity provided by agriculture are also lost. We need to preserve the skills of the agricultural sector and also research that responds to tomorrow's needs. This requires a viable Swedish agricultural sector. We also need domestic production of agricultural inputs such as fuel, fertilisers and spare parts. Sustainable fertilisation methods need to be developed not only from the point of view of self-sufficiency but also from an environmental point of view. The problem of eutrophication in the Baltic Sea is not limited to Sweden's emissions. As I said in my introduction, many of the water issues are highly international. All the countries of the Baltic Sea must take greater responsibility for reducing excess emissions. In 2020, the Agency presented a study on the conditions for the introduction of a system of transferable emission allowances for nitrogen and phosphorus in the Baltic Sea. The implementation of the investigation was hampered by the pandemic, but it was also found that it was difficult to launch such a proposal before 2027, when good status according to the environmental objective No eutrophication should already be achieved. The EU Water Directive is also expected to have a significant impact on the conditions for the design of a trading system. Furthermore, the Authority identified a number of key issues for further investigation as a prerequisite for developing a trading system. The Christian Democrats believe that the investigation work should continue, and we want a system of emissions trading to be developed that means that the countries around the Baltic Sea must pay for the release of surplus substances, in particular nitrogen and phosphorus. With this, I would like to endorse reservation No 17. The government should review how action against eutrophication through the LEVA project can be strengthened and developed. LEVA has proved to be a very successful form of action that is deemed to have the potential to really address the role of agriculture in the problem of eutrophication. Several government investigations have pointed to LEVA as a very well-functioning work model. It is noted that the programme has delivered results that no other measures against eutrophication have taken in the past. Increasing the number of local action coordinators across the country and creating a central national support function can be a crucial and important initiative for the future. Mr President, I would like to The more problems we can solve at the source, the better. Such a problem that should be solved relatively easily applies to microplastics from textile synthetic fibres released during washing. This has been identified as the largest emission source upstream to municipal wastewater treatment plants in Sweden. In the washing of textiles, microplastics are mainly emitted by wear, but also by degradation. The EU Ecodesign Directive requires, among other things, technical lifetime, recycling, reparability, water use, emissions to the environment and information on hazardous substances. Among other things, the Directive regulates the standard for washing machines. We believe that the government should work to review the EU Ecodesign Directive with a view to, among other things, introducing common criteria for reducing the emissions of microplastics from both household and large-scale laundry. The revision of the Directive should also phase out the most energy-intensive and resource-intensive products. Water treatment technology at Swedish wastewater treatment plants needs to be both modernised and, in many cases, expanded. One problem is that the county administrative boards' supervisory tasks today lead to the granting of permits only to proven purification techniques. This shuts out potentially promising future innovations and also makes it difficult for the often smaller entrepreneurs and technology developers who develop new solutions. Therefore, county administrative boards' supervisory tasks should be changed in a way that also gives new and innovative technologies better opportunities to develop. In the discussions on small hydropower, we often say that there is a witch hunt on it. Unfortunately, in some parts we see similar trends in individual sewers. Last Monday I visited a town near Lake Mälaren, and I was told again how to connect accommodations that today have individual sewers. Of course, it is the individual property owner who has to pay for the connection costs at prices that means that older people must primarily move from their homes. They cannot afford to pay the fee, nor do they receive loans. Research also shows that it is not the individual sewers that are the major villains in this context, but it is easy for the principal to act on them to show the ability to act. Today, it is the operator who is obliged to demonstrate compliance with environmental protection requirements. It would be reasonable that, in the case of a private household, it is the public that has the burden of proof that the household causes a negative environmental impact, for example through phosphorus emissions. In everyday life, the citizen probably does not think that the private home is an activity. The Christian Democrats therefore believe that there should be a damage element in the legislation on waste and the environment, which means that municipalities and state authorities must be able to demonstrate that there is an unlawful environmental impact before demanding that the individual property owner carry out an expensive investment. Expensive demands are made today on individual waste water owners despite the fact that there are far more cost-effective measures that can be done. However, it is for the state to raise the requirements for individuals free of charge because it is the individual who has to bear the cost. Many unapproved individual drains are owned by older people or others with small financial resources. The investment to install an approved drain can be unduly burdensome or impossible for these property owners. We therefore propose, Mr President, that government loan guarantees to these property owners be subsidised. It is the individual's fee for the loan guarantee that is to be reduced.
i-EsfDvCiRR5WDvCYSokjEgC	Mr President, I would like to I take this opportunity to ask for the approval of reservation 11. If I say that water is our most important food, I know you all agree. But too few parties have a clean water policy. There is a need for stronger environmental protection for water and a tougher grip on pollution, pesticides and endless chemicals. Mr President, I would like to In the childhood of environmental policy, environmental policy was often referred to as environmental and health protection policy. Now we are simply saying environmental policy. But the longer I have been an environmental policy, the more I understand that what I am fighting for is not just about animals and nature, climate, biodiversity, clean water and clean air. It is very much about human health, about our well-being, about public health and the survival of mankind. As far as the water is concerned, it is so obvious. As a politician, you have a voice. It's a voice that needs to be used. More voices are needed for the environment and health. Otherwise, the future of environmental policy is threatened. An innovation from Danish Kors ø r reached Sweden when it was conveyed by Daniel Värjö on Vetenskapsradion yesterday. We have focused on the PFAS chemicals in drinking water in Sweden. You've been hit hard in Kallinge. The water supply in Uppsalaåsen is affected, and the Swedish Armed Forces have been released from responsibility in court. In news from Denmark, the news comes that PFAS from fire drill sites has been seeping out into a natural area. Cows have grazed in the areas, and the cows have drunk water and eaten grass that has been contaminated. The meat has been sold to a group of families that have eaten of the meat. Their children have become seriously ill. The meat contained levels more than a thousand times the limit values. PFAS has effects on the immune system and the reproductive system. It can cause cancer and more. How many corresponding areas are there in Sweden? How many farmers and consumers can be affected here? Today, the Green Party took the initiative to call the Minister for the Environment to the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture to give us better information in Parliament. You can't wait to see if something happens by itself. The government must take a strong stance so that more children do not suffer from these eternal chemicals. Mr President, I would like to When I was a municipal councillor in Uppsala, Uppsala was hit by the PFAS scandal. It was thanks to environmental monitoring that researchers found increased levels of PFAS in breast milk in new mothers at the University Hospital. I would like to thank all environmental monitors and environmental officials throughout Sweden. You are doing an extremely important job. Today's monitoring and control programmes need to be developed so that they can better capture potentially harmful pollutants and reflect the efficiency of water treatment. For example, the European Commission and the Environmental Monitoring Survey have proposed to strengthen environmental monitoring. Environmental monitoring of water management needs to be strengthened and further strategic coordination and better integration is needed for sustainable water use and good water status. The effects of PFAS on the immune system and the reproductive system are too serious to prevent the use of a political voice. I would like to take this opportunity today to say that the limit value for PFAS in water and food should be tightened up. Water should be clean and healthy. Who is responsible for the water? The issue of sustainable water supply requires a greater grip, and a national pool of forces and a long-term strategy are needed. The responsibility of the state, and the responsibility of the state, needs to be made clearer. Today, four ministers are water ministers, but who is responsible for the water? I could also stand here and tell you what the Green Party was doing in the government for water issues, but I thought Markus Selin did it well. It is thanks to the Green Party that a great deal has happened in the water area recently. If the Green Party had been in the government today, I can promise Magnus Ek that the Sea and man, the report by the Environment Committee, had been on the table in this House today. The objectives of the WFD are linked to the work of our four environmental objectives for water: only natural acidification, no eutrophication, living lakes and watercourses, and good quality groundwater. We must stand up for the Water Framework Directive. We have to plan our cities in order for them to cope with a local water supply. I fully agree that the Ecodesign Directive for water is very important. Stricter requirements in the Ecodesign Directive can reduce water consumption by 50%. This, together with upstream work and sharper environmental work, enables us to cope with the situation in wastewater treatment plants in the growing cities. I can also inform you that only a few hours ago, the KD voted against the Green Party's demand to tighten up the Ecodesign Directive – whatever they say in this House today. Mr President, I would like to The cocktail effect is something we need to talk about. It's not just any cocktail, it's a cocktail of chemicals. In recent years, a strategy has been developed to investigate the presence of hazardous substances in water using so-called efficacy-based methods. This is a result of ground-breaking Swedish research that instead of measuring the levels of chemicals one by one is looking at the overall toxicity. By using these new methods, we are actually creating new conditions in the future to be able to tighten up environmental and water legislation and address the biggest problems, because it is not always we know which subject to look for. Knowledge of how different pesticides interact in the aquatic environment is still very low. In addition, synergies are not regulated in the legislation. However, there is a clear need to regulate the use of several plant protection products with the same active substance used in the same field. Sweden should work to ensure that the WFD takes into account combined effects. Nor do I want Sweden to strive to make a maximum number of exemptions for heavily modified waters in agricultural areas. We know that there are major problems in Swedish areas with too high levels of pesticides in the surrounding watercourses. Eutrophication is a widespread problem. About 2,300 lakes, coastal waters and watercourses have a worse status. It needs to be addressed. If the rate of action is to increase, a national plan for eutrophication is needed and it needs to be put in place. Currently, most measures are aimed at dealing with nutrient leakage from agricultural land, which is important. However, the measures do not address the problem of origin, namely the risks of excessive nutrient inputs. Voluntary commitments have been successful, but now clearer instruments are also needed. The key to making our societies resilient to climate change is to strengthen the water-holding capacity of the entire landscape. Natural soils contribute to water purification and groundwater formation. Forests regulate quantities of water that flows to lakes and streams downstream. Decomposition can lead to dramatically increased water flows and increased risks of collapse,slides and floods. Provisions on dewatering of forest land should be tightened up, and I fully agree with Magnus Ek that we have digressed too much. Wetland investments should continue. We need the permanent LEVA coordinators. Do not pollute our important water with eternal chemicals and chemical pesticides!
i-WtfXrbNLPgwyx8hG3CDYPW	Mr President, I would like to I stayed for a long time, but it came together for a line change in the end! There are a number of things that I would like to address in Maria Gardfjell's speech. I'll try to remember them all and take them in turn. I shall begin with what Maria Gardfjell said about taking advantage of the possibilities of making the exceptions that can be made. It is about hydropower and not about agriculture, as it sounded here. This is where we usually talk about it, and it is also where we have had announcements from the Riksdag that the government has found it difficult to live up to. It's about not tearing out dams or power plant dams if not necessary. It is about letting small-scale hydropower continue to operate where it is well placed to do so while working with, for example, hiking trails and other measures that allow marine environments to continue to have a high level of biodiversity and fish species to hike. These are two completely different things, so I didn't quite understand that. As far as forestry is concerned, it is absolutely the case that at certain stages and in some places there is an increase in the amount of water that goes out quickly. But it is not this that increases the great risk of confusion or race in Sweden. We have this in places like the one I come from, where we have streams that run out on the coast, muds and other things. Finally, we have this thing about what the government has done and has not done. We will find that difficult to know, but we can well note that while the Green Party was in the government, no proposal was made based on the Environmental Objectives Committee's report. The permanent conditions for the LEVA coordinators were also not successful, although I am pleased that the Green Party is now on the side of Parliament. It is not just about ambition, it is also about what you manage to deliver. And here the Green Party doesn't have a very good track record. Proposals for Parliament's table are difficult to come up with. And it is not only in this area that we miss it, but also in the circular economy, such as the final report on producer responsibility for textiles.
i-8kdcrTej6W6N3bf2T8q6er	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Magnus Ek, for the line! As regards the maximum number of exemptions for heavily modified waters in agricultural areas, this is part of the directive itself. It was also an issue that we discussed when we had a debate here in Parliament last year. The Maritime and Water Authority, with the Swedish Board of Agriculture, would make proposals in these particular areas, and it would also exempt agricultural land. It was a clear demand from the Moderates, among others. I would like to say that this directly threatens the possibility of clean water in the future. We have seen that the level of pesticide residues in agricultural land has been very high in some other countries, including Denmark. It has taken quite a lot of action against the use of pesticides. I must say that the risk is now very great with bourgeois politics in the Swedish parliament, where we want to open up for increased use of pesticides in Sweden. It does not want to follow at all the EU's ambition to reduce its use in the green field. As for the bill Man and the sea that was going on, I can say that the day before the Green Party left the government it was the highest on the bill list. I know that it was the highest priority of all the proposals to be submitted from the Ministry of the Environment. But then we left the government, and then we can't take responsibility anymore.
i-CmLdEz5QNPw7Bbx9jtDZe1	Mr President, I would like to I don't know which bill list it's referenced to. But in what we call the bill list, namely what is announced as coming, it has shone with its absence. The other thing I can't prove. It's very possible that Maria Gardfjell is right, but we haven't seen the smoke of it-- I can tell you that. Maria Gardfjell then reminded me – very well – of another point I wanted to make, namely the very work that is being done in agriculture. We have come extremely far with projects like Grappa nutrition. It is a tremendous volunteer effort that has been made. As with any good initiative, why did we not do this in the past? None of us want to fatten up too much. It's expensive. We can see this especially now, when one of the things that makes us have a cost crisis in agriculture is that the price of fertilizers has gone a long way. When we add LEVA coordinators, investments in wetlands and so on, I am actually quite convinced that we will be able to pick large parts of the eutrophication that comes from agriculture and the agricultural landscape. It is not a question of our having excessively large gigs. We've managed to hijack them. What I would like us to talk about is the eutrophication that comes from the cities. There is not only eutrophication, but also much more pollution of pharmaceutical residues, cadmium and other things. I get a little tired of the fact that it is Swedish agriculture that is to blame here. We take a large part of our responsibility. We are about to take full responsibility, and there is the hooking of politics arm. I think it is a work that can be developed. But we are doing a good job there, and I think that should be remembered instead of talking about heavily modified watercourses. We're modifying some of it back, too. That is the great challenge ahead of us. But I will come back to this: if you want to claim that you have a strong environmental policy, it must also be an environmental policy that comes to the table of Parliament. Otherwise, it is not worth water – excuse the joke, Mr President.
i-6F3Xj82RXiZwuxdrpZksTq	Mr President, I would like to I would like to say something briefly about forestry. When it comes to the increased amounts of water from large greens and also breed and scatter risks, there is a very good report from Skogsstyrelsen and Trafikverket that I can tell you about. This costs society billions each year. It is a huge problem with forestry, and forestry is not sustainable. When it comes to questions about agriculture, I am also a big fan of Greppa nutrition. All the voluntary efforts that have been made in agriculture are important, but they are not enough. We see increased eutrophication despite the efforts we have made and the way we do. Voluntary measures need to be reinforced with instruments. At the moment, the prices of fertilizers are so extremely high that there is no reason to impose taxes on fertilizers. But right now – I would like to say this anyway – there is the opportunity to catch this issue and to house up with fertilizer as much as possible. It is not least a safety issue. We know that 20% less fertiliser use actually only results in a 5% lower harvest. This can be economically wise but also environmentally very wise in the situation we have. I would like to say that there is something that farmers need to think about is saving part of the amount of fertilizer they have bought in this year or last year for next year's activities. We do not know whether there will be a more serious deficit in the future due to the war in Ukraine.
i-UjTHwa11CcJ5tBC9AHJ2do	Mr President, I would like to Every year, thousands of motions are written by Members of Parliament elected to represent their constituency and country. They deal with everything from animal welfare, or water for that matter, to labour law. We are here today to debate family economic policy. Personally, I think the question sounds rather dry and boring: economic family policy – perhaps not the hottest subject being debated here in Parliament. Nevertheless, we are meeting in this Chamber on a Thursday– I do not know whether to say afternoon anymore or whether it has been evening – when our friends and colleagues have already gone home to their families, their dogs or their friends. We ourselves have missed our transportation home – and for what? A dry and boring question? Absolutely not! And if it had been a dry and boring question, we would still find it interesting, like the political nerds we are. We had stood here today to debate the dry and boring issue with pleasure. Mr President, I would like to The concept of family economic policy includes life. Through the decisions we make in this Parliament, we can make it possible to reduce the gaps between rich and poor, make sure that the differences in men's and women's wallets become smaller and give more children the chance of a happier and more secure upbringing. This is also a policy area in which the differences between political parties are clearly visible. They are also reflected in the reservations we have to take a position on. In three points, we Social Democrats have chosen to reserve us together with the Left Party. I would like to take this opportunity to ask for the approval of reservation 13 in paragraph 5, which deals with double days, i.e. the days in parental insurance that the guardians can take at the same time, that is to say twice. Mr President, I would like to Me and my partner chose to take parental leave at the same time as our first child. For two weeks we used the double days. It was a good privilege for us to switch from my parental leave to his and made my return to work easier. So out of 390 days, we wasted 14 days. The father of my children is an official, and I am a Member of Parliament – it did not hit anyone poor, so to speak. Before I got the privilege to devote myself full time to politics, I worked at the railway yard in Kiruna. Before that, I tried a variety of jobs, ranging from a guide at Icehotel to a nurse at Vilan's retirement home. My workmates at that time would hardly make use of the fine opportunity to use double days, at least not to a great extent. If you compare with other countries, where it is not even guaranteed that you will be free at all just because you are a parent and the child will be taken care of, 390 days of parental leave at the sickness benefit level is extremely generous. But time is fast. Suddenly one day you stand there, and the child who lived with only your parents will create his own memories in preschool. Mr President, I would like to Since I have come to know more people with higher incomes, I have understood that many parents indulge in a longer journey with their children when they are small, that parental insurance and double days allow time away from everyday stress, everyday cleaning and everyday stress. The proposal decided by the committee, which we and the Left Party are therefore opposed to, may also take its starting point from those very people – those who can afford it, those who may also be able to afford to buy themselves away from everyday places, those who can spare more days from insurance and those who may not need society's efforts in the first place. We want something else. It is gratifying that we in the committee have been able to agree in a majority that the basic days of health insurance should also be treated as days of sickness benefit when it comes to an equal withdrawal. This is important, not least for all those women who have taken a step back from the labour market and who now have another tool to be able to work more quickly again and earn their own money and earn their pension. Madam President, I would like Politics is an enabler. Through the decisions we make here in Parliament and through the decisions that our party colleagues make around the country, in the municipalities and regions, we affect all the people who elected us as their representatives. Those who need politics most are also those whom politics often forgets: all those who turn the money every month, those who live with the consequences of an unequal working life and those who balance the margin. It is our responsibility as decision-makers not only to listen to those who sound the most and have the most resources. We will listen, and we must also act. It is not worthy that in Sweden, in this year of grace in 2022, there are children who get pain in the stomach when their jacket is torn up in the gym because they know that it means that they will have to freeze in the future. This is relevant to mention to me as Kirunabo in May – it may not be for the rest of the congregation. Nor is it worthy that the child's father sees the hole and knows that the child will freeze next month, because there is no room for a new jacket. It is not worthy of a welfare country that not all children have the right to have fun. Sweden can do better.
i-V3FX41KmMz5eSxPYZCBzpo	Madam President, I would like It is not without despair in my heart that my thoughts today as all other days are with the people of Ukraine – families who want nothing but peace, freedom, security and being able to unite again. The Ukrainian people will succeed in winning over the hateful, cruel war criminal and murderer Putin, and Putin and his soldiers will be held accountable for the abuses and war crimes they commit. We will all work for that in here, and it unites us. Madam President, I would like Security comes in different guises. Today we are debating our Swedish economic family policy. Family economic policy can be described as the policy's desire for society to become more equal so that both women and men can function as parents in our modern world while being at work and contributing to our common well-being both now and in the future. Family economic policy should always strive to make the individual strong and independent and to give the individual more empowerment and more freedom to decide on his or her own everyday life. Therefore, family economic policy must not stop at an ideological debate as to whether it is the parents or the state that should divide parental leave. It must be about the foundation stone; it must be about security. Astrid Lindgren, this wonderful writer and freedom-loving childhood memory creator, said many sharp-sighted things. Among other things, she said, "Give the children love, more love, and even more love, and the people's mind will come of itself." And that's absolutely true. But love gives more than just people's minds to a child. It provides security. A child who is loved feels safe, and children who dare to love are safe. For many, as for myself in my parenting, Grandma and Grandpa and others are a great source of security. All families look different, and all children are unique. Therefore, I am pleased that we are now changing so that parents can transfer their parenting days to other close relatives. For single parents and for star families, this is very important. Madam President, I would like Even insecurity comes in different guises. The parents'financial distress is a source of anxiety for children. That is why it is extremely important that we have a security system that focuses on the balance between family life and working life for parents so that they have the opportunity to work and earn their own living. In here, I have heard many representatives of many different parties talk about children's well-being when they see their parents go to work. And it's true. This means that the child can tell friends what the parents are doing. It means less worry, it means more joy at birthdays and Christmas and it means security. Parental insurance should enable all of this but must never become a female trap. Therefore, it is important to know what the different choices a young person makes for one's income and future security, that is, retirement. It's really important. Research has shown that the risk of sick leave is twice as high for women with children than for men with children. At the same time, research shows that it is positive for women's health if parents are at home at the same time when children are young. That is why it is so important to have double days within the existing insurance days. Madam President, I would like Sweden has one of the world's most generous parental insurance policies. But the backside of these generous security systems is that they are being exploited. Our jointly funded security systems should be there for those who need them, not to fertilise criminal networks with tax money from honest people's work. The Social Insurance Agency has admitted that they are paying 18 billion in wrong payments – that's a bizarre figure. It is directly morally offensive, and much of these mispayments are directly linked to cheating. There are people who cheat for themselves three-quarters of a million SEK in unemployment or parental allowance. It's deceptive. An Iraqi Minister of Defence was able to collect child benefits from Sweden. You don't think it's true that it can happen for real. The authorities are calling for help. They need more resources and better IT structure. The authorities must have direct access for the exchange of information between each other in order to control and correct fraud once and for all. It is incomprehensible to me that the Social Democratic government with support parties opposes this. Madam President, I would like The fact that women and men, mothers and fathers, have equal opportunities, equal rights and equal obligations is genuine equality. Real equality is freedom, no matter where you come from. Today, some 1.3 million people in Sweden do not support themselves. A large group are foreign-born women who find it very difficult to enter the labour market. It is an injustice that is of no benefit to anyone. It is therefore both responsible and considerate to facilitate integration and make demands so that people can support themselves. The starting point should be that compensation for new arrivals should be lower than for those born in Sweden or who have lived in Sweden for a long time and that it should be limited to a compensation system: establishment allowance. In order to strengthen the work line for those who have never received their first job, not least foreign-born women, it should be necessary to qualify through work for full parental benefit. Parental benefit at basic level, i.e. for those who have no earned income, shall be limited to 365 days. Madam President, I would like If you want to see genuine equality and really want income inequality in society not to increase, it is important that people get to work, not that the benefits are raised. Madam President, I would like Having said that, I would like to thank you for the floor and support the Moderates' reservation number 1.
i-ALZkDXQLpqHsukKZSssayv	Madam President, I would like As I said, we are debating the Social Security Committee's report 18 on family economic policy. In order not to forget this, I would like to begin by calling for approval of the Swedish Democrats and Christian Democrats' reservation number 18. Safe families where the best interests of the children are in focus are a cornerstone in the policy of the Swedish Democrats and should be seen by all as a cornerstone in society. The family is the context in which children are formed during their childhood, and in safe and functioning families we lay the foundation for healthy individuals who in turn reflect the entire society. From a political point of view, we have a responsibility to create the best possible conditions for the whole family to feel good and thus be able to give children a safe upbringing. We politicians, on the other hand, have nothing to do with how each family puts their own life puzzle in order to reconcile everyday life and the economy. It is sad to see that more and more parties join in using the children and families as chess pieces in a political game to achieve their own political ambitions and goals. It is mainly a question of showing statistics on the surface. It's not about what's best for the kids and for the families. It is regrettable that only we and the Christian Democrats are on the side of children and families in this decision. We stand for freedom of choice and flexibility, while the other parties want to restrict freedom of choice and send a notice to the government to impose compulsory quotas on parental insurance further by also introducing reserved days for parental benefit at basic level. Madam President, I would like I am in every way in favour of an equal parenthood in which both parents in a home take responsibility for the well-being of the children, for the work of the home and for the economy of the family. However, the life puzzle of a family, especially a multi-child family, consists of far more than who should give up work to be at home for a time with the smallest child. I'm a mother with three children myself. Believe me! I know. I am convinced that even if one parent takes more parenting days than the other, it is possible to achieve equality of parenthood by taking greater responsibility for other tasks at home. However, as long as it is not possible to measure statistically, such actions may not count as particularly important. It goes without saying that longer parental leave can have a negative impact on pension provision. But it can look very different depending on the family situation and the extent to which pension rights for children cover. In order to improve parents' ability to make a conscious choice, we support the proposal to increase information to parents on the impact of different choices on pensions. However, I believe that it must then be freedom under responsibility that applies instead of something that politicians and regulations should decide over. Unfortunately, it sometimes seems a little like the Social Democrats in particular see parental leave and time with children as one of the worst punishments that can be imposed during life and that we must therefore force parents to share it. I do not deny that in some families there can be an unwillingness to share equally, but it is sad that it should be the starting point and prevent those families who are fully capable of making decisions about their own life puzzle together, entirely based on free will and their own desire to spend time with their children. Time with children is a valuable investment that is not only measured in money and pensions and that parents want to make. The time when the children are young never comes back. And it's valuable. I believe more in positive incentives and encouragement to both parents in a family to take advantage of that time than I believe in a binding regulatory framework. Madam President, I would like A proposal for a notice, on the other hand, which is more gratifying, is about increasing the number of double days. Having the opportunity to have more time together, especially in the early days with a newborn, can be very valuable. It can relieve the mother and contribute positively to the mother's health. It is regrettable that the Social Democrats and the Left Party have reservations about such a proposal. Madam President, I would like It is very positive that a majority in the committee agrees with an announcement proposed to investigate the possibility of transferring days of parental benefit to other relatives. Sometimes it can be difficult to reconcile life puzzles during childhood years, especially for single people. Allowing grandparents to relieve the burden by transferring parental allowance days can make a great deal easier. It could also be an alternative for a parent who has irregular working hours and who prefers to leave the child at home with a loved one for a time when the child is small, rather than, for example, having childcare in the evenings and nights. It can also be very difficult to get hold of. It is regrettable that the Social Democrats and the Left are open to an announcement of additional quotas, but prompt must reserve for a proposal that could really make it easier for single parents and provide more equal opportunities during the early childhood years. However, I am glad that the majority in committee is in favour of this proposal. Another proposal from us in the Swedish Democrats, which we have not heard from others, is to investigate the possibility of increased financial support for single people. Madam President, I would like Today it can be very cumbersome and a difficult combination to be a small business parent and a small child parent. The legal framework for parental benefit is primarily adapted for the person who has an employment contract. I see it as self-evident that even small businesses should have good conditions for family formation. Today, for example, it may be difficult to leave an economic activity dormant during parental leave. A majority in the committee therefore believes that it needs to be made possible to carry out certain limited administrative activities in your company without losing your parental allowance. There is also a need for regulatory changes that make it easier for entrepreneurs to have their SGI established. I am pleased that a majority in the committee supports a proposal for a declaration in this regard as well. Madam President, I would like One proposal that both we in the Swedish Democrats and the Christian Democrats have been pushing for and putting forward in this House for several years is the possibility for all pregnant women to unwind at the end of their pregnancy. Today you can apply for pregnancy benefit if you have a particularly demanding or risky profession, but it can be quite difficult to get it granted. Factors that I think one misses today are that although the work itself may not be physically stressful, for example an office job – which I myself have had several times here in Parliament when I have been highly pregnant – the journey to work in public transport can be stressful. And it's not just about the physical. Even mental stress can adversely affect pregnant mothers at the end of pregnancy. At least giving all pregnant mothers around ten pregnancy days to take out the last month does not mean a terrible amount of money; we have asked the investigation services to look at it. But it would be a great relief for many pregnant women and save them both stress and strain at the end of pregnancy. It can also prevent birth defects and prevent premature births. After a very long time, the government has now set up an investigation to look at the pregnancy allowance. However, doing so right at the end of the second term of government shows that pregnant mothers are not at the top of this government's list of priorities. It is nevertheless a good thing that an investigation should be prepared, but it could have been done more quickly. It is a fairly simple reform to implement. To examine the framework for granting long-term pregnancy benefit and to review the framework so that more people can get it granted may be a little more complicated. It's a good thing it's going to be investigated. Madam President, I would like We have a number of other proposals on shorter processing times, care allowance, housing allowance and maintenance support, and far more proposals in family policy. It is a very exciting and important area for our families with children. But you can read more about our political proposals and movements on our website.
i-KcXSQxP3yj54fdFKwth3CP	Madam President, I would like In Sweden we have good parental insurance. It's generous. It gives both children and parents security so that parents can give their children the care they want to give them. It is individual, but there is some control for how we can take it out. In order to increase the withdrawal of parental benefit from both parents, days have been marked for each parent. We have also introduced the restriction that parental allowance cannot be collected for many years, but needs to be focused on the first year of life of the children. There is a limit of four years when a certain percentage of the days should be taken out. We in the Center Party want this to concentrate even more on the early years of the child's life. We therefore want a three-year limit within which a certain number of days should be taken. It promotes work and reduces lock-in effects where there are sometimes integration difficulties. Parental insurance is individual and has certain limitations, but it also provides an opportunity to make your own choices. Then it is important that we make conscious choices when taking out parental benefit. It is important to see things that affect our choices. It is about legislation and expectations from the employer and from friends and family on who should be at home with the child. Here we need to work a lot on information about what the elections mean. The social security inspection, the ISF, came up with a report a little while ago. It answered the question of what happened when we earmarked additional days in parental insurance. In practice, Madam President, it is usually a matter of earmarking more days to fathers, because women spend the most days. What happened was that the men were home more and that the women were home about as much as before but for a lower compensation. This puts a little finger on how we look at the family. This is something we need to lift up, because what does the elections mean? As the representatives of the Moderates said earlier, this affects family life and health. It also affects the income of life and, at the next stage, the pension. So what choice do we make? How do we find out? Do we want to share the parental allowance with our partner or not? As I said, we have a good parental allowance in Sweden, but it needs some changes, Madam President. Among other things, we need to get back to the labour market quickly after we have had children. A majority in the Riksdag proposes an announcement of this. We want to give the government the task of removing the speed premium, which favours frequent births in families. We need to facilitate choices and collaboration on how parents want to divide this. Being able to have more double days is an opportunity for families to choose in different ways. One should not be forced to take out more double days if one does not want to, but one should have the opportunity to do so. Research shows that this is beneficial: More double days lead to more men taking parental leave. This is, of course, an underlying wish of all of us when we talk about equality. The Center Party also wants to review the protection of sickness benefit-based income. Instead of what it is today, that the protection and the level of sickness benefit you have based on how old the child is, we want to link it to how long you have been at home with the child. For physical reasons, many women are at home for the first time, which means that fathers are forced to take their parental leave much faster when they are at home after the child has passed the one-year anniversary. They can't spread it the same way because their SGI isn't protected. There is also a majority in the Riksdag today in order to be able to transfer parental benefit to other important adults. It is an incredibly important way forward and something I want to see more of. Madam President, I would like I would also like to say, finally! Today. For over ten years, the Center Party has been putting forward proposals in this House that it should be easier to be an entrepreneur and parenting leave. You should be able to manage parts of your own company when you are at home and on parental leave. Perhaps you work a little with marketing or do bookkeeping, things that you can't really do today when you're at home and on parental leave. There is now a majority in favour. This should also be in the field of health insurance so that you do not have to close down your company because you do not have to deal with simpler parts during your leave. Madam President, I would like I will also say a few words about the housing allowance. This is good support for those families with children with the lowest incomes to have a good place to live. However, we need to look at what is included in the basis for the calculation of the housing allowance. Today, any child's wealth is also included in the housing allowance. There are children who have received compensation, perhaps from their parent, or a compensation from insurance for the fact that something has happened. If this is included in the family's wealth when applying for housing allowance, it also affects the child's finances in the future. I want you to look at whether that's really the case. At home, youths may get an extra job, and it can be incredibly important for self - esteem. In addition, young people may have a job while parents do not have a job. If youth earns money, this is now included in the family's documentation for the application for housing allowance. If we talk about older young people who are going into adulthood, they will of course contribute to the family's finances. But if you don't gain anything by taking an extra job, it may work counter-productively and make sure you don't get out of the alienation. This is therefore important to review. I have another one, finally! .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. There has finally been a response to an investigation that has been going on for a long time. It concerns the monthly reconciliation of the housing allowance. Every month, you must check your income at Försäkringskassan to see if you are entitled to housing allowance. If this government does not have time to do so, I hope that after the elections, the next government will see to it that this happens. Today there are parents who are entitled to housing allowance in the spring. Maybe they don't have a job. But then they get a job in the autumn. When you look at the total income at the end of the year, it may turn out that you have not been entitled to housing allowance in the spring. All of a sudden, you become liable for repayment and you're in debt. What family then dares to take a job in the autumn if one year later you may have to pay back a grant that you were entitled to in the spring? It is therefore important that there is a monthly reconciliation for the housing allowance. Madam President, I would like I am in favour of reservation 29, but I am of course in favour of all the reservations and announcements made by the Center Party.
i-AQ4WCSdpJRyJmHZ2XN6Z2R	Madam President, I would like An average family of children this year will see their living expenses increase by $1,000. The reason is increased interest rates, higher electricity prices, higher fuel prices, higher food costs, higher clothes prices and so on. We Christian Democrats have a battery of measures to strengthen the family. Madam President, I would like Families look different. In addition to the traditional nuclear family, there are single, reconstituted, same-sex and other types of family formations. All these should be respected, and everyone should have the support of society to be able to function as well as possible and to make everyday life go together. However, understanding the diversity of families requires family policies to allow a great deal of flexibility and choice. A functioning family policy is important for a society that wants to prevent but also address the social problems that Sweden has today. It can be about financial vulnerability, child poverty, mental ill-health among children and young people, falling school outcomes and the long-term consequences for getting into the labour market, exclusion and crime. My opinion is crystal clear. Safe families create a safer Sweden. Madam President, I would like The issue of quotas is very much about the perspective that is being put forward. If we Christian Democrats believe that it is the child's best interests to rule, the reasonable conclusion is that it is the parents, not us here in Parliament, who know best how the parental allowance is to be distributed. Each family is also unique. Each family has a unique puzzle of life to lay and get to work. It can never be equated with any other family. If the child is at the centre, as we claim, and if we add to it the fact that each family has a unique life situation, we believe that the conclusion is simple and clear: Quotation is wrong in substance. I'm a priest. At each baptism I usually get to say something that pleases me every time, but also reminds me and everyone else: Children don't replay. I then always tell you that we who have been privileged to become parents should strive to use our time with our children as well as possible. The fact that I have now become a politician means that I can also take part in making decisions that support them in doing this, being with their children and helping them out in adulthood. I believe that children should not and cannot be sacrificed on the altar of equality, where equal payment of parental benefit is seen as the highest and most valuable goal. Unfortunately, I think that it is far too often that the family policy itself ends up there. It is a question of government pointers and government coercion in an attempt to create an equal take-out of parental insurance. As laudable as that goal is, it should be rejected. It's not putting the child's best interests at the center. It is the children's right to their parents and not gender equality goals that must be the focus. However, we Christian Democrats protect parental insurance and see and believe that it has contributed to the fact that we have achieved a great deal of gender equality policy progress. Many are the women who without it could not have been at work and at the same time been able to take care of their children. Therefore, we believe that flexible parental insurance that we want to see is to enable both women and men, mothers and fathers, to combine work and family life. So we are not just saying no to forced quotas. We also say yes to making parental insurance as flexible as we can possibly make it. It's from the unique family puzzle. Our proposal is that every day should be freely distributed among the parents, but also that they should be transferred to someone close to them, such as a mother or grandparent or another adult family member. It would be a reform that really deserves the name modern parental insurance. I am in favour of reservation number 11, which states that the parents themselves should be allowed to decide how the parental allowance should be distributed among them, although I naturally support the other reservations as well. Madam President, I would like Is there anything to be done with regard to what I began to say, namely that, on average, families with children will see their living expenses increase by 40 000 kroner this year? That's a lot of money. Is there anything you can do? We have a number of proposals in this area. I was going to mention them very quickly; they have been there. Although the government quite often says it is Putin prices, it is not Putin prices. These are prices that had already gone away long before Putin's vile attack war against Ukraine, with both electricity and fuel prices as an example. Last year, a report showed that 45 000 – 70 000 children here in Sweden are growing up in what is called an economically unsafe environment. Thankfully, the vast majority grow up in an economically secure environment. But 3 – 5 percent of the children in Sweden live in what is called material poverty. If you look at the figures, you can see that the proportion is higher among the children who have single parents or two foreign-born parents. So it is children who may be forced to turn down what their mates take for granted. What can be done about it? One way, of course, is to ensure that these families are self - sufficient. This is an important first step. It must be an offensive political programme, not least for effective integration, in which economic integration is allowed to be at the centre. It is a huge understatement to the government and a failure that we have a situation where only half of the people from the Middle East after 20 years are self-sufficient, i.e. earn 15 500 kroner a month or more. The other 50% have lived and still live on subsidies. You can lower your taxes. We Christian Democrats have put forward proposals to reduce tax precisely for parents. The drive to move from income through benefits and benefits to employment is strengthened when we reduce tax. If we lower the tax on parents, we create such incentives. We have put forward proposals for a tax reduction on earned income for parents who have children aged 0 – 18 years. Another proposal that we have also put forward is that the child-related part of the housing allowance should be increased. It's a pretty smart grip to do that. It is the most accurate way if we want to reach families with low economic standards. We have put forward proposals to introduce something called a leisure card. One thinks a leisure card for all children in grades 2 to 9 with a sum of money to be able to afford leisure activities. Our proposal is that everyone should receive SEK 500 in support per year. However, for those living in an economically vulnerable area, we are prepared to ensure that the aid comes up to $2,400 a year. All children should have the opportunity to sport, dance or play an instrument.
i-CxdtGh8zdVyB9fMWTFjtHH	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to say that we, the Liberals, naturally support the reservations and announcements contained in the report. However, I would only like to ask for the approval of reservation 6. Madam President, I would like There are very few parts of the welfare and social security system that intervene in almost all parts of our lives in the way that family policy does. Parental insurance is the center of it. Of course, how we care for our children affects children throughout their lives. But, Madam President, it also affects the lives of parents during and after their children. It affects the daily family economy at home, and it affects the opportunities of working life. It affects life and the economy as a pensioner in the future. In short, parental insurance affects the cradle to the grave. Madam President, I would like We Liberals are proud that Sweden has generous parental insurance. We have fought for it and for the extension of childcare facilities as it stands today. They're going to have our country in front of us as well. For too long, however, the public debate on parental insurance has been about changes within the current system. Several speakers today from this speaker's chair, Madam President, have pointed out that equal parental insurance has come to mean only equal take-outs of days and very technical movements around this within the current system. Madam President, I would like Now it's time to change perspective. We need to get to grips with analysing major changes in the system and perhaps even be a bit innovative. The fact that time spent at home with children is so unevenly distributed between women and men, Madam President, does not in itself have to be a problem. But it has major consequences in many different ways for everyone involved. If you are only aware of these consequences, you can of course make conscious choices. But one must also be aware that the choices one makes today have consequences extremely far in the future – for oneself and for one's loved ones. Among other things, long-term part-time work remains the main concern of women. This pattern is usually based on the children's arrival. However, for many women long-term part-time work also becomes a part-time trap, even if they have chosen it all by themselves. It is at the moment that the pay gap between men and women is growing and becoming so significant that it has quite an extreme impact, not least on retirement. Madam President, I would like The difference in life's income affects women's economic conditions and thus their independence throughout their lives. On average, women have significantly lower pensions than men. On average, women have a pension equivalent to approximately 65 to 67 per cent of men's. This is an important explanation for the fact that it is mainly women who suffer from the existence of a poor pensioner. Today's design of parental insurance has obvious disadvantages, and we should not turn a blind eye to them. For example, Madam President, today it is 26% of working women who work part-time but only 11% of men. That difference is big enough, but to this will be that most men who work part-time do not do so as a result of parenthood. Instead, men work part - time at the beginning of their adult life when they are between 20 and 25 years of age. And n is the pension approaching, well, then the men go down part-time. But then they are 55 - 65 years old. Compared with the figures for part-time work only for parents with children at home, there are huge differences in part-time work. But then it is women who work part-time. We want to break this lock-in effect on the labour market, Madam President. Of course, there are many who want to work part - time. They are allowed to work part-time and will work part-time if they feel like it, and they will continue to do so. But it is not possible to ignore the fact that the large differences in part-time work between women and men reinforce a non-equal division of labour and are a crucial part of the economic inequality that actually exists in Sweden. Having said that, Madam President, I would like to emphasise that the Liberals want a new model for parental insurance. Instead of a very long parental insurance with partial income protection, we are aiming for a shorter insurance with much better income protection. We want to remove the possibility to withdraw parental allowance one hour at a time, but we are opening up instead of completely new forms of flexibility and choice. We want to overcome the mechanisms that create the part-time traps that I have described, but instead we give parents new opportunities to adjust the length and level of insurance according to their own wishes. We strengthen the drive for equal responsibility through a more generous vab-replacement. Madam President, I would like We are not putting forward these proposals with the intention of making savings. Instead, our aim is to show how incredibly important this policy area is. Insurance systems affect everyone's lives and could be used in a different way so that parental insurance becomes more modern, more flexible and more equal. It serves the children, parents and equality. Madam President, I would like This is not the first time that the Liberals have come to the front and are calling for proposals that are at the forefront and perhaps far ahead in the future. Nevertheless, the Liberal proposals are very important. I therefore request the approval of reservation 6.
i-BwLCUs4T2stL22Mx2Zsn4h	Madam President, I would like Under the Convention on the Rights of the Child, States Parties shall make full use of their available resources to realise the child's economic, social and cultural rights. All children have the right to the standard of living required for their physical, mental, spiritual, moral and social development. In a society where politics has created the conditions for poverty, politics must therefore take responsibility for it. The poorest families with children are increasingly lagging behind, while an economic elite is getting better and better. So we have a growing elite who have made themselves richer during the pandemic while at the same time having child poverty. Madam President, I would like Here in Stockholm we from the Left Party have had meetings out in the disadvantaged areas to talk about security. We have met children, young people and families in Alby, Husby, Södertälje, Skarpnäck and Skärholmen. When we talk about security, it is not the police or the physical security that comes first and foremost for the residents there. It is education, school, health care and financial security. The second is important, yes, but the most important thing is not so much talked about in the security talks here in Parliament. Madam President, I would like I grew up and still live in Skärholmen. When I grew up, Stockholm was not so divided. The school was the hub with relatively small classes, good with resources and students with different backgrounds. It was invested in leisure activities, so me and my sister – when daughters of a cleaning lady and a metallator – could participate in everything from V year theatre to handball. Instead, today we see how children are not given the opportunity to get the security that comes from getting to know each other but either go to the nearest school or travel half the city. In disadvantaged areas, few children have leisure activities, especially girls. It is not cheap to have leisure activities, and if you try to raise money for food, such things fall away. Even the health of children is characterized by where you live and the economy of your family. When the oldest children no longer receive certain benefits due to age, the family's finances fail. This isn't worthy. Poverty can befall us all. Those who are single or sick or lose their jobs cannot now rely on a safety net. Family policy interventions in a society that has such large economic differences as Sweden is really important for redistribution and for reducing poverty. That is why we propose that the government develop a strategy to ensure that our social security policies really get to grips with this. V i also wants the government to ensure that the economic change that occurs when children get older should not hit the economy of families so hard. Madam President, I would like I request the approval of reservation 4.
