i-89PZuUa9LcLK5i5f9KnVYt	Madam President, I would like Now we are going to debate the circular economy. It is a kind of modern term for a society that has gone from toil and waste to circular spatter and that focuses more on economy with the earth's resources. This is a vision that is high on the Moderate agenda, and we push for different actors to actually contribute. It is a development that we believe will benefit from the fact that business, politics and civil society are actually in cooperation and dialogue. An active Europe is also important. A successful cycle work is just like the climate, namely, that it feels no national boundaries. That is why we believe that the EU's action plan for the area is welcome, as is the government's, which is largely based on the same line as the EU. This is good because it provides the long-term conditions needed for business. This also applies to methods of calculating different data so that politics knows how we are, if we move forward and achieve the objectives. The second thing we do not even want to think about; that we do not. This is important in order for us to keep up to date with the situation at all times. However, as in other policy areas, the transition to a circular economy must be cost-effective, holistic and focused on results. It is therefore bad that the work of the government is partly marked by the opposite. I am thinking of national instruments introduced by the government, namely the tax on plastic bags, the tax on waste incineration, the tax on second-hand electronics and how one sometimes chooses to interpret the EU directive. If this doesn't move in the right direction, it's bad politics. The worst thing is that we don't always know what the effect is because sometimes the government doesn't want to know. When we from the Moderates have proposed that we evaluate and introduce taxes from an environmental and socio-economic perspective, the government beats the deaf ear. It's there somewhere that we need to get better and lie on. It has now been two years with the plastic bag tax. We now see that the tax revenue is missed by billions, but it is perhaps a parenthesis in this context. What we also see is that the sale of fossil waste bags on rolls that have not been subject to extra tax has increased by over 75% in trade. These are fossil-derived bags, whereas those made mainly from recycled and bio-based plastics were not considered to be sufficiently environmental. If the aim was to reduce the environmental impact, it has failed. In the recent plastic action plan, the government says that innovation is an important part of success. We Moderates agree with this. But you can't say it with one hand and then say with the other hand that innovation is sometimes not good at all. We must now focus on whether we want bags that are not based on fossil carbon atoms. Plastic bags are made that are not. Why don't you let them through? No, they are dismissed — not with a detailed justification but simply because they resemble a plastic bag too much. It doesn't feel reasonable and serious. Another example I have mentioned before is companies that are renovating computers. The company Innergo usually keeps us up-to-date on how they're doing. Since the introduction of the tax four and a half years ago, Innergo has paid over SEK 18 million in a special tax. Just to get a real grip on this, it's about a used monitor, worth 300 crowns, being charged with 451 crowns in pure tax. Everyone understands that it is lost somewhere, and the Moderates have long stressed that this must be investigated. The delegation for the circular economy, the government's own delegation, has said that the tax should be removed. Now, at last, there seems to be relief going on. However, this proposal will continue to impose penalties on imported second-hand products. This means that these products will not reach the volume needed to supply the Swedish market or authorities with sufficient adapted electronic equipment. If the new proposal means that the tax will continue to hit the recycled, it is still a bad policy. It feels like it runs counter to much of what the government in other contexts expresses. Previously, I mentioned the waste incineration tax. Nor does it achieve its purpose. The Moderates were against this tax from the beginning, but now the Tax Agency also notes that the tax is not effective and does not reach the targets. Then there is the infrastructure project, which has a different order. For example, we see the excavations resulting from the construction of the subway at Slussen. They will have a major impact on the climate. Since the unpolluted excavations must not be temporarily stored, they must be transported elsewhere. It costs a lot of money, but it also costs the environment. There is talk of a total of SEK 23 billion in cost increase only for these transports and landfill charges. At the same time, we all know that companies are the engine of society. It is therefore important that they are given the right conditions. We can then see that the food industry replaced 2 000 million disposable packaging with boxes in a resource system. Ragn-Sells can actually extract phosphorus from sewage sludge. This is something that has long been planned. Later you can also get nitrogen out of sludge from the wastewater treatment plants. The latter examples are something on which we should at least be kept up to date in view of the lack of fertilizers that will affect agriculture. There are companies that don't work. There are amazing examples of criminal actors dumping waste, such as the fires in the waste groups in Kassmyra and Kagghamra. They leaked all sorts of heavy metals and poison into the groundwater. This is the kind of thing that can't happen. For this reason, we Moderates have put forward proposals to increase supervision at this type of temporary landfill. We also think that operators should simply be obliged to make pledges so that if an operator does not behave properly, it should be able to invoke it and say that the operator must be involved in paying for the clean-up of the area. Environmental crime is also something you need to tighten the scale of penalties for. The European Union is talking about this – it wants severe penalties. So do we. We think that this must have a completely different enforcement from what is now the situation. Madam President, I would like We Moderates still see the future brightly. The fact that the UN agreed yesterday on a global agreement against plastic pollution is a good thing, and the EU sticking together is a good thing. But we have some things to do at home, and we need to help each other with that. I'm in favour of reservation 26.
i-PiUcUZWznYdccbdWYfF4Go	Madam President, I would like Nature and its resources should be used as carefully and efficiently as possible. It is important to avoid waste of resources. As far as it is reasonable and socio-economically justifiable, we shall:
i-YUTb3cdkUq3aWStc9jszBC	Sweden is successful in this work. Waste landfilled in Sweden is currently on a single per mille basis, food waste is well below the EU average and we are mainly achieving the targets set for recycling. This does not mean, however, that the pursuit of further improved resource efficiency should cease. Circular economy is good, but we must also take economic account and have common sense. Normally, flows cannot be circulated to 100%, and this is usually not necessary either. As a relatively sparsely populated country with an environmentally conscious population, Sweden has moderate problems compared to many other countries. Madam President, I would like The basics of recycling must be that it should be easy to do the right thing. Central to this is the availability of recycling stations, but also the design of packaging materials in such a way that it can be easily recycled. Property-related collection is a tool that demonstrably leads to an increased percentage of recycled materials. Much work remains to be done in this area, but with research and product development recycling can increase. This is not only true in Sweden, but it is important that work is also stepped up at EU level to develop packaging standards that simplify recycling. Even when it comes to specific plastic littering, we believe that the international work is highly relevant. Plastic in the sea is a problem that most people have heard of, but most of it comes from rivers in Asia. We need to support affected countries in their efforts to improve their waste systems and have the global perspective in mind rather than dealing with placard politics as plastic bag tax in Sweden. By that I do not mean that the work in Sweden should stop. Rather, it needs to be intensified, and we need to minimise the negative consequences for the environment. On the other hand, we cannot engage in symbolic policies that strike at a functional material when the consequence becomes more expensive products with greater environmental impact. Madam President, I would like Textiles that are not to be reused are today classified as household waste. At the same time, there is great interest in taking care of old textiles in the industry, not least because the production of new textiles is extremely resource-intensive in terms of materials and water and also contributes to large greenhouse gas emissions. To stimulate increased recycling and product development, we want to see a producer responsibility introduced. National targets for the collection and reuse of textiles should also be set. Madam President, I would like Circular economy is more than just products and packaging. Different substances are also highly relevant in the circular economy. Nitrogen and phosphorus are two examples. In agriculture, these substances are used in mineral fertilisers, and we see the potential of using recycled phosphorus and nitrogen there. However, it is more expensive to extract sewage and sludge than to buy new mineral fertilizers with virgin phosphorus and nitrogen. The market for non-virgin phosphorus and nitrogen is also very small today. That is why we believe that a strategy at European level is needed and that there should be a more detailed examination of the obligation to provide a quota. As far as metals and minerals are concerned, we have an ethical responsibility to take care of what we have once broken out of the ground. An increased ability to recycle materials can be positive both from an environmental and business perspective. There are great opportunities to increase the degree of recycling in the mining industry. Today, however, it is often not profitable for companies to recycle materials from, for example, slag heaps, despite the existence of technologies to recycle a variety of metals and minerals. Therefore, companies at the forefront in this area must be promoted. Although recycling and extraction of raw materials from previous landfills will not be able to replace the need to break new materials, we see this as a very important complement to our raw material supply. In order to improve the possibilities to take advantage of the metals and minerals that have already been mined from the ground, the Swedish Democrats believe that the regulations that regulate the possibility of efficient recycling and permit granting for extraction from e.g. slag heaps and landfills need to be reviewed. That is why I am in favour of reservation 7.
i-Xdy275vagVhjrvzyNPad9V	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of our reservation 6, in paragraph 4. Madam President, I would like Sometimes it strikes me that the emergence of a more circular economy is the ugly duckling of climate and environmental work. It is the major climate agreements and the major multilateral international processes that rightly receive the major headlines. It is the concern for biodiversity and endangered species that are running the membership campaigns in our major environmental protection organisations, too, quite rightly. When I say in the country that I have actually wanted to work with waste more than with anything else, people usually get something a little absent in their eyes and wonder what kind of person I am. And I know, Madam President, that no party in this country has built an election campaign on circular issues since the 1970s. Politics is there, but it's not what we put first. At the same time, it is a more circular economy that is key to coping with both the climate crisis and the species crisis globally. We will never be able to solve the climate situation we find ourselves in if we build our consumption and growth on constant new production and the ever-increasing use of virgin raw materials. We will find it much more difficult to solve the species crisis if it pays off with devastation and predatory drive. It is not a big problem here in Sweden but an enormous problem globally if it always pays off because of our hunger for virgin raw materials. We never get to socially sustainable production chains unless we have traceability, which makes us know where our products and raw materials come from. Then we do not know if the mineral we use is broken in a mine in Sweden or through child labour in Congo or forced labour in China. For both economic, ecological and social sustainability, circular economy issues are crucial. It is not about rejecting economic growth and telling the world's poor that they will remain in poverty. But it is a question of actually ensuring that growth also becomes sustainable and does not push for increased resource demand for virgin raw materials. Madam President, I would like Man's ingenuity is infinite. Our potential is infinite. But the planet's resources are not. That is exactly what we are debating today. This is exactly what is a circular economy. Madam President, I would like If we are to be able to build a more circular economy, we need, I say, three things. We need a framework of legislation that steers towards circularity and does not prevent it. We need more innovations and innovative companies – actors who build the circular society and the circular economy. Thirdly, there must also be a market in which the sustainable, the recycled and the recycled are competitive and there is demand. Most of what we do in the area of the circular economy boils down to these three challenges: building the framework, bringing innovation to the market. I would like to devote the rest of my speech to developing what the Center Party wants to do in these three areas. If we start with the framework for the circular economy, we need to get away from a 20th century thinking, where waste was a problem that would be handled, removed and disappeared so that we didn't have to think about it any more. At best, we burned it up and warmed up some housing. In the second worst case, we buried it. In the worst case, it was only allowed to continue out into nature and into our seas and lakes to disturb ecosystems. This is still the reality in many parts of the world. We have a responsibility to make sure that this is turned around. But for our own part, and for the global economy, we must get away from waste thinking and into resource thinking. As long as a raw material can be made available by someone, somewhere it is not waste but a resource. This sounds like an entirely basic assumption– it's clear we're going to have it like this. But our legislation is stuck in the fact that this is not a resource, but it is waste that we are going to get rid of. If we move on, we also need to think further. How is what we produce actually going to work in a circular economy? How is it going to spin in the cycle? How can it be reused or reused? Here the EU becomes an absolutely crucial player. I have to say that I was extremely pleased that the Ecodesign Directive was in the green box, as part of what the European Commission has set out to do. Sweden needs to be involved in ensuring that the revision of the Ecodesign Directive is as far-reaching and ambitious as possible. That is where we can demand that what is released into the EU's internal market from day one must be intended to be reused or reused. Similarly, we need to review the R O HS directive, which regulates, among other things, how we can have digital information carriers which, Madam President, allow us to be aware that when the beautiful purple dress of the President or the chair of the President of the European Parliament sits on one day, the person who is going to take the product further knows what it is and can make it available. This is far too difficult at present. I would like to endorse what Betty Malmberg said about the importance of what is recycled also being taxed as recycled, i.e. as little as possible. In addition, we also need to strengthen producer responsibility. This is what the reservation, which I support, is about – strengthening producer responsibility for electronics. The industry wants to take more responsibility, for they realize that this is both for their benefit and something they will have to do. We need to ensure that producer responsibility is increased so that recycling also does. Furthermore, Madam President, we want to see more innovative companies and actors who actually take care of this and build the circular economy. It is very much about what taxes we are imposing and what economic and legislative frameworks we are setting up. But we also need to strengthen Swedish research, not least applied research as the one on textiles and textile recycling carried out in Borås. We need to develop the circular economy strategy to ensure that more people enter the industry. And we need to make sure that they are more economically advantageous than they are today. This is closely linked to the last point, how we create a market in which the sustainable, the recycled and the recycled can compete. Right now we are taking steps in the wrong direction, not least with regard to the European taxonomy and the growing bioeconomy. We need to turn this around in order instead to benefit those companies that want to enter. This is, for example, about Södra Skogsägar, where I am a member, and Renewcell in the textile field. We need to review them, and we need more large-scale recycling solutions in both the textile and plastic fields, where we can expand Site Zero in Motala, but also in the chemical recycling of more plastic fractions. Madam President, I would like My speaking time runs out, but believe me – there is a lot of politics that can do not only to stop destroying nature but actually also to profit more from a more sustainable society.
i-3tNo4PjaN1JV3eyuqZmc8a	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Magnus Ek, for your speech! Magnus Ek paints with large brush strokes up the importance of the circular economy, where we must reach. This is extremely important, and you do it very pedagogically when it comes to finding markets and everything. However, the question is – and that is perhaps why I am asking for the floor – how we get there. We're both business friendly. We want to invest in research and innovation. But we see a problem in that the research that then emerges, despite several million SEK from both the EU and other research funders in Sweden, is not good enough. I mentioned the example of the non-fossil-based bag that Gaia produced but which got turned down in Sweden because it was too similar to a plastic bag. So it's about how. Companies must be given long-term conditions, and criteria must be laid down for what we can and cannot accept. I would like to ask Magnus Ek: How does the Center Party think about these questions? We must definitely invest more in research and innovation, but we must also be able to implement what is the result and be able to take this home. The companies are on. They like the circular economy and see this as a business model and a business opportunity. However, we must not put up brake blocks and obstacles when the work has already led to a finished product.
i-5S2RBUkCyJpn6qcnLriyha	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, Betty. I feel like I have had several minutes to continue my speech with what is not in place in eight minutes. I will not be able to do everything during this line either, but I promise you that you will see a hundred proposals in this area during the election campaign, which will be ready to be picked up if we put a center party in the Environment Department after the election. Part of this is that we are simply too bad at getting innovative companies and making them pay in Sweden. This is not new to Betty Malmberg, but it is new to many. We have a real structural problem with many of the innovative companies we run up, which become startups in Sweden, not being able to take the step further and continue to grow and benefit from the innovation they are based on. This is, in fact, purely industrial policy. It is about that it pays too bad to run companies in Sweden. It is too expensive and complicated to hire and to do all the other things that need to be done when a company starts to grow. I am leaving the economic policy part aside, but let us remember that this is there as a huge obstacle in essence. The smart circular economy also needs a bit of a smart liberal industrial policy sometimes. The second part is that we sometimes have a misclassification and punish what is quite smart solutions. We need to be better at such a thing as life-cycle analysis, which is the basis for research. We need to be better at something Betty Malmberg has fought for throughout her time in Parliament: linking the applied research with the legislator. We all know that we have a problem there and that sometimes we get a little bad at listening to that thing. The last part is about looking specifically at the type of companies that operate in the circular economy industry, because it is often a market that has never existed before. When Renewcell or Södra makes textiles of sustainable Swedish biomaterials instead of cotton that is produced under disgusting conditions elsewhere, it is difficult to count home just the environmental benefits and the social benefits they do. It is about the broad work we need to do with internalizing externalities, or in pure Swedish: It must cost more to destroy the environment.
i-GcESzHSoHYvELUfuuLEMP3	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Magnus Ek, for your answer! I can sympathize with most of what Magnus Ek brings up. It's about a broader palette of questions than just what concerns the drainpipes that we are often down and germinate in – which right now with circular economy. There are companies and industries that are prepared to take precedence. Now, with my hand on my heart, I will say that we would prefer to have Europe-wide criteria to govern. But it is precisely the point that is being asked about when waste ceases to be waste, Madam President. It's called end of waste criteria. It is only then that you can take the next step in product development and innovation. So there are sectors that want to take precedence here. For example, the tyre industry and the textile industry have felt that we should establish national criteria of this kind. Marlene Burwick also knows this – she looks happy. This is an issue that we have raised jointly. Now there has been an investigation from the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. They were given a government assignment to look at this, and they actually determined that this would be possible. But the Environmental Protection Agency thinks we should wait for the EU. Maybe it's a lead, as I said. At the same time, however, there are entire industries and product types where you are prepared to do this. Perhaps I am thinking specifically of the tyre industry, which is an entity of its own. If they are prepared to do this, would Magnus Ek and the Center Party think it would be good if they could try it? It is then a question of establishing national end of waste criteria for the tyre industry on test. That could be an opportunity.
i-AteicSYR3QWif783hY1d1d	Madam President, I would like First of all, I think that this should not even be put to the test. The investigation was misdirected from the beginning. It should not have been about whether this can be done. They should have been given the task of defining national end of waste criteria. It should have been asked from the outset to identify more opportunities where it is possible that waste ceases to be waste. Now they took one step too much. That is why we need to wait even longer for this, which is so urgent. I am open to anything that can solve the problem that it means that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency did not get the right assignment from the beginning. It's something the Center Party has been running. It was something that we drove among other things in that constellation. We didn't get all the way there, but I'm happy to take all the other options I get. Much of what I hear from Betty Malmberg, also in her speech, I think is very good, including what is about building on the circular economy strategy that is now in place, Sweden's first. There is much in it that I would like to develop. There are many things that I wish had been included from the beginning. But I am genuinely pleased to hear moderate representatives say: we are not throwing this out with the bath water, but we want to build on it. I think that is exactly what will be important regardless of who ends up in government after the elections – that we take up where we are and that we then continue to sharpen. We don't have time to wait or to come up with something of our own or not to steal good ideas from each other. I'd be happy to notice anything that's S-marked or M-marked with a clover as long as it's wise. There is, however, something that I think the Moderates need to get a little better at. This is usually quite right in industrial policy. There is a good commitment among you who are responsible here in Parliament. But there is also little missing from their own proposals, and sometimes you get a little too caught up in criticizing others. It is often right, but you also have to come up with the answer yourself: How do we press for, not only with good nutrition policy but also with good environmental policy that makes us nail on to the framework that makes Sweden a leader in this, so that we pick up the innovations, is first and reduces both our emissions and our resource impact? There's a job to do for more conservative politicians. I think Betty Malmberg is one of those people doing a good job.
i-HoMHGR2LdKREDW7XDZHFg7	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the circular economy, a subject that spans many parts of our society. It is an area in which we seem to be fairly in agreement. We agree that society must become more circular, but we have a slightly different view of what this might mean for us in practice. This applies both to the vision of society and to individual proposals. The climate crisis shows us what happens when our society does not stay within the framework of nature, and for the Left Party a circular economy is central as part of the climate transition. We want an economy that is circular, where we do not take out more from nature than is sustainable and where raw materials and products can be reused, recycled or recycled. Such an approach is central to meeting the climate challenges we are in the midst of. In a circular economy, the life span of materials and products is longer and the extraction of raw materials is smaller. This requires sustainable production and consumption, as well as waste being used as a resource. This requires sustainable waste management, where the amount of waste is reduced. It is a matter of increasing reuse, repair, recycling, renting and sharing – that is, everything that increases the life span of the products. Madam President, I would like It is also important that we provide all consumers with relevant information and good opportunities to make active choices when buying goods and services. A circular economy is important for achieving a sustainable society. It is not sustainable to constantly develop new raw materials and make new things and then see them end up in the dump. The shorter duration of products increases the amount of waste and prevents the efficient use of natural resources in accordance with a circular economy. In order to keep CO2 emissions down, we need to extend the use of products and increase reuse and recycling. This requires political initiative. Market and consumer initiatives can take us in the right direction, but that will be insufficient to achieve a sustainable circular economy in time. France has shown the way. They were the first in the world to have legislation against so-called planned ageing in products, i.e. that products should only be able to use a certain amount of time. Since January 2021, manufacturers of certain electronic products, such as laptops and mobile phones, also have to inform customers about the possibilities of repairing the products. The Left Party has long worked to bring about measures that prolong the life of what we produce, mainly electronic products. It is not always the case that we wait for Europe. Madam President, I would like The Left Party believes that it is a huge shortcoming that producers are unable to ensure that there is near-real estate collection of packaging. If people have access to close-to-real estate collection, significant resource gains can be achieved through increased recycling. The system of collection of catering waste, packaging and recycled paper should be common in order to simplify collection. In our opinion, the municipalities are best placed to be responsible for this collection. They have good experience of real estate collection, and good service provides better results and better sorting. The municipalities can choose whether they want to do this in their own direction or in some other form. Producers should finance the collection costs of municipalities through fees. This, in our opinion, gives the greatest environmental and societal benefit. The municipalities should therefore be given responsibility for the collection of waste from households that are subject to statutory producer responsibility, and producers are responsible for recycling. In order to ensure full financial responsibility for producers, the government should decide on fees for producers. This ensures that municipalities must not bear the cost of collecting waste from households, which are then subject to statutory producer responsibility. Madam President, I would like A circular economy based on the production of durable products with a long service life and with the possibility of repair, recycling and recycling should reasonably impose completely different requirements on production and, in the long term, on companies. The rate of production should fall as the number of items consumed decreases, and as a result factory workers around the world have time to produce a product under reasonable working conditions and at a reasonable wage. Quality is not rushed. Our on-demand and toil society should shift to a circular society based on quality and slow consumption. That is why we also need to work to stimulate the re-use of electronic products. Today, companies such as used computers and iPhones are being hit by the chemical tax on electronic products, for example, so that they can be used again economically negatively. In order to meet the planetary limit of sustainable resource use, the Swedish use of virgin raw materials must be reduced by 75 per cent by 2050. One of the ways to achieve this goal is for the government to remove the obstacles that chemicals tax is currently facing companies that re-use electronic products. We expect the government to urgently come back with proposals to solve this problem. I would like to conclude by calling for our reservation 15 to be approved.
i-ECLQKFQb8GfQBvuCXgk3F	Madam President, I would like It is certainly no secret that the Center Party and the Left Party have widely different views both on the importance of growth and on who we think is driving innovations in society, but I thought I would spare my colleagues another drapa where we clarify what everyone knows is the difference between our parties and instead give me a short reply about just domestic collection. In his speech, Mr Thorbjörnson spoke of a very positive picture and view of this, and that picture is probably true in many parts. For some waste fractions and in large parts of the country, household collection will be important to meet the collection targets. It is also something that I know is not least asked here in Stockholm to be able to build a nicer city. I also know that smaller municipalities, such as Östra Göinge, have themselves preceded and are forerunners in household collection, because they think it benefits both the environment and the inhabitants of the municipality. But it is also the case that there are some problems when we demand a household collection for all the factions throughout the country, all the time. Although we now have a trend towards wanting to reward the household collection and it looks as if we are going that way, it is also a huge challenge for smaller municipalities in sparsely populated parts of the country when taking on an increasing responsibility. Even if you can send a bill to the companies, it means you have to build up resources to be able to face this. At the same time, we know that for certain collection fractions, such as return glass, we are above the set collection targets. Do we really need to tear down a working system to build a new one, or can Jon Thorbjörnson see that this is something that should be done in Finland, for example? It places demands on the domestic collection of most fractions in the majority of the country, but in parts of the country it can be solved in other ways and maintain viable solutions if they achieve the goals.
i-3wJfM9DqALjLYX3aZ1Yr8z	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Magnus Ek, for the question! We need to be a little offensive when it comes to getting a good fundraiser together. It's as simple as that. We cannot just sit down and wait, but we need to take care of producer responsibility and ensure that the collection is good everywhere. I am not familiar with what the system looks like in Finland, but the municipalities should not take full financial responsibility of their own. How it will be functional in each municipality remains to be seen, but financial responsibility should not fall on the municipalities, but it will be a producer responsibility that applies.
i-4cpt8be44YQ1PcLgHzFbF2	Madam President, I would like There are possible problems with that, too, and one of the key issues has been precisely how to solve financial responsibility so that it is the producer who continues to bear this responsibility but which also means that there is predictability in terms of cost. We may not have to drill too deep into this, but I still think we should reserve the offensive force of politics for where it is actually needed. I'd love it to be offensive there. But when it comes to, for example, the collection of return glass, where we are above the return targets, we may not have to be offensive in building a new system that will achieve the same goal that we have already achieved. What I'm getting is a little more of a willingness to compromise, pragmatism, healthy farming sense or whatever you call it in Gothenburg. That is something the honourable Member will have to tell me. That's the part that has to get into this: an offensive force and the healthy sense of the peasantry.
i-9fc5PhVK9f17sXTyXhj6mV	Madam President, I would like I have to start by informing Magnus Ek that despite my beautiful dialect I am not Gothenburgers. I don't know who takes the most offense, the Gothenburgers or the Hallänningens – I am Kungsbackabo, from just south of Gothenburg. It is next yard, so it can be a bit difficult to keep track of all the geographical details. As I said in my speech, we believe that it is the municipalities that are best placed to take responsibility for shaping this. They've done it before, they're doing it now and we think they'll be able to do it well in the future. There are more packaging than just glass that we would like to come in and be reused. And even if we already achieve the glass targets, there is nothing to prevent us from getting even better, is there not?
i-6X3o55GzQ23FPXRvVZk5TD	Madam President, I would like As we have heard in previous posts, circular economy is a relatively new and modern concept for something that has really existed since time immemorial. In the past, it was a matter of course because you could not afford to produce or buy new products all the time. Today it has become increasingly obvious because we cannot take out virgin material indefinitely, nor can we live in a buying-and-slitch mentality when we see how it puts so many strain on our earth. Whatever the reason, circularity should be a matter of course. In the transition that we are now in, the circular economy gives us great potential to create jobs and new business opportunities to further accelerate the circular transition. It is expected that the transition to a more circular society will bring about 700 000 new jobs in the EU. How many of these we take to Sweden depends on what conditions we give our business community, because we should not believe that it is politics itself that creates these jobs. As we have heard earlier in the debate, there are today examples of taxes that are directly counterproductive in order to go further with the circular economy. We are now in the final stage of the work of the Environmental Objectives Committee, and we also have discussions there about some of these taxes. I hope that all parties will take this home and continue to discuss in their parties to formulate a policy that removes these obstacles to an enlarged circular economy. Today, for example, double chemical tax is paid on reused products sold by a commercial operator. We have to get away from that kind of taxation. Another advantage of the circular economy is that it contributes economically several times, which of course becomes a win-win situation. But most importantly, it helps us achieve our environmental and climate goals. Circular economy is based, among other things, on collaboration and sustainable transition. The climate problem is, of course, a global issue that cannot only be driven at national level from a unilateral national perspective. On the basis of several surveys among business leaders, we know that they are calling for more forms of cooperation on these issues. It is the business community that is pushing the issues forward, but we need to be on the move to remove detailed rules and other regulatory obstacles that stand in the way. Madam President, I would like In one of our exercises, we write that the Swedish Food Safety Agency should be tasked with producing a guide book for entrepreneurs on how to reduce their food waste. Everything that can be done to make it easier for our entrepreneurs to do the right thing gives a number of profits in several stages. Food safety is very important, it is not a question of it, but today we have rules that lead to so much food being thrown away that would not have to be thrown away. The inventiveness of our entrepreneurs is great, and we have to help them so that they can let go and develop these thoughts further to take advantage of the food while doing the climate a good service. Food prices have risen recently and will well rise even more depending on the situation in the outside world. Perhaps, in the midst of all the misery that is happening, it can help us to change our attitude when it comes to food and how to handle both leftovers and food that has passed the best-before-date. I don't know if it's television shows, influencers, information campaigns or anxiety and war in our vicinity that will help us. But the knowledge that my parent generation has about handling food, we would certainly need to take on. I have said this every year in this debate, and I say it again this year: it is not dangerous to smell and taste food even if the best-case date has passed. We need to learn to rely more on our minds than on food safety rules, which are more corrupt than helping. If anyone has the answer to how to overcome this problem, that person is happy to get in touch. There I want to learn more. I'm going to go from the food to something we're happy to use when we've finished eating and we're going to pack our leftovers, namely plastic. I note that the government has recently gone out on the plastic issue. That's good. But in some parts it will be very small if we only act at a national level and do not look out over the world. It is important to reduce plastic litter as well as to avoid fossil plastic burning with accompanying carbon dioxide emissions in the atmosphere. The main strategy to prevent these phenomena should be to increase recycling of plastics. Economic incentives are often effective and would probably also have an effect on increasing plastic recycling. The Christian Democrats therefore propose that Sweden works for the introduction of an international new manufacturing fee on plastic made from fossil materials. This would give plastic a higher recycling value. For the sake of fact, I would like to mention that, despite an infinite number of readings by several people, there has been a mistake in the motion, where in one place it says that we want an international recycling fee. That is, of course, completely wrong. It's only in one place, but I still want to draw everyone's attention to it. There will be an international new production fee, and it says in all other places. That's what's going on and nothing else. Madam President, I would like I'm going to continue on the trail of recycling. It is important that source sorting is encouraged. By giving companies and producers greater responsibility and opportunities to deal with waste, new companies and new jobs can be created. Competition reduces costs. Companies that can and want to be able to take responsibility for all or part of their waste, including so-called household waste. Municipalities should remain primarily responsible for combustible waste from households that are not suitable for recycling or reuse. Municipalities should also have an increased influence on the design of collection systems for material subject to producer responsibility. Municipalities and property owners wishing to organise the collection of producer liability material in addition to the guaranteed level of service should be able to do so and receive a reasonable remuneration for collected material, provided that this is done in a way that enables efficient recycling. Madam President, I would like I note that my speaking time is almost up, and I will try to throttle. I shall then turn to producer responsibility, where I have already received the help of my good colleague Magnus Ek, who mentioned this in his speech. Producer responsibility systems are an effective and effective way of creating economic drivers and incentives and making products easier to recycle and recycle. By strengthening existing systems and developing new ones, companies and industries can regain their products and materials at the end of their life cycle in order to end the cycle. That is why it is a good thing if we can have a stronger and more developed producer responsibility. This would have a positive long-term impact on the environment that can then be driven forward by the industry itself, which is far more effective than if we were to invest in various government solutions. As has so often been said from this speaker's seat, even earlier today, it should be easy to do the right thing. And if we are to bring the world to a more circular thinking, we must remove the obstacles that lie in the way and facilitate as much as we can, for it should be fun to change. With this, I would like to vote in favour of Amendment No 27.
i-6S591jD9Y5tj1Hz6rfoBuU	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the important area of circular economy. I support all our reservations, but I only support reservation 9 on the recycling of metals and minerals. Madam President, I would like Our climate work and our environmental work must be carried out in a growth economy. It is people's ingenuity and willingness to improve their lives and the world around them that has given us our amazing development. The foundation of what we call growth is man's ability to find improvements. Larger and larger values are created from resources that will always be limited, whether it be metals, people's time, access to land or anything else. That's what growth is. It is also the constant efficiency, driven by people's smart ideas, the ability of companies to develop them and the ability of free trade to spread them, which gives us the chance to cope with climate change and halt the loss of biodiversity. Madam President, I would like The enormous progress of mankind in recent generations has not been unproblematic. Poor management of development has led to suboptimisation, where some have won while others have lost. Today we see, above all, how our generation has benefited greatly from fossil fuels, while CO2 emissions become a cost borne by future generations. It can't go on like that. The Liberals, and then the People's Party, have always fought for sustainable growth. Only in prosperous economies can environmental problems be solved. At the same time, we must not allow market forces to exploit nature. Materials are often used inefficiently today. The growing economic activity, which has actually been of great benefit to many people, has also made the extraction from nature of a wide range of materials untenable. At the same time, the possibility of re-using products or even recycling the materials from which they were manufactured is often not exploited. Madam President, I would like For a liberal, it is easy to see why this is. A range of costs for creating a sustainable process are not included in the price paid by the consumer. In other words, it is too cheap to use new materials instead of recycling materials from an existing product. For us Liberals, the polluter pays principle is important. Environmental taxes must be directed at the problem that we want to solve. If the problem is the extraction of new raw material and the recycling rate of a material is too low then it is the removal of new raw material that should be charged with any taxes. We should not tax recycling itself. We also believe in the individual's will to do the right thing. At the moment of purchase, clear information is needed, through digital product passports, about how long the manufacturer expects the product to last, how it will be repaired, what spare parts are available, how long it will be sold, how long the manufacturer will maintain the software in the product they sell and how the product will be recycled. Products need to last longer, and they should be able to be more repairable. Components at risk of breakage shall be easy to replace. The responsibility of producers for the functioning of products shall be extended. Madam President, I would like Our handling of food deserves special attention. Today, around a third of our food is thrown away, and it is done in all directions. The large waste represents a very high climate impact and a severe pressure on ecosystems by using more soil than necessary for food production. We have to stop throwing food that is not wrong with. And here I agree with Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson that we must start testing the food before we think it is bad. We have to trust our own judgment. At the same time, we must review the system of best practice. The food that then eventually, despite increased efforts, becomes waste should be taken care of, and it should primarily be converted into biogas. Madam President, I would like Some material flows, for example for nutrients and metals, need to be stopped almost completely and become circular flows. However, we need to remember that the use of different materials changes over time. Now we see, for example, that the need for battery metals is increasing significantly as part of the climate change. Even if we recycle these metals 100%, we still need to increase their withdrawals many times over. Strong growth for certain types of mines can thus be fully in line with a circular economy due to other requirements, such as in this case the need for rapid climate change. In parallel with increased sockets, it is important to remember that innovations can at the same time change the need for different materials, for example when it comes to battery production. It may not be necessary to use as much resources as we use for batteries today or to find materials that are easier to use and to recycle. We've been good at recycling for a long time. As far as buildings, vehicles, furniture and art are concerned, it goes without saying that they are being resold. For many materials, especially metals, recycling works quite well today. We know what we need to do. More products need to be manufactured in order to last long, and recycling needs to be increased. At the same time, we must not stare blindly at everything being recycled. Take plastic as an example. We're gonna make plastic. We're gonna use plastic, we're gonna recycle plastic, and we're gonna burn plastic. But we're not going to make plastic from fossil raw materials. We need to focus on what is the problem. Circular flows are not an end in themselves. They are a tool for achieving climate and environmental objectives. Harmful and valuable materials must not be allowed to become waste. However, for renewable resources with a low environmental impact, it may make sense to accept a lower degree of circularity to save energy and work. But for the vast majority of products, both reuse and recycling need to increase significantly. Madam President, I would like The ability to create circular resource flows gives us the chance to continue building the world better. It is a world where people are healthier, live longer and are better off. At the same time, we will do this by reducing the pressure on the planet. The circular economy is a tool for sustainable economic growth, and we will use it.
i-Da2KfBZNpaKGKxgbCvnbaz	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. I will start by saying something that we do not usually say from the Green Party: we need to increase consumption. We need to increase the consumption of climate-smart products, repairs, recycled products and materials. But we also need to reduce consumption. We need to reduce the consumption of fossil products and products that burden the climate. We need to reduce wear-and-slip – and even buy-and-slip. It is not always products that are even used, but they are bought and put aside. We only have one planet but consume as if we had four planets. If it had been a financial statement, you would have seen red figures. Great steps had been taken, but in the balance sheet of the planet it seems that the red figures are only allowed to continue. UN Secretary General Guterres said we must stop fighting the planet. We simply have to stay within the limits of the planet. It is incredibly nice to hear that there are so many parties that really are passionate about circular economy. There are many joint actions and proposals that could be put forward. Nevertheless, I feel a degree of frustration that we will not arrive more quickly when I see that there are so many common lines here. The European Environment Agency wrote earlier in a report that economic growth and GDP growth are very important for increased prosperity. We need medical care, schools and all that it is. At the same time, there are also many back pages. We see a species crisis and a climate crisis. Nevertheless, we must dare to talk about economic growth and how we can redefine it and bring in externalities. It's a very nice metaphor Raworth Raworth uses in Doughnut Economics. We have the boundaries of the planet that we must not exceed. But we also have a social floor that we must not underestimate so that there is poverty and poverty. Then we have a safe space in between. We should still have the courage to talk more about how we think about economic growth. So, what are we going to do to stay within the boundaries of the planet? I do not think we should focus too much on the individual consumer. Of course it should be easy to do the right thing. But it's not where we find the big steps. We should not engage in touch sticks and moralizing. We politicians need to fix the structures and simply make it possible. A clear compass and long-term rules of play are needed. We need both objectives and different types of regulation. The environmental target committee is tasked with developing climate targets for reducing emissions from consumption. It's a very important piece of the puzzle. Companies can work with their value chains and with traceability from subcontractor to subcontractor all the way. Standardizations are important here, not least, but also different types of digital innovations. There are projects on textiles, for example, but also on electronics. There you build a digital component that just goes all the way. It's incredibly important. Several have mentioned the circular economy strategy and action plan. I really agree with Magnus Ek that we need to build on it and take steps further. It has laid a foundation, but we need to work more with it. In it there is a vision of a society where resources are used efficiently in non-toxic circular flows and replace virgin materials. Let's get on with it. Here is the problem that the circular economy today is very small compared to the linear one. We need to shift there, scale up and make sure it goes faster. One example, in which I make some impact in the report, is that the Green Party wants us to introduce a national target, legal requirements and instruments to reduce resource consumption. Here it is interesting to look at Finland, which aims to ensure that the consumption of primary raw materials for domestic consumption in 2035 does not exceed the level of 2015. Nevertheless, it is a courageous goal of Finland, which is still a commodity producing country in many respects. The green tax shift is also very important in this. Several Members have said that we need to review pricing. It simply has to be more expensive with virgin material. I would also like to mention the re-use and recycling of electronics. It is very important that we get to grips with the issue. It is about the development of producer responsibility. There's a very good investigation here. We simply need to make a proposal of it and ensure that it goes ahead. It is also a question of the chemical tax, so that we do not double taxation used. Here's an errand coming up. It is a bit of a pity that the parliamentary parties have not been listened to and have got into the matter. But let's hope there are more opportunities to work on that issue. Then I would also like to highlight recycling of metals and not least the innovation-critical metals and minerals, which is very important. There came recent research from Linköping that compared the mineral industry with the recycling industry in this particular area. It shows that there are not only fossil subsidies, but also, in fact, linear subsidies. You could really look at this and simply make sure that it pays better to recycle minerals. Construction materials also create a very large waste stream. There is an enormous amount of work to be done here. Steps have been taken. But we need to do all the more. It is also interesting to look at the requirement to work circularly in construction projects already at the building permits stage. Then we can get to the really great masses and the waste streams. Poison freedom is also very important. This has not been mentioned much today, but if we are to circulate, we must ensure that it is non-toxic. We must have reasonable systems to test, which will not be too burdensome, so that we do not circulate new problems, as we have seen in the past. Maybe we should start thinking about beginning of life rather than end of life. We really need to think about it and do it right from the start. Product design and increasing the life span of products is extremely important. As much as 80 percent of the environmental impact is determined already in the product design phase, so we need to add a lot of powder. I would also like to mention procurement. It's a very important tool in this. The procurement authority has been tasked with developing requirements regarding fossil-free and circular. It has worked on this for a long time and has now received money in the budget to work further on it. It is very important to drive a market at municipal level. I end as I started: We need to increase the consumption of what is good for the planet and reduce the consumption of what is bad for the planet, so that we can stay within the limits of the planet. I support all the reservations expressed by the Green Party, but I only support reservation 2.
i-TYHVnCcUBE6RffMSyXZAK7	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the report by the Committee on Environment and Agriculture on the circular economy. The ideas contained in this report include resource consumption and efficiency, reuse and recycling, scrapping, waste, food waste and plastic issues. The report shows the broad scope of the issue and the deep commitment of Members of Parliament. I would like to support the committee's proposal for a decision. Madam President, I would like A transformation of society is needed to achieve our environmental and climate goals, to safeguard our well-being and the competitiveness of the business community, and to achieve the global goals of sustainable development. We need to change today's unsustainable use of resources, as it leads to the depletion of biodiversity and the spread of dangerous substances and contributes to climate change. We must reverse negative developments, save endangered ecosystems and secure the possibility of sustainable use of resources for future generations. Part of this vision is precisely the circular economy. Sweden can create a lever from the national to the global by being the good example that shows how we protect our planet and our business community and how this goes hand in hand. Sweden, as one of the world's most innovative countries, is well placed to take on this transition. Through technology development and innovation for circular solutions, important steps can be taken to strengthen competitiveness. Many Swedish companies already see the possibilities of re-setting their operations in line with a more resource-efficient circular economy. All of this also brings benefits to the global market, where Swedish companies can export the products and services that are demanded when the world changes. The transition to a circular economy we create together. It is about politics, business, the public sector, academia, individuals and civil society. As part of this, the Circular Economy Delegation was established in April 2018. This is the government's advisory body, which has the task of being a centre of knowledge and a coordinating force for the transition of business to a circular economy. The delegation shall also identify obstacles and act as a catalyst. To step up the pace of the transition, the Government decided in June 2020 on a national strategy for the circular economy and in January 2021 on an action plan with over 100 decided on measures in areas such as industrial transformation, material supply, technology development and waste management. The Government has also proposed in the budget proposal for 2021 and 2022 a series of budgetary initiatives that contribute to the transition to a circular economy. Many important decisions and instruments are therefore in place, but as the report and the debate in this House show, the task is great and the issues are wide-ranging. I am therefore pleased that another important piece of the puzzle in the work came into place the other week. Madam President, I would like I'm talking about the plastic. Plastic is an important and widely used material in our everyday life. There are many applications where today we depend on the properties of plastic. This means that we cannot stop using plastics, but the handling of plastics must be circular and sustainable. Land and sea litter, the difficulty of recycling plastics and greenhouse gas emissions from plastic combustion and production make plastic one of today's major environmental challenges. That's why we need to do three things. We need to reduce the amount of plastic, make sure that the right plastic ends up in the right place and make the plastic more recyclable. On 21 February, the Government presented Sweden's first action plan to reduce the impact of plastics on the climate and the environment. The Action Plan takes a holistic approach to plastic through a variety of measures such as new legislation, budgetary initiatives and mandates to authorities. In particular, I would like to mention a few examples of measures. There is a new target for plastic packaging to contain on average 30 percent recycled raw material in 2030. More packaging will also be reusable, and the use of disposable cups and lunch boxes will be reduced by 50 per cent by 2026. The government also makes several budget investments in the field of plastics. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency will receive an additional SEK 25 million per year from 2022 to 2024 to strengthen both nationally, within the EU and globally the work for a more circular and sustainable plastic handling. At the same time, special efforts are being made to reduce litter. These include beach cleaning grants and implementation of the disposable plastic directive in Sweden. Part of the problem with plastics is that many plastic varieties cannot be recycled. The Agency is therefore tasked with investigating which substances prevent or are problematic in order to recover plastics. As we have heard earlier in the debate, the construction sector accounts for a large part of plastic use – 20%. This is why the Government has commissioned Boverket to develop the transformation work in the construction and real estate sector. The transition to circular plastic handling is necessary for Sweden to be at the forefront of the climate transition and can lead to new innovations and companies, increased competitiveness and more new green jobs. Madam President, I would like Yesterday, the countries of the world made a decision at the UN Environment Assembly in Kenya that a global agreement against plastic pollution is needed. This is a historic decision. It is the largest environmental agreement since the Paris Agreement. We in Sweden have long fought for a global plastic agreement, and now we can finally start the UN negotiations. The decision means that the UN has now set the framework for the forthcoming negotiations. The important work is now under way to develop a global legally binding agreement. Plastic pollution is a cross-border problem that requires global solutions and action. This decision is a major and important first step. With a global agreement, we have the opportunity to jointly come up with goals and concrete measures for the entire plastic lifecycle.
i-MHtXtQzjrtK1Amwnk2xj5q	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Mrs Burwick for her speech, in which the plastic rightly took some place. I, too, mentioned the global agreement signed by the UN. It is clear that this gives hope that you will find the framework but then also dress it in words and actions to tackle pollution. The action plan adopted by the government for plastic is, of course, also a good one. However, I note that some of those who have commented on the action plan – I am thinking, among other things, of Waste Sweden – think that there is little news. Where, for example, did the chemical recycling go? It is not mentioned at all in the action plan but was presented as recently as a year ago as a very innovative technology. This is where we're gonna move on. In my speech, I spoke about the dialogue, which was also mentioned by Amanda Palmstierna in her speech. It is about the importance of talking to each other and listening to what business, for example, needs. I am surprised that the government does not seem to have done so to the extent that it would like us to be able to proceed with the various steps towards a better use of plastic, so that it actually ends up in the right place. What is Marlene Burwick's answer to the question of why recycling industries are critical?
i-UAqoxMxL22bquxzHLr7MEg	Madam President, I would like I will not make myself a spokesperson for the recycling industries, but my opinion is not that one is constructive. I can imagine that, in many situations, one would like to point out that something may be good but would like to see further things or measures implemented. What I have seen is that kind of point of view. But I didn't get anything else critical. The government is certainly engaged in an active dialogue with the relevant parties on this issue. That is my firm opinion.
i-BVCzhvw2k4Ey9F64AsZyLB	Madam President, I would like Then we do not really know who is right, but I note what I have read in press releases. There I read that there are other things to wish for. Marlene Burwick said in her speech that many instruments are decided. It was a question that I too had raised. But I also think it is important to know whether the instruments are right. Are we going where we want to go? I had a number of examples of various instruments, the results of which may now be surprised. We must note that the results have not always been the desired ones. I am thinking of the plastic bag tax, the tax on waste incineration and the tax on electronics. You have to listen and see if we're doing the right things. But the government does not seem so inclined to do so. Yesterday when I was reading various documents, I ended up in the Long-term investigation from 1999, where there is a record that they did and needed to do socio-economic analyses of what was then called the circular economy. Today it is called the circular economy, but it is the same purpose. This was already being called for at the time. But why does the government turn a deaf ear when it comes to doing more of this kind of analysis? The Tax Agency has looked at the waste incineration tax and said that it is not a good idea. We reached further from the very beginning. So I wonder: is the government prepared to do something about the plastic bag tax and abolish the waste incineration tax?
i-P3955Aqzuis3f4tz2BUb6c	Madam President, I would like I thank Mrs Malmberg for the questions. I and the government obviously agree with the importance of socio-economic analyses. That, of course, is the starting point of the government's work all the time. Nevertheless, I would like to problematise this area, in which I know Betty Malmberg is familiar. The question of circular economy has many entrances and many bottoms. What is important in this context, for example, is that we must reduce the use of plastics at all. It is not just a question of circularity, but we also need to reduce its overall use. It is also an important part of the EU's disposable plastic directive, so we need to find different approaches to this work. The issue of non-toxic, which Mrs Palmstierna raised in her speech, among others, is also very important. As far as the various instruments are concerned, our ambitions are in the same direction, but what I want to try to problematise is that it is also very important that we steer the right direction. We fully agree, for example, with regard to the importance of nontoxic substances and that we do not receive substances that cause toxins to enter our cycles. As far as plastic bags are concerned, we have a directive from the European Union to reduce, for example, the consumption of thick plastic bags, hence the plastic bag tax. We have also seen that the use has really been greatly reduced. The Swedish people want to be involved in changing and taking responsibility. Many municipalities have also changed, for example, in that they now use paper bags for food waste. This is part of a change that is being made in order to reduce the consumption of certain substances. That was a long answer to Betty Malmberg's question, but I have a desire to problematise this in view of the difficulties in this area.
i-FNPapiDjq4VGYryP7GMFDA	Madam President, I would like For me, Mr Burwick has been a valued negotiating partner and partner for a large part of this term of office. I very much appreciate the cooperation that we have had on behalf of our parties, not least in implementing those parts of the January agreement that stem from the circular economy and other environmental issues. I really think Marlene Burwick has been an asset to her party there. But it is also the case that Mr Burwick is the representative of the party that has held the government power throughout this term of office. There are a lot of things that I really miss. I wonder why they haven't come to. We can leave aside what we've managed to do – it's mostly good things. There are some major things that would really have been needed in the area of circular economy. I have mentioned the review that would be needed by Swedish waste legislation. We need to make sure that we move from the linear to the circular even in how the law looks at how resources are to be used. An umbrella inquiry could be needed to pick the low-hanging fruits and solve the small problems. These are contained in legislation that has not been reviewed in its entirety for a long time. In addition, the government has left a lot of things in the drawers. The report on producer responsibility for textiles that we negotiated together has not led to any proposal. Nor does it appear to be on Parliament's table before the elections. The same is true of the free-choice investigation. The investigator said that this is something that could have really benefited the circular economy in Sweden, but it remains in the drawers. These are problems we also see in other areas of environmental policy. The Environmental Objectives Committee spent two years on marine environmental policy, but that has not led to a bill either. This is a question that should not just be put to Marlene Burwick and perhaps not just to the Social Democrats, because it is the Green Party that has been sitting in the Ministry of the Environment. But after all, a government makes decisions collectively. Why hasn't there been more? How will the voters, when they go to the ballot box, imagine that the Social Democrats and the Green Party are doing good things for the environment when they have not done these things, which would have been quite easy to implement?
i-QQv6ds7d3mQq8FhGjaVHNK	Madam President, I would like It was good that you, Magnus Ek, did not ask a question about all the good things we have done, because then my line time would not have been enough because it is so much. The answer to your question is that during this parliamentary term, the government, together with the cooperation parties and within the framework of the January Agreement, has made enormous progress in the area of the circular economy. Many reviews and investigations have been carried out, and a great deal of work is currently under way within the Government Office. It is simply a very large inflow in many cases which means that it has not yet landed in proposals. Perhaps the honourable Member should have more discussions with the responsible Government, but I can see that very good work has been done. A basis for new legislation and new proposals from the government exists that is supported by a majority in the Riksdag. So there is good hope for the future in this area.
i-WR4Jn7VEG56srHAeEBUt39	Madam President, I would like It is nice to have good hope for the future, but we must also look at what we have done because we know how urgent and urgent it is. We have a climate crisis that Sweden must help solve by reducing its emissions and doing so quickly. It's about transforming our economy in less than a generation. This is not done in a hurry and then sitting and holding on to proposals that can bring us closer to the goal is not good environmental policy, no matter how good the investigation is. This is not the way to steer a society to leave tools in the toolbox that are ready to use. Unfortunately, however, the government has done just that during this parliamentary term. Nor do I believe that the Ministry of the Environment has had more to do than other departments. The last two terms of office have gone wrong, for there have hardly been any proposals from the Ministry of the Environment to the Riksdag. But this is where we decide on the means and change the legislation, and in order to do so we must get proposals from the government. That is how our democratic system works. This is a lower grade to the responsible ministers since 2014. But a government also makes decisions collectively. As far as producer responsibility for textiles is concerned, where, as far as I know, there is no political conflict, there is a complete study that describes what it could look like. It may need to be screwed on details and honed a little bit, but that's what we're for. When we have spent two years in the Environmental Objectives Committee to produce decisions, which we can certainly discuss but where there is a broad political consensus, and they remain in the toolbox, it is not delivering results for the environment. Both the Social Democrats and the Green Party will have to respond to how this has happened.
i-SVMxEpjucygEfBNuDmjr9n	Madam President, I would like I appreciate Magnus Ek's great commitment to this issue. Let us focus on the subject of the debate, namely the circular economy. I think that the government has delivered a great deal in this area together with the January parties. In my speech, I mentioned the strategy, the first of its kind to be adopted in Sweden, which was followed by an action plan with many measures. In it we were also clear that we would continue to follow up the main material streams, and on 21 February the plastic action plan was presented. I therefore do not share Magnus Ek's view of the government's work, but I think that the government has delivered many good proposals that have brought this issue forward. We will also continue to deliver good proposals based on investigations carried out during this parliamentary term.
i-JDLren3oYuRgQVyf3DS2RE	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered today by Minister for Social Affairs Lena Hallengren, Minister for Infrastructure Tomas Eneroth, Minister Anna Hallberg and Minister Ida Karkiainen. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. Minister for Social Affairs Lena Hallengren answers both general policy questions and questions concerning her own area of responsibility.
i-fCmj45o7ewdd7yAUoohBN	Madam President, I would like It is not possible these days to defend itself against the horrors that are taking place in Ukraine. At the same time, however, work must continue in the Swedish parliament. On Tuesday came the investigation concerning LVU and forced-placed children that we Moderates have initiated and which six of the eight parties in the Riksdag are behind – all parties except the Social Democrats and the Environmental Party. The Minister of Social Affairs has argued that it is not possible to have the child's best interests as a prop in the legislation, but this is precisely what the investigator Anders Hagsgård proposes – that is, what would become the lex Little Heart for real.
i-2k2Jouh2Y2f797Tpr79F7v	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question, Camilla Waltersson Grönvall! We do not have to say this before every speech, but it is clear that the situation in the outside world and the invasion from Russia in Ukraine are characteristic of this moment. But, of course, we will discuss much else, and a lot of work needs to be done. It has also happened over the past two years when we have had a pandemic to deal with. Then the question of placed children and the so-called lex Lilla heart has been one of the most prioritised issues that the Ministry of Social Affairs has been working on, in addition to dealing with all the legislation that we have had on our table in relation to the pandemic. There will be a bill to the Riksdag shortly to deal with the situation – with custody transfer, with a removal ban, with drug testing. Then, of course, there has also been the investigation to which Camilla Waltersson Grönvall refers and to which I would guess all parties in the Committee on Social Affairs still want to take forward wisely. But how it is done, how to handle the investigation that has been ordered, is primarily a matter for the Swedish parliament.
i-EiYXTrNha8uxYrD8rTn6Ft	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. I firmly believe that when we are going to work to make our most vulnerable children better, we will do it best if we do it across all party boundaries and in as long-term a way as possible. Undoubtedly, parts of the legislative referral we have received do not fully correspond to the parts of the investigation. I will then reach out one hand for a joint effort. What is the Minister's response?
i-YX3UtFATG6nHe9ni3gUs9L	Madam President, I would like We have really tried to deal with this issue urgently. I think that is what most benefits the children concerned. We have also said that the inquiry commissioned by the Riksdag may, of course, go for a referral, and we will see how the referral is to be received. It is an extensive work that has been carried out, and it is an important work that will also have to be carried out in the future, with the investigation commissioned by the Parliamentary Social Affairs Committee.
i-HqhMsyrhsmNqoibgmgg7wp	Madam President, I would like At present, we are experiencing a massively escalating conflict between Russia and the West, including Sweden, after Russia has carried out an inhuman invasion of Ukraine and, furthermore, at present, a brutal war against the country. As a result of this conflict, it can be assumed that various deliveries from Russia to Sweden can be made more difficult and in many cases absent. It is important that Sweden is prepared for this and for the situation that can follow, so that it does not affect the Swedish economy more than necessary in the long term. That is why I have a question for Minister for Foreign Trade Hallberg: what is the readiness for the counter-sanctions that Russia might now be targeting Sweden, particularly with regard to products that may be bottlenecks in the economy, such as certain raw materials in the manufacturing industry?
i-XFUbmmyzpNf2LevCS6udo3	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Aron Emilsson, for a very important and central issue at the moment! I would also like to start by saying, at my first opportunity, that it is a terrible situation in Europe that we find ourselves in. It is above all about the great concern for life and for people on the run. But, of course, at this point, we must also be able to talk about the economy and trade. From a Swedish perspective, we are relatively spared from being so dependent on Russia and Russia's economy. However, as Aron Emilsson says, there are some raw materials and inputs that are central. In my dialogue with the Swedish companies that represent these imports, we are now looking together – it is the companies that bear the responsibility – at redirecting supply chains to other countries. There are very many good opportunities to do this. Vulnerability is therefore not fundamental. We are very close to this issue on the part of the government, and we are in constant dialogue with the companies concerned, especially in a context of vulnerability.
i-PCKsGdSFvyA7JAMppKrXcK	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for your answer, Minister. I would like to take the opportunity to develop the idea somewhat and ask what further preparedness may exist, not least together with our Nordic neighbours. The Government is also Minister of the Nordic Countries. We often talk about being the most integrated region in the world, and then perhaps we should also be prepared to jointly equip our labour market regions and economies at this stage. Is there any kind of preparedness assessment on whether there are other exporters who can replace Russian products of the kind where there can be supposed to be shortage? Has this been mapped? Is there any close cooperation with industry in addition to the Chambers of Commerce?
i-EcUBToDMtGooUmC8aqUyMr	Madam President, I would like That's exactly what it is. The day after the invasion, I had a conversation with my Finnish colleague Trade Minister Skinnari. We are also reviewing our resilience in an EU perspective. I have a meeting tomorrow with the French Minister for Trade here in Stockholm, precisely to see what we can do with countries between us. Co-ordination within the EU is A and O at this stage, but also co-ordination between policies and governments, on the one hand, and industry and businesses, on the other. I have also given a mission to the National Board of Trade to do a vulnerability analysis, which is coming in these days.
i-D1A8ViippjWZMjELeSMdi2	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Hallengren. The Corona Commission has recently produced its report, which rightly criticises the government for not having taken full leadership and, above all, for allowing others to stick to the tact stick. We are now facing a new crisis that will affect Sweden in many different ways. I am therefore keen that the government is now preparing and ensuring that we can deal with the consequences of it. We now see from the EU decision that has been made that we will receive a large number of refugees in Sweden – and we will do so, because Sweden is far from full. In this situation, there will be great demands on Swedish healthcare when people come from Ukraine and here, not least because many of them, for example, have not been covid-19-vaccinated. There are also other major medical needs.
i-R5gV5rNF8UFTPdFhU6Nhsf	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Anders W Jonsson, for the question. It was so very interesting in the speech itself, so I can hardly help but comment on it. I want to say that I think we have clear, strong and very determined leadership in Sweden. I would also like to say that I think it is wise to listen to expert authorities, including the Swedish Armed Forces. These are two areas in which I believe that preparedness is good and where we have the very best conditions. When it comes to health care, which Anders W Jonsson is more specifically asking the question about, we have had an investigation that has been working for over three and a half years and that actually also came up with its final report last week. It is about how we should have a strong preparedness in health care in the event of a crisis and event of war. When it was ordered it felt war far away, but it is clear that it is about that the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare together with the Swedish Municipalities and Regions and Health Care Directors and others make sure that we have an overview of the Swedish preparedness for us to have the opportunity to assist in the situation when we receive a sharp request, which we have not yet received.
i-ED6vHJoWWARrwP6aW8Y6Ek	Madam President, I would like The investigation that came last week will not be the answer to this question. We have refugees who already come to Sweden's borders today. We need to make sure that health care can handle this. A first thing that you will face is that there will be people who are not even covid-19-vaccinated. My question is specific based on what the situation is now: what has the government done to ensure today that Swedish health care is equipped for this wave of refugees that will come to Sweden?
i-QTfrg1HYToEW2cV3FcJdyV	Madam President, I would like When it comes to a preparedness for healthcare, we have a discussion about whether Sweden may need to receive patients and open up Swedish healthcare to assist to the extent that its own care is not sufficient. There's one thing. More specifically, with regard to vaccination, a visa is not required to travel from Ukraine to a European country, but it is still a third country where vaccination is required. This is a question we're looking at, I'd like to say. I also want to complicate it a little bit further and say that covid-19 is one thing, but of course we also have vaccinations more generally. It's been a week since the invasion, and we're working on that issue.
i-RLzJnxVJ7GciUnVaSuS6mN	Madam President, I would like Russia's invasion of Ukraine is a violation of international law, and with the war there will be enormous suffering. UNCHR expects 7 million people to be forced to flee. Poland is the largest recipient country, but solidarity has proved to be selective. Black people on the run are not allowed to cross the border and are not allowed to step on buses or trains out of a country that is a war zone. Students from African countries and families with children are stopped by border police based on their skin color. The Left Party believes that Sweden and the government must immediately mark against this racism and defend the right of asylum so that it applies to anyone fleeing. We can't be quiet when this racism is going on.
i-AyDDdwoG96DPs6Fb6J4oLP	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Tony Haddou, for the question! Sweden stands up for the right of asylum. It's very important. There is currently a meeting in Brussels with the migration ministers discussing, among other things, the mass refugee directive. That is one thing, but when it comes to making statements, I cannot say here and now how this issue is taken forward. But we stand up for the right of asylum, including what Tony Haddou is talking about.
i-73N4ZDirJMvFpV6RYYmbBK	Madam President, I would like What I'm talking about is making a distinction between who has the right to escape a war zone. If you stand up for the right of asylum, you must also be able to stand up for people to be protected without being subjected to racism and discrimination. I think that Sweden's voice in these EU discussions should be very clear towards Poland, which stops people based on their skin colour. I think that Sweden can clearly mark against this racism and actually act against it.
i-FCXiFsrt3vYrsf5N9XcJNg	Madam President, I would like As the Minister for Migration is currently in place at an EU meeting, I do not wish to comment further on this issue, but I am absolutely convinced that those marks are being made.
i-NxaUcs49Qpj2LBMES9tsba	Madam President, I would like Ukraine needs our support. It warms to see the generosity shown by the Swedish people through financial contributions and support in other ways to Ukraine and its people. The Christian Democrats welcome the fact that the government also wants to contribute to Sweden as a nation contributing with what Ukraine needs. There is, among other things, a need for medical supplies and medicines. Yesterday the government told us about its general and positive attitude, but several of the messages that were given were vague and unprecise, not least with regard to medicines. As has been mentioned before, the Corona Commission's assessment is that during the initial phase of the pandemic, the government did not make sufficient use of the required national leadership. My question to the Government is therefore: will the government show national leadership now and do what is necessary to help Ukraine with the medical supplies and medicines they may need?
i-GrVBZYtnvJt5y5Tq679Eyy	Madam President, I would like I note the opposition's point of view on leadership during the initial phase of the pandemic. Maybe it wasn't entirely unexpected, certainly. However, when it comes to the announcement of medical supplies provided by the government yesterday, less than a week after the Russian invasion of Ukraine, I think they were clear. I then, together with the Director-General of the National Board of Health and Welfare, described how Sweden responds to the needs expressed by Ukraine. It is important that the European civil defence mechanism is the one we use, both from the Ukrainian side to express the needs that exist as well as from the Swedish and other EU countries when responding so that Ukraine really gets what they need and not something else, because it will be difficult for them to take care of it. Then Acko Ankarberg Johansson asks more specifically about drugs. At present, we are working on providing assistance to the extent that is also requested, but we should not have old medicines, but we must ensure that we can provide medicines in a safe manner.
i-3zXDnHH16TkMETJkrzcnR4	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Social Affairs, for your answer. It is true in the case of medicines that cold chains and many other things are particularly important, not least in the case of insulin and other things on which many people depend. It's kind of a practical issue to deal with. But I took the second part rather, because the Corona Commission said that there is much more room for the government to act than it used during the pandemic. We're there again. Yesterday, reference was made to the fact that there are laws and regulations that prevent us from providing medicines. What does the government do to show the necessary leadership if Ukraine needs medicines?
i-T78ZBVd8itxSp2aqenT7Dt	Madam President, I would like It is not laws and rules that are obstacles in the way. An exception can be made to the possibility of being wholesale, for example. But here we are also working together at the European level. It is often European directives that govern how we distribute medicines and what the conditions are for giving medicines. I would also like to emphasise that it is not only when it comes to protective equipment that Ukraine is asking for specific products, but also for medicines. Sweden is a country of 28 to assist, and we will do so on Ukraine's demand.
i-2HaDrW8AUkFxWiLyvLMsAR	Madam President, I would like My question also goes to Minister Hallengren. The Covid-19 pandemic proved to be a very long-term and extremely difficult trial for many people in our country. We have already seen that it was not the last test to which we or Europe will be subjected. The pandemic laws are still in force, and the effects of the pandemic are not over. We know that many young people have had their teens radically changed compared to what they had thought they would be. Their schooling has been quite different. Many older people have lived in tremendous loneliness, and many small businesses have risked having their life's work overturned or actually seen them fall. My question to the Government is: What measures is the government willing to take to analyse, monitor and counter the long-term negative effects of the pandemic that we have been through? Can the government, for example, consider setting up a follow-up commission to safeguard human health and provide long-term support?
i-SHrULtx4J4foMSDxWDrJXg	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lina Nordquist, for the question! I note that the Liberals could not even wait for the Corona Commission's report before they wanted a new Commission set up. It will, of course, be analysed in length and breadth. It will be possible to deal with specific evaluations that look at individual parts, but I also think that the research will be very welcome in this case. This applies not only to Swedish research but also to international research, for something that the Corona Commission also points out is that it is very unclear how individual measures have actually contributed to reduced spread of infection. However, I should like to take this opportunity to say that the Corona Commission is also clear and says that they share the view that we made the right choices, which has been a prerequisite for the Swedish people having been able to live so much freer and in such a much more open society than in many other countries in our surrounding world. Although the Pandemic Act applies for a little longer, we have a completely different situation today. Yeah, we're gonna learn. But I do not believe in a completely new Commission that has such a broad mandate.
i-KWZL3ndheYLAb7a9hHUNiJ	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. It is true that the Liberals made that assessment, as the Commission's opinion would come a long time before the final effects of the pandemic can be seen. We therefore wanted to go a little ahead and thought that a future analysis would be needed. That is something that I wish, and which the Corona Commission also proved to wish, that the government had done as well. In its analysis, the Commission states not only that the Government emphasises but also that the crisis management was marked by opposing messages, allaying the main concerns and many other very dangerous things.
i-BMhQxZYiNb1oWqoZHdX3Ja	Madam President, I would like Of course, we shall analyse, not least, those parts of the report that deal with the very nature of crisis management and how we organise ourselves in the best possible way. That, of course, is our ambition. Again, I do not see that we would set up such a broad Commission with the broad mandate. I do, however, see a need to look at specific parts in the future. I also welcome the research that we will certainly see in this area, because effects will be seen for a long time to come. It is really difficult to know when we can evaluate what has happened during the pandemic. It's going to be a long time.
i-DbNq1Tz5fDn7r9enjvcwY8	Madam President, I would like My question goes to the Minister for Infrastructure. Right now, Sweden, Europe and large parts of the world are doing what we can to support Ukraine through support packages, through aid, through civil society and by welcoming the people who are now fleeing the horrors of war. The other day DSB, the Danish equivalent of SJ, announced that they have entered into an agreement with the Danish Ministry of Transport which allows all Ukrainian refugees to travel free of charge on their trains. A number of other countries have also opened up free travel for Ukrainian refugees. Region Skåne and Region Stockholm have also decided on free travel for Ukrainian refugees. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Infrastructure if there is work going on like that in Denmark to provide free travel for Ukrainian refugees. If it does not, I wonder whether the Minister for Infrastructure is prepared to enter into a dialogue with a view to allowing Ukrainian refugees to travel free of charge on SJ's trains.
i-Jy9UCXNcGen26ChUVHgi7o	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking, Axel Hallberg! It is inspiring to see the strong commitment that exists worldwide to the situation in Ukraine and the willingness to help when people are allowed to flee for their lives due to the Russian invasion but also to support and help Ukraine with various types of efforts. As you probably know, Sweden has made a substantial contribution and is now contributing in a variety of ways to support Ukraine and to help the people deal with everyday life. I am pleased that there is a strong commitment. We have noted that several transport companies choose to take such a position. This is not something that the Swedish government decides, but it is up to each individual operator to decide whether to subsidise tickets or allow Ukrainian refugees to travel by, for example, presenting only passports. It is a process that is taking place in several European countries.
i-BEpqi6gAWS2wPW6opjqeoz	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister of Infrastructure. As I said, there is intensive work going on in Sweden and several other countries to support Ukraine in the best possible way. This work must be done in all ways and in all policy areas. I would therefore like to put another question to the Minister for Infrastructure. Given the incredibly serious and exceptional situation we find ourselves in, what does the Minister of Infrastructure see that Sweden in his area can do to support Ukraine and deal with the effects of the war?
i-2T3ZVdDpRxgAuVo9zdCEEd	Madam President, Mr Hallberg. What we are doing and doing directly was initiating the regulation that now applies to airspace. This means that Russian flights must not come to the airspace of Sweden and Europe. There is an ongoing discussion on other types of restrictions and also a dialogue with various transport companies both to secure supply chains and redundancy in transport systems and for the expected and supposed refugee wave that we will see to Sweden and the rest of Europe.
i-EhJp22UU4rVnFCUGwvYA8e	Madam President, I would like With Russia's unprovoked attack on Ukraine, Europe and the world face a new reality. International trade is hugely important for Sweden, for Swedish jobs and for Swedish welfare. I hope everyone in here knows that as many as one in three people in Sweden work in the export sector. That's a lot of jobs. It is gratifying that the whole of the Western world has quickly gathered behind strong sanctions against Russia and that they have an effect. But we also realise that it will affect the opportunities of Swedish companies in terms of inputs and exports of goods and services. I would like to ask a question to Minister of Commerce Anna Hallberg. What is the Minister's view of the impact of sanctions on Swedish companies?
i-6g8ZDZwjRVRtUdjfyHKE4t	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking, Åsa Eriksson! I have daily regular contact with the really big companies, with small companies and with industry organisations. It makes me extremely proud that the Swedish companies take an enormous responsibility, in addition to the political sanctions that have been decided within the European Union. In just one week, almost all large companies with Swedish interests in Russia have closed down their operations. Last day, Ikea had 15,000 employees. Swedish trade is generally limited with Russia. It accounts for about 1.3% of our exports. But there are some companies that are heavily dependent on Russia as a market. They are now searching and quickly finding new suppliers, alternative supply chains, and are therefore shutting down their exports to and their presence in Russia. It's going furiously fast. With Sweden's strong public finances, we also have the opportunity to review how we can cope with any additional vulnerability in the economically vulnerable situation that some of those companies find themselves in.
i-LneiXReMupjx91KkyiYbso	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. I agree that it is a good thing that most of the Swedish companies have acted rather quickly.
i-Jq91u4p9FDZBph2ELQmnuN	Madam President, I would like Let me be clear. Russia is no longer a trading partner of Sweden. We have no promotion – quite the contrary. The authorities and public actors who have previously helped Swedish companies to do business in Russia are now doing exactly the opposite. They will now help the Swedish companies to step out of the Russian market. The sanctions are meant to hit hard and to isolate Russia. That is why it is a completely different situation. Today, the map is completely repressed as far as trade policy is concerned.
i-6vkh8Q1PiCssdVs7xXpqA7	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Eneroth and concerns infrastructure. Already before my grandfather's birth in 1899, infrastructure was deemed necessary for the Stockholm region. Nevertheless, in the 20th and 21st centuries social democratic governments have lifted this out of planning. Nacka and Värmdö today contribute to the necessary housing construction in the Stockholm region and within 20 years will increase the population by approximately 50 per cent to over 200 000 and become approximately Sweden's fourth largest municipality. Today there is basically a road lane for those who are going to get out of Nacka and Värmdö down the Södra link. There is a large cross-block consensus in local politics; the Social Democrats are also pushing this issue.
i-MsNHn4nZf71CK4F7UNUnw5	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question. It is common for everyone to make requests to the Minister for Infrastructure for various types of infrastructure investments. We are currently in a position where, instead of receiving infrastructure investments as compensation for business closures, as was the case about ten years ago, we rather want to bring forward and have more infrastructure investments as a result of the strong new industrialisation and growth we see in Sweden. I'm glad to hear that. That is why we are spending more money than ever – nearly SEK 900 billion – on infrastructure investments throughout the country. But it is also up to the regions to set their priorities. This is a discussion that has taken place, among other things, in the Stockholm region. In the run-up to the last round of the national plan, we received clear signals from the St.Okholm region, wide and across party boundaries, that priority should be given, for example, to cross-connection Södertörn before Eastern connection. But it is, of course, up to Region Stockholm to have its own discussion on its own priorities. Best interests of the child as independent props
i-Mndko1mfSrvR4PoV91WvU2	Madam President, I would like The Minister for Social Affairs just replied to my committee colleague that the government is dealing with the issue of forced-placed children urgently. In 2015, a very good investigation landed on the table, but the government chose to put it in the drawer. The urgency of this is therefore something to be called into question. An inquiry commissioned by the Social Affairs Committee is clear in its criticism of today's legislation. It does not satisfy children's right to stability and security, which should be the starting point. The investigation has several suggestions that would strengthen the child's right, such as a transfer of parents' right to their children to become their own right bearer. The Minister of Social Affairs has previously said no to the child's best interests as his own props and has gone in the opposite direction than what the Riksdag has actually said. Is the Minister going to take note of this investigation and reconsider his previous position on this so incredibly important issue, which affects many children placed daily?
i-RF9D41W2xZo6nYMg7GQdGe	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Linda Lindberg, for the question! The investigation from 2015 was not put in a trash basket or placed in a bookshelf, but it became a proposal even in several different parts. On the other hand, it is correct that the best interests of the child as their own props are not what has been delivered. I hope, however, that the House will approve the proposal which will soon be submitted to Parliament and which will enter into force as early as 1 July. It includes improvements in both the possibilities for drug testing and follow-up after a placement has ended, shorter time before consideration is given to the transfer of custody as well as a removal ban. The inquiry referred to by Members here came on Tuesday and was commissioned by the Social Affairs Committee. I assume that it will be consulted so that we deal with it as other legislative proposals, i.e. by considering and seeing which points of reference are coming in. This is difficult matter, and we are going in every way we can, of course, help each other to make sure that the child's best interests come true.
i-BJimktbTEBoQNcMTXgqDvV	Madam President, I would like The country's 21 county boards constitute the state's civil organisation at the regional level. The County Administrative Board's mission is to deal with emerging crisis situations and to build civil defence. We have good experience of the County Administrative Board's work during the ongoing pandemic, since it has coordinated much of the national, regional and local work. However, my picture, Madam President, is that the country's county boards are today quite variable in the light of the emerging world situation with the Russian attack on Ukraine. My question to the Minister for Civil Affairs therefore concerns the concrete tasks and tasks that the Government has given to the country's 21 county boards in view of the international situation in which we find ourselves.
i-56VgToJpcpwoU4jR6mPB3V	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr President, for the question. The county administrative boards are an important and important part of the Swedish government's governance over crises and civil defence, among other things. What the county boards are doing now and have a well-established channel for is about coordination, establishing contact paths and reviewing what preparedness exists in the county.
i-ARbby6cjqXFZC9AoGLXjES	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Tomas Eneroth. There is much talk of a level playing field in different contexts, including transport. SJ AB is subject to the same laws as all other limited liability companies and companies owned by other states, yet the EU has decided that SJ, unlike its competitors, must purchase its vehicles through public procurement. This means that it takes several years longer and is significantly more expensive for SJ when buying new vehicles, while competitors can upgrade and modernise their fleet considerably faster and cheaper. This gives them a competitive advantage. This is not a level playing field.
i-5EspzZ8D6HMXWw1uCHdw95	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jessica Thunander, for raising the question. I think it is extremely important. This is a challenge for SJ because it is subject to other procurement rules than, for example, private operators. The issue lies under the Ministry of Enterprise, so it is the Minister of Enterprise, which manages the state companies, who has a dialogue with the European Commission and European partners on the regulatory framework in this area. But I can be clear that I myself do not think that such differences in competition are sustainable in the long term. It is so important that in the future we modernise not least the wagon fleet to ensure that the capacity of the Swedish rail system is increased. If we are to meet climate requirements, more transport needs to be transferred from road to rail. The modernisation of the fleet is an important part, among other things. There is therefore work under the supervision of the Minister for Economic Affairs, which is precisely about creating the right conditions for competition and good conditions for modernising the railway fleet.
i-Meg4vgDV17nPuWhsz2amfm	Madam President, I would like When it became apparent a few days ago that Swedish support goes to Russia, many felt that this had to be stopped immediately. The Christian Democrats are defending effective aid. Swedish money should not even risk being indirectly controlled by a despot like Putin. Sida has clarified that Swedish support is not aid but international development support and that it goes to civil society, free media, democracy fighters and human rights defenders. Democratic movements in repressive environments need support to survive and for there to be something to build on the day when the current regime no longer has power. But in the current circumstances, we need to stop and reconsider the situation. How does the government act to ensure that Swedish support for Russian civil society and democracy fighters does not fall into the wrong hands?
i-6q86iQyXiMVGRpo8ymDmsK	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Gudrun Brunegård, for the question and for the commitment! There is a need for many people to be on the side of aid. The 1% target is important. This shows, not least, the current situation. Reducing aid would not give us the opportunity to either the humanitarian component or to support the democratic forces that we know are needed in order to change the situation in the long term for the better. I know that the Minister for Development has had to answer very much to questions about how we deal with this situation. I understand that it can attract attention, but I hope we agree that Sweden must do its utmost to assist civil society. Of course, this needs to be ensured, and Sida also has a mission to do so.
i-KatYT8xju8tCYtZrpjF1iQ	Madam President, I would like My question is addressed to Minister of Social Affairs Lena Hallengren, and it is prompted by the special opinion attached to the Corona Commission report that came last week. The Commission has examined a number of responsibilities and societal consequences of the pandemic but not, as the opinion shows, existential and ethical issues raised by the pandemic. I would therefore like to ask whether the government will go further and highlight these issues. There is a need to systematically analyse ethical issues in the further work on building a Swedish emergency preparedness. We need a common understanding of the issues in order to be able to make priorities in crisis. This is not just a matter of priorities in health care, but also in society as a whole.
i-Un8fHKrvQU71RkjyRGerox	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Westerholm, for the question. The members of the Corona Commission represent Swedish society broadly, not least the existential issues, and they were set up precisely so that the Commission would carry out a broad examination that we can take further. I replied to a questioner and a Member earlier here that we have not decided to set up a specific investigation, but I assume that the pandemic will prompt us to continue to analyse, perhaps to take specific measures and to set up more narrow investigations. At present, however, I cannot answer exactly how we move forward. Nor can I say that existential questions call for a specific investigation. The honourable Member is quite right, of course, that this is something that many people are thinking about not least today.
i-CThckWRvdwoin8cwLmqdZ	Madam President, I would like This question also goes to Minister Lena Hallengren, who does not have much time to sit down today. When I see pictures, I understand that Ukraine's hospital is in danger of running out of medical supplies. Patients and health workers work under very difficult conditions. Wars and diseases always go hand in hand. The Coronapendem is not over, and Ukraine is also concerned about continued polio and tuberculosis. Children, young people, adults and the elderly will need help in hospitals in other countries – often even highly specialised care. Of course we'll help. My question to the Government is: What do you think our preparedness is in the health care sector?
i-W956m4jmPoPJxeJTFphsN5	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking, Margareta Fransson! As I replied to another Member earlier, we provide a lot of protective equipment, but Sweden is a country of 28. Of course, it makes a huge difference compared to the pandemic, where all countries wanted help at the same time and no one really was in position to assist anyone else. Now we have a completely different situation so far: we are many countries that together will respond to the needs of Ukraine, and we have done so by providing protective equipment. When the question comes to health care, you can see it in different ways. It is about people having to be cared for for for war injuries, but it can also be about people – children, cancer patients and so on – no longer being able to get the care they need. We have a capacity and a system in which we will be able to respond quickly to any sharp requests, but of course everything depends on what questions we get and when we get them. We all know that not only Swedish, but also European health care is hard hit after the pandemic. So priorities are needed, but it is clear that we are going to assist Ukraine.
i-7w9DS6zN3Be67D8M6weXqt	Madam President, I would like I address my question to Minister Ida Karkiainen. I have been negotiating trade unions in the construction industry for many years now, and I have seen many companies and entrepreneurs who are working hard to do the right thing. But I have also seen many foam companies that treat their staff very badly and get away with it. What has struck me is that it is all too often public procurement that keeps these companies under arms and ensures that they survive. This damages confidence in the public sector. It distorts competition so that serious companies are eliminated. From my point of view, it means above all that our members, LO members, do not receive their paid-up occupational pensions, do not receive the right salaries and do not receive their paid social security contributions.
i-YSEqg1AVNx24TNMvTTS234	Madam President, I would like I thank the honourable Member for a very urgent question. I fully share the problem picture. The government has seen the absence of a system allowing contracting authorities to easily check whether suppliers have committed criminal offences. Foam companies have nothing to do with public procurement. We want to do something about this. That is why, together with Minister Danielsson, I have initiated a series of round tables with industry representatives and trade unions to discuss concrete measures and gather experiences, and the first conversation is actually taking place this afternoon.
i-QaALWb7VMBULCWNNjqco6h	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Social Affairs Lena Hallengren. I would like to begin by saying that I am extremely proud that Sweden is supporting Ukraine with medical supplies. These include 50 ventilators, 5 000 venous catheters and 5 000 drip hoses, but I fear the need will be much greater. The press conference yesterday revealed that individual pharmacists are willing to donate medicines with a short shelf life, about four months, which may otherwise be discarded. However, there are parts of the Swedish regulatory framework that prevent this. The Minister has received this question earlier during Question Time, but she is happy to develop it a little more. From what I understand, it is the Swedish regulatory framework that needs to be reviewed. What is the government's plan in the future to support Ukraine with more medical supplies?
i-UuRw9KDRdKDgd5tRCueDFj	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question, Ulrika Jörgensen, and for the support in all the work we now need to do! As I think we also mentioned at the press conference yesterday, we have described this as the first thing we provide, i.e. protective equipment from the national stocks we now have at the National Board of Health and Welfare. There is also an inventory in the regions of what it looks like there. It is true that we both support Ukraine and ensure that we continue to have the ability to carry out our own health care and have our own preparedness. As far as medicines are concerned, I would like to turn to the image that the problem would be very typically Swedish, but we basically have an EU directive. No one wants more or less out-of-date medicines on the market. We are very concerned that what is being delivered is really what Ukraine is asking for, not what we think we have in stock and can give. That's the first part. The second part is that we do not need to redo laws, but that we can possibly make exceptions. Not everyone can sell medicines, but it is important that it is done in a safe way. Therefore, more roads could possibly be the wholesale trade.
i-eA1WcoYLrSV9N6manVqBB	Madam President, I would like My question goes to the Minister of Social Affairs. All regions in Sweden have goals for how quickly treatment should be initiated in case of suspected cancer, the so-called standardised health care processes. But most regions are nowhere near achieving this within maximum lead time. For two common cancers, prostate and lung cancer, the results are frightening: Only 12% of prostate cancer patients receive treatment within a medically reasonable time, and the situation is even worse for those who suffer from lung cancer – within this group only 6% receive treatment within the maximum lead time. We both know that the care queues in cancer care are not news and that we cannot simply refer to the pandemic as a cause. The waiting time for treatment in cancer care was almost the same in 2019, i.e. before the pandemic. My question to the Minister for Social Affairs is therefore: why has the government not taken steps to shorten the queues in cancer care? The fact is, however, that the government has had two terms of office.
i-E8dp6eoVGoFpPGpajQa5XL	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question, Per Ramhorn! We have taken many steps– I hope that Per Ramhorn really knows about it and that it just didn't fit in with the issue – but of course we have more to do. We have set aside resources, and we assist the regions in many different ways. We have specific funds for cancer care, to be said, as to the regional cancer centres and child cancer care. Special efforts and agreements are made to contribute to early detection and facilitate screening. If we're going to talk about something that might have been a little obscured during the pandemic, it's that people may not even have dared to seek medical care – we know, for example, that people wait with regular checks. Nor should we forget in the discussion that survival is increasing. Then it's actually a little more complicated than that we can only look at how many people get care exactly according to the standardised healthcare processes; for example, when it comes to prostate cancer, it may be that you make a first visit but that this does not actually lead to a continued course of care. Instead, you may wait to see if it is the values that stand.
i-S8ffj8sGWLXKkF6ADHxA21	Madam President, I would like My question also goes to Minister Hallengren. The horrendous invasion of Ukraine by Putin and Russia reminds us that we must not take democracy and people's rights and freedom for granted. In times of crisis, conflict and war, people with disabilities are also particularly hard hit. They often find it more difficult to escape from people without disabilities, and at the same time people with intellectual disabilities often do not have access to the necessary information about what is happening around them. The responsibility for the war in Ukraine lies with Putin, but it is a responsibility of all of us to help so that the people of Ukraine can get support. My question is therefore: what can the government do to ensure that the emergency crisis management work, but also the aid work, in Ukraine makes visible and responds to the specific needs of people with disabilities?
i-NcVWpVhjuykr6d9APj5Bp	Madam President, I would like I thank Pia Steensland for an important issue and for a perspective that is not always at the top of the agenda. That, of course, is why you have raised the issue here. I cannot respond at the moment to the way in which aid is being worked, but I know that there is comprehensive aid and a focus on the human rights character of aid. This is an issue that I will take with me to the extent that there is more to be done in this area.
i-9ZiEgjr1uYq4eXqASBB5Er	Madam President, I would like There is a war going on in Europe, and I am incredibly proud of how the Swedish people are preparing to receive a possible wave of refugees. I am also proud of my colleagues in the Swedish Parliament and how we could act so quickly on Monday. I am also proud of the actions of the government, not least for our common security. Together, we can influence and ensure that Russia's actions are as perceptible as possible. Here the government has contributed to a number of decisions and various sanctions. Among other things, we have introduced export bans on goods and services. I would like to ask my question to the Minister for Infrastructure. I assume that the government will carry out extensive analyses before making decisions. Of course, the export ban affects the transport sector. I would like to hear how the Minister views how this affects the transport sector.
i-75f97mfVY3fMvh46hxpHon	Madam President, I would like Thank you for an important question. Just as important as it is that we are clear in the sanctions imposed in connection with Russia's invasion, it is just as important that we analyse and are prepared for the consequences that they entail. We have previously heard Minister Hallberg report how Swedish companies make conscious decisions of their own with the consequences for the groups. This is the case for Sweden. This will be felt in the transport sector and for Sweden as an industrial nation. We look carefully at the consequences of Russia's war, not least in terms of fuel supply, transport chains and redundancy, and thus in what way Swedish transport systems will be affected in the future. The ban on flights is an example of how contact areas are restricted by the fact that there is a reflection of a Russian flight ban. We will see similar effects of other sanctions in the future. We have a high level of preparedness and clear monitoring by our responsible authorities on this issue.
i-7bTUyhHuYizrCBtbBfRW5b	Madam President, I would like I'm asking Lena Hallengren a question. As you know, Sweden adds about 60 billion to aid annually. It is more money than we add to the Police Authority and the Prosecutor's Office, despite the fact that we have Europe's highest crime. It has come to the knowledge that Russia receives 400 million in aid annually, even though Russia is governed by Vladimir Putin, who is a brutal dictator – as everyone knows. Worth mentioning is that Palestine receives 531 million annually. Is it more dictatorships that receive aid from Sweden every year? What about Venezuela, Cuba and North Korea? Are these countries receiving aid?
i-Jh8ymSXF4YSSWHUFAJyXaK	Madam President, I would like I thank Kjell Jansson for the question. With that speech, one might understand why the Moderates do not think that the 1% target in aid is particularly important, although I believe that the Swedish people largely agree with us that we should have aid. Assistance shall assist people in need, be humanitarian and not least democratic. Facilitating and supporting democratic development is the answer to the countries that Kjell Jansson lists. I believe that the Minister for Development last presented why Sweden is giving aid to Russia. It is because we need to support those organisations, movements and others who can objectively and independently portray what is happening in the country. With regard to the question of who else is on the list, I recommend that an interpellation be made to the Minister for Development. That we should end aid to the countries that Kjell Jansson lists I do not see as likely.
i-NWrdqRGZHb9atEEvLwtCAU	Madam President, I would like Elderly care has for a long time been used for immigrant people to Sweden who do not know the language so that they can get to work. Among other things, the integration project has put great strain on existing staff. In Stockholm County, for example, as many as 55 per cent of the personnel group were born abroad. Insufficient language skills can lead to incorrect medication, serious health damage and, in the worst case, death of the elderly. The unacceptable situation was made clear to the public during the initial progress of the Corona virus.
i-HWYbRZkPVSS9rdKprKqNmm	Madam President, I would like Thank you for a question from which I have not really recovered. Older care has long been used as an integration project! It is not enough by one minute to answer what Swedish elderly care is really about. We have an elderly care in this country that I think many are proud of, but it can get better. 100 000 women work there in particular. Many of them have a Swedish background, and many also have a different background. Why do they work there? Well, it's because they want to contribute to the care and care of our oldest citizens who can't cope with everyday life on their own. They work in special housing or in home care. We have made many efforts over the past few years to ensure that they get even better opportunities to do a really good job, including getting the education they need to do a good job. This is done through elderly care lifts, protected professional title and permanent care contact. We are working on an older care legislation, which hopefully will come back in June in such a form that we can also make decisions shortly.
i-C6Vb5ib1KZr7iNUzGeynoS	Madam President, I would like Anyone who has experienced a war knows what the Ukrainian population is going through today. We know how much humanitarian aid means to the population. Every day the war goes on, it is even more important to reach the civilian population with help. It is this help that determines how many will survive the war. Preparedness must be broad on all fronts, and we must be well prepared in all possible areas of the European Union. This must be done jointly in order to help Ukraine. That is why I would like to ask the Minister for Infrastructure a question. Transport is crucial. During the Corona period, there were 400 000 fewer lorry drivers than we needed in the EU. Does the Minister do anything? Are European transport ministers doing anything to facilitate the delivery of aid?
i-3qBX4iFVRebNoph2HLKhJa	Madam President, I would like I thank Mr Jasenko for an incredibly important issue. Of course we have the question of transport systems, and I will come back to them in a few seconds. But I want to say that it is so incredibly important to understand the development and situation of the citizens of Ukraine right now. They are subjected to invasion, war and oppression. It puts fear in people, and they run for their lives. We must create good opportunities to provide support in Sweden and in Europe in the immediate vicinity and help to create well-functioning transport chains so that supplies come out and so that people can get out of war zones. There is intensive work going on here. It is precisely today that the migration ministers are working on this issue in Brussels. I also have a responsibility with my colleagues to ensure that we in transport systems have well-functioning transport chains so that help can be found and that there is transport capacity in Europe.
i-Dn9z3Y6FPy5vGtHAqcjR2m	Madam President, I would like My question goes to the Minister for Infrastructure. The possibility of travelling by train within Europe is important if we are to achieve the objective of being one of the most integrated regions in the world.
i-4tPMk4SJos3X8oTcVi9FN5	Similar signals come from Norway. At SJ they are now worried about the possibilities to drive trains into Norway.
i-3iaM8ctDGGAnfZmEgrcegn	Madam President, I would like I thank Maria Stockhaus for a good question. It is good for the reason that now, after a pandemic when we between the Nordic countries rather got borders that we did not want, it is even more important that we have better cross-border communications and improve transport opportunities. I, too, have been reached by the information that a large state-owned company in Sweden had some challenges in the Norwegian market. I don't like that kind of market restriction. I think that we in the Nordic countries benefit from having free movement and the opportunity for the train companies to operate together. That is why I have a good and continuous dialogue with my Nordic colleagues. I will honestly say that the big challenge here may not be in the Nordic countries, where it works relatively well. It is on the continent, where we want night trains and freight trains, that we have some major challenges with a number of countries. We are working intensively on this with regard to the Commission, but also regularly in the Council of Ministers.
i-2UR9MvstCzYyeqf2mrnpMd	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Eneroth.
i-8vgo9U3MgZshLf2YzCxLPa	The reason for this is often several decades of wear and tear and that preventive maintenance has not been done. Here we are talking about the most basic and predictable maintenance. Yet the money has gone to other things than the most basic for the trains to even be able to run on the rails. Inadequate track maintenance can lead to derailment at worst. We probably all remember when Trafikverket closed down the route Lund – Helsingborg acutely despite the fact that the serious fault was known for a long time. The latest in the line of track failures that have given rise to severe interference is one at Arlanda and one between Flen and Sparreholm and a rail break between Arlanda and Knivsta. Responsibility for the constant stops in rail transport falls heavily on the government. Therefore, my question to the Government is as follows: must there be a serious derailment before the government ensures that the grave deficiencies in the tracks are remedied?
i-RKPhaR2okpC3skXjNHXiFe	Madam President, I would like I thank Patrik Jönsson for the question. When we took office as Social Democratically led government in 2014, it was in a situation with years of underinvestment in the Swedish rail system. A former finance minister had even made a point of not investing in the railways. Therefore, we have had to spend more resources than ever on not least rail maintenance but also new rail – a 47% increase in the national plan in 2018 and now continued more resources than ever on rail maintenance. This means that we are gradually paying off the debt that exists. This means that the punctuality of the railways has generally increased for a very long time. But there are still challenges. One reason for this is that the maintenance is provided by private operators. We, from the government, wanted to open up a direction in which we nationalise part of railway maintenance. The Swedish Democrats do not want that. We believe that it is a good development that the state has its own capacity to ensure railway maintenance.
i-Fwt3MAkG2dS2HsqjF7PBay	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Social Affairs Lena Hallengren. In Sweden, both health care and maternity care are managed by the regions. Most of the regions are now governed by bourgeois parties – only one of the 21 is left-wing. We can see that maternity care around the country has huge problems today, not least here in moderate-led Stockholm.
i-9fb9LS9zaaswVh3sb2Q6zN	Madam President, I would like I thank Mrs Emilia for the question. I think that different parts of the care are noticed from time to time, but maternity care is usually in constant focus both for those of childbearing age and for those who share experiences with those who have given birth. Since 2015, we have had an investment in women's health of 8.5 billion. It is not just for maternity care, but it has been a big part of ensuring that we can, among other things, hire midwives and work to find different ways of working. We have given a mandate to develop national guidelines for the National Board of Health and Welfare, which will soon be back. We have given additional assignments to look at supply and demand right up to 2035 and look at working methods and methods, such as one midwife per woman. Best practice, the knowledge that has proved to be the one that gives the best results and the safest and safest care, we want everyone to use.
i-CEqyyvxAXSVnMo1uJz456N	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Social Affairs Lena Hallengren. After all, we have received the final report from the Corona Commission, and there have been many questions about that today. You can say that this is a historical investigation, so there will probably be many questions about it in the future. There has been a great deal of criticism of the government's leadership and how to deal with the pandemic. There have also been some problems of cooperation between different authorities that have certainly been able to influence a great deal of the handling in different situations. It is very important to take this criticism seriously and be humble to see what you can do with it, for what has been must not be repeated. Unfortunately, there will be more pandemics. No one knows when they're coming, but we know they're coming. Now we also have a crisis situation with the war situation in Ukraine. My question to the Minister for Social Affairs is how the government wants to work on the criticism. Some questions have been answered today, but I want to hear even more about how to prevent this from happening again and for you to have learned both in society and in health care so that you are better equipped for the future.
i-TSJxH32d5dmgvZ7EbRf3eS	Madam President, I would like It is the final report of the investigation that has now arrived. We have received two previous reports and have already taken many steps. We have an old-age care legislation in preparation. We're reviewing the entire CDC. We have given about twenty assignments to authorities only on the part of the Ministry of Social Affairs, so I would like to say that we learn from our mistakes but also from the experiences we make. Then I think that those who should sum up the conclusions of the Corona Commission tend to see only the criticism. I think it is positive that the Corona Commission comes to the conclusion that we made the right choice. It distinguishes Sweden in different ways. But I would do the same again if it were that I could choose between a closed society and a more open society, if I could choose between in principle a state of emergency and to ensure that people are well informed and that you work with advice and recommendations, of course in combination with other measures. In addition, we have among the lowest excess mortality rates in Europe when we come out of this pandemic.
i-B67xCrYV2aBwDeQSAQhUR1	Madam President, I would like Putin is currently stepping up the violence in Ukraine, and a great many people are being forced to leave the country. At the same time, in recent years, Sweden has received thousands of quota refugees from countries such as Jordan and Turkey, countries that are not at war. The Migration Agency writes about Jordan that the general security situation is good. There is no armed conflict, crime is relatively low and the police maintain presence... In addition, Jordan is a prosperous country with good and accessible healthcare and education. That sounds nice, in itself. However, the same cannot be said of Ukraine at present. Of course, it is very reasonable that we have a quota refugee reception this year. Everyone in this House understands that. But these refugees should, of course, come from countries where there is a war. So it's supposed to be people who actually run away from a real war.
i-QKBdMHgeRtDJYg562vHyd2	Madam President, I would like I hear that Ludvig Aspling from the Swedish Democrats shares the outrage at Putin's actions. It's welcome, I think. As for how the quota refugee system will be used, there is nothing I can comment on further. This is, of course, an issue that is very much alive and, as has been mentioned here earlier, the Minister for Migration is currently meeting with his colleagues in Europe. In the current situation, I think it is better for him to answer that question than for me to try to give Ludvig Aspling an answer right now.
i-461jrhaW367n8TahiUC2GX	Madam President, I would like In my hometown of Helsingborg, minute schedules are used in home care. About a week ago, I saw some examples of such schedules. For example, you get three minutes to lubricate feet and put on support stockings. These three minutes include going into the home, getting the elderly ready for the change, lubricating the feet and getting on the socks. Then you should get out of the dwelling and leave the person in a condition that is good; it should be cozy and cozy. Three minutes! Of course, each of us understands that this is impossible. This way of laying schedules reduces the professional role of nurses – they become more like robots. The unreasonably short periods of time given for the various efforts also make it impossible for nurses to provide the elderly with the care of good and high quality that they, of course, deserve.
i-TDVC8dfNuNqNJzpm9sdHjH	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Yasmine Bladelius, for the question! This is something that is really discussed among those who work in the care of the elderly. It is a situation that is impossible, unreasonable and unworthy if you try to think about what these three minutes are going to be – just putting up a job that way! I really hope we're on our way away from the minute schedules. We have had this kind of debate for a long time. I sincerely hope that we are moving away from this, although I fear otherwise. So what do we do? It is about extensive investment in care for the elderly as an incredibly important part of the welfare business – to provide resources so that you as a municipality and provider really have the opportunity to do good care for the elderly. But it is also a question of ensuring that those who work in the care of the elderly are given the opportunity to train as nurses and that we make it a protected professional title. In this way we can give them rye in the back so that they can make demands. This can also make it clear that a qualified education is needed to work in Swedish care for the elderly.
