i-XA5gdo1iUyshYDXH4PM1bi	Madam President, I would like Amin eh Kakabaveh has asked me what measures Sweden will take to support the security of and around the institutions in north-east Syria, whether Sweden will work towards the establishment of an international court for imprisoned IS supporters, whether Sweden will pay attention to Turkey's occupation of parts of Syria and attacks against the Kurdish population, and whether Sweden will work to ensure that Turkey leaves Afrin and that the UN establishes a security zone in Syria. I share the concern about the situation in northeastern Syria. The international community owes a great deal of gratitude to the population and the forces here, which were crucial to fighting Daish. The attack on the prison in January is a clear indication that the threat from terrorism persists. The g lobal coalition to fight Da i sh is determined to continue its support for the region in order to defeat the terrorist organisation for good. Support for the institutions that house suspected Da in sh members comes through the coalition. The government has made the assessment that Sweden best supports north-east Syria through efforts to meet the people's humanitarian needs and strengthen their resilience. These are high-priority issues for self-government in the north-east, and efforts are needed to complement the security efforts that are the responsibility of the coalition. Sweden is one of the largest donors during the Syrian crisis and has since 2011 contributed more than SEK 3.8 billion in humanitarian funds. Last year alone, humanitarian aid amounted to SEK 5 30 million. A significant part of this support has gone to northeastern Syria and to the work of, for example, the UN and organisations such as Save B arnen. Since 2016, Sweden also has a regional aid strategy for the Syrian crisis, which includes SEK 3.2 billion up to 2023. This includes the SEK 100 million that the government decided in 2019 to earmark for operations specifically directed to northeastern Syria. These funds include improving people's access to clean water and creating jobs for a severely affected population. Madam President, I would like It has long been a priority for the government to bring about accountability and prosecution for the serious crimes committed in the framework of the armed conflicts in Syria and Iraq. This prosecution should take place primarily in the region where victims, witnesses and evidence are located. The government is constantly working with like-minded countries and other partners to review various options for accountability. Sweden supports the UN Evidence Collection Mechanism for Crimes in Syria, IIM, and in December signed a cooperation agreement with the Mechanism. We have done the same with the UN Evidence Collection Mechanism for Iraq, U ritad. The aim of the agreement is to make it easier for Swedish law enforcement authorities to access the evidence provided by IS/ Da i sh. Madam President, I would like Turkey, too, has been severely affected by Islamic terrorism from Daish and other groups. At the same time, there is no doubt that Turkey's action in north-east Syria does not contribute to stability in the region. The government has repeatedly condemned the military offensive one and stated that it is contrary to international law. Turkish action risks playing Da i sh in the hands and has a negative impact on the humanitarian situation. Sweden has been a driving force for the EU to take a clear stand on this, and we continue to demand proactive EU action. We also emphasise that, under international humanitarian law and the international regulatory framework, Turkey has a responsibility for human rights and for the development of the areas under its control. We are expressing our clear position on the international scene, and I personally have also made it Turkish representatives, including the Turkish Foreign Minister. Madam President, I would like I am, of course, aware of the demands made by some to establish an international security zone along the Syrian border with Turkey. But Sweden's foreign policy and action must also be based on what is practically possible. In order to decide on such a zone, international law requires the consent of the Asad regime or a decision of the UN Security Council. The outlook for the establishment of an international security zone is therefore non-existent at the present time. Madam President, I would like Sweden has a close and productive relationship with self-government in northeastern Syria. Since I took office as Foreign Minister, I have held a number of meetings with both leadership in the northeast and representatives of civil society. I have been able to convey the messages of these meetings in other important international formats. Sweden, for example, is one of the few countries that clearly push for a clearer and more systematic inclusion of voices from Aanes in the UN-led political process on Syria and in the G-Lobal coalition.
i-BGY1No5e1FtgsRNbRksRtn	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the answers and for the clarity. I know that there is no doubt that Sweden is doing its best to support the minorities and coalition in northeastern Syria and Rojava, as it is called. At the same time, we know that, in the shadow of Russia's terror and war against Ukraine, there is a vacuum and a risk that other countries and groups will fill this vacuum. Just six weeks before the war against Ukraine, Daish had organized himself and attacked a prison in which tens of women were beheaded. Nasrin Abdullah, who is on his way to the gallery in this Chamber, told us yesterday about what Daish was doing in prisons against women from Kobane, who were protecting themselves. Daish was organizing and came with snipers and car bombs. Daish was originally formed in the prisons of Mosul, for example, filled with such people. When they were released, Daish was founded. Now hundreds are at large, and there is a great risk that they will organise themselves. The message from Nasrin Abdullah, who is now visiting Sweden – we met her yesterday and just before this debate – is therefore that women, people, Kurds and other minorities need support to strengthen security around and in prisons. It is not just a question of protecting a people in the region, but of protecting the whole world. The Kurds and other minorities have not only protected their own population but indeed the whole world. They have, for the moment, saved the whole world from the worst terrorism of all time, decapitating people who are fighting for their freedom and, not least, for women's rights. Women in YPJ and YPG have played a crucial role in the fight against Daish for liberation, but they have not come far enough yet. Genocide will happen, and it will unfortunately affect minorities in the region. I agree with the Foreign Minister's reply. It's not always possible. It's hard. But when have we only been able to make possible and simple political demands? They've always been impossible. Not least was it about Sweden's feminist foreign policy, where many turned a deaf ear and wondered what it was. But in the international arena we could show: Yes, it is possible! Actually, I don't think any of us are in politics just to work on simple questions with simple answers. That is the case with politics. We must face this in order to bring about a change.
i-78JKEjhpQ5WKnR2BvskDAA	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Amineh Kakabaveh for once again raising this issue in Parliament. Since I took office as Foreign Minister, I have personally met with the head of self-government in the north-east on several occasions. As Amineh Kakabaveh says, we have last today met Nasrin Abdullah from autonomy in the north-east. Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist has also spoken to the leadership of the SDF, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' Syrian envoy Per Örnéus is in close contact with representatives of the government in northeastern Syria. However, there is not a single global meeting involving Syria, either in the global coalition, in the EU or in the UN, where Sweden is not pushing clearly and emphasising to draw attention to the situation in north-east Syria, although it is difficult. I have been able to convey the messages from the meetings I have had with Aanes and SDF in the international conversation. We are one of the few countries that are clearly pushing for the voice of Aanes to be included more clearly and more systematically in the UN-led political process in the global coalition. Then Amineh Kakabaveh takes up prisoners. It is undoubtedly an incredibly difficult task for self-government to take care of this. It has long been known within the coalition, and resources have also been channelled to assist with it. But this is just one of many challenges that Aanes has to deal with, and through my conversations with the leadership of self-government I know that it is very important for them to also ensure the needs of their own people. Here we have chosen to focus our resources on humanitarian aid and aid to build people's resilience to what is happening. Regardless of who controls the territory, it is crucial for Swedish humanitarian aid to base its efforts on humanitarian needs. Kakabaveh talks about what happened in Al Hasakah with the prison and the terrible events there. We support the industrial mill in al- Hasakah, and we have restored it in different ways. We also provide humanitarian support to our partners in Syria, especially for children to be able to go to school and have a safer situation. I believe that what Sweden is doing to support the people of north-east Syria is having an impact and also shows our gratitude for the incredible work that the Kurds have done in our joint fight against Daish and global terrorism.
i-BTr76hmH59tobnrQvTSp5Q	Madam President, I would like It goes without saying that the Kurds and other minorities are also grateful that Sweden is responding to this. Sweden is a humanitarian country when it comes to many corners of the world. In particular, it is important to support women. In a week it will be seven years since YPJ, the Kurdish women's movement, started to fight side by side against barbarism. O not only that, but they also defy traditions, culture, religion and culture of honour in the region. They have been able to organize themselves and today they have a commander whom we have met. It's pretty big. But this applies not only to Sweden individually, but Sweden also has a voice in the UN, in the EU and in other international contexts. We will never let Russia take over a vacuum. We will never let Russia, Iran, Turkey and Syria do this together. This is not a conspiracy theory – these countries have to do with each other even if they do not agree in many contexts. These regimes have a common reason to support each other against those who overthrow or challenge them. That is the case today. The security of prisons and Turkey's occupation of parts of Rojava, Afrin, for example, are also linked to the political situation in the region. As long as they are not recognised, Turkey, Russia and other countries can come in and be each other's allies. Minorities, women, Kurds, and so forth, are the victims of these great powers. That is why it is very important that we now do something, before there is genocide and before Daish destroys cities and countries in the region in different ways. I know that it is not easy to establish a security zone where people, refugees, can live in peace and freedom, but that is actually possible. Under Saddam Hussein, the Kurdish region was a security zone that could not be flown over and not occupied. Historically, we have seen that this is possible. If the politically impossible issues are to be made possible, we must fight even more. For me, it's about the drop that erodes the stone. I believe in this. In the end, it will happen, as long as we want and do not tire out. Today we see state terrorism that has stretched all the way to Ukraine, and it also exists in other countries. It's familiar. Territories occupied. We see it in Turkey, in the Kurdish part of Iraq and also in Syria and other countries. This must be mentioned by its proper name, I think. My question is: will the Foreign Minister pursue the issue of the security zone and the political security of the UN and the EU?
i-FuXdMTYmRPsy7DmEdTLoGT	Madam President, I would like Let me start with the last question, whether we will pursue the issue of the safety zone. Nevertheless, it is our view that the most effective way to operate is by means of what is believed to have any opportunity to go through. A safety zone, we don't think we have any way of going through. Instead, it can take our focus away from other things that are important to drive. However, I do of course share Amineh Kakabaveh's view that Turkey's action in north-east Syria is not acceptable. The offensive launched in 2019 has had severe consequences for the civilian population and has not contributed to stability in the region. It's the other way around. Not least, it has taken the focus of SDF's ability to fight Daish. There has been a need for re-prioritising resources in other areas, where Daish is now growing stronger. This shows, not least, the imprisonment. I am also concerned about the militias and armed groups with which Turkey has cooperated. Now, the UN Commission of Inquiry into Syria has documented several cases where these actors may have committed serious human rights abuses, such as arbitrary detention, looting and sexual violence. It is very important to mention that Turkey has also been affected by several heinous terrorist attacks over the years, also by Daish. Turkey has genuine security challenges to address. It is also a member of the global coalition. It is important here that Turkey's work against Islamic terrorism is recognised as important also for Swedish security. However, the way in which action has been taken in northeastern Syria has often been counterproductive, and it has driven completely innocent people on the run. On this we have a very frank dialogue with Turkey. I must say that I share Amineh Kakabah's frustration that the international community has not been able to do more to reverse the negative trend that is now. Now it's real politics. The elements raised by Amineh Kakabaveh, not least the role of Russia, which consistently goes along with the affairs of the Asad regime, paralyze the UN Security Council. The North East has been severely affected by this. For example, because of Russian influence work, the UN can no longer work cross-border in north-eastern Syria. It does not allow UN agencies to bring in supplies from Iraq, for example. There are many elements that contribute to the seriousness of the situation, and I would like once again to express our full support for the important work that Aanes is doing in the region and for all of us.
i-9mBLjSLKTrY7VV6q5ASYqh	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for clarity again! The government's voice is important in the international context. You are a voice for those who are not heard, for the minorities and the Kurds who are a pawn in the game of different powers in the region. Like the Foreign Minister, we also have the Asad regime, which has killed its own people with its hands. Russia has helped militaryly in this carnage. It was a training field for the Russian military when the people rose against the bloody Asad regime. I believe that there is still the same scenario. The regime is still there. Russia has influence. Turkey, which we were just talking about, is an occupying power, of course. Turkey supports Daish, although Turkey has been hit by terrorist attacks in its own country and many have unfortunately died. That is why this is so important for the stability of the region, not just for a small group or for a larger minority group. It is about the security of the world and the security of the whole region. It is expected that there will be not only debates and bickering, but also a reality. It is about how we do to stop Daish and to prevent genocide from happening again. We will also listen to the people who appeal to us for both political support and financial support.
i-YEnUn6qHeqp8sXsfziqFmY	Madam President, I would like Yes, Daish has committed terrible crimes and abuses against the entire population of northeastern Syria. This applies not only to Kurds, but also to Assyrians, Armenians, Yazidians, Syrian Turkmen, Arabs and other minorities. The crimes committed must be prosecuted, but it will take time. Sweden continues to work to ensure that the situation in Syria is referred to the International Criminal Court (ICC). In June 2019, Minister Damberg called an international expert meeting to discuss issues related to liability for IS crimes and established by an international mechanism or tribunal. This remains a government priority, although the establishment of such an international mechanism is very complex and would require the support of the UN Security Council. It's hard to believe it's going to happen. That is why we have continued to support other initiatives to facilitate accountability. I have already explained our work with IIIM and Unitad. In the Government's strategy for the Syrian crisis, we have also given Sida a clear task of supporting efforts for accountability. Support has long been given to several grassroots organisations that collect evidence and evidence used in trials around the world. At the same time, the government at home has made extensive efforts on the Swedish judicial system, especially at the Swedish Security Service and the Swedish Police Authority. The government will continue to give priority to accountability and to the restoration of the population of north-east Syria and the victims of terrorism.
i-T5gnMWLZ5hibHKSxaJhfKc	Madam President, I would like Staffan Eklöf has asked me whether the government has taken steps to persuade the Taliban Government to stop the persecution of Christians and whether further action will be taken in the near future. He refers to Open Door's annual report, which shows that Afghanistan is top of the list in terms of persecution of Christians. It is totally unacceptable for people to be persecuted because of their faith. I have said before, including in an answer to Staffan Eklöf, that freedom of religion and belief is a human right. All people should be able to live, exercise and manifest their faith without fear of being threatened or persecuted because of their religion or belief. Therefore, in September, Sweden already signed a petition with 17 other countries, including the United States, the Netherlands and Poland, which criticised the persecution of persons belonging to religious minorities in Afghanistan. We raised the deep concern that we had that Christians, Shia Muslims, Hindus, Sikhs, non-believers and others were not allowed to exercise their faith, and we called for an inclusive government in which people belonging to religious minorities also took place. In his interpellation, Staffan Eklöf mentions aid and that Sweden should be one of the western countries to which the self-appointed Taliban government listens. Immediately after the takeover of power, Sweden stopped all aid that went through the Afghan Government and its authorities. No aid shall finance or legitimise the Taliban. Swedish aid is channelled only to NGOs and UN agencies. We are going to support the Afghan population, and we are doing so, among other things, through humanitarian aid based on humanitarian principles. It is the needs that govern the allocation, and in this, Sweden and the international community are clear – the support should be given to those who need it most, regardless of group or ethnicity. The donor community has a close dialogue on this, and the UN is following up on the ground in Afghanistan so that there is no discrimination, nor against Christians. The use of humanitarian aid as a means of exerting pressure cannot be done, as it is based on basic humanitarian principles of impartiality and neutrality. Human rights remain a central part of Swedish aid. Sweden will continue to work to support organisations, both UN agencies and NGOs, which are working to promote human rights. The situation in Afghanistan is extremely serious and is being closely followed by us and the international community. Sweden has no dialogue with the Taliban at political level. Instead, Sweden is working with other actors to persuade the Taliban to respect the enjoyment of human rights by individuals, including those belonging to minorities.
i-H3CWNqUDU5xVwJP44bQ9B8	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The Open Doors organization every year writes a gloomy but very important report dealing with persecution of Christians in different parts of the world. As the Minister has just reported here, the Taliban illegal regime in Afghanistan has overtaken the North Korean regime in persecution of Christians. Afghanistan is, therefore, the worst regime in the world at the moment in terms of persecution of Christians. Open Doors here in the Riksdag told of armed men walking around residential areas killing people only for their Christian faith. In Taliban-controlled Afghanistan, it would be impossible for such armed groups to commit these systematic atrocities without the proper memory of the regime. Otherwise, the Taliban regime should account for what they are doing to stop this and prosecute the murderers. Afghanistan is also a country that receives a lot of aid from Sweden and has done so for many decades. Sweden should be one of the few Western countries to which the Taliban regime listens. So there are opportunities to push and to save Christians. I asked the Minister what the government is doing, but the Minister did not report any measures against the Taliban regime in the answer to my question. No action is presented to help Christian groups. This non-answer worries.
i-V4w7QJU7vXdns3UJ3pmksP	These are the questions that exist in the interpellation. These are very exhaustive questions. We have heard the answer, namely that Sweden has signed a petition in which it is concerned that different groups may not exercise their faith and that Christians are persecuted. That is a good thing in itself, but when it comes to such an actor as the Taliban regime, the Minister might as well have shouted in the desert. The Taliban regime does not care about an appeal. Furthermore, the Minister's reply does not mention the systematic killings of Christians in connection with the description of the petition. Then you get the impression that these murders are not mentioned in the petition. Are they missing in the roll call? I find that a little remarkable, because there is still a big difference between not being allowed to go to church and being murdered. The Foreign Minister says that it cannot be done to use humanitarian aid as a means of exerting pressure, because it is based on basic humanitarian principles of impartiality and neutrality. Does the Minister mean, then, that any pressure on the Taliban to show efforts to bring the murder of Christians to an end for the sake of their faith would threaten this neutrality? It is important to clarify what the government does and does not do, and that is why I drill on this issue. I interpret the answers I have heard and read so far as saying that the government has not done much and is not going to do anything more and that it does not feel able to do anything because of the way in which humanitarian aid rules are designed. These are my assumptions based on what I have read and heard. Now the Minister has the chance to refute my assumption and perhaps make commitments for the future. I'd appreciate that.
i-BYf2qAm7fy5jXJNV5WKvVH	Madam President, I would like The gloomy picture presented by Open Doors in its annual report shows that there are serious restrictions on freedom of religion and belief for Christians, including persecutions and the issues raised by Staffan Eklöf, both in Afghanistan and in other countries. Sweden is working on a broad front to defend and protect these rights and to strengthen the protection of persons belonging to religious minorities, including Christians, in Afghanistan and in other countries. We are active and driving both in the EU for the EU to have a strong and united voice and within the UN to defend and protect the freedoms of individuals to both choose, change and exercise religion or belief and to protect Christian minorities. This is also within the framework of the general review mechanism of the UN Human Rights Council. We are also cooperating with like-minded countries internationally, for example within the framework of the International Contact Group and the International Alliance for Freedom of Religion and Convince. We also have a special envoy for intercultural and interreligious dialogue working to strengthen the enjoyment of human rights also for persons belonging to Christian minorities and to counter the persecution of persons belonging to other religious minorities. Since the Taliban took over in Afghanistan, in addition to the situation in the Middle East and North Africa, as we know, the role of minorities in Afghanistan has both been monitored and highlighted. Sweden puts pressure on the self-proclaimed Taliban regime to respect existing international regulations, not least by acting together with other EU countries.
i-6wCvzfR5mDJ65pvjZEx8yn	Madam President, I would like The Minister describes a number of measures. One might wonder why these are not in the answer. However, that is a minor issue. The measures described by the Minister are all horizontal. They're important, all the time, all over the world. But now it's about action against one of the worst acts going on right now in the world and which Open Doors has at its highest on its list. The Minister says that pressure is put mainly through the EU. Then one might wonder how this pressure is being exerted. It would be very interesting to know if there is any conditionality in that pressure, because that is what can make a difference. I do not believe that words will make such a difference to the Taliban regime. It's tough. I recall what I heard in the Swedish Radio P1, where Matilda Ernkrans said: "We can see that we need to move forward gradually from humanitarian aid to development aid, but that must be done without a government-level dialogue with the self-appointed Taliban regime. The pressure is not, therefore, by means of calls today and will not be done tomorrow, but one can at least get the impression. I wonder whether that means that the government will not make any demands for the forthcoming development aid either, if that is the case, as it seems from Matilda Ernkrans's answer. Will the government not demand the cessation of systematic killings of Christians? Or a more specific question: will development aid be conditional upon the Taliban stopping and prosecuting the murderers who systematically murder Christians?
i-TH8bzEvgMicUHFj7VtJAS6	Madam President, I would like Staffan Eklöf asks a number of specific questions about the aid, which should of course be addressed to the Minister for Development. On the other hand, I can say in general that the situation in Afghanistan is very serious and, in addition to the persecution of Christians, over a hundred people associated with the government and the security sector have been found and killed. Journalists and women's rights defenders have been arrested and a number of demands have therefore been made on the Taliban regime by the outside world. I fully understand the fear that not only Christians but also other persons belonging to minorities feel in today's Afghanistan. There are many left, although we have got many through the evacuations that have taken place. In order to persuade the self-appointed Taliban regime to respect human rights, Sweden works with others. We do not hold talks with the Taliban regime at political level, because it would legitimise them. We use the UN, which is in place in the country, and the UN has continuous contact with the Taliban. They are clear in their contacts with the Taliban as to the requirements for receiving humanitarian aid. The Secretary-General of the United Nations has expressed great concern about the lack of respect for human rights, and he has also written a report in which this comes out. We are also working through Europe. The EU meets with the Taliban regime. The EU Council conclusions on Afghanistan have been the basis for the discussions, including calls for respect for human rights, including those belonging to minorities. I also meet with representatives of countries in contact with the self-appointed Taliban regime. This is where I describe Sweden's attitude and the concern we have about what is happening in the country. Communicating the demands and expectations that we have on the Taliban with others makes us stronger. It is not only Sweden that wants to see an Afghanistan that respects the enjoyment of human rights by individuals, but it is almost all of the international community. It is unclear to me whether Staffan Eklöf wants me to have direct contact with the self-proclaimed Taliban regime in order to make Swedish demands. I have no intention of meeting the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the self-appointed Taliban regime.
i-4x5XTdNadPyWr1hfYDxppn	Madam President, I would like The UN makes demands, but not Sweden. But it is still a question of general requirements. The given question that we want answers to is whether the UN is demanding that those who murder Christians be stopped and prosecuted. The Minister could have answered that in his reply to my written question. I suspect you're not so hard. If the UN makes its support conditional, I wonder why it continues. Probably the UN does not make its support conditional. The newspaper Afghanistan-Nytt says that the international community has found a way to fly cash into the country without violating current financial sanctions. It then says that it facilitates everyday life and means that salaries to some civil servants have started to be paid. In other words, Swedish money that has been given to UN organisations goes to pay salaries to civil servants under the self-appointed Taliban regime. Surely it must be possible to make an effort on the part of the Taliban to stop and prosecute religious fanatics who murder Christians? At least in my world it is. I think that such conditions should be imposed. Otherwise, one might think that the organisations do not take this issue seriously. Of course, this is not the case, but we must be very clear on these issues.
i-477GMZ7F58eSukw5Wdny8s	Madam President, I would like What is going on in Afghanistan is extremely tragic. It is about discrimination against women and girls, disregard for freedom of the media and freedom of expression and not being able to exercise one's faith for fear of threats or persecution. The enjoyment of human rights for persons belonging to minorities, including Christians, is a central issue that I will continue to pursue with others. The same applies to the demand for an inclusive government in which also persons belonging to religious minorities can be accommodated. Although I will not do so through active engagement policy with the self-proclaimed Taliban regime. Humanitarian aid is designed to save lives and alleviate distress for the Afghan population. I will not use the need for support of the Afghan population, including religious minorities, in a game to exert pressure on the self-proclaimed Taliban regime. Suffering is big enough anyway. Sweden will continue to stand up for the important principles of humanity, impartiality, neutrality and independence. On the other hand, Sweden and the international community must ensure that aid is not used by the Taliban. No aid shall finance or legitimise the Taliban. Therefore, I think it is good that Sida's guidelines for aid to Afghanistan make it clear that no support should be given through actors that enable institutionalised forms of discrimination or violations of human rights. Nevertheless, through our assistance, we will continue to support civil society, which is acting to strengthen human rights in Afghanistan.
i-KReerbGTygdtaWQriCdwCQ	Madam President, I would like Markus Wiechel has asked me what measures I intend to take in order to ensure that Taiwan has the same opportunities for engagement in, for example, the various UN organisations as other countries. Furthermore, Markus Wiechel has asked me why Taiwan's diplomatic representation in Sweden does not get a status similar to that of other embassies. Markus Wiechel has also asked me what measures I intend to take to strengthen diplomatic ties between Taiwan and Sweden and the international bodies represented by Sweden. Finally, Markus Wiechel has asked me whether there can be a change in one-China policy in the light of China's action against Taiwan. All EU countries today have diplomatic relations with China, and everyone is following the so-called 'one China' policy. As I have previously announced to Parliament, this means that we do not see any possibility of recognising Taiwan as a state. It follows that Taiwan's representation office in Stockholm cannot be equated with an embassy. The government does not intend to change its one-China policy. Sweden's good relations with Taiwan have developed over many years in a number of areas. Trade with Taiwan is one example. Swedish companies have had a long and successful presence in Taiwan, and today almost a hundred Swedish companies operate there. The Business Sweden office in Taiwan has been active since 1991 and was one of the then Export Council's first offices in Asia. The government wants to continue developing relations with Taiwan. The government's starting point is to promote the widest possible and comprehensive participation in international cooperation. That also applies to Taiwan. Both Sweden and the EU have an interest in Taiwan participating in international organisations. As regards full participation in the UN, I would like to make it clear that membership of the UN is open only to states. Taiwan, on the other hand, is a member of, for example, the World Trade Organisation, the Asian Development Bank and the International Olympic Committee. The government supports Taiwan's ability to participate in international organisations.
i-2as29hSai6xkBVAYBsYXtB	Madam President, I would like I thank the Foreign Minister for his reply. Initially, I would like to say that during the debate I will refer to Taiwan as an independent state, something that is de facto. Furthermore, I would like to say that I appreciate the willingness of the Foreign Minister and that she clearly says that it wants to support Taiwan and develop the exchange we have with Taiwan. Taiwan is a global example in virtually all areas. The country is outstanding in terms of education, innovation, entrepreneurship and the economy. Not least during the coronapandemy, we have seen what an example the country has been when it comes to the domestic management of the infection and the help Taiwan has offered to several countries around the world, including Sweden, with, among other things, protective equipment, oral protection and so on. The government has had a pronounced democracy offensive in its foreign policy. For this reason, I think it is a little strange that nothing more has been done to strengthen Taiwan, which is now in fact considered to be the eighth most democratic country in the world. It is again an example in this area, not only for other countries around the world, but especially in this region and against mainland China, which we know is oppressing its own population and other populations. In addition, one might think it would have been appropriate for the government, if one now has this ambition, to show more clearly its support for Taiwan. The Foreign Minister has said, once again, that it wants to support Taiwan and develop cooperation. But in the answer I do not actually hear anything about what has been concretely done on the Swedish side. Have they been actively supported, for example when exposed to isolation within the WHO and such bodies? If so, how have they been supported? Is it simply a matter of expressing support for them, or has something concrete been done in these bodies? Has the leadership of international cooperation been taken to highlight these issues in any way? I think it would be good if Sweden, with this stated ambition, actually did so. Having said that, I would like the Foreign Minister to clarify the answers.
i-4xkbBkGGJKiLunx8x7R6jE	Madam President, I would like Markus Wiechel has made a very important interpellation. Taiwan is Asia's foremost democracy and deserves the unreserved support of Sweden and the outside world – not least in these times, when many fear that China, in the shadow of Russia's bloody wars in Ukraine, may have it in mind to carry out an attack on Taiwan. There should be no doubt that Sweden and the EU are on Taiwan's side and are prepared to act against China in the same way as they act against Russia. In his reply, the Minister for Foreign Affairs says that Sweden has good relations with Taiwan and that these have developed since Business Sweden's predecessors The Swedish Trade Council established an office in Taipei in 1991. I have some questions about Business Sweden's office, which is Sweden's representation in Taiwan. Why do we no longer have a full-time representative in Taipei? For some years Sweden has a so-called Stockholm-based representation. Why? Attendance in Taipei is a prerequisite for success when it comes to monitoring Swedish interests in trade, export promotion and investment promotion. Taiwan is one of the leading innovation countries and a strong player in important areas such as IT for Sweden. Taiwan is also the world's largest producer of semiconductors, which is important for Swedish industry. Therefore, it is crucial with representatives on the ground in Taiwan at all times when trade-related issues arise that require a rapid response in direct contact with relevant Taiwanese authorities' decision makers. Attendance on the ground is also crucial when it comes to getting involved in Swedish companies' activities, counteracting barriers to trade and working towards harmonisation of regulations. A representative on the spot has the opportunity to organise regular promotion activities and participate frequently in all contexts that make Swedish interests remind themselves or in other words that doors are opened for Swedish companies. When Håkan Jevrell was our representative, this worked fine. If you don't see, you don't exist. It is a simple principle that the Ministry for Foreign Affairs has deviated from by downgrading representation to Stockholm-based. So I wonder, what's the plan? When will Sweden take its place in Taiwan and switch relations to a higher level? I also wonder whether the Foreign Minister personally intends to do something, for example visit Taiwan or invite Taiwan's Foreign Minister Joseph Wu to visit Sweden.
i-Wrdjwq8Ds6dst4LWDmkzfK	Madam President, I would like As I said, the Export Council opened an office in Taipei in 1991. There's Business Sweden now, and the already extensive exchange we have with Taiwan is conducted within that framework. I find it strange that it seems that Boriana Åberg has not understood that there has been a pandemic for two years. The quarantine rules have meant that we were not able to attend as much in Taiwan as we would have liked. We keep looking at this, and our representative will return to Taipei shortly. Now, however, the spread of infection is increasing again, and then perhaps you need to have less presence again. It shouldn't be that hard to understand. Both Sweden and the EU today have good relations with Taiwan in many areas. We have a conviction with the EU that Taiwan has a well-developed democracy and that it complies with the principles of the rule of law. The exchange also takes place in areas such as human rights and trade union rights, trade, climate issues and innovation. From the government we see opportunities for an even greater exchange between Sweden and Taiwan, for example in the fields of culture, research and trade. In trade, we have a very broad exchange. As I said, there are over a hundred Swedish companies there. We also have trade talks at state secretarial level – Vice-Minister, as they say in English – every year since the 1980s, so that we do not have good and developed contacts is simply not right. In international cooperation, Sweden and the EU continue to have an interest in supporting Taiwan's participation in international organisations. We support all the possibilities of not having to participate as a state, for let me emphasise once again that the government's stance on Taiwan is solid. Neither Sweden nor the EU intend to change one-China policy. This means that we do not see any possibility of recognising Taiwan as a state.
i-CteezYrYwXf9uHWYwkbZid	Madam President, I would like Once again, I did not hear the Minister for Foreign Affairs mention anything concrete done by the government to break the isolation of Taiwan in international bodies, for example. It is said that it supports Taiwan, which is, of course, a good thing, but it is nothing concrete. Several countries in the EU have gone their own small way on this issue, such as Estonia and Lithuania. The EU has not prevented them from strengthening their diplomatic relations with Taiwan, on the contrary. There has been no strangeness there – more than that mainland China has been mildly put a little irritated. In fact, Taiwanese diplomats in Sweden, i.e. the Taipei Mission, could have similar opportunities to other diplomats if only the government wanted them to. Because it is the government that rules this country and no one else. I'd like to get back to what Boriana Åberg was into here. It would be nice if the Foreign Minister or someone else from the government chose to visit Taipei, to make an official visit there to show that they want to create friendly ties with Taiwan. I think it would be greatly appreciated by the Taiwanese side. Last but not least in this post: A few years ago Prime Minister Stefan Löfven created something called the Leaders. It was an unofficial network created, according to the government, to build global opinion for sustainable reconstruction after the coronapdemine and strengthen international cooperation. Although this was unofficial cooperation, Taiwan was not invited, particularly on the Corona issue, which was definitely one of the leading countries in the world in dealing with the pandemic and which is still an example in terms of health and many other types of work. Taiwan is a major player on the international stage in innovation, research, education and so on. Taiwan was not even invited, even though it was an unofficial network and although it was indeed Prime Minister Stefan Löfven who took the initiative. My question, Madam President, is: Why?
i-S4rTLuYZH2szyXb1Xo7CgJ	Madam President, I would like I have noticed that there is a pandemic, but the work in Taipei can continue even during a pandemic. It is even more convenient to have a representative in place than to have someone going back and forth a couple of times a year and being quarantined for a couple of weeks at a time. We value the relationships that exist, but we see the great potential to switch up and show support for Taiwan in a better way. I am convinced that it benefits both Sweden, the EU and world peace to establish stronger and closer contacts with Taiwan. It would be a very welcome first step to upgrade the Swedish presence in Taiwan with a House of Sweden, as so many other countries have done. Sweden should also push for a free trade agreement between the EU and Taiwan. With regard to the House of Sweden, I would like the Minister to return to this in his last reply. Taiwan's President Tsai Ing-Ing-wen said last year, when the country celebrated National Day, that Taiwan will do everything to defend its democracy. When you defend democracy, you need all the friends you can make. Sweden is a country that also values democracy very highly. Therefore, we in Sweden must stand without reservation on Taiwan's side and show that Sweden is to be reckoned with.
i-QVG6t2xVymumhYj7Z5nDsB	Madam President, I would like I think it is unfortunate that Markus Wiechel seems to suggest that Estonia and Lithuania should take a different view of Taiwan's status and not support a 'China' policy. This is not true. All EU countries, including Estonia and Lithuania, have underlined, especially recently, that they continue to support a policy of China. The government's starting point is to promote the widest possible and comprehensive participation in international cooperation for Taiwan, for example in terms of participation in various expert bodies as well as in aviation, health and trade. We believe that Taiwan is making a positive contribution here, and that is why we are active in working towards this. Notwithstanding the question of membership of the UN, for example, the WHO has made a valuable contribution. As the interpellant and Boriana Åberg mentioned, Taiwan has also been very active in contributing to the work against the Corona virus. The Government therefore supports the participation of Taiwan in the WHO's health technology work, in the work on the coronapandemine and in other areas. I would like to see developments in which Taiwan is once again given the opportunity to participate in the World Health Assembly as an observer. This was done by Taiwan in 2009 – 2016. Meanwhile, Sweden and the EU are trying to find practical solutions on how to integrate Taiwan into the work of the WHO. It is regrettable that China is trying to limit Taiwan's freedom of movement. It is also very worrying that China's military presence around Taiwan has increased. As I have said before, both Sweden and the EU are working towards peaceful conflict resolution on the basis of international law in all international contexts. That is why China, like all other states, must comply with its international legal obligations. The differences between the People's Republic of China and Taiwan must be resolved peacefully and in a manner consistent with the will of the people of Taiwan. The government fully disassociates itself from the use of military threats.
i-ASASghziuHSC43QfNGBEzQ	Madam President, I would like I would like to make it clear that I do not claim that Estonia and Lithuania have in any way departed from a 'China' policy; they are behind it. On the other hand, they have gone a little further with regard to relations with Taiwan, which I see as not only courageous but also morally correct. I had hoped that Sweden, not least in view of the democratic offensive it claims to stand for, would follow this example and show that it actually pays to be a democracy, not least in that region and in view of the circumstances under which Taiwan is subject. With regard to an observer's role, it is of course a good thing that the Foreign Minister clearly states that it supports Taiwan's participation in various international organisations – whether it is a member or an observer's role, it is far better that they are involved in international cooperation than that they are outside it. But what, concretely, has been done? I would also like to return to the question I asked earlier, to which I do not think I have received an answer. It's about the Leaders network, which Stefan Löfven created. How is it that Taiwan was not involved in this at all? It would have been a fantastic way of showing in practice that we want to include them in international cooperation, while at the same time not abandoning any obligations or the attitude that one has to take with regard to one-China policy.
i-RRKQXHZhSuhjvcAJFQiw4d	Madam President, I would like The government has a fruitful and regular exchange with Taiwan, both in Sweden and in Taiwan. The contacts between Sweden and Taiwan are extensive, despite the lack of diplomatic relations. As I have already mentioned, Sweden has a trade office in Taipei, and trade is an important part of our relations. It is also cultural exchanges, academic cooperation and parliamentary contacts. For example, Matilda Ernkrans, in her role as Minister of Research, was on an official visit to Taipei. The government will continue to broaden exchanges with Taiwan. Sweden will continue to support Taiwan's participation in international contexts that do not require state status. Many global challenges require the widest possible and comprehensive participation in international cooperation. An example of international cooperation involving Taiwan is the work of the World Trade Organisation to maintain the rule-based trade regime. On the other hand, the government does not intend to change one-China policy. Work on developing relations with Taiwan will continue within the framework of existing relations.
