i-QQ1XYhjGEVseT1RdcA3aYm	Madam President, I would like It was already in the 18th century, when Sweden and Finland were a kingdom, that the Riksdag adopted our first freedom of the press regulation. Since then, the development of technology has certainly given rise to different forms of freedom of expression, such as printing, ether media, television and digital media. Even though it is obvious to us in Sweden that every person should be able to express opinions and think and think freely and openly, this constitution needs constant protection and, based on the challenges that arise regarding technological development, updated and kept up-to-date. Today we are taking a position on the Constitutional Committee's report 14 Effective protection of freedom of expression and pressure. I would like to support the proposal contained in the report with the exception of paragraph 1, the basic proposals, in which I would instead like to support the reservation that my party, the Social Democrats, is supporting along with the Left Party, the Liberals and the Green Party. This means that we support the Government's proposals and reject the motions on this point. The reservation we submitted is based on the protection of personal integrity in commercially oriented search engines based on the Swedish constitutional exception in the EU. In this context, Madam President, two parliamentary committees have examined the issue of limiting the constitutional protection of search services. Even when the possibility of voluntary constitutional protection by means of a publication certificate was introduced just under two decades ago, in 2003, the Constitutional Committee warned that it could be exploited in a way that would give rise to conflicts with the provisions that exist in order to protect personal privacy. In particular, the committee pointed out that, in the worst case scenario, the reform could mean that clean personal records could be protected by the Freedom of Expression Act. Developments have shown that the committee's concerns, as we see it, have come true. Today there are several different search services on the Internet – Lexbase and Mr k oll are two examples – which can be considered as pure personal records, such as address and telephone records for credit information and those highly privacy sensitive registers that contain data on criminal prosecutions. They become a kind of private register, which is also used for business purposes. Both the current government and previous governments have worked for a long time to exempt precisely search services that make personal data on crimes available from constitutional protection. In the debate that followed the proposal, criticism was voiced from some quarters that the proposal was based on the distinction between professional actors, such as journalists and lawyers, on the one hand, and the public on the other. The 2018 Press and Freedom of Expression Committee, which was parliamentaryly composed, was tasked with re-examination of the issue. The Committee, which was unanimous in this part, made a proposal which is in substance in line with the proposal that has now been put forward. This time too, unity prevailed across party boundaries. Madam President, I would like In April 2019 the government received a so-called political letter from the European Commission. It is a first step towards what is described as an infringement case. The letter pointed out from the Commission that it is doubtful whether the Swedish constitutional exception in the Data Protection Act is compatible with Union law, in particular with GDPR. The Commission points out that the problem needs to be addressed and that measures taken by Sweden would be positively assessed when assessing whether a formal infringement case can be initiated. When a complaint is submitted to the EU Court of Justice, Sweden in practice loses the possibility of political influence. It is in these circumstances that the Government's proposals, developed after dialogue and compromises, should be considered. All of this is well known also to the parties that have now chosen to persevere by pushing forward this announcement. If the proposal goes through, there is a risk that it will be an expensive success. In this context, perhaps the term Pyrrhus victory would fit. It was Pyrrhus, king of Epirus, who after his victory against the Romans in – I believe – the battle of Asculum in the 200s before Kristus should have said: ..................................................... Madam President, I would like As a background, I would like to refer to the reservation supported by the Social Democrats, the Left Party, the Liberals and the Green Party. It is based on protecting the Swedish model of openness in the long term. One objection to the proposal has been that the provisions are too vague or difficult to understand. In our view, the proposed rules are neither vaguer nor more difficult to understand than the current regulation. We agree with the government's assessment, which takes note of the fact that rapid developments in this area make it inevitable that regulation should be designed in such a way as to leave some room for an overall assessment of the circumstances of the individual case. Madam President, I would like In addition to the issues that I have now outlined, we support the proposal in the report, for example in relation to the scrutiny of public services. It is about enabling conditions and scrutiny of the online broadcasting activities of public service broadcasters. It is also a question of clarifying and extending the scope of the Freedom of Expression Basic Law for the retransmission of certain programmes. The Government also proposes that the Freedom of the Press Act and the Freedom of Expression Act include provisions that make it possible to provide for liability and compensation obligations for violations of the prohibition on making images, descriptions or measurements of buildings, other facilities, areas or objects that are of importance for Sweden's total defence. The opinion of the Committee on Culture can also be highlighted on this issue. It welcomes the proposed changes. There has also been a motion on constitutional protection for public services. The opinion of the Committee on Culture on this subject is based on the fact that many efforts have already been made under the current broadcasting licence to strengthen the independence of public service broadcasters in various ways. The committee therefore proposes that the motion on constitutional protection be rejected, and the KU shares the opinion of the Committee on Culture.
i-XcB4FRpbdB1NLuwTw3vJP8	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for the approval of Amendment No 2 and also for the approval of the committee's proposal for a decision. Madam President, I would like I would like to say that, at least from our side, it is welcome that the committee has agreed that the government may actually back down on the issue of legal databases. The present system is not perfect. It is true that there is a clear integrity issue linked to these search services, which saves data on criminal offences, or the private load registers, as they are sometimes – with some right – called. However, the government's proposal for regulation is not something that we or the majority of committees have felt we have been able to support. Madam President, I would like When the parties supporting the Government's proposal in their reservation state that the risk of such privacy restrictions risks reducing the general understanding and acceptance of the specific freedom of expression and press regulation, it is possible that they are right. However, our assessment is that the general understanding and acceptance of Sweden's laws would be further reduced if we let the government's proposals through as it stands today. I would like to point out that the greatest threat to the legitimacy of our rights and freedoms of the public comes from the failure of the state to maintain its fundamental commitments. In a situation of escalating violent crime, it is not a good idea to stop ordinary citizens from protecting their security, especially when the information with which their security is to be protected is already public. It is when ordinary people become afraid and uncertain that respect for free society is threatened in practice. Saving people is easy to persuade, Madam President, to things they might otherwise not have agreed to. As I said, we Swedish democrats are absolutely not opposed to any further regulation of these legal databases. Much criticism can be made about the current system, such as differences in the eras of erasure of information between them on the one hand and the public register on the other. Why, Madam President, do we not support the Government's proposal? What is the single biggest problem with the proposal, and which means that, like several heavy consultation bodies, such as the JO, the Chancellor of Justice and the Administrative Court of Appeal in Stockholm, to name but a few, we cannot reverse it, is precisely, as the previous speaker said, the vagueness of the wording used to restrict freedom of expression. As the Chancellor of Justice writes in his referral, the Committee has stressed the importance of applying a broad margin in favour of freedom of expression when assessing the applicability of the Constitution to the data collection. ... Even from this point of view, it seems very difficult to draw the line when the nature of a collection of data poses particular risks of undue interference with the individual's personal integrity. ..................................................... Unfortunately, there is nothing to do but agree with. Basic changes should be implemented with a high degree of anchoring and broad majority voting. Above all, care should be taken to ensure that the content of the changes is too broad and sweeping. In this case, the application of the government's bill would not be predictable, the scope for interpretation would be far too large and the limitation would be too broad. That is not acceptable to us at present. It is particularly serious if you risk the same kind of problem as the government was criticised for 2018, when a similar proposal was made by the Constitutional Committee. Although it was not the intention of the government, the current legislative proposal also risks a layering of freedom of expression, with certain rules for journalists and lawyers and other rules for the public. Then we will see a gradual impoverishment of freedom of expression, in which the character of the data collection is in danger of becoming a nature of business, which in turn will then become a serious investigative journalism. I am well aware that such a development is something that all parliamentary parties should be vigilant against.
i-UpaQKbMvmTqgNpBuZzy8rj	Madam President, I would like I will focus on the issue of search engines in the report. I ask you to accept reservation number one. Madam President, I would like Saving information is important in an information society. Added information is needed in a number of areas. However, there are also provisions restricting the right to storage, savings and re-use. The General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) is about the privacy of individuals on the internet. When the European Court of Justice found out more than eight years ago that individuals have the right to be forgotten by search engines, it was in order to allow individuals to regain control of which data circulates in digital channels under certain conditions. However, websites or so-called search services with certificates of release may publish personal data, even if they violate the law. Many citizens may experience this type of search service as an infringement of privacy. Citizens sometimes point to the question of the right of individuals to be forgotten. But, for example, the right to be forgotten does not apply to these search services. What we are dealing with today is a balancing of the constitutional protection of search services to publish personal data on breaches of law versus the right to privacy. Madam President, I would like In the bill Effective protection for freedom of print and expression is proposed by the government. The proposal makes the assessment that, with regard to the protection of personal privacy, there are grounds for limiting the constitutional protection of certain search services that publish personal data on breaches of the law. It is a matter of balancing, as the Parliamentary Committee said, in individual cases the interest in protecting the privacy of individuals against the interest in freedom of expression. For liberals, free speech is important. It is important to protect, and it should also continue to be protected through the special protection guaranteed by the Freedom of the Press Regulation and the Freedom of Expression Basic Act in situations where strong freedom of expression interests prevail. The question of what personal data is stored in search services involves many citizens. Data can be stored for a long time and can also affect other individuals. I have asked how many complaints the Commission has received and can conclude that there are a number of: 14 in 2020 and 19 in 2021, which are considered to be many in one area. The development of databases has been highlighted many times over the years, and the need for privacy protection is constantly on the agenda. Madam President, I would like It is possible for those operators who do not have automatic constitutional protection to apply to the Swedish Press, Radio and Television Agency for a certificate of release, thus obtaining a so-called voluntary constitutional protection. Even when voluntary constitutional protection was introduced as an opportunity, the Constitutional Committee warned in its report 2001/02:CU21 that conflicts could arise with the protection of personal privacy. In particular, the committee pointed out that, in the worst case scenario, constitutional protection could include databases that are purely personal files. The developments of recent years have moved in the direction that the Constitutional Committee feared. Today, there are databases with certificates of release which are essentially designed as search services for personal data. Some of these services can in practice be likened to private registers. Over the years, this has been investigated several times, without proposals leading to solutions to strengthen privacy. In the past, the question of how to achieve greater protection of privacy has been considered. The introduction of a new freedom of print and expression crime was considered and rejected by the Media Basic Law Committee. The 2018 Press and Freedom of Expression Committee has also considered various options but made the assessment that a delegation provision is most appropriate. In June 2018, a parliamentary committee was set up to investigate this matter. The Constitutional Committee had stated in a notice on search engines in report 2017/ 18:KU16 that an investigation should be commissioned to re-examine the issue. In accordance with the Directive, the Committee would analyse and assess the need for limited constitutional protection for data collections publishing personal data on offences. The Committee has submitted its report. On the basis of the conclusions of the Committee's work and the agreement reached there, the Liberals have not put forward any other proposals for accompanying measures in the light of the work carried out in the Committee. The question to be asked is what the solution is if the outcome of the work of this parliamentary committee does not lead to decisions. What proposals have not been investigated and still to be investigated? What have previous investigations not highlighted? Instead, how should personal integrity be strengthened in relation to the storage and dissemination of personal data on criminal offences in search services? Many investigations have been working on this issue. Parliament has announced that the government should return with proposals for measures to strengthen privacy. Madam President, I would like The fundamental purpose of the Personal Data Regulation is to protect the personal integrity of individuals when their personal data is processed. However, the regulation is not applied if it is incompatible with the Freedom of the Press Regulation or the Basic Freedom of Expression Act. However, with regard to the publication of certain particularly privacy-sensitive personal data, including data revealing political or religious views or relating to health and sexual life, the basic media laws contain provisions on exceptions to the constitutionally protected area which mean that the personal data regulation can nevertheless be applied to some extent. However, there is no corresponding exception for information on offences. The EU's Data Protection Regulation contains provisions aimed at protecting personal integrity with regard to the processing of personal data relating to offences. Such personal data may only be processed under the control of an authority or where processing is permitted under Union or Member State law, which establishes appropriate safeguards for the rights and freedoms of data subjects. A complete register of criminal convictions may only be kept under the control of an authority. There are critical referrals. However, there are also consultative bodies which have supported the proposals and which have highlighted several arguments. The Swedish Data Protection Authority considers that there are strong reasons for strengthening the protection of personal privacy. The Prosecutor's Office endorsed the proposed changes and pointed out that victims of crime, the plaintiffs, are also present in search services. The prison service was positive and pointed out that it should also apply to free sentences. The Civil Protection and Preparedness Authority pointed out that private registers should be considered highly privacy sensitive and that the dissemination of data could have far-reaching consequences for individuals. The Police Authority welcomed the proposals and pointed out the absolute confidentiality of the Office's registers. Madam President, I would like Overall, we believe that the protection of personal privacy should be strengthened by imposing restrictions on the constitutional protection of certain search services that publish personal data on breaches of the law. We share the view that data relating to a victim of crime can be regarded as a task relating to a criminal offence and should therefore be subject to the proposed delegation rules. A restriction on constitutional protection should never be more extensive than is necessary. The requirement of proportionality is, inter alia, that any restriction should be consistent with the precautionary principle used to restrict constitutional protection in this area. We therefore share the view that the current regulation provides insufficient protection against privacy restrictions.
i-L8DrTWuoopNp6NzftPSZKw	Madam President, I would like A diversity of strong and independent media throughout the country is a prerequisite for a strong democracy. All people, wherever in the country they live, should have access to a comprehensive, high-quality news and media offering that can deepen, portray, review and explain society's events. Citizens must have the opportunity to make decisions on the basis of real knowledge. In times of crisis, such as during the coronapendem or the war in Ukraine, this need becomes even more obvious and critical. The disinformation that we have seen around Europe, and also in Sweden, must take over and govern the actions of society or citizens in times of crisis. Russia is trying to undermine news reporting and to make the public believe that what is actually happening is a conflict with Nazis and not a brutal attack war that is harvesting and damaging human lives in the most terrible ways. This kind of disinformation must never get a foothold. That is why there is a need for strong protection of the independence of the media, so that factual and accurate information is communicated. Although public service broadcasters are today given a strong independence in the legislation that regulates their activities, laws can be changed with a simple club law in the Riksdag. Protection of the independence of public services should therefore also be included in the Constitution, so as to make it more difficult for a government to control the content of broadcasters. The proposed inclusion of public service as a concept in the Freedom of Expression Act opens up the possibility of giving constitutional protection to public services. The scope of public service tasks would in no way be set at a certain level, but the content of the activities could be given constitutional protection against political governance. I regret that there was no broader support for strengthening the independence of public service companies in the Constitution of the 2018 Press and Freedom of Expression Committee. I therefore request the approval of reservation 3. Madam President, I would like The Government has proposed amendments to the Freedom of the Press Act and the Freedom of Expression Act, which are aimed at limiting the constitutional protection of search services that publish personal data on breaches of the law. Sweden has a good and long tradition of protecting freedom of expression and press, a central part of a strong and well-developed democracy. Free speech must be restricted only if there are very good reasons for it. The media laws currently provide for exceptions for sensitive data that allow the use of data on e.g. ethnic origin, health or sexual orientation to be restricted. However, there is no such equivalent protection for data on offences. This means that it is now possible for different actors to provide private registers, which are otherwise reserved for law enforcement authorities. Data on crimes are particularly sensitive as they can be stigmatising and make it more difficult for a person to adapt to society after serving a sentence. The possibility of getting a job or a dwelling can be made more difficult. Data may also be available for a long time, which poses additional difficulties. In this way, the processing and making available of these data can cause suffering to the individual, but also affect the general interest of those who have committed crimes having a normal life again and getting away from the course of the crime. It is important to note that, for example, a conviction also contains data on victims, which means that the integrity of victims can also be affected. Being subjected to a crime can be very stressful and cause suffering for a long time. Furthermore, the fact that information about the crime can be provided freely and for a long time on the Internet may lead to further violations of privacy. I therefore share the opinion of the government and believe that the proposal strikes a reasonable balance between the interests that meet – freedom of expression and privacy. I also believe that the current regime is less consistent with the requirements for the processing of personal data relating to criminal convictions and offences involving offences resulting from Article 10 of the EU Data Protection Regulation. I therefore call for reservation 1 and otherwise for the committee's proposal in the report.
i-ZbFYu2EkBrLPQdkEAa1EH	Madam President, I would like Let me begin with the discussion in this report on the constitutional protection of public services. It is a discussion that has been present in Swedish media policy debate for a long time and that has taken some interesting expressions in that rhetoric in the act and sense often describes public service as the only guarantor of free media, free radio and television as well as free news flow. The truth is that public service is an important part of this, but not everything. It is not the whole that is created in our public service companies, but it is an important part of the landscape that is maintained within the framework of them. The changes we are discussing described the speaker from the Green Party earlier as that we now enter public service as a concept in the Constitution. I might have a slightly different idea of what we're doing. We enter the concept of public service broadcasting, which can be considerably wider than our public service broadcasters alone, and there is a reason for this. The media landscape is wider than public service, and the importance of safeguarding free media is about something broader than just public service. I move on to the issue of private legal databases or databases known as Lexbase, Mr k oll and other things. These are more or less well-known databases where you can find information about offences or, for that matter, free sentences that have been handed down in Swedish courts. This is a difficult issue with which two parliamentary committees have struggled. It is not something that I believe anyone in this House or anyone on those committees has taken lightly. All of us in here are fully aware that the European Commission will not sit by and watch whether Sweden does not continue to work to resolve this situation, where personal integrity must be protected. Now, however, we have a proposal on the table, which is being criticised by lead-heavy referral bodies. It is pointed out that the draft delegation rules on which we were all agreed risk being too broad and, in practice, enabling one, in order to put more figurative words on it, malicious government to include more exceptions in that delegation provision than was actually intended. It is heavy criticism of referrals that this House and all its Members must take very seriously. When this referral criticism came, we moderates chose to make direct contact with the Government Office and warn the Government that we believe that these issues need to be addressed. This is not something that we can brush off, but this criticism must be dealt with in the legislative proposal. Time went on and on, and eventually there was a bill – without any change. In no way did the government choose to bring in the criticism that existed or in any way adapt the proposal in order to avoid this possibility for a malicious government, or a parliament with in the future perhaps not quite as grounded democratic basic values as today's current parliament, to accommodate more exceptions than were actually intended. Let me be clear: we Moderates are really seeing the problem of the current order. We understand that it is a major problem – and we really think that it is a major problem – that so-called private registers not only become more public than the public register, but also contain more information, because the public register is regularly culled on the basis of time limits, depending on the form of crime. We understand the risks that can be created as technology develops and the existing databases are not only available to search but are also combined with other technologies. For example, what happens to the value of the home of an innocent person who happens to live next door to a person convicted of a crime? It is not unproblematic in any way. What happens to the child who comes to school and is met by peers whose parents have found that in their youth mother or father was convicted of a crime? Of course it's not unproblematic. It is clear that innocent people are in danger of suffering the consequences of the fact that information from the public register that we in this House have assessed should be kept within a very narrow circle and not be public with constitutional protection – although it was not really intended to be. In this light, it is particularly serious that, despite the information given to them at an early stage immediately after the round of referrals was completed, the government is engaged in some form of holding-tumm policy which hopes that this will nevertheless slide through Parliament by a narrow margin so that it is rid of the problem – rather than dealing with the lead-heavy criticism that has come and which is based on important democratic issues about how things can be done. We have heard from this pulpit earlier today how important some parties consider it to be to constitutionally establish public service in exactly the format it has at the moment, on the basis of the risk that a future government would start to act in order to limit and make it more difficult. However, no such concern is shown when we are going to decide on a delegation clause that risks restricting our freedom of expression and of expression too widely. Madam President, I would like I support the committee's proposal.
i-NDokfovuCejtcYFqBzM4tF	Madam President, I would like In recent years, the issue of the balance in the Swedish order between, on the one hand, a strong protection of freedom of expression and of the freedom of expression and, on the other hand, the protection of personal privacy has become more and more controversial. The digital development of the last decade has created new conflicts between these rights and freedoms. These are conflicts between opposing interests that need to be resolved in a sustainable and balanced way. All breaches of privacy will not be counteracted, but some additional restrictions on freedom of expression and printing will be inevitable. That is precisely why it is important that all such measures and balances are carefully, sensitively and with the proviso that sometimes we have to do it again in order to do the right thing. The Center Party, as well as the Constitutional Committee as a whole, have chosen to support most constitutional changes proposed by the government in the bill for effective protection of freedom of expression and press. On the other hand, we are not prepared to support the proposal to restrict the constitutional protection of certain search services that display personal data on criminal offences, with regard to the protection of personal privacy. Of Chapter 1, § 1 The form of government shows that the Swedish National Board of Human Rights is based on free formation of opinion. The preconceptions to the form of government also show the great importance of freedom of opinion for our government and that freedom of opinion is fundamental principles of our constitutional system. These rights and freedoms thus have an absolutely fundamental importance in our state and in our legal system, and therefore restrictions on freedom of expression and press must be exercised with great care. This is particularly true when restrictions are approaching the core of the area of freedom of print and expression law, which is clearly the case with regard to the proposed changes concerning the constitutional protection of certain search services. The proposal in the present proposal means that data relating to criminal convictions or offences involving offences are included in the delegation provisions of the Freedom of the Press and Freedom of Expression Act catalogue of so-called sensitive personal data – if, according to the proposal, given the nature of the data collection, there are clear particular risks of undue interference with the privacy of individuals. Freedoms of expression, and in particular freedom of the press and expression, often conflict with the right to privacy. It is also clear that freedom of print and expression is particularly highly valued in relation to personal integrity and the right to privacy in the Swedish order compared to the vast majority of liberal democracies, but especially in relation to European law. Both the EU Charter of Rights and the ECHR have a clearer balance between them. It is also clear that the strong protection of the Swedish order for freedom of expression and press, at the expense of personal integrity, is increasingly in need of review and balancing. Madam President, I would like The proposals for restrictions on the constitutional protection of certain search services presented in the bill have met with strong criticism. For example, a majority of the consultation bodies have opposed the proposal because the proposed provisions are too vague or difficult to understand. Both Parliamentary Ombudsmen, the JO, and the Justitiekansler stress the risk that the proposed provisions will also meet with such protective data collections as are necessary tools in journalistic activities. Both the JO and the Faculty of Law Board at Uppsala University believe that the Committee should have considered more closely the introduction of a new crime of freedom of expression and press. Many consultation bodies also object to the choice of delegation rules such as the regulation of the restriction, since shifts in value in society may lead to the delegation being used for other purposes is what the legislator intended. The risk of unpredictable application and too broad scope for interpretation is reason enough for the Center Party not to go further with the proposals. Moreover, as both the Stockholm District Court and the JO have stated, there is an excessive risk that the design of the proposals will lead to the content of the data collection becoming crucial to the question of whether the constitutional protection is applicable. This risk, as the newspaper publishers also point out, of hitting small editorial teams that are unable to carry out on their own the monitoring and research services provided by the search services companies. Madam President, I would like In addition to the serious factual objections to implementing the proposal as it stands, it is important for the Center Party to pay tribute to the constitutional practice that has emerged over the years and which entails a broad consensus on constitutional changes. Changes in the foundations of government should have broad and solid support in the Swedish Parliament. Therefore, in the light of the fundamental importance of the questions, the Center Party does not believe that a constitutional change to the current size should take place without considerable broad support in the Riksdag. In the light of what has been put forward in substance and form, the Center Party therefore considers, precisely in the light of the fundamental importance of freedom of opinion for the fundamentals of government, that the proposals to restrict the constitutional protection of certain search services should be rejected. I support the committee's proposal for a decision in the KU report.
i-6WwbBie4HX4FfAUE1GLJfx	Madam President, I would like My colleagues in the Constitutional Committee have very well and fully described the problems we are now facing and on which the House is to vote. It is not an easy question we have to deal with, Madam President. On the one hand, we have the protection of our constitution. The Freedom of the Press Act and the Freedom of Expression Act are our oldest and youngest constitutions. The former has roots in the 1766 Freedom of the Press Regulation and is in fact the world's oldest law on universal freedom of the press and freedom of expression. That's what we've been set to protect. On the other hand, the Constitutional Committee is also set to protect the individual against privacy violations. It is also constitutional. How have we tried to resolve the issue of search engines like Lexbase and Mr k oll? Two investigations I've been involved in have turned the question around. It is certainly not easy to solve. In the last investigation, which forms the basis of the proposal put forward by the government, we managed to achieve complete agreement. All parties supported it. In doing so, we thought that we could have addressed a problem that we all saw. It's problematic. However, as we have heard here, there have been criticisms from consultation bodies. The JO has heavy criticism, the Chancellor of Justice as well. The rules that the government is making are vague and difficult to understand. Newspaper publishers also have serious objections. Then we have to choose the path. Should we continue on the path that a united investigation finally came up with, or should we try to find some way to adjust this? Then it is a new investigation, and it will take a long time. We are also at great risk of not getting acceptance of the EU for the adjustment. Let me try to sum up and explain where the problem lies, as I understand it, very simplistic. Consider, for example, a woman, Maria. She's been in a trial. She may not have been the criminal, but she's still been in a trial. When someone searches her name, it appears that she has appeared in a trial. At first glance, this could cause an employer to hesitate or anyone who wants to have a relationship with her to hesitate. You don't go on and find out if she was a witness, a plaintiff or even a victim. The same woman, perhaps quite a mess, would feel safe in being able to control the man she would like to date. She's got a name on a dating site, and now they're gonna sue. This Maria would like to know: Does he have any criminal record? Has he ever been in a trial? Is he even dangerous? It's very understandable if you want to control it. Between these two aspects, the committee stands and chooses. It's hard to make this woman, Maria, completely safe, as our constitution wants her to be. We haven't found a really good road here. Now that this heavy criticism comes and we hear one party after another go up and say that this is difficult and that we cannot go forward with it, yes, then it means that we do not have the large majority that we want in terms of constitutional changes. I and the Christian Democrats have therefore come to the conclusion that we see the need for a change in today's situation but that, at present, with such weak support for this change as we have heard evidence of in this House, we are not prepared to go forward with this constitutional amendment. It's awkward, and there's a problem with it. But that is how we resolved it, Madam President. I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-8WHyGMY4MsWVXwFTgBRrfd	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by requesting, on behalf of the Swedish Democrats, the approval of reservation 6 in the Constitutional Committee's report KU35 The working arrangements of the Parliament. This term of office has reached the milestone of 100 years of democracy. Democracy is a step-by-step development. For example, we no longer have a two-chamber parliament, and we have also adopted a new constitution. A fundamental approach should be to allow democracy to develop with small and very well-considered steps forward. For example, we have a long tradition of so-called constitutional practice, that is, an unwritten framework that is both applied and respected by our parliamentary parties. And as long as this is the case, that the parties apply, respect and defend this practice, some issues may well remain unregulated. However, when deviations from well-established practice are made, it is questionable whether the regulatory framework should be tightened up and explicitly regulated. Such a practice was abandoned at the beginning of this term of office when the Presidents were to be elected. Traditionally, the Presidents have been elected on the basis of the number of seats given to the parties in the elections, i.e. in the order of magnitude. As this constitutional practice has historically worked very well until the 2018 elections, the time has now come to establish by law the election of Vice-Presidents and thus return to the well-established and well-functioning practice of the appointment of Speakers according to the size of the parties. In view of this, the government should set up an investigation to change the regulatory framework in this direction. Madam President, I would like The same can be said of the question of the election of Bureau posts in Parliament's committees. The current order is that a body whose members are elected in whole or in part by the Riksdag shall elect a chairman and one or more vice-chairmen, unless otherwise specified. The legal situation therefore shows that each committee elects its own chairman and vice-chairmen. In practice, however, this must be considered a truth with modification. A practice has been developed whereby the political parties elected to the Swedish Parliament distribute the Bureau posts among themselves. So when the election of the chairman of a committee is to take place, it is already decided which party he or she belongs to. There is in itself no objection to this practice as long as voters' preferences are respected, i.e. the allocation of Bureau posts is done through a strictly proportional distribution between the elected parties in Parliament. In view of this, there is a need, as with the election of the Speakers, to regulate, on the basis of a statutory proportionality criterion, the party from which the bureau posts in Parliament's committees are to be elected. Madam President, I would like Here in the Chamber hangs both a Swedish flag and an EU flag. We Swedish democrats see little need for an EU flag because Parliament is for elected representatives of the Swedish people and not for any others. However, since it is a matter of tradition – or practice, one might say – it is up to the President to decide which flags should hang here, I will not make either a reservation or a request to remove it. However, if the President, in consultation with his colleagues, were to have the idea of hanging up two Swedish flags instead, we Swedish democrats would of course be very grateful.
i-TRKgxkrj8QswPUnYQVQiL5	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the workings of Parliament, and I call for reservation 8 under item 17 on the review of parliamentary work. The way in which a parliament, or indeed a municipal council, works ultimately, both in capacity and quality, results in our democratic decisions. It is of course important for the democratic work that the members of the Riksdag meet regularly on the spot in Stockholm. And we are doing that, not least in the Constitutional Committee. However, work in its own constituency is a major and important part of the parliamentary mission. There we pick up questions at home and bring them up with the Riksdag. There are huge expectations of us to represent our electoral districts. For me, dialogue with the local community is a very important part of the mission. For example, I appreciated the opportunity during the winter to go to schools and talk about democracy with the support that the President and the Parliament gave to do so. It was simply a good initiative. It is of central democratic value that there are Members of the whole country who represent not only their party but also their country and constituency. It is also the combination of being at home and working in Stockholm that is so rewarding, and it provides perspectives and benefits in both directions. In recent years, there have been good opportunities for greater flexibility in working methods without suffering from democratic work. Digitalisation provides us with tools that create great opportunities for the future. Furthermore, greater opportunities to combine the position of trust with a family life would encourage and facilitate more people to apply for assignments of the kind that the parliamentary mission is. We should make ongoing reviews to provide opportunities to combine trust with work, family and children. Madam President, I would like I would like to say a few words about transparency registers. I am not going to make a request on this today, but I choose to raise this, because it is an important part. In the Center Party's programme for a stronger liberal democracy, we state that we want to establish a lobby register, or transparency register, as we choose to call it, at national level. The fact that decision-makers talk to representatives of industry, trade unions, stakeholder organisations and civil society is basically a useful part of the parliamentary work and the legislative process. Through such talks, different parts of society can be involved in shaping political decisions that affect them. At the same time, it is important that this is done in a transparent and correct manner. Therefore, the EU and countries such as Ireland, the United Kingdom and the United States have created lobby registers. The different registers differ as to which actors are classified as lobbyists, which decision-makers are covered and which forms of contacts are to be kept open and transparent. The common denominator is that it is registered with an authority and that the register includes the legislative and executive powers. These thoughts we will continue to work on. We would like to see a parliamentary committee or similar opened up to look at this issue. The review, the investigation and the work should be thorough, because there are several conflicts of interest in this that I do not need to indicate here. I am not making a request on this today, but I will come back with proposals. Much of the political work is done, as has been stated before, through practice. Both in the Riksdag and in the council at local level, the parties divide chairmanships and other forms of influence between themselves according to unwritten rules, often with respect for the political opponents. It is in many ways admirable and provides valuable flexibility to our democratic institutions. But there are risks of relying too much on practice. In many countries there has been a polarisation between the political parties using the system of agreements for their own benefit. We have mentioned it in the work on this report, but, as I said, I am today in favour of reservation 8 in paragraph 17.
i-P1UkmLANRBwohkLAArLo8T	Madam President, I would like This report deals with motions relating to Parliament's working methods, and to some extent these are issues that concern us, who work in various ways here in Parliament. It is about what conditions should apply to us as Members of Parliament, how we should be allowed to make proposals regarding a proposal from the Government and what the opening of each parliamentary year should look like. Are Karl XI's drabants going to participate, or aren't they going to? And should we have the opening here or should it be at the Royal Palace? We Members of Parliament simply have many different ideas on how to change and hopefully improve Parliament's working methods. It may seem a bit navel-looking, but it is also about how the Riksdag should be able to perform its tasks in the best and most democratic way. The last time we debated these issues was two years ago, right at the beginning of the pandemic. I remember that several participants thought it felt rather strange that in the acute crisis that then prevailed talk about in the context quite small things. But now it has been two years, and I think we have all learned quite a lot in these years. One of the things we have brought with us is the lesson about and also the importance of the Riksdag being able to continue to function throughout the pandemic, even if we made adjustments to the work. Over the years, there has also been follow-up on how Parliament's work during the pandemic has been conducted, and we have learned a lot. For example, I have learned what a committee initiative is, as it has become much more common in recent years than in the past. In committee, a group has looked at and produced a report on the use of committee initiatives, which has, to say the least, increased in recent years. This is partly, but not solely, due to the pandemic, as several committee initiatives have been raised in response to it. On other issues, too, the use of committee initiatives has increased. Moreover, more often than before, it is a disunited committee that decides to propose an initiative, whereas in the past it has usually been a united committee that has acted on an issue. There are certainly several reasons for this, not least that it is an unclear parliamentary situation in Parliament. We do not really know which proposals will win the majority. Perhaps a committee initiative will often give you some media attention; you can show that you are quick and capable of action, that you are acting directly on a raised issue, that you are doing something. In the group within the committee that has looked at and reflected a little more on committee initiatives, we want to urge some consideration from all parties. The committee has also supported this. There may actually be reasons not to run directly at each ball. And if, through committee initiatives, you can exercise almost immediately when something has happened, how does it affect, for example, the general exercise time? It is, of course, a well-planned and long-term process that all parties and Members are putting a lot of effort and effort into. In the group, we also note that the committee initiative has an important role to play, which is important to maintain and protect. However, if the application takes place to the same extent as in recent years, one may need to consider how it affects all other work that takes place in Parliament. It could risk making the Riksdag less effective, even if it is not, of course, the intention of any proposer. The risk is that it will be difficult to plan the work of the Riksdag on the whole. As I said, the whole committee agrees with the observations and conclusions of this report. Madam President, I would like In this report, the Left Party has three different reservations. I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 1 only. But I'll tell you a little bit about everyone. One of our proposals is that Parliament's committees should not be able to elect an unlimited number of vice-chairmen of the committee. Today, several committees have more than one vice-chairman. As this assignment gives the right to an additional fee, it will be a rather unnecessary cost increase for the Riksdag. Instead of 16 Vice-Presidents, we have 25 today. This actually amounts to an extra cost of about 1 1⁄2 million per year that we have not had in Parliament before. Our second proposal concerns the right to vote on supplementary amending budgets, which during the pandemic have become almost as frequent as committee initiatives. In view of the fact that, in view of the Corona virus, the government has submitted over 20 additional amending budgets to Parliament, which have covered over 100 billion, we believe that there is a need to review and evaluate the regime for the supplementary amending budgets. Today, that right is very limited. An opposition party can only change appropriations in which the government changes, and then it can only propose a lower allocation. And on the revenue side, you can only propose changes that increase the revenue of the state. We think it is worth looking into this. Madam President, I would like Our final proposal in this report concerns the high fee that we Members of Parliament receive. It risks creating a confidence gap between us elected Members and those we represent. Over the past 20 years, MEPs' fees have risen sharply. In addition, the tax changes that we have made during this term of office mean that we earn thousands of extras per month. The Left Party does not say that the fee should be very low. It is of course an important and responsible task to be a Member of Parliament, and it would be bad if the fee were so low that there was a great risk of corruption, bribery and such things. However, we believe that one way to limit the amount of the fee could be to allow it to correspond to a price base amount per month, SEK 48 300. It would still be a high salary. In addition, we believe that the additional compensation paid for various assignments linked to parliamentary work should be abolished.
i-R5tfEdDRvnuacP16NPbWr9	Madam President, I would like As has been pointed out by previous speakers, the report is called the KU35 and deals with 85 motions from the general period of exercise, which in one way or another affect the workings of Parliament. There are several interesting proposals concerning, among other things, the opening of the Parliamentary Session, the parliamentary committees, the placement in the Chamber, the financial conditions of the Members of Parliament, the travel of committees and members of parliament and the legislative work of the Riksdag. These are proposals that really cover everything from heavy, fundamental issues to perhaps a bit more peripheral. In a motion it is proposed that Karl XI's drabants should participate in the opening of Parliament. Another suggests that the formal opening of the Parliamentary Session should take place in the Hall of State at the Royal Palace of Stockholm, to mention just a few suggestions. Madam President, I would like The committee proposes that the Riksdag reject any motion for a resolution on Parliament's working arrangements. This is usually also the practice of exercise reports. In some cases the committee makes a different assessment than the exerciser. In other cases, the committee notes that the issues are already being investigated or have to be dealt with in a different context. This has been up in the past during the debate, but I would nevertheless like to remind you that we will come back to Parliament's working arrangements when we consider the follow-up that has been made to Parliament's work under the coronapdemine. We in the Constitutional Committee have dealt with it and will return to the House with it. Madam President, I would like Questions about Parliament's working methods are important and crucial to the functioning of the Riksdag and thus our democracy and for us to be able to maintain parliamentary work. We Moderates have no reservations about this report, but broadly agree with the committee's assessment. Nevertheless, I would like to comment on the report which the committee has considered and which Jessica Wetterling mentioned in her speech. It is also annexed to the report. A working group within the Constitutional Committee has carried out, on behalf of the Committee, a follow-up and evaluation of the committee initiatives in Parliament. In the course of its work, the group has carried out a survey of the committee initiatives proposed and decided upon since the introduction of this right of initiative in 1971. Perhaps it was time to look at how it has come about in practice. What, then, is a committee initiative? It is a proposal which, according to the parliamentary order, may be raised in a committee. As has been said in the speaker's chair, otherwise it is not the most common thing. The usual thing can be a bill or a motion from Members. Here, however, a committee can therefore agree to make a proposal. If the committee then decides to propose a committee initiative, it will be a report, which can then be debated and decided on in plenary. Some conclusions are drawn in the Working Group's report. We have decided to endorse the observations and conclusions. The survey shows that the number of committee initiatives proposed and decided within Parliament's committees has increased. This applies not least to the last two years, when the increase has been significant. Many of the committee initiatives during the last two national meetings have in themselves had an explicit link to the coronapdemine. The report also shows that the provisions on committee initiatives have been partially applied in a different way from what was intended. In addition, more committee initiatives have been proposed by disunited committees, i.e. the decision to submit the proposal has not been unanimous. The working group describes that an explanation for the increasing use may be the current parliamentary situation, i.e. in cases where one feels that the government has not taken action on an issue that a majority of Parliament is behind. Then a justified impatience may arise in the majority of Parliament, according to the conclusions of the report. Madam President, I would like The committee's right of initiative has an important role to play and is keen to maintain and protect. We take the group's conclusions with us in our continued work here in the Riksdag. For those who want to read it in its entirety, as I recommend, it is included in Appendix 2 to the report. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank all the participants in the working group for the work they have put into the report. With this, Madam President, I support the proposal of the Constitutional Committee in report 35.
i-KRvHg2X1wWotvHxe9zPDxf	Madam President, I would like Democratic work is based on a well-functioning parliamentarism, and based on this, the report Parliament's working methods, the KU35, should be considered. I would like to support the proposal in the report and therefore reject the motions. As mentioned earlier, the report contains 85 requests for everything from how and where the opening of Parliament is to take place to how the election of the President is to take place and how we work and behave in this House. The financial conditions and the committees in which the work is to be organised are also listed here. The ability of individual Members to carry out their duties properly is, as I see it, important to highlight and include them in discussions such as this one. The treatment of the motions is an important part of an ongoing debate on how best to organise the work of the people's representatives. In the report, we have also examined the report mentioned by previous speakers and produced by a group in committee. It has reviewed the application of committee initiatives. We agree with the conclusions and observations made there. What is noted is that the number of committee initiatives has increased considerably in recent years. The proportion of committee initiatives decided by disunited committees was also appreciably higher during the Parliamentary Session 2020/ 21 than before. In this context, I would like to point out that the committee initiatives have come to be used in a way that may go beyond what they were originally intended for. The idea of committee initiatives is that they should be used with restrictiveness, as a kind of exception. The parliamentary situation and perhaps the media's attractiveness have made the thresholds sometimes low for such initiatives. In this context, the Riksdag does not in any way have the resources available to the Government Office for investigation and consultation. It is therefore important to recall that a certain inertia can provide the opportunity for planning, investigation and reflection. A large number of committee initiatives may complicate the planning of the work of the committees and raise questions about the relationship with, for example, motions. It is therefore welcome that the report produced and included in our report reminds us of caution in the use of committee initiatives. Madam President, I would like I would also like to touch on the position on some motions on the matter. A motion addresses the question of replacing the general exercise time with a freer exercise right. The detailed arrangements for the right to exercise have been investigated on several occasions. The right to initiate motions without connection to proposals and other matters has in various ways been limited in time ever since the 1866 Parliamentary Order. The main reason for not allowing such a right to exercise during the entire Parliamentary Session has been the consideration of parliamentary work. Exercises have been found to be an extensive part of Parliament's work material. The committee points out that the workload of the committees' offices is already high and that the committees also have an increased need for scope for, among other things, dealing with EU issues, monitoring and evaluation, and in-depth contacts with research and future issues. In addition, the number of independent sports has increased sharply in recent times. Some movements – two in number – address the issue of lobbying and the establishment of a lobby register. These are also issues that have been examined and dealt with in the past. The issue was most recently addressed in the 2014 democracy inquiry. It came to the conclusion that lobbying in the form of informal contacts between decision-makers and stakeholder organisations did not present a direct challenge to democracy and therefore did not advocate the introduction of any kind of regulation that alters the conditions. The meeting of decision-makers and stakeholder organisations and dialogue on topical issues is of great importance. It is important that this is done openly and with transparency. According to the study, regulation would be difficult to design in an effective way that would not have negative effects on democracy. Those who move around Parliament's premises can see that there are meetings, meetings, seminars and workshops on topical issues on a daily basis. They are part of the meetings and meetings held between decision-makers, stakeholder organisations, industry, trade unions and others who want to highlight urgent issues from their horizons. A previous speaker raised the issue of the flag in the Chamber. It is also a motion which is contained in the report and which we have taken a position on. I would like to highlight the importance of both Sweden's and the EU's flags being represented in the hall. We are dealing here with the purely practical situation. Much of the debates and discussions being held and the decisions taken in this House are also part of European cooperation. It is an important part of what affects and is topical in the discussions here in Parliament. It is educational, practical and also dignified, as I see it, that we have both the flag of Sweden and the flag of the European Union in the Chamber. It is important not least in these times of anxiety and difficulties in our world around us. Then it is important to show that collection and cooperation are highlighted. This means that what we work with here in Sweden also has bearing on European cooperation. We need to work together more to strengthen ourselves for the future.
i-VyWoSG3NAzXFTaw7G5zphG	Madam President, I would like I would like to comment on motion 1814 in the report. The motion originates from the frustration that I experienced in the spring of 2020 with all the problems that arose in the parliamentary work because we changed the working methods due to the pandemic. Of course, you can think about how to handle this. The chairman of the committee stated that a motion would normally be rejected, and that is the case. But I also know that many changes in parliamentary work have had their start in a rejected motion, so I would like to comment on this anyway. When I sought an outlet for my frustration and wondered a little about how a lack of parliamentary work could be handled, I got the impression that the President had very little responsibility and influence over the parliamentary work. It made me a little confused. I was also frustrated about how poorly teleworking worked and could compare with my experience as a municipal politician. There it worked in a different way and above all it was governed by law in a completely different way than the parliamentary work. That is the background to this exercise. What I am thinking about is what the President's role really is. Is the role of the President important and decisive for parliamentary work? If this is the case, I think it is reasonable to review the powers of the President and consider how Parliament can extend its power of control over the President, which I am referring to in one of the motions for resolutions. In that case, it is a reasonable discussion if the President has an important role in Parliament. If you conclude that the President does not have an important and responsible role in the Riksdag, there are other questions you can ask yourself in that case. After all, the President is the highest elected representative under the Swedish Constitution and is paid with a fee corresponding to the Prime Minister's. The Prime Minister works 24:7, almost every minute of the day is controlled and can also be held accountable to the Riksdag virtually every day. If the President's function is more ceremonial, to put out and light Christmas trees and the like, there is reason to think about it. Regardless of where you land in what the President's role should be in Parliament, the questions raised in the motion should lead to a broader discussion on how we deal with a possible control function of the President, how we organise our telework and whether we need to regulate it in a different way. In the motion, I have referred, among other things, to the municipal law's way of dealing with telework in municipal democracy. Municipal democracy is also an extremely important part of Swedish democracy. Madam President, I would like I don't have any pleas, for understandable reasons. I share the President's view that the practice is to discourage motions. Nevertheless, I believe that exercise can be the starting point for a change. That is how I want to see both the motion as such and this speech.
i-5zYPjt1tfneoy6NGwgkkru	Madam President, I would like We Moderates largely agree with the Government's proposal for better conditions for commercial radio. We also believe that both the new advertising rules and the synchronised authorisation periods for analogue and digital radio are important elements to safeguard commercial radio conditions. Today, major investments are being made to ensure radio broadcasting and, not least, a future wider range of broadcasting through the efforts on the dab+ digital radio broadcasting network. These are important investments to ensure diversity in the air and for the future survival and development of commercial radio. It is an industry that has been hit very hard by the pandemic, where advertising revenue has not least been seen to fail. Although the expansion is now taking place with large investments from private radio operators, Sweden is far behind its neighbours and the rest of Europe in the expansion. That is why, Madam President, it is important if we are to guarantee the survival of commercial radio and ensure the investments made and made in the digital radio network that there are long-term conditions. Therefore, we Moderates believe that the authorisation period for analogue radio should be extended to 2030. If operators who have already invested millions of dollars in the roll-out of digital radio broadcasting and who are also facing further major investments are in danger of losing the licences of analogue radio broadcasting, this could pose major difficulties for the survival of commercial radio. Before the digital network is fully built, commercial radio will have to stand on two legs, both analogue and digital. Madam President, I would like It is, of course, a practical question. For us, however, it is also a very important question of principle. Without the commercial radio, Sweden risks getting a range in the ether only or mostly consisting of Sweden Radio. This would throw the supply back 30 years, while listening risks being largely transferred to the digital media giants without a tax home in Sweden. Other parties in this congregation may have a history of hindering and counteracting freedom in the ether. We Moderates have an opposite story. We have always defended the diversity of the ether and the free dissemination of information. Commercial radio is experiencing great financial difficulties. Now, of course, I hope that the current legislative proposal will not mean that we will be thrown back 30 years in the media supply in the air. What if the Swedes wake up tomorrow, get in the car on their way to work, and there are no more Mix Megapol and Rix FM. Perhaps there would have been more on the list of speakers than we are today. Madam President, I would like We therefore believe that the broadcasting permits for existing operators should be extended as soon as possible by 2030, with the possibility of new entrants coming into being during the authorisation period, but without an auction for existing analogue broadcasting licences. It would save competition with other players and give them the right to enter while providing long-term conditions for those operators who are now developing an infrastructure on a private basis – it is not the State that pays for it. The Moderates' proposal also means that new actors could continue to participate in the authorisation process for digital radio broadcasting in 2026, as proposed in the Government's legislative proposal. We Moderates regret that no more parties have chosen to support securing the long-term conditions of commercial radio with our proposal that the government should return as soon as possible with new proposals on extended broadcasting permits. I am in favour of reservation 2 in the report.
i-2o61mc6MbQSuWCFSnVNG8s	Madam President, I would like We live in a time of great uncertainty. Although it is mainly commercial operators to whom this report is addressed, there are other considerations that we need to take into account. I therefore support the Swedish Democrats' reservation 3 in the KU37 report. It deals with military priority for certain frequency ranges. The fact is that radio, partly because it is such a robust technology, partly because it is so widely distributed, also serves a purpose in terms of ensuring national security. In a crisis situation, the Armed Forces must be able to communicate on secure channels. Even before such a crisis arises, there may be a clear need for the defense to be able to train by means of, coordinate through, and safeguard national security on their own radio frequencies. In its referral, the Swedish Armed Forces have specifically mentioned the frequency range 230 – 240 megahertz as such. If the Armed Forces are forced to use civil frequencies, this can lead to coordination problems in the event of war or crises. The current war in Ukraine stresses the importance of a well-functioning national defence. The fact that the Swedish defence has been underfunded for so long makes, if anything, the need greater. The Government claims that the Swedish Armed Forces' wishes can also be met with the continued roll-out of digital radio broadcasting, while recognising the risk that further roll-out of digital radio broadcasting may use the frequency range that the Swedish Armed Forces would like to use. It also states that there is room to return to the issue if necessary. Something in that equation doesn't add up. If current digital commercial radio broadcasting does not use the 230 – 240 megahertz frequency range, it does not seem entirely reasonable for the Swedish Armed Forces to have to share frequency space with ordinary radio broadcasts and adapt so as not to cause disturbances in the civilian network. The fact that the practical option of adjusting the frequency plan of the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency so that the said frequency space is not used would require time-consuming international coordination is also not clearly reasonable. It would rather facilitate coordination to create conditions to avoid interference from military systems within our country or at our borders in large exercises with or without other countries such as Denmark, Norway and Germany. There is a value in giving military priority to certain frequency ranges. In light of the security situation in Sweden's immediate area, the Swedish Armed Forces' referrals should therefore be given special consideration.
i-FRAsXdp7urebLXWps5XJ8A	Madam President, I would like Radio is a durable and well-proven medium that survives and develops even though technological development also creates competition from other media channels. Radio has also been adapted and developed by digitalisation. The KU37 report is entitled Better conditions for commercial radio. It is about issues of societal benefit but also about the promotion of continued media diversity. I support the committee's proposal in the KU37 report and reject the reservations. Many listen with great benefit to the commercial radio, which offers everything from news and storytelling to music and entertainment. The government's proposal, as we see it, improves the conditions for commercial radio, for example by making advertising rules more flexible. This gives companies better opportunities to run their business and thus promotes jobs and growth in the industry and a comprehensive offering in the ether. As a background, advertisements in an audio radio broadcast may be broadcast for a maximum of 12 minutes per hour between the whole time. The same maximum advertising time has in the past also applied to television broadcasts. It is based on amendments to the EU Audiovisual Media Services Directive, the AV Directive. However, this does not cover audio-radio broadcasting.
i-Frs6o2Vvbjwj6RhGvBcG1V	The government further considers that the current rules should continue to apply to local radio, i.e. that advertisements may be broadcast for a maximum of 12 minutes per hour between the whole time. Where the transmission time does not exceed one hour between the whole time, advertisements should be allowed to be sent for a maximum of 15 % of the transmission time. Should the proposal also cover local radio, the Government considers that there is a risk that licence holders are unable to broadcast advertisements at all or to a lesser extent due to the fact that the maximum possible advertising time has already been used by another licence holder. For this reason, the proposal should not cover local radio. The government also makes the assessment that there is a need to synchronise the permit periods for analogue and digital commercial radio. The synchronisation should be achieved by enabling the extension of the authorisations of digital commercial radio to terminate at the same time as the current analogue commercial radio licence. The authorisations will be extended until 31 July 2026. Madam President, I would like In perspective, one can reflect on when the commercial radio once started its broadcasts in Sweden. It was at the end of the 1950s and at the beginning of the 1960s, and it was done through pirate initiatives. Radio Syd and Radio Nord were examples of this. The transmissions had to be rigged and carried out at sea, in the Baltic Sea and the Sound, thus trying to circumvent the monopoly that existed for terrestrial transmissions. It was then the start of a development of the radio. This also applied to Swedish Radio, who thought it was worth broadening to meet the competition and among other things invested in P3. Then, in 1979, local radio stations arrived. They were advertising free, but several of them violated the ban and sometimes sent advertising. Some of these events received attention, and Televerket's personnel were sent out to try to shut down the stations but were prevented by people to reach the transmitter. Then the connection to the transmitter was broken, but it came back after a short time. Then the station was sent with advertising. So, of course, there were a lot of incidents at first, before it all broke through! Private local radio was allowed in Sweden in 1993 and has since developed both locally and richly. Right now it is digitalisation that characterises the development. By synchronising the authorisation periods for analogue and digital commercial radio, the transition is facilitated. The authorisation granted by the Swedish Press, Radio and Television Authority to broadcast television and searchable text television is extended from six to eight years. Some broadcasters have stated in their opinions that they are in the main in favour of the extension proposal but that they would prefer an extension to include the authorisations to broadcast analogue commercial radio so that all licences expire in 2030. The licences applicable to the broadcasting activities of the FM band have been allocated for eight years in a tender procedure. Here, however, the Government considers that an extension of the licences would mean that the State would subsequently change the conditions for those who won the auction in competition with other bidders. This, in turn, would affect the free competition that characterises commercial radio in Sweden and which should be a prerequisite for licensing. Radio from a safety perspective has also been mentioned. The Swedish Armed Forces have not opposed the synchronisation of the permit periods for analogue and digital commercial radio but believe that decisions need to be made first that give military priority to the 230 – 240 megahertz frequency range. In light of the Swedish Armed Forces' objection, the Government emphasises that in addition to broadcasting permits, commercial radio is also required to use radio transmitters in accordance with the Electronic Communications Act. The digital commercial radio broadcasts currently conducted with the approval of the authorities do not use the said frequency range, which is precisely the area the Swedish Armed Forces in their referrals stresses as important for military activities. The government's assessment is therefore that the Swedish Armed Forces' need to use the frequency space should also be able to be met with a continued roll-out of digital radio broadcasting. It is also mentioned that if needs arise, the government will come back to this issue.
i-KC51GHveMd4YG2SRAqY1kK	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by saying that I support my fellow party members in the Moderates and the views expressed by them. I'm gonna shoot a little bit from my hip. I would like to say, for the sake of transparency, that I have worked for all major radio companies in Sweden and am still very committed to radio. That is precisely why I would like to say a few words here from the speaker's seat. Today we listen to the radio via the FM network, basically. However, the development is extremely rapid when it comes to listening in a different form, via, for example, actors such as Spotify and the network. Swedish Radio is broadcasting today on FM band. It is limited, and because it is limited, there is only one room for commercial operators to participate. As a result, they have basically had to pay a great deal of money to access this space and be able to broadcast. That is the reality of the day. Tomorrow's reality is that we will have to move the listening from FM to something else. Swedish Radio and commercial operators will have to move to dab, at least in the near future. This means that if we are to get commercial operators to invest in dab and expand it with their own money, they must have some kind of security for this investment. This means that we here in Parliament will need to review the conditions that they have, and we will need to extend the permits whether we want to or not – if we want the commercial radio to survive. And this is going to have to happen within a year at the latest. Commercial companies have different types of investment plans where they can spend their money on other things. If they do not see security in their investments and see that parliament and politics will enable them to bring back their investments, they will not invest in dab either. And what happens if they don't? Well, then it means they're going to move their brands to the net. These broadcasts and revenues can then end up anywhere in the world, and Swedish Radio will be alone on the FM band. And then what? Well, only a certain part of the listening in Sweden ends up on the FM band. And then what? Yes, it's about our safety. If something happens in the country, our VMA will not be able to reach out to the entire population and the entire radio listening, but we will only reach those who listen to Swedish Radio. So there is both a security aspect and a commercial aspect, which we must take into account in the future. In the near future, we should have a meeting and change the conditions that are now in place to find, together with commercial radio and Swedish Radio, a future that works for radio and for our common security in terms of being able to reach out to the population properly when we need it.
i-GxRZMeFjX5H7FALfnQ3cdZ	Madam President, I would like All public power in Sweden is based on the people, and the parliament is the people's main representative. It is in the form of government, the constitution that forms the basis of our democracy – something that is, unfortunately, more and more a memory only when more and more power is being shifted to Brussels and the European Union at an ever-increasing pace. Tear up the Treaties and give more power to the European Parliament, call on federalists Macron and von der Leyen after a more than a year's conference on the future in the EU. For example, it is a question of abolishing Member States' veto rights and giving the European Parliament the right to propose laws and referendums and, above all, to gain power over the EU budget. Madam President, I would like This is a frightening development in which the objective is the creation of the United States of Europe, in which the self-determination of the states is increasingly being blurred at an increasing rate. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats believe that European cooperation should be based primarily on an intergovernmental basis and that Sweden should participate to the extent that it is appropriate from a Swedish perspective. For its part, the EU should focus above all on the internal market and on creating and maintaining conditions for cross-border trade and exchange. Since Sweden's accession, the EU has grown into a major political and bureaucratic project, which means that we have lost a lot of power to decision-makers in Brussels. The development has taken place gradually and without the Swedish people having to take a stand. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats have warned that the inclusion of a social dimension in European cooperation will also lead to legislation in this area. However, when the social pillar was decided in 2017, our criticism was dismissed because the social pillar itself is not legally binding. Nevertheless, the European Commission has presented several legislative proposals that are justified by the realisation of the social pillar. The Working Conditions Directive is one of them. The directive aims to introduce new minimum conditions in the EU, which lay down a common floor for employees' rights within the EU. Madam President, I would like We see, in particular, two problems with the social pillar and the legislative proposals that are run out of it. First of all, we believe that the issues highlighted in the social pillar are national issues in which the Member States themselves have to decide both the direction and the resources allocated to implementation, because reforms in the social field generally tend to entail considerable costs. Secondly, we believe that proposals of this nature in the area of labour market policy risk threatening the Swedish model, especially because the consequences are difficult to understand. In Sweden, labour market conditions are handled by the social partners. We defend this order and therefore call for the government's legislative proposal to be rejected and for our reservation to be approved. It is time to challenge the EU a little. We see it in other committees. The Committee on the Environment and Agriculture has a majority who are challenging the EU on the issue of whether or not the wolf's product is. I think we could do the same in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs.
i-HWYP3nPQSSy4nM9dyrkvJu	Madam President, I would like The Left Party is fundamentally very critical of the EU. The EU restricts democracy in the Member States, very rarely takes into account the Swedish collective agreement model and prioritises the interests of companies over the interests of workers. However, I note that some EU proposals actually bring improvements for workers, while safeguarding the Swedish labour market model. The Working Conditions Directive is one such example. That is also why the Left Party voted in favour of this directive when it was discussed in the European Parliament in 2019. Madam President, I would like I welcome the Government's proposal to implement the Working Conditions Directive. The amendments to Swedish legislation are minimal and are only implemented where the provisions of the Directive make it necessary. However, I believe that in some cases the government should have gone a little further for the directive to be properly implemented in Sweden. This concerns, on the one hand, the provisions on minimum job predictability and, on the other hand, the provisions on the prevention of unfair practices where necessary. Like LO, I believe that in some cases the government should have gone further in order for the directive to be properly implemented in Sweden. Madam President, I would like As far as the minimum predictability of work is concerned, I believe that there is a lack of an effective sanction clause in Swedish law that protects an employee against adverse consequences. I do not share the assessment made by the government, which the committee has unfortunately supported, that the rules of the Work Environment Act and the Working Time Act provide adequate protection for workers so that they do not suffer adverse consequences, for example, in cases where an employee rejects a shift. Madam President, I would like I therefore believe that the government should come back with a proposal for an effective sanction clause that protects a worker against adverse consequences. As far as the prevention of unfair practices in case of need agreements is concerned, unlike the committee, as I said, I believe that there is a need for changes to Swedish law in order to implement the directive's provisions on supplementary measures if necessary. A presumption consistent with Article 11(b) of the Working Conditions Directive should be included in Swedish law. Having said that, Madam President, I would like to endorse reservation 2.
i-G6dHUSVcr1qHYGiacM1y9N	Madam President, I would like Decision-making rights on labour market policy issues should not be at EU level. The Working Conditions Directive is just one of several EU proposals that to varying degrees undermine Swedish workers and employers. The Working Conditions Directive and several other proposals in the pipeline for adoption and implementation are all based on the social pillar, as we Christian Democrats warned throughout the EU election movement in 2019. We tried to say that it will lead to legislative proposals that would restrict the Swedish model. The answer we received was that the social pillar would not lead to new legislation at all. But now we stand here and what was dismissed as boasts has actually become reality. It is a fact that the European Commission has simply taken the social pillar as a pretext for more labour and welfare legislation at European level. We believe that, now that this directive is on the table to be implemented in Swedish law, there is no reason for it to be overimplemented. Madam President, I would like The Directive provides for the possibility for Member States to decide not to apply the Directive to certain part-time workers. We think that this exception should be used, so that the Swedish model can instead have room to operate there. We need to implement the directive. However, it would have been desirable if the government had taken advantage of some of the points raised by various consultation bodies regarding the implementation of the Directive. We can also regret that the committee does not agree with us on this. This applies, inter alia, to those who work no more than three hours a week during a four-week reference period, i.e. part-time workers. It would allow small businesses to employ more easily. We can only hope that future proposals in this area will meet with stronger resistance, both in this House and in Brussels. We simply need to become more people who are fighting against supranational decisions in the area of welfare.
i-SxVAvju5ys5ZX6NZcN4j21	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to adopt the Government's proposal for amendments to the Employment Protection Act, the Working Time Act, the Working Time Act, the Act on Certain Armed Forces and the Act on Upper Secondary Apprenticeship, and the rejection of all reservations. This is the implementation of a Directive adopted by the Council of the European Union on 20 June 2019. It is about ensuring that we have clear and predictable working conditions in the EU, the so-called Working Conditions Directive. We Social Democrats think it is important that in all 27 EU Member States we really protect the decent and good conditions for employees. Against this background, we believe that the EU proposal that now exists and now needs to be implemented in Swedish law also fits well with our approach. Nowadays we have a labour force that is mobile between the Member States. We see it very clearly. This is what we are defending, but it must also be done in a fair manner, that is to say that there is good labour law linked to those who work in the various Member States. We think that this proposal weighs up, and we think that the points that have been made have been taken into account. Not all elements may have been taken into account, but consideration has been given to what is crucial to the continuation of the case. With those words, I would like to support the committee's proposal and reject all reservations.
i-Se1E6R3h9SrfthKS6ybfgM	Madam President, I would like We are debating the implementation of the Working Conditions Directive. As far as the Moderates are concerned, we have consistently rejected over time the social pillar, on which decisions were taken at the European Summit in Gothenburg, and the issues that have come out of it, as we believe it leads to more supranationality in the social policy field. Sweden has a great deal of expertise in this area. We should continue to have it, protect it and use it. We note, however, that in recent years, with reference precisely to the social pillar, the Commission has come up with a series of proposals for binding rules in the field of social policy, not least in the area of labour law. This is something we regret. Sweden has a well-functioning model based on collaboration between the social partners. It is a model that earns and has earned Sweden well and which is therefore something we should focus on keeping. Employment and social policy issues are fundamental for all Member States. There we are also different, with different conditions and different ways of achieving the national targets. That is precisely why this should be a national competence. A strengthened exchange of experience where we share accessible ways and results of work we have done and have an open climate for exchanges of experience should be the main form of cooperation in this area. Madam President, I would like With the creation of the social pillar, social and labour market policy issues have been raised at European level, which means that we are now, unfortunately, putting too much effort and energy into counteracting proposals that risk cutting right into the Swedish labour market model. In addition, the implementation of the social pillar takes time and financial resources, which should instead be spent on more priority areas. I mean, that's unfortunate. The current regulation in Swedish law does not meet the requirements of the Working Conditions Directive, which is why legislative adjustments are needed to implement the Directive in order for Sweden not to breach its obligations under EU law. Without the decision on the social pillar and what it has brought about in this area, this would not have been the case. On behalf of the Moderates, we give a specific opinion clarifying our position on the matter.
i-DHgZcEZPVC4Q3vQRXibGms	Madam President, I would like I would like to express my approval of the Moderate reservation number one. Let me begin by stating what is obvious in all the other countries in general but perhaps not in Sweden of the Social Democrats, namely that integration does not take place in a vacuum but is closely linked to migration, i.e. that Sweden's ability to succeed in integration is of course in direct and immediate relation to how high or low the reception of refugees is. It is an obvious fact for almost all, except Social Democrats and environmentalists in the Swedish Parliament. Madam President, I would like For far too long, Sweden has had a high level of asylum immigration without taking real responsibility for the fact that they as immigrants also become part of society. The Moderates are the only party that has a coherent integration policy with concrete proposals to shape a new integration policy that places high demands and creates great opportunities, so that the word integration is associated with hope rather than hopelessness. When Magdalena Andersson became Social Democratic Party leader and wanted to escape responsibility for his previous seven years as Minister of Finance, the Social Democratic Party Headquarters at Sveavägen took up the point of speech: We will turn all the stones around in the fight against segregation and gang crime. So, Madam President, these are the stones under which the Social Democrats themselves have hidden in the denial of virtually every social problem. Under the first stone we find, as we noted in the debate of the Committee on Employment here a few weeks ago, Morgan Johansson. Madam President, I would like Sweden's municipalities are obliged to accept new arrivals, i.e. asylum seekers who have been granted a residence permit, in accordance with current legislation, the Instructions Act. The distribution of new arrivals among the municipalities of the country helps to reduce the segregation of residents. At the same time, we propose a review of the factors governing the distribution of new arrivals and the weighting of those factors. At present, the Instructions Act lists four factors: the labour market conditions of the municipality, the size of the population and the total reception of newly arrived and unaccompanied children and the extent of asylum seekers staying in the municipality. The housing situation should be an additional factor. We therefore propose to Moderates that the government be given the task of reviewing the settlement law in this direction. At the same time, Madam President, as we are proposing a revision of the residence law, we believe that this is a short-term solution. We can see, as the committee seems to have done in the examination of the national audit report that we are now discussing, that there is a difference between municipalities in terms of how long housing is offered under the Instructions Act. Some offer permanent accommodation. In fact, it is not reasonable, Madam President, and above all not fair that those who are new in Sweden should receive permanent housing or long-term housing rights over others. It creates an incorrect picture of what you can expect in Sweden. It is also a housing policy approach that does not apply generally to everyone who lives, lives and works in Sweden. That is why, Madam President, we Moderates want to introduce a national model of residence for a maximum of three years. In order for a person to receive an establishment dwelling, there must also be a requirement for the person to participate actively in the establishment work and thus comply with his or her establishment plan in order to increase the possibility of self-sufficiency. However, this should not lead to disproportionately large reception for municipalities with many vacant dwellings. The allocations should be abolished in the long term, but a tight and sustainable migration policy is needed. It is also necessary that the state, which is the one that decides on the Swedish reception of refugees and consequently should also assume its responsibility for it, stops rolling over its responsibilities and costs to the municipalities of the country. Madam President, I would like To sum up the moderate position: Review the instruction law and introduce a national model with residences!
i-Z52JhudYdbVCeSdVAffuZ	Madam President, I would like When the large refugee wave in 2015 far exceeded previous estimates of reception – a reception that was already high before 2015 – Sweden faced a major challenge, as the other parties usually call it. But I prefer to call things what they are: This meant big problems for Sweden. These major problems – huge problems – meant that there was no housing, jobs and the possibility of self-sufficiency to meet the needs that arose. Unaccompanied boys and men who lacked passports or any other form of identification were suddenly part of our country. Numerous strangers who would be supported by our common welfare without ever having contributed to it were suddenly within our borders. This, of course, put our common social contract on hold. Our society has been built for a long time by first doing its duty and then demanding its right. Instead, it was just the opposite. This has had major consequences in the form of, for example, growing care queues, an elderly care failure, a school where pupils do not reach the targets and, not to mention, a displacement effect on the housing market. Some of the newcomers can reside in our country within or outside the framework of Sweden's laws. Without self-sufficiency, some newcomers have disappeared from the establishment programme into crime. No one knows how many. Hundreds of thousands of people, we know, have no work. Many municipalities, as I said, lacked both housing and jobs for the newcomers, which initially meant that the reception was sometimes not even considered possible. For example, a Social Democratic council chairman sat on the radio crying out because the situation was considered unsustainable, and the funding of the reception was too much to deal with. It is a proof of how little preparedness the municipalities actually had for this unsustainable multicultural project. However, the state was no worse than that it decided that the municipalities would be assigned a number of new residents, whether or not they had the opportunity to do so, by mandatory law. The voluntary part was thus a thing of the past. And this, Madam President, is the residence law, a serious restriction on municipal self-government. The Swedish National Audit Office has examined whether the Housing Act has done the good it was intended to do. The answer to that can in fact be summed up with a simple yes. The state has, by its mandatory law, placed immigrants in the municipalities, whether or not the municipalities have been prepared for this. In accordance with true Social Democratic policy, therefore, more municipalities have suffered worse. My municipality of residence Västerås has, as they call it, taken a very large responsibility during the refugee crisis in 2015. A very large responsibility means that we have received a lot of new people without actually having the capacity to do this in the best way, as well as most other municipalities in Sweden. Instead of being well prepared, one has had to patch and fix as and when, which means that the government has been constantly behind. We already have the case for the irresponsible migration policy that the government is pursuing. We see alienation areas growing stronger and stronger. Integration does not work at all, and the security of law-abiding citizens is steadily decreasing. It's a big failure. Madam President, I would like With the policy of the Swedish Democrats, we would have responsible migration and effective integration, and the settlement law would be immediately repealed. I therefore support the Swedish Democrats' reservation number 2.
i-UDbt3pxSnXzdgf3P2RyhBE	Madam President, I would like To describe our reception of people fleeing bombs, torture, poverty and abuse as a problem shows that there is no perspective at all. How should you describe the settlement law in a nice way? I think a Swiss cheese is more robust than the settlement law. There are some positive effects, for example, that there has been a slightly more even distribution around the country thanks to the settlement law. However, there are still a few municipalities that shoulder the greatest responsibility for the reception of new arrivals. The law is a serious restriction on municipal self-government, said the Swedish Democratic Representative. What do we do here if we do not make laws that govern social development, laws that municipalities, regions, private companies and everyone else relate to? It is clear that our task here is to make laws that govern the development of society. Of course, the settlement law has its flaws, but somewhere we must dare to shoulder the responsibility that comes with the mission. In its report on the reform, the Swedish National Audit Office points out that some municipalities have received significantly higher costs for supply support. That's right. This is because labour market policy is not working very well. That is why, within the framework of the January Agreement, we have launched a historic transformation of the Swedish labour market to address this particular issue and many other things that do not work in the Swedish labour market. The representative of the Moderates said something about residences. That actually sounded interesting, and I am happy to go further into the proposal. But spontaneously, I wonder whether Mats Green has brought his municipal councillors on the matter – from Vellinge and my municipality of residence Danderyd – who do not want to receive a single person within the framework of the Housing Act. It procures accommodation in other municipalities or calls other municipalities around Sweden and engages in social dumping. Does Mats Green have his municipal representatives with him? I don't know. The Moderates claim to be in favour of a review. That's great. But why did you say no to the Center Party's proposal for a committee initiative together with the Social Democrats on just such a revision of the settlement law? That's where you owe the answer. Madam President, I would like There is another part of the report by the Center Party, namely a reservation. We would like the Riksdag to support what is stated in our motion that the Government should return to the Riksdag with a clarification of how the Housing Act should be interpreted in the light of the problems highlighted in the review. We want the committee to announce this to the government. We also want to strengthen children's rights in a better way and to minimise the gap that has arisen between the various compensation systems that burden the municipal budget. When it comes to the flat-rate compensation paid over a two-year period in large cities, where the rent level is significantly higher, municipalities in many cases need to go in with additional support and also deal with the gap that has arisen because our authorities are unable to talk to each other – the Migration Agency, the Swedish Tax Agency, the Swedish Social Insurance Agency and all other authorities involved in the initial phase when it comes to registering a person so that the person in question can quickly come in and take part of the establishment plan established. It is a question that needs to be addressed in many ways. I think we can agree on the shortcomings of the settlement law. The problem is that there is a lack of action in this House. When there are concrete proposals on the table on how we address the problems, party politics and prestige come first, instead of rolling up the sleeves and making a real difference to people. Madam President, I would like I request the approval of reservation 3.
i-NbZyg1iTSrpsG3JxaCsV94	Madam President, I would like The purpose of the Housing Act was thus to achieve a more balanced division of responsibilities between municipalities and to improve the conditions for newcomers to establish themselves in the labour market and in society. It is therefore both relevant and welcome that the Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed how well the law has fulfilled this purpose. The overall assessment in the report is that the Housing Act has contributed to a better reception, if not that the Swedish National Audit Office points to some shortcomings. One flaw that is highlighted, which we consider to be highly justified, is the fact that the Migration Agency does not systematically collect data on the professional and educational background of new arrivals. Of course, people who have come to our country have different competences that should be better used when deciding on the municipality of instruction. Those who have come to Sweden with the hope of a better life should not get stuck in unemployment, passivity and exclusion. Municipalities should not be seated with high costs of supply support. By carefully collecting and using these data, it could possibly have been possible to create a better match to the needs of local labour markets around our country. Success in what is sometimes called economic integration is so incredibly important. Sweden today, despite considerable financial resources and efforts, has the EU's second largest difference in employment rates between domestic and foreign born. According to SCB figures, unemployment among foreign born 19.5 per cent last year compared with 5.4 per cent for domestic born. This, of course, is not good enough. Many different efforts are needed to change this, and we Christian Democrats have several sharp proposals to achieve better integration. D is partly a different discussion and debate, but so the importance of having a working settlement law should not be underestimated. The Swedish National Audit Office also criticises the government when it comes to reviewing the possibility for the Finnish Immigration Service to take better account of the best interests of the child in decisions on instructions. Some situations have arisen where unaccompanied minors, quota refugees, have not been assigned to the municipality where the child already has a connection. This may therefore have been children assigned by the United Nations Refugee Agency to Sweden because there are connecting persons. The reason why in these cases the Migration Agency cannot assign based on an assessment of the child's best interests is either that the municipality in question has zero in the municipality's number or that it has already fulfilled its municipality's number. If we are to talk about improved integration, Madam President, the system cannot, of course, be so rigid. Madam President, I would like On the part of the Christian Democrats, we agree with much of what is highlighted in the report, but we have also proposed that the settlement law be reviewed – above all the factors that govern the distribution of new arrivals and the weighting of these factors. Today, the Housing Act states that four factors should be taken into account in the instruction, namely the labour market, population size, overall reception of new arrivals and the extent of asylum seekers already present in the municipality. We Christian Democrats want to see the municipal situation regarding housing and schools also being a factor to be taken into account in the allocation of instructions. Reception and integration issues concern all political levels, but the division of responsibilities remains uneven. The state regulates migration itself and how the municipalities and regions handle it. Since the refugee crisis in 2015, this has led to frustration and a certain discord between the different political levels, where the municipalities feel that they have been sitting on the bill for state policy. Reviewing and developing settlement policy is therefore an important step. Of course, we need to do so much more to achieve effective integration. Madam President, I would like I call for the Christian Democrats' reservation number 4 to be approved.
i-ctAFuME36WbcgDC7CGree	Madam President, I would like Sweden has for many years taken a great responsibility so that people on the run can be protected here in our country. This requires that we have support and systems that will enable everyone who comes to Sweden as refugees to support themselves as quickly as possible. It is important for the individual but also for society. Job and own income create independence and an opportunity to shape your own life. Tax revenue increases and expenditure on government and municipalities decreases when people work. We need to create good conditions for new arrivals to get into work and into society as quickly as possible. The settlement law will then play an important role. The Housing Act was voted through here in the Swedish Parliament by a large and clear majority and was introduced on 1 March 2016. When the law was introduced, we had a situation that was not sustainable. Refugees who have been granted a residence permit remained for months at the Finnish Immigration Service's facilities without the possibility of starting their establishment. People were assigned far too much to municipalities that had many vacant dwellings but high unemployment and too little to municipalities where it was easier to get jobs. Several municipalities did not take their share of the responsibility, while many other smaller municipalities had to take disproportionate responsibility. In order to reduce segregation and ensure that people who have fled here have the opportunity to restart and get into work, changes were needed, and some of those changes were the residence law. We cannot have a situation where people are placed far too much in municipalities with high unemployment, where it is difficult even for natives to get a job. Nor can we replenish school classes that already have a high proportion of pupils with a different native language with new pupils with refugee backgrounds who then find it even more difficult to learn Swedish and manage the school. All municipalities must share responsibility for those who have fled to Sweden, just as we have pushed for all countries to take their share of responsibility for the refugees who come to Europe. The law was introduced so that we would have a faster reception, a more balanced division of responsibilities between municipalities and faster entry into the labour market. In practice, it means that all municipalities are obliged to accept refugees assigned to them. The criteria that the county administrative boards and the Finnish Immigration Service must take into account when the advantages that the newly arrived municipalities have for guidance are the municipality's labour market conditions, population size and overall reception of new arrivals and unaccompanied minors, as well as the extent of asylum seekers already present in the municipality. The Swedish National Audit Office has examined whether the Housing Act has fulfilled the objectives of the Swedish Parliament and the Government to implement the Act, and the Swedish National Audit Office's report shows that the objectives have been fulfilled. Today we have faster entry into the labour market for newcomers than before the introduction of the law. It's faster to get a job. Responsibility is more evenly distributed among municipalities based on unemployment, population size and asylum reception. The time between decisions on residence permits and reception in a municipality has decreased despite the large amount of reception in Sweden. The Swedish National Audit Office also believes that the Migration Agency and the County Administrative Boards, which are responsible for producing how many refugees each county and municipality should receive, work well. The working method also gives municipalities a good opportunity to plan their reception. Madam President, I would like There is nothing to suggest that a return to what was before 2016 would be good, either for the municipalities or for the new arrivals. On the basis of the Swedish National Audit Office's report, it can be said that the Housing Act has been a successful reform. But although it is a successful reform, there are of course things that can get better. In its report, the Swedish National Audit Office believes that in some cases there are obstacles for the Migration Agency to take into account the best interests of the child, as other speakers have mentioned here. That must, of course, be able to change. The Government agrees with its letter to the Riksdag that there is a need to review how to better take the best interests of the child into account when giving instructions. The Finnish Immigration Service itself has requested that the Government amend the regulation so that, in exceptional cases, it can be assigned in addition to the municipal numbers for the benefit of the child. The Swedish National Audit Office also makes a recommendation directly to the Finnish Immigration Service, which it believes should collect data on the educational and professional background of refugees systematically. I assume that the agency will take it to heart and consider how the Migration Agency can improve its working methods within the framework of its mission. Madam President, I would like Now that the war in Ukraine is once again bringing many refugees to Sweden, most people agree that it is crucial that the distribution between municipalities becomes even in order for the reception to work as well as possible. Although today we have more restrictive migration legislation, Sweden will continue to take its share of the responsibility for enabling people on the run to be protected. Then it is important that we have systems that make the reception work well, that people are quickly told whether they can stay or not and that we create good conditions for everyone who can stay to quickly restart and establish themselves in society and working life. The settlement law has an important role to play there. With that, Madam President, I would like to support the proposal in the report and reject the reservations.
i-BeXoBwAZqrgymS6SpSh8Pv	Madam President, I would like I'm very unorthodox and extremely impatient as a person. I therefore take the opportunity to make an appeal to my colleagues in this House and in particular to Johanna Haraldsson. We discussed these issues in committee. Johanna Haraldsson also mentioned the importance of protecting the rights of the child and remedying the shortcomings there and said that is the government's position. Hear and marvel! That's exactly what's in the Center Party's reservation. So I appeal to you, both to the Social Democrats and to other colleagues: please, can we not get the review of this legislation, which we all believe has its shortcomings? The wording that we have written in our position is very general in order to ensure that the review that is taking place does not get too much, so to speak, framed boxes so that we also dare to address the problems that exist in the legislation. Again: Please Johanna Haraldsson! Can you imagine changing your mind and voting on the proposals made by the Center Party in this report?
i-PMKtxDELw5tWhcm4QmaNHA	Madam President, I would like As I said in my speech, we are calling for all reservations to be rejected. I have not changed my mind from leaving that speaker's seat to standing in this speaker's chair. It is clear that there are challenges in the legislation but perhaps not only in the legislation but in the management of people fleeing to our country and assigned to the municipalities. I agree that it is problematic to move people and not to offer permanent housing, as Alireza Akhondi mentioned in her speech. But I am not convinced that it is in the settlement law that we can tackle the problems of social dumping and the like. They call for other measures that we do not get through by reviewing this particular legislation. As far as the child's rights are concerned, the Government replies in its letter that it agrees that there is a need to review the possibilities for the Migration Agency to take the best interests of the child into account in decisions on instructions. I therefore take it for granted that the government will take the necessary initiatives to provide for the best interests of the child. However, the fact that we do not lock ourselves in exactly what the solution should be, I think, guarantees that we really want to analyse the problem and then come back with a sustainable solution. We will not change our mind on a major review. The parties that want a major review do not agree on what it should lead to. It is therefore strange to appeal for the whole committee to support such a review. We do not want to end up in the same conclusion, where there are several who want to introduce new criteria that would completely break the legislation.
i-B8o1kPeWGhRSvZT3p5GAWD	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Johanna Haraldsson, for your answer. This is exactly what I don't like about politics. Johanna Haraldsson literally says what I have here in my document. Johanna Haraldsson says, literally, what the Center Party has written. Very many of today's speeches basically say the same thing. Why can we not show action and bring about changes in something that we jointly feel has its flaws? I honestly do not understand why it should be prestige and why it should be this strange and complicated to get a review. We know what the legislative process is. It takes a long time to investigate. It takes a lot of input for the legislation to eventually end up on Parliament's table. If you say no to the proposal of the Center Party today, that means that this issue is being removed from the political agenda for a while to come, and then we are losing valuable time. Why not seize the opportunity that is now available and make sure that real changes are made to people who are currently suffering from the shortcomings that exist in the legislation? Children are snatched from their friends and moved to other municipalities – somewhere else in our elongated country. Some municipalities take a huge responsibility, while others slip away with reference to things that the legislation does not actually allow, according to a judgment in the Administrative Court of Appeal of 2018. Once again, Johanna Haraldsson : Please, dare to have the courage to change your mind!
i-C4zHnVh6PFKSDqUh2RBpEQ	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Alireza, for the question, the appeal or whatever you call it! For me, action is not the same as directing an announcement to the government. I am convinced – and I know – that the government does not turn a blind eye to the problems associated with instructions to municipalities or legislation. When it comes, for example, to the glitch in compensation systems, it is of course the case that the individual should not be caught up in the fact that society's institutions cannot coordinate. The costs should not be passed on to municipalities. Just as the Government replied in its letter to the Riksdag, it takes on board the recommendations from the Swedish National Audit Office. Once again, I do not think that we are solving all the problems by reviewing this legislation, but I think we need to take a greater approach to tackling the problem of social dumping. But I hear what you say, Alireza Akhondi, and I am convinced that the government takes into account the issues that are problematicly linked to the legislation and the reception of new arrivals in the municipalities when we raise these issues with the government.
i-9EoZjWZ3cMfrBNFp9Qmcxd	Madam President, I would like I was a little confused and thought maybe this was an integration debate, but we had it a few weeks ago. We're going to talk about the Swedish National Auditor's report on the residence law. We have already been informed that that law entered into force in 2016. This means that new arrivals are assigned to municipalities according to a mandatory distribution, which aims to avoid an uneven distribution of new arrivals between municipalities. We in the Left Party were behind the law when it was introduced but also highlighted some criticism of shortcomings in the law's design, because there is no sanction for municipalities that do not comply with the law. Unfortunately, it has turned out that we were justified in this criticism, as several municipalities have refused to accept new arrivals. From the pulpit I have heard things about the restriction of municipal self-government and that it is a coercion. It could also be seen as taking joint responsibility. One could imagine that we are jointly supportive, taking care of people who come here on the run and distributing them between different municipalities. Another problem with this law is the lack of clarity as to how far the municipalities' responsibilities extend in time. As a result, some municipalities, especially the prosperous and bourgeois-governed ones, have only arranged housing for a two-year period, based on the time of establishment, with homelessness as a result. In the event of an extension of the start-up period, it should be made clear that municipalities are given an extended responsibility for the housing situation of new arrivals. The housing situation of asylum seekers and new arrivals should be designed to enable long-term housing in the same place or area, even during the transition from asylum seekers to new arrivals. The conditions for this obviously vary between different parts of the country, and completely equal conditions will of course not be possible. The availability of decent housing with reasonable rents and waiting times for housing varies widely in the country, and this is, of course, fundamentally a lack of housing policy. However, it is definitely another debate. Another shortcoming of the Housing Act, which has been pointed out in some municipalities, is that those who have lived in their own homes while asylum seekers are not covered by the Act. As a result, they are not included when the number to be assigned to each municipality is determined, with the result that the number of new arrivals is distributed unevenly. In addition, the new arrivals who have lived in their own home are deprived of the possibility of being assigned to a municipality and of the possibility of more favourable housing. While some municipalities break the law and do not accept new arrivals that are assigned to them and do everything to minimize their responsibilities, there are municipalities that have wanted to have more new arrivals assigned to them. TV4 carried out a recent survey showing that about one in six municipalities would receive more new arrivals than they had been allocated. The Left Party believes that the law should be made a little more flexible, so that the municipalities that wish can receive a larger number of new arrivals and so that the municipalities that have already taken a large responsibility can be relieved. If the state only provides sufficient resources and good conditions for the municipalities by changing the compensations, we also believe that more municipalities will want to take greater responsibility. I do not want to prolong the debate, because I do not want an integration debate – I think it is periodically rather dirty and boring. However, after reading the Swedish National Audit Office's report, I can at least say that the Swedish National Audit Office estimates that the intentions of the reform have actually been achieved and that the cooperation between the Migration Agency and the county boards is essentially working well. Madam President, I would like I have no claims in connection with this report, because it is a report. I think we should simply leave it to the record.
i-FPP9Eozm6gxPVJi8rS8w9G	Madam President, I would like The Liberals naturally agree with the Committee on Employment's proposal for a decision to approve the Swedish National Audit Office's review of the Housing Act. The reason we Liberals have no reservation is that what we had planned to re-motion – the so-called gap between municipalities regarding compensation and liability – is not really covered by the Swedish National Audit Office's review. In two stages this spring, we have put forward proposals for committee initiatives. The first was a joint proposal that we made together with the Center Party. Unfortunately, it was rejected by a majority in committee, which I regret. We made another attempt during the latter part of the treatment, when we noted that the mass refugee directive and the Ukrainian refugees, which are now being received in many of the country's municipalities, are not covered by the residence law. That draft committee initiative from the Liberals was also rejected by the other parties in the committee, which I also regret. However, it did not take many days until the Social Democratic Government held a press conference and announced just a review of the settlement law, which showed that reality had caught up with the government. This is obviously better than doing nothing. The background to this settlement law, Madam President, is the war in Syria in 2015, 2016 and 2017. Sweden received more than 130 000 refugees from war Syria. After Germany, we were the country in Europe that received a great many refugees. As a liberal, I am proud that Sweden volunteered humanitarianly, received these people and gave them protection. What's causing this is integration. That is the link with our committee. The question of whether we should receive people or not is being dealt with by another committee. But the effects, consequences, conditions and conditions on the ground around the country are the responsibility of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs. That is why we are debating these issues. We were a driving force in the Riksdag to get legislation in which we force all 290 municipalities in Sweden to stand behind and stand up for the decisions made by the Swedish Parliament. It is very provocative that a number of municipalities still – they did it then too – go out almost daily and say: No, to this municipality you are not welcome. No, we don't want to see you here. They say so although we know that there are both vacant housing and decent labour market prospects and vacancies. One thing that has so far been raised by no one in the debate is that there are derogations that have been introduced later. They apply, for example, to Södertälje municipality but also to others. In the beginning, 30 municipalities contacted the government and said that they had vulnerable areas, problems with segregation, tough labour market and also housing shortages. If this is the case, you can ascribe to the government and get exceptions for either the entire municipality or districts of the municipality. The state can thus go in and ease the pressure on the municipality to prevent and prevent exclusion, segregation and crime. What I would like to highlight in particular, and as some debaters have already mentioned, is that the consequences and effects of these regulations have been essentially positive. I look mainly at the Swedish Democrats. You should welcome this. You do not want to go back to the old system, where Södertälje, Malmö, some areas in Gothenburg and others took a disproportionate responsibility? I can also mention Fagersta in our own constituency of Västmanland. Based on his circumstances, conditions and opportunities, Fagersta received a disproportionately large proportion of the refugees. This is now being done, together with Norberg, when the Ukrainian refugees are received. This is because they are not covered by the Residence Act. Had the residence law applied to these people, they could have been redistributed to other parts of the country and distributed more evenly. Madam President, I would like This is an extremely complex and difficult regulatory framework. If you sit as a municipal councillor and sign with the county governor that you intend to receive 250 refugees in your municipality, that is unfortunately only one figure today. In reality, 1 500 people can come to that municipality. That is what I mean creates problems with the planning conditions for preschool, school, labour market policy and housing policy. That is why we need to review the whole integration policy, the reception issues and the residence law. Total space: The Liberals are behind this settlement law. The Swedish Parliament has decided on our migration policy. Then it is also reasonable that all Swedish municipalities are fully behind it.
i-6PFnY4rAarRUg3uVVDRp5Z	Madam President, I would like People who come new to Sweden both want and will be involved in contributing and developing as soon as possible. Today, the establishment is not functioning well enough, which contributes to segregation in society and exclusion for too many new arrivals. Housing segregation has its root causes in economic inequality and lack of social planning. Unfortunately, over the years it has also been strengthened by an inadequate regulatory framework for the settlement of new arrivals. Responsibility for people who receive asylum in Sweden must be better distributed in order not to create breeding grounds for segregation but instead to create good conditions for establishment in working and social life. By distributing the reception of new arrivals evenly between municipalities, we can reduce segregation, improve integration and make it easier for new arrivals to establish themselves better. The Housing Act, which has been in place since 2016, aimed to do just that by means of the principle that all municipalities should be involved and share responsibility for the reception of new arrivals. It is therefore very gratifying that the Swedish National Audit Office's review shows that the Housing Act has had an effect. The reception has become more balanced between municipalities, and fewer new arrivals are received in municipalities that have previously had a large asylum reception. Reception has also become faster and waiting times shorter. More new arrivals are received in municipalities with relatively low unemployment than in the past, resulting in higher employment and higher incomes in the long term. The Swedish National Audit Office's overall assessment is that the intentions of the reform have been achieved. At the same time, they point out that the Migration Agency has not always been able to meet its obligation under the Convention to take into account the best interests of the child, as there have been cases where children are connected to a municipality that has zero in the local government or that has already fulfilled its local government number. The Swedish National Audit Office therefore recommends that the Government make it possible for the Finnish Immigration Service to be able to assign in these cases in addition to the municipal numbers. The Convention on the Rights of the Child has been Swedish law since 1 January 2020, and it is of the utmost importance that the best interests of the child are always taken into account in government decisions. I assume that the Government will immediately come back to how they intend to address the problems raised by the Swedish National Audit Office. Madam President, I would like As I said, it is gratifying that the residence law has led to a real change. Today, however, the law does not cover persons who have arranged their own accommodation during the period of asylum. The Environmental Party wants to extend the Housing Act so that all new arrivals receive a municipal instruction after the granting of a residence permit, regardless of whether they have lived in the Finnish Immigration Service's accommodation or arranged their own accommodation. For the individual, it would be an important opportunity to get help with an orderly housing. For society, this means that we can have a more even distribution of reception and increased opportunities to counteract housing segregation. Another problem with the law, as the National Audit Office also notes, is that it does not contain any provisions on how long the municipality of instruction is responsible for the settlement of new arrivals. The municipalities have therefore interpreted the responsibility of the Housing Act in different ways. We know that long-term housing facilitates establishment. The Housing Act therefore needs to be tightened up so that the municipalities' responsibility to arrange permanent housing is clarified. It is not reasonable for newly arrived families with children who have had an orderly accommodation to be placed in homelessness after a couple of years in Sweden. Some municipalities have also made the terrible interpretation that if the housing offered is designed at a sufficiently low level, the people affected will go to other municipalities. It contains a nasty view of people and their rights. It is the very opposite of offering people good opportunities to start a good life in Sweden. This underlines the need to clarify the obligations of municipalities with regard to the residence of new arrivals. Madam President, I would like The Green Party also wants to make efforts in other areas to break the segregation of residents and create greater opportunities for cohesion and interfaces between people of different backgrounds. By strengthening the housing responsibility of municipalities and introducing legal requirements for all municipalities to take social sustainability into account in their master plan, we can get a more mixed settlement with a variety of housing in all areas. Having said that, I am in favour of the committee's proposal.
i-6otes65B613ApVWSo2V1NE	Madam President, I would like The Swedish model is based on the fact that everyone who can work does. For us Social Democrats, the line of work is not against security. We have to have both. The work line is important because that is how we build our country strong. We do so through work, which is the basis of all value. For the Social Democracy, security is also important and society is there when life takes a new turn so that the unemployed do not also become poor. A well-functioning unemployment insurance is one of the most important pillars of an equal society. It is also good for the Swedish economy that people are covered by unemployment unemployment insurance because it maintains household consumption and thus demand. Sweden is today a welfare country with extensive security systems. But that has not always been the case. Sweden has been a very poor country where workers died as flies in the workplace and where health care, school and decent housing were only for a few privileged. It was when the workers organized themselves and began to negotiate better conditions that this began to improve. Unemployment funds are one of the results of decades of trade union struggle. Today it is a matter of course for most employees to be a member of an unemployment fund. One of Minister for Finance Anders Borg's first measures after the change of power in 2006 was to reduce the unemployment fund. The level of compensation was reduced, it became more difficult to qualify and the right to deduct was abolished. In addition, the a-cassage levy was more clearly linked to the unemployment rate in each cashier with an unemployment rate. On average, the a-cassage fee was increased by SEK 100 - 350. But industrial workers received a sixfold fee. It led to a mass exodus from the unemployment fund. From 2006 to 2008, the a-cassors lost 425,000 members. But even the unions lost members as the degree of organization also declined. The biggest problem was with hotel and restaurant workers, and this was just when the financial crisis struck. The deterioration of the unemployment fund was also part of the wage-repression policy. A 10 percentage points reduction in the rate of accession to funds led to a fall in wages of between 1 and 5 per cent. The Institute for Labour Market and Education Policy Evaluation, IFAU, has written this in a research report. Anders Borg was forced to back down the band and take back some of his deterioration during the financial crisis. But much of the damage remained. Madam President, I would like In a changing world where crises relieve each other, stability and security are particularly important, and then it really matters who governs. Under the impression of the covid-19 crisis, the S-led government quickly introduced temporary measures in the form of more generous rules for short-term work and higher remuneration ceilings in the unemployment fund, while making it easier to qualify. But we Social Democrats are not content with this. We want to continue to improve the unemployment fund. That is why, during our term of office, we have put forward proposals to make it cheaper to be in the unemployment fund and to reduce the number of days spent in unemployment insurance. We have strengthened the unemployment fund, increased the remuneration and improved the conditions so that more part-time and hourly employees are covered. And we are now going to choose that more people should receive compensation equal to 80 percent of the previous salary in order for everyone to have stable financial conditions in the event of unemployment, regardless of whether you are a nurse or an engineer. Today we are debating the issue of tax reduction for unemployment fund contributions. This is a further strengthening that we want to do, that is to say a 25% reduction in the contribution to unemployment funds. It is in society's interest to make it easier for more people to join the unemployment fund. But it is not the first time that we have tabled this proposal. We have carried out tax reductions for contributions to the unemployment fund several times before. Each time the right has removed it as soon as you have been able to. Reinfeldt did it. The last time it was Kristersson, Busch and Åkesson who did it with the budget that they got through in 2018. When we are debating this extremely important issue today, I can also note that none of them have signed up for this debate. The right is simply not interested in discussing this. You don't want to strengthen the unemployment fund. On the contrary, the right is talking so much about the work line and contributions. But unemployment is not a contribution. The unemployment fund is something that employees have worked together themselves through hard work as an insurance policy if they become unemployed. For us, there is no contradiction between the work line and security to keep Sweden together. And Sweden can do much better than sink down to the level that you put these things against each other. For us Social Democrats, the same slogan that we have always stood for is true: Do your duty, and demand your right! I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report.
i-GUQtBZtUo3d8TvQZRJHTaF	Madam President, I would like Today we are in this House debating the report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights on Violent crime and crime victims. It is a report with some 220 requests from the general period of exercise that focuses on violent crimes, where men's violence against women is in focus, honour-related violence and repression, a ban on contact, support for victims of crime, young victims of crime and more. These are 220 claims which demonstrate the importance of these issues and which condemn violent crimes and seek to strengthen the protection and rights of victims. This is good because more and more people need to get involved in these issues. But there are also 220 claims that more needs to be done when it comes, above all, to violence against women. As a social democrat, I am therefore proud that our government is so clearly pointing out two priority areas of criminal policy in particular: gang crime and men's violence against women. Madam President, I would like Over the last 20 years, more than 300 women have been killed by their men. On average, it's more than one woman a month. In addition, 2022 is a dark year, when we are already in figures in May we normally see in a year. Unfortunately, the debate and media coverage of these issues is far too small. Although the report concerns many important areas, I will concentrate above all on precisely men's violence against women, for every minute and second I can use to highlight these important issues is valuable. If the debate today can somehow break the silence, it is an opportunity that needs to be taken. Violence against women, for us Social Democrats, is the ultimate expression of inequality between men and women and a serious problem. Thus, it is of course also of great importance to increase equality in society in order to meet the violence. That men's violence against women must stop is therefore one of Sweden's gender equality policy objectives, as well as one of our government's top priorities. The starting point is clear: Women should have the same opportunities as men, the right to their own work and livelihood, and the power over their own lives. Madam President, I would like There are many different types of violence, and far from all the violence leaves marks that are visible. In the sentence of Per Isdal by force, you can read the following: are any action directed against another person who harms, pains, scares or violates, causes the person to do something against his will or to refrain from doing anything the person wants to do. ..................................................... Violence is thus expressed in many different ways. Among other things, it can be physical, psychological, economic, social or sexual. And believe me, whatever expression, it hurts and leaves wounds that take time to heal. Halting men's violence against women requires increased and effective prevention of violence. It is a work that we must do together and which represents a responsibility for many different actors in society. Prevention is therefore the first objective of the Government's national strategy to combat and prevent men's violence against women. The Social Democratic Government is actively working to change the perspective of how we view and how we work with men's violence against women, from focus on support and protection to focus on preventive work. Historically, society's efforts have focused primarily on the consequences rather than on prevention. It is a perspective that means that we have focused on the crimes rather than on the causes of the crimes. Let me be clear: of course we shall protect all the women who need protection, and always we shall be hard on the men who commit these vile crimes. Of course, the goal must be to ensure that no woman ever finds herself in this situation and that no man ever again considers himself entitled to violence. On a fundamental level, it is about challenging ideas of power and masculinity that justify violence and challenging the norms that restrict women's and girls' self-determination. Perhaps one of the most effective ways to work preventively and prevent the practice and repetition of violence is a broader commitment of men and boys. Men and boys must take greater responsibility to settle with norms that justify violence, the purchase of sexual services, sexual harassment, violations, honour repression, and more. This also applies to other restrictions on women's and girls' room for manoeuvre and life choices. Among Sweden's young men aged 16 – 24, 20 per cent believe that gender equality has gone too far – 20 per cent! Take that figure in and then think about why preventive work is so important. Men's and boys' responsibilities in this area must be strengthened through targeted efforts, while at the same time we must politically extend the toolbox in order to overcome both the crimes and the causes of the crimes. Madam President, I would like During the last parliamentary term, the government developed a national strategy to prevent and combat violence against women by men. This strategy lays the foundations for the government's work on many different levels. The government has therefore increased state subsidies to combat men's violence against women. We have tightened the penalties for violence and other violations in close relationships. We have developed long-term efforts to combat honour-related violence and oppression. We have made sure that women's shelters and crime victims' organisations now have more money than ever before, and we have tightened the penalties for gross rape and gross rape of children. These are some things we've done. Last year we also screwed up this work through an action programme to prevent and combat men's violence against women. It is an action programme with 99 measures to prevent violence, which provides stronger protection and support for women and children who are victims of violence, who effectively combat crime and who improve knowledge and methods of men's violence against women. Combating violence requires considerable efforts from several actors, such as police, school, social services, women's shelters and health care. The crimes must be investigated, the perpetrators must be punished and the vulnerable women obviously need help and support to return to a life without fear. Exposed women should receive the support and help they need from society, but, once again: the priority must be that no woman should ever find herself in that situation. For our feminist government, the issue of preventing and combating men's violence against women will always be a high priority. The violence must be removed, the oppression of honour must be removed, and all women must be able to live their lives in freedom and security. Finally, Madam President, I would like to say a few words about crimes against children, which is also a large part of the report. Sweden is and must be a leading country in the work to prevent and combat violence against children. Although much has been done to ensure the child's right to protection against all forms of violence and abuse, many children are still exposed, and the number of darkness is high. This is something we Social Democrats will never accept. The fact that children are forced to grow up with violence and abuse is unacceptable to me as a social democrat, mother and teacher, and it should be treated with the same strength and effort as men's violence against women and gang crime. That is why I am grateful that the government has appointed a special investigator who will submit a proposal by 31 December of this year for a national strategy to prevent and combat violence against children, including honour-related violence and repression. I and a lot of people with me are looking forward to this investigation. With this investigation going on, Madam President, I would like to conclude by calling for the approval of reservation 39.
i-VAw9LL7uS5rTuJrnrwZMTx	Madam President, I would like Instead of protecting the victims of crime, Swedish left-wing liberals have for a long time put in a system to feel sorry for criminals. Crime is explained in terms of poverty and exclusion, and the criminal justice system is characterised by low penalties, penalties and parole. Crime is increasing, and the fear of being subjected to crime is affecting more and more people in society. According to Brå's Safety Survey, 20 per cent of the population reported that they were victims of crime in 2020. Nearly 50 percent of women were worried about sexual offences, and 33 percent of women often choose another route because of fear of being subjected to crime. Madam President, I would like Even if prosecutors insist on expulsion, convicted offenders often escape expulsion on the grounds of humanitarian reasons or that the offender has a strong connection with Sweden. But it is not criminals who should be protected, but those who are victims of crime. Anyone who does not understand this not only betrays the victim and its relatives, but also betrays all those people who are at risk of becoming the next victim. The fact that victims in the streets and squares are in danger of facing the hit and fired shortly after the act of violence has been committed is unacceptable. Not to side with the victims is to put the concern for criminals at the heart of the concept of justice. That is wrong and something that the Swedish Democrats will never agree to. Madam President, I would like Men and women should have the same opportunities and rights and thus have the same right to a safe life. But despite the fact that Sweden tops the lists of the world's most equal countries, men's violence against women continues to be a reality in Sweden in 2022. Every year about 15 women are killed by men they have had or have a relationship with. But in 2021, 24 women were murdered. At the end of April this year, 3 women were killed within a week, and 12 women have been murdered in the first quarter of this year. The trend is very worrying. Despite all the efforts, and despite the fact that the so-called feminist government often talks about women's vulnerability and about gender equality, we see no improvement. The obvious conclusion is that what has been done so far is not enough. Violence and violations in close relationships are a growing problem. The slowness of adapting criminal law to the needs of reality is one of the great failures of the left-wing liberals. Violence against women creates insecurity for the female population, which in turn leads to unacceptable restrictions on women's rights and freedoms. Violence against women is a gender equality problem that must be taken very seriously. Not infrequently, the threat is known from the past, and the man may also have committed similar crimes against other women. Many violent women seek care in close connection with the practice of violence, and many of the women murdered by relatives have been in contact with police, social services or health care prior to the murder. Nevertheless, the murder has not been prevented. Women who have broken out of a relationship testify that it has been their responsibility to change their name, move and acquire protected identity in order to get away from a person that the rule of law cannot handle. There is a betrayal of this which is unacceptable from start to finish. When a woman is murdered in this way, society should find out as thoroughly as possible why something must not happen anyway. The Swedish Democrats want to set up an accident commission every time a woman is killed by a loved one. The purpose of an accident commission is to carefully investigate and identify causes and events that have led to the murder and to identify any deficiencies in, for example, the exercise of authority. The evidence collected can also help prevent future similar deaths and facilitate crime prevention. Madam President, I would like Some improvements have been made to the ban on contact, but that is not enough. Further steps need to be taken. Today, it is far too difficult for vulnerable women to have applications for a restraining order granted against men who are at risk of exposing them to violence. Today, a large proportion of those who apply for a restraining order are rejected. Contact bans have an important signal value, which is lost when a large part of the applications do not go through. In addition, there are geographical differences in the number of applications granted. Depending on where an application is submitted, the risk of rejection may be doubled and more so. The outcome of an application for a restraining order shall not depend on the part of the country in which the application is made. The requirements for the granting of a restraining order need to be reduced and there needs to be uniform application throughout the country. Madam President, I would like Today, serious crime consumes a great deal of resources from other police activities. Politics has abdicated, and as a result, the police are forced to reduce the number of serious crimes. Ordinary citizens are forced to face a daily life where violence has normalised. The fact that the police refer to the fact that there are much more serious crimes that require their attention is particularly serious. These shortcomings in the legal system mean that bicycle thefts, frauds, IDs and much more are never investigated. Day-to-day crime becomes like a wet, heavy blanket over the population – something to expect, simply. But even if the crime appears to be small, the consequences for the victim may be extremely serious. The person who has been the victim of a burglary in his home knows that it is a huge violation of the personal sphere. And without any possibility of redress, the only reason for a private person to file a police report is to be able to get compensation from his insurance company. An investigation that is closed on the grounds that crime cannot be justified reinforces the feeling of insecurity. It reinforces the feeling of mistrust. In the long term, it undermines confidence in the whole legal system. We cannot and should not have it that way in a country like Sweden. I request the approval of reservation 22.
i-5zFKCihncp2WGCbjGa2ee2	Madam President, I would like As mentioned earlier, it is a very comprehensive, substantive and creative report presented by the Committee on Justice, with a great deal of claims based on a great many ideas from the general period of exercise. Of course, we in the Left Party are committed to both our motion requests and our reservations. However, I choose to apply only for reservation number 9, to which I shall return. The main theme of the report is gender-related violence, men's violence in various forms against women and children. The current gender power regime means that violence is part of structures of male subordination and female subordination. Violence is the ultimate expression of this power system. Violence is structural. It is true that it is carried out by individuals who need to take responsibility – it is not the structures that beat or rape – but it is the structures that enable the abuse and that also affect how society, including the judiciary, treats both victims and perpetrators. All too often, greater loyalty is shown to the aggressor, the aggressor, than to the victim – right into the courtrooms. As research shows, it also leaves a mark on the judges. It may not be proposed, but it is understandable that the man has lived in a difficult relationship, for example, or even that the child has been very difficult. Why, then, have we not gone further with these questions? Lots of research and experiences from reality testify to and describe both violence and victims' different reactions. It's about the violence in our midst. Few people reflect on that very thing. It is a paradox: it is so common and at the same time so questioned and mute. The women's shelters have been acting for decades. The spanish woman survey at the beginning of our century showed that almost every other woman had experienced violence from men. The picture was reinforced in NCK's report on violence and health from 2014. More than half had experienced serious violence from men there. Soon we will have a new survey carried out by Roks in collaboration with Örebro University – the same dramatic figures or worse. Women don't have free zones. So did we during the metoo. As if this were not enough, it is also almost a woman who every three weeks is killed by a man she has or has had a relationship with. Sometimes the numbers are worse than that, but rarely better. What does this mean? Yes, that means that in the midst of us we have very many women with experiences of violence. We don't know how many men are perpetrators. Hopefully there aren't every other one, but there are probably still a lot if these numbers are to be possible. This, in turn, means that many still live in violence or have experience of violence. And they don't want to raise these issues no matter what workplace they are at or what project they are expected to be part of. This also creates a resistance to dealing with this that is so common and so serious. Women can experience resistance because it's too painful, and men probably don't want to bring their responsibilities up to date. Some act the other way around. We have the example of Captain Dress – the chief of police who was an equal opportunity advocate and at the same time was an perpetrator, for which he was later convicted. This may then mean down-priorities because of active passive resistance to further processing of the issues. I want us to have those experiences with us too. For what can we, as legislators, do? Yes, we can get new laws, update the issues, ventilate them and show that they are important and must be up to debate. With the help of legislation, we can try to make the structures more visible and, at least, help to upset them. But we need to work much harder both on how we treat victims and respect their stories and, of course, on how we provide protection. Many, I would like to highlight, of those who are victims of crime do not want more punishment without placing responsibility and that more of them can say: Yes, it was not prosecution or conviction, but the people I met in the judicial system did everything they could – I felt – although it did not reach the desired conclusions. I also want us to carry that with us. But we must work to strengthen protection, and we must also, if possible, act preventively. Unfortunately, there are boring research results there. It is very difficult to act preventively on these issues. But if we start early, in school and so on, it may be possible to influence future generations. I also think we have a paradox when we talk about equality. Many people perceive that the more equality we get, the less violence we get. But we must also realise that many men are being provoked tremendously by equal women or by a woman who has a higher rank, salary or education than they have. This is also a game where we must not be naive. Equal, strong women challenge this destructive masculinity. We have to work on different levels there, but we also have to deal with the huge cost of violence. When it comes to what it costs in money, EU gender equality organisations have calculated that we in Sweden were charged with a cost of EUR 6.6 billion in 2019 for gender-related violence against women. We can see many further examples of this opposition that I described. Let me give you an example. In the reports that we have read now, there are insights into how the police work with preliminary investigations and taking of evidence. It says, among other things, about the importance of early proof-proofing – I think no one questions it – that steps have been taken during the year. This is reported by the police in their annual report for 2020 on video documentation of plaintiffs, which is one of the most important evidence securing methods. I agree that that's very important, but it's not news. It was something that was launched as important when the women's peace report came in 1995, and it was called the Eslöv model. It is extremely slow, and this inertia must be prevented. I really want to lift all the reservations from the Left Party and even more, because we really have not done enough, especially if we want to call ourselves a feminist and equal country or feminist politician. But I would like to point out that we should have an emergency aid line, with number 115, where women can call in emergency situations and get help quickly. We want from the Left Party with it capture the crisis situation. At the same time, we want local security teams that can be involved in supporting the woman after she has dared to act on the violence. We know that that period is very important and very dangerous– it can even be fatal.
i-NNXkUwyGNvbY76n4jW4K3y	Madam President, I would like We are now debating the report of the Committee on Justice on violent crime and victims of crime. As in many other areas, a majority in the committee feels that the work of the government is not enough. This is demonstrated by the six announcements given in the committee's discussion. Justice is about the right action in relation to our fellow human beings. Justice is a fundamental value which, in a community of society, requires a balance between the interests, rights and obligations of all people. This balance of justice is disturbed when a person commits a crime and does wrong. It is then the public's task to do justice and to ensure the balance as far as possible. There is an essential difference between being a victim of crime and being affected by, for example, an accident or a natural disaster. The victim is entitled to redress. It is obtained, among other things, by the perpetrator being convicted, taking his punishment and atoning for his crime. Society will restore justice when injustice has been committed. The sentence serves several purposes: to restore the victim, to keep the perpetrators from new crimes, to encourage repentance, to deter others from similar acts and to protect society. It should also be ensured as far as possible that the perpetrator makes good the victim's financial loss. The whole judicial system must be permeated by a clear victim perspective in which the attention of victims is increased. This means a respectful and correct response from the actors who come into contact with the victim and redress by the judiciary doing its utmost to clarify the debt issue, to impose fair penalties and to pay compensation. However, the treatment of victims of crime is still inadequate in several respects. The victim faces questioning, feels stuck in bureaucracy and does not always get the right support. Anyone who has been awarded damages in court cannot count on having the amount paid, but has to pursue the matter himself. We Christian Democrats advocate a model in which the state pays damages directly to the victim after judgment, and then the state in turn can claim the money from the perpetrator. This protects the victim and shortens the time to pay damages. Madam President, I would like The non-profit organisations play a major role in preventing violence, helping victims of crime and supporting people who want to leave crime or abuse. Today there are many active crime victims' shelters in the country. State financial support for local non-profit victim support activities should be long-term and not project-based. Victim Support Finland works with non-profit resources and scarce funds. The Christian Democrats want to strengthen this work. Madam President, I would like The elderly in Sweden are particularly vulnerable to fraud. Often it is about invoice and card fraud. The situation is serious, and many older people are hit very hard. It is not uncommon for them to feel anxiety afterwards in their own home, about going out or about such a simple thing as the phone ringing. Others are ashamed that they have been deceived. The Christian Democrats want to invest more in the police and tighten the penalties for crimes against the elderly. The aggravating circumstances need to be reviewed. We also need to gain a deeper understanding of the vulnerability of older people to crime and to strengthen the preparedness of older people through information measures. So we believe that the risk of being affected can be reduced. The elderly who are victims of crime also need help and support. Targeted support and victim support for the elderly should be available in all parts of our country. Measures are needed to increase security. There is also a need for a change of valuation in favour of the good values that once built the country strong. Everyone should be able to feel safe. Freedom must not be restricted by the fear of being subjected to crime, and older people must be treated with both dignity and respect. I am therefore pleased that the majority of the committee supports an announcement on crimes against the elderly. Sweden needs to do more to face this type of crime so that our elderly can feel more secure and avoid being exploited by ruthless criminals. Madam President, I would like Children who have been subjected to violence or sexual abuse by a loved one or who have witnessed such a thing are at a tremendous disadvantage. Society must be better at listening to the signals of children who are in bad shape and ready to act. Cooperation between the judiciary, healthcare and social services must work so that the vulnerable child does not end up between the chairs. Therefore, children's houses are something that should be available throughout the country. Barnahus is today located in many places in the country, but they work differently well. This applies, in particular, to the interpretation of the confidentiality legislation of the authorities. To overcome this, a review of the confidentiality legislation must be carried out to ensure that the various parties in the children's houses can cooperate fully for the sake of the children. The committee also proposes that an announcement be made to the government that work on children's houses should be similar and extended throughout our country. Madam President, I would like As many have mentioned in previous speeches, many women and children are subjected to violence. Thousands of women and children seek shelter on the country's women's shelters. Every ten children are forced to experience their father's violence against their mother, and every three weeks a woman is killed by a man she has had a relationship with. The right to physical integrity and a life without violence and oppression should be self-evident. But for many women, the reality is different. It is time to put a zero vision into practice of violence in close relationships. Cooperation between authorities and stakeholders needs to be improved and deepened, and management needs to be more efficient. More efforts and more follow-up are needed and long-term support is being developed. It is therefore important that issues of violence are actively raised by healthcare, dental care, preschool, school, social services and law enforcement authorities to detect and help victims out of the violence. With that, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 1. Madam President, I would like Otherwise, it is important for the government to act on other announcements, to meet developments in violent crime and to increase the security and redress of victims. We must respond to and limit the crimes of violence in our country. And we must highlight the victim of crime in terms of both treatment and protection and redress. The six announcements that we are debating today show that a majority in the Swedish Parliament wants to go beyond what is being done today. It is time for the government to act. We support the announcements proposed by the committee and the Christian Democrats' motions and reservations. But, as I said, I only ask for reservation 1.
i-KLnnhMX2s4rkfySFjoX9aa	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating violent crimes and victims of crime. Behind the numbers in the statistics is an enormous suffering. Every three weeks, a woman is murdered by a man. Now three women are suspected to have been murdered for a week. The death investigations of the National Board of Health and Welfare are inadequate. We must find the answer to why the responsible authorities do not do what they are obliged to do. It takes an accident commission after every death. Madam President, I would like A boy whose mother was murdered asks Gud for a staircase so he can come up to his mother. A girl is forced to associate with her father, who has murdered her mother, even though she does not want to; she finds it unpleasant to meet her father. This is shown in Aftonbladet's report on women who have been murdered in the 21st century and how their children have been affected. For 200,000 children in Sweden, the home, which is supposed to be a safe place, has turned into a crime scene. Violence against children, men's violence against women, young guys' violence against young girls, honor-related violence and oppression, violence in same-sex relationships and sexual crime are serious crime. Suffering is great, and the victims are many. In preventive work, it is important to focus on gender equality. However, once violence is a fact, we must clearly point out that it is serious crime. These are crimes that have far-reaching consequences for the victims. Preventive work is crucial. Liberals demand clarification of preventive measures through legislation. Work must start early in preschool by challenging stereotypical gender roles and involving the reality of all children and young people in the work. Efforts must also be directed at parents. It should be an increased focus on parents' responsibilities and responsibilities. Today there is an absurd parenting right. When the parenting capacity is not sufficient, children must be cared for. Madam President, I would like There's a rape every hour, every 24 hours, every year. I get pissed off when I read about 15-year-olds who have been subjected to sexual abuse against payment. It is incomprehensible that it is described as a suction ejaculation. Children can never be bought or sold. Liberals believe that the law should be changed. It's rape of children up to the age of 18. It is more common for children to have been exposed to four sex offences online than not to have been the victim of any crime. For 13-year-olds, it's normalized. They think it's okay for grown men to send requests for nude pictures of the child. It is abuse that has become part of so many children's everyday lives. There are virtually no adults who understand or talk about children's reality and vulnerability. Children are alone in their situation, but they are wise and have their own strategies to block people who send dickpicks and report accounts that spread pictures of them naked. The relativisation of online sexual exploitation must be stopped. The legislation needs to be clarified. It's about documented sexual abuse of children. The concept of child pornography is terrible. There is a need to increase awareness that online crime is a serious abuse that can lead its own life indefinitely. Legislation must keep pace with the digital development that is taking place. Madam President, I would like Every fourth girl between the ages of 16 and 23 has been subjected to young guys' violence. Society needs to get its eyes open because guys' violence against girls is at least as serious as men's violence against women. Priority must be given to getting young guys to stop practicing violence against girls. The knowledge that young girls are so exposed needs to be increased, and support and protection needs to be improved. So many children and young people who grow up in a culture of honor are punished when they want access to their fundamental rights and freedoms. They are subjected to violence, forced into marriage, genital mutilation, taken out of the country and subjected to extremes: honor killings. It is children and young people who grow up in families where infatuation and love are seen as the greatest threat to the family's honor. It is children and young people who have experienced an enormous betrayal on the part of the majority society. No one cared about their vulnerability in the parallel society that has emerged in Sweden. It is a society that views, treats and treats children with different standards, an adult world that adapts to family demands rather than upholding the principle of the equal value of all children. The ability of the judiciary to detect and investigate violent crimes must be increased. There is a need for broad knowledge of the reality of the victims as well as of how violence affects the victims. But it should be a special focus on children. It is important to keep the requirement for investigation times. In addition, in order to increase the ability to investigate the crimes, in-depth expertise is required on specific units within the police and the Prosecutor's Office. Knowledge must also be increased at the National Board of Justice and at the Board of Appeals. This is how we increase the confidence of the vulnerable in the justice system. Support from management and clear allocation of resources are also needed for the work to be long-term. This is how we create the conditions for more perpetrators to be convicted and victims to receive the treatment they are entitled to and need. Being forced to witness crimes of violence within the family is devastating for a child. The Liberals, Madam President, have pushed for the introduction of a child peace crime, but now we need to take further action. The child peace crime should also include those children who have not been involved in the violence but who have experienced the consequences of the violence, children seeking protection and children hiding in order to escape the violence. Violence must also have consequences in terms of custody, housing and social relations. The parent who exercises violence against someone in the family cannot give his child a safe and confident childhood. I have met children who put their finger on a central question: You understood that it was dangerous for Mom to live with Dad, but you did not understand how scared I was to be forced to live alone with him. That as a mother does not know if the children will continue to be forced to hang out or live with the father who practises the violence affects whether the mother should dare to take the step and leave the violent father or not. Madam President, I would like Politics must take responsibility for the children to be protected from the father who beats. Violent women must feel that we understand them and are on their side. The situation of children and women living with protected personal data also needs to be investigated. The perpetrators of violence should be judged, and the life space of the perpetrator should be limited. It should not be like today when violent women and children are forced to live hidden and forgotten. Contact ban is about giving the victim a protected zone. That zone is far too small today. Liberals want a specifically extended ban on contact to be issued in more cases and to be able to apply to a whole municipality or several municipalities. The demarcation of the protected area must of course not follow the municipal boundaries but be assessed on the basis of the individual case and the threat picture. The right of women and children to a protected zone must take precedence over the freedom of movement of the offender. The knowledge of older people who are victims of violence is also neglected. But violence is constantly present. The elderly are subjected to violence by partners, adult children but also employees in healthcare. The silence is great, and so is the shame. We must see, realise and act against all violence. It is worth any price to see a blacked-out look brighten up again, see a smile lit up in the one who seemed to have forgotten to smile, see confidence awaken again in the one who no longer believed in anything or anyone. I think that many people who have been involved in the fight against violence against children, men's violence against women, young guys' violence against young girls, honor-related violence and oppression, violence in same-sex relationships and sexual crimes can recognize themselves in Dom Hélder Câmara's poem, about those who have seen eyes gone out. It is these eyes that we are obliged to rekindle through a clear policy that takes a stand for the right of all those who are vulnerable to security and freedom. A life free from all forms of violence and oppression is a matter of rights for all. But for three women, life went out for just one week. We in the Liberals support all our reservations, but I call for the approval of reservation 35. I would also like to thank Anna Wallentheim, who mentioned the national strategy against violence against children. I fought for a year and a half to get Morgan Johansson to agree to implement it. I fully agree with the honourable Member that when politics asks for answers on how to solve problems, we will have municipalities that are forced to take much better action.
i-MhfyiYTv4MhfCwjBDFzVbE	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank you for a committed speech. Very much of what Juno Blom brings up, I agree. I would like to problematise a few things a little bit further where I think that society is failing twice and is even creating new arenas that allow for violence. It's a matter of custody and visitation. These questions are not about the safety of either the woman or the child, but about them together. A child cannot be safe if the mother is at risk of violence, and a mother cannot feel safe if the child is at risk of violence or abuse. I think we all agree on that. But how are we going to get to the paradox of pushing forward issues that protect women but do not see how children's issues are adapted to that? I think this is a structural betrayal, and I hope that there will be changes in this. I also want to capture what you're saying about the child peace crime. The Left Party wanted us to have fully followed New Zealand's good example so that it is not just about the child seeing or hearing violence but also the situations where the child was at risk of seeing or hearing it. We want to continue to pursue this issue. How do the Liberals view this?
i-CXn9DmL9LrgpzyP4AAT4wb	Madam President, I would like We have a proposal in the report on the last question put by Mr Nordborg. We believe exactly what I mentioned in my speech, namely that the child peace crime must embrace and understand what the reality is for children. It may be siblings who hide a small sibling because you do not want little brother or sister to have to hear. It may also be that the children sleep and that a terrible violence occurs during the night so that they wake up and see a kitchen that is broken and a distressed and exposed mother. It is important for us in politics to recognise that children react differently in the situations that arise. Some children intervene and do everything they can to stop it. Others naturally sit in a closet or sleep and wake up to a terrible vulnerability. Liberals will assist the changes that might be made in this House to protect children. In terms of custody, housing and association, we in the Liberals believe that when someone is placed at a women's shelter in anticipation of an investigation, they should be able to take interim custody decisions. We know, of course, that during that particular period, the risk factor is significantly higher for the victim of violence and also in cases linked to death investigations. An investigation may, of course, conclude that things have not happened as was initially thought. However, if violence turns out to have occurred, it must affect custody, housing, and association. We fully agree with that.
i-QQKfyyVyP78cyjy4zwxrHw	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Juno Blom, for your answers! I like your idea of interim custody. This would protect mothers and children in sheltered housing, especially in the crisis situation they are in. Let us therefore hope that it could be possible or, at least, that we stop the decisions on custody and access that are now so much in favor of fathers. Not only is parental law strong, but paternity law is often extremely strong. One sometimes trusts more a man who can act neatly in court or before social services than a woman who, in a crisis situation, may not be quite as strong in her actions. I very much hope that we can slow this down and that we will end the discussion that joint custody is always best for the children. I found what was said in the report on the crime of child peace difficult to understand. You wanted to extend the child peace crime, including this by seeing and hearing. That's already included. But you may need to broaden it. Based on the experiences in New Zealand, we thought it was important to write and risk seeing and hearing. That brings in the examples that you, Mr Juno, have just mentioned. That would be smart. I think that an indifference thing could save in these situations so that it is still a child peace crime if a father or stepfather attacks mother while the children are at home. But legally, it's gonna be finer, and I don't think the public thinks like this.
i-3MvjXZBwsh9gFK19R8x8B1	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Nordborg. When the proposal came, it was clear that there was no direct connection. Something that I pushed on before the bill went away was that the concept of direct connection was removed. Nevertheless, the discussions that took place made it clear that it will not automatically cover those children who may have hidden themselves in a cellar and neither heard nor seen anything of the violence but where the violence is constantly present. This could be clarified in the preparatory work. Could this be done further, I am the first to assist in strengthening the conditions for the benefit of children. Generally speaking, when it comes to custody issues, it is obviously best for all children to have two caring guardians regardless of gender. But we must also have the courage to see and realise much more clearly that when a guardian has chosen to use violence against others in the family, he has also rejected the ability to give his children security and trust. In so many cases that I have been involved in, one places a great responsibility on the children who are in an extremely vulnerable situation. The law speaks of being in a vulnerable position. One can realize every day of the week that a child who has lived with, experienced and even suffered violence is in such a situation. That children should have to prove so much to the adult world before they are believed while perpetrators do not have the reverse demand for proof at all, I think is a betrayal and something that we need to deal with.
i-AVmLwiCUJKF6L3GFxBMYwq	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 7. I intend to devote my speech today to violence and murder in close relationships. The majority of men's violence against women is committed by someone with whom the woman has or has had a close relationship. During 2021, 15 cases of fatal violence were found where victims and perpetrators had a relationship at the time of the crime or earlier. Recently, three women died in the space of a week where the police suspect murder. There are three suspected feminicides in a week. A quarter into 2022, as many as twelve women may have been murdered in Sweden by a person who has been close to them. We still don't know where it's going to end. But in the last few years, it's been like this. In 2017, ten women were killed by a man with whom they had a close relationship. In 2018, there were 22 women. In 2019 there were 16 women. In 2020 there were 13 women. In 2021 there were 15 women. In the last five years, a total of 76 women have been murdered by a man with whom they have had a close relationship. There are 76 lives that have ended far too soon and several children who have lost their mother. Athraa, 41 years old, was stabbed to death by her husband the day after she said she wanted a divorce. Their four young children witnessed the murder. Siri, 20 years old, was stabbed to death by his common-law spouse three weeks after giving birth to his first child. Sanije, 44 years old, was stabbed to death at the Travel Centre in Linköping by her ex-husband when she was on her way to a meeting with social services. She had nine children. These are some of the women who were murdered last year. Together they left behind 24 motherless children. There are 24 children whose mothers are no longer alive. Madam President, I would like In January this year, the National Board of Health and Welfare presented a report investigating 75 deaths of children and young people as a result of crime. The report highlights major shortcomings in society's safety net. Although victims and perpetrators have had extensive contacts with various social actors, they still did not receive the necessary support. The investigation has identified some thirty shortcomings. Some of them are that neither health care nor social services ask about violence even though a person may have told about a conflicted situation with a partner. The Moderates have several proposals to improve the situation of women exposed to violence. We want a new general rule to be introduced in confidentiality legislation so that authorities share information with each other. This is something that the National Board of Health and Welfare also points to. We want to criminalise controlling behaviour so that the psychological abuse suffered by many violent women can be stopped. We want a restraining order to be granted in more cases and for personal alarms and anklets to be up to date. We want women's abusers to receive higher penalties. Once they have served their sentence, they should be able to be sentenced to a stay ban. They shall be prohibited from returning to an area or to a municipality. It's time it was the offender and not the victim who moved.
i-2MafczWHoKT9WdDraCHECF	Madam President, I would like The legal system costs the state a large amount of money each year. Justice and legal certainty must also cost. But every squandered chandelier is a theft from the people. The central government's costs for the expenses financed by the grant for legal counsels have increased by SEK 660 million or 24 per cent during the period 2016–2020. The increase can mainly be explained by the increase in the number of cases in the courts. For example, the number of criminal cases decided in district courts has increased by 43 per cent during the same period. Another important reason, which explains about SEK 170 million of the total increase, is the annual enumeration of the hourly cost standard used to determine compensation to, among other things, public defenders and plaintiffs. Although the cost increase has a natural explanation, it is important to take measures to mitigate the development of costs and improve the control system. The government has for several years taken a number of measures to this end. Madam President, I would like In December 2020, the Government commissioned the National Court of Justice to carry out an analysis of the compensations for legal counsels during 2021 in comparison with developments from 2016 onwards. The Court of Justice was tasked with identifying and describing the payments and other measures that are particularly cost-effective in order to improve cost control. The task was also to propose various measures to increase the cost control of legal counsels. The Swedish National Audit Office's observations and recommendations are in line with the ongoing work of the Swedish National Courts Authority. Some measures will be taken by the National Court of Justice to continue working independently. Some action proposals are handled by the government for possible implementation. The Government intends to take a decision on what additional measures should be taken to mitigate the development of costs and improve the control system based on the final report of the National Court of Justice. Madam President, I would like The Government also decided in October 2021 on an amendment to the regulation, which means that prosecutors and other pre-trial investigators will be given a greater opinion on compensation claims in criminal cases where prosecutions have not been brought. The investigator shall always be heard in such so-called appointment cases in cases where the claim for compensation amounts to at least SEK 30 000 and otherwise if it is necessary to assess the merits of the claim. The purpose of the amendment is to improve cost control in the appointment objectives. As the Swedish National Audit Office points out, both the number of appointment targets and the expenditure in such cases have increased sharply in recent years. Madam President, I would like A fundamental problem is that the judicial representation's work has been carried out only during the preliminary investigation, which means that the Court has in principle no insight into the work. The amendment of the regulation means that an opinion from the investigator will be obtained in more cases. This will provide the Court with a better basis for assessing the merits of the claim for compensation. It improves cost control and can be expected to lead to a certain reduction in expenditure on the Legal Aids appropriation and more. The threshold for compulsory opinion has been set significantly lower than the limit of SEK 100 000 applicable in other criminal cases. Madam President, I would like The Chancellor of Justice, in accordance with the Government's proposal in the budget proposal for 2022, has been added SEK 2 million to give the Authority an increased opportunity to supervise the legal aid system and thereby contribute to strengthened control over the expenditure of legal counsels. The report "Faster prosecution" – a quick procedure in criminal matters proposes that the general courts, the Legal Aid Authority and the Legal Aid Board should have access to income data from the Tax Agency's tax database in order in certain cases to calculate or control the repayment obligation, fee or compensation, such as the legal aid fee and the repayment obligation in criminal matters for public defenders. For the courts, the proposal is deemed to save resources and time that would otherwise need to be used to further investigate individuals' financial circumstances. It is also estimated that the proposal will lead to more materially correct decisions and thus marginally increased revenues for compensation and fees. The constitutional amendments are proposed to enter into force on 1 January 2023. The report has been referred and the proposals are prepared in the Government Office. Madam President, I would like Finally, I welcome the measures taken by the government and intend to take and assume that the government continues to give priority to this issue. I also share the government's assessment that further consideration can be given to different types of investigation or authority assignments. Against this background, in my view, there is no reason for Parliament to make such an announcement on the revision of the entire framework for judicial assistance in criminal matters as proposed by the motionaries. With this agreement, I propose reservation l.
i-LdWS1GuBTx6ha2gdrHz3ux	Madam President, I would like I will also call for the approval of reservation 1, and I broadly agree with what previous speakers have said. When I read the lyrics, however, I have reacted to some things that I think would be exciting to be able to follow further. The point is that this is about compensation for both plaintiffs and defenders. I think in the Swedish National Audit Office's review I see a certain questioning of the plaintiffs, and I think it would be very wrong if we were to share these views. The plaintiff is an extremely important support for victims of crime on the issues that we debated here just now. The plaintiff does not have a purely legal role, but also acts as a social support to channel a person through a difficult time. The investigation has established, and I am pleased with this, the appointment of plaintiffs early in the proceedings. It should be extremely important and gratifying, and it should also strengthen legal certainty in general. It is noted that the so-called reform to restrict the right of plaintiffs in the Courts of Appeal has saved money. That's where I get more worried. In general, it should not be the case that it is not expected to need the assistance of plaintiffs in the courts of appeal. It is something that we have reacted to earlier in the Left Party too. If we then go to the defence side, we see that it has attracted some general attention that a defendant wants a very well-known lawyer and that this lawyer stands up, but then you change quickly. This may also be on the plaintiff side, but attention has been paid, above all, to public defenders. I know that the government and the Bar Association have gone in to curb this. After all, it will be cost-driven if one person first has to study for example a major investigation and then changes and someone else has to do a similar job. Such things I think we can find better control facilities for. On the other hand, I do not really believe that we can get control of what plaintiffs or defenders are doing in connection with long and large preliminary investigations. On some occasions you have a detention hearing and have the opportunity to assess time and so on, but how to prepare it and how to prepare the progress to a possible main hearing is very difficult to assess. This matter of the tariff rules, which relate to the time of the main hearing, is therefore of very limited importance. What you can be surprised about – as I myself have done when I have been in court – is that the court sometimes accepts only oral information regarding a person's income. This may be a matter of when day fines are to be imposed, and in this context it is a question of the perpetrator's statement about his income, which has a criminal significance. However, there are also cases where a person is allowed to declare an income in order to see if the person is liable for the costs of the defense. I think it would be a good point to keep looking at this. For the time being, however, I think it is important for us to be able to support reservation 1, and I call for it to be approved.
i-FUCTtnikYTFomkGJwebQ4K	Madam President, I would like The Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed the control of the courts and the National Court of Justice over the functioning of the compensation to public defenders and plaintiffs. It's an urgent review. Over the past ten years, costs have increased by 90%. The corresponding increase in costs is not seen in either the Swedish Prosecution Authority or the Swedish Courts. The increase in costs is in itself worth a review but becomes even more urgent when a number of cases of misbehaved lawyers have been discovered in recent years. It has been the case of lawyers who market themselves against network crises in a remarkable way, direct infringements of the rules, irregularities with costings and large so-called protrusions, when the court withdraws the lawyer's claim for compensation considerably. In this context, it should be mentioned that the Bar Association has carried out and is carrying out work to improve supervision and procedures, including by setting up a working group that has made a proposal on changes to the Code of Law, in the rules of good law and in the penalties for lawyers who misbehave their profession. This is a welcome review. The Swedish National Audit Office's review can be seen as a complement to the Swedish Bar Association's review, and we Christian Democrats welcome it. The audit carried out by the Swedish National Audit Office shows major shortcomings in the management of compensation. These deficiencies concern all five stages of the control model: control environment, risk analysis, control measures, information/communication and monitoring/monitoring. The Swedish National Audit Office describes the deficiencies as serious and the control as obsolete. This is an untenable order in the rule of law. It is also serious that the Government is waving away the Swedish National Audit Office's criticism, including by using another number of years to calculate the cost increase, and believes that changes and studies that started between 2014 and 2018 have addressed the problems. In that case, however, the Swedish National Audit Office's criticism would not have been so serious. The Swedish National Audit Office says that the entire compensation system should be reviewed, something that – we can see – the government can hardly say that it has done. Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats, like the Swedish National Audit Office, believe that it is high time to review the entire framework for compensation to legal assistants in criminal matters. The specific points pointed out by the Swedish National Audit Office, including the possibilities of extending the scope of the criminal law tax, should be included in the review. In addition, measures must be taken to correct the serious shortcomings in the court's handling of assistance compensation that the Swedish National Audit Office has highlighted. A new system of compensation claims should be put in place and designed in such a way that control and scrutiny are routinely carried out and that it is easy to detect cheating and double debiting. A large majority in the committee also supports these demands in a draft announcement to the government. Madam President, I would like We Christian Democrats see the need for further changes. We believe that the Court of Justice should introduce a central fee manager in order to have uniform and effective control over the expenditure of legal counsels. It is not appropriate for this to be dealt with by each individual district court. The system should of course be digitised. The central fee manager shall also develop guidelines that shall apply equally throughout the country. This is a variant of the Swedish National Audit Office's recommendation that the individual district courts should receive continuous feedback and guidelines to assess the merits of the claims. In the light of these considerations, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 2. Madam President, I would like We also believe that guidelines need to be developed for the prosecution authority's external control. The prosecutor shall give an opinion on a claim for compensation of SEK 100 000 or more, but may also comment on lower amounts. None of this is done in a uniform way, which is a major deficiency in external control. The role of the police as head of investigation also allows the prosecutor to have limited insight into the reasonableness of a cost assessment. Nor is it always the same prosecutor who has been the head of investigation who prosecutes. Several prosecutors are also involved in certain cases. It should therefore be considered whether all investigators in a case should give their opinion. Madam President, I would like This case shows that there is a need for better control and a regulatory framework for the compensation of legal assistants in criminal proceedings. Today's announcement shows that the government needs to act further on the review and recommendations of the Swedish National Audit Office. I would therefore like to conclude by saying that we naturally support the proposal for a declaration made in committee management and the reservations that we have in this report. But, as I said, I only ask for reservation 2.
i-AH8Bm6nm4QinoguWmVJgXu	Madam President, I would like For those who listen to the gallery, this debate may not be very amusing. It may also not sound as much as a debate– we go forward here and talk about what we think, and then we go and sit down. To make it a little more understandable, I can say that what we are discussing now are the costs of public counsels – lawyers, lawyers and plaintiffs representing the victims of trials. It is the state that pays the salaries of the public assistants with our tax money, and those costs have run out in recent years. That is what we are discussing here today. Over a ten-year period, expenditure on legal counsels has increased by nearly 90 per cent. Between 2016 and 2020, expenditure increased by 24 per cent. This compares with the fact that the expenditure of the public defenders at the moment exceeds that of the entire Prosecutor's Office. The defense's wages therefore cost us taxpayers more than we give the entire Prosecutor's Office in grants. These are two occupational groups that it is relevant to compare with each other. We also know that the media have recently looked at misdebitations – lawyers who charged double time and who are said to have been in two different places at the same time. It is also clear that convicted persons can easily escape liability only by stating orally that they have no income. This is therefore not subject to any further verification. The Swedish National Audit Office's review also shows that the district courts and the Swedish Courts Authority do not exercise adequate control over the handling of legal assistants in criminal proceedings. The internal control of the district courts over claims for compensation is not appropriate because there are no conditions for a thorough examination of the claims. The trial is carried out at the end of the hearing, and there is often no way to gain insight into what measures have been necessary for the legal assistants to take before the main hearing. The control stations and control functions that exist do not function poorly and do not fulfil the purpose of reviewing and generally affecting the claims for compensation in the manner required. In addition, the Court of Justice has not taken responsibility for the courts to be able to exercise more effective cost control. In the 1970s, the criminal justice rate was introduced as part of the State's cost control over compensation to public assistants. When it was introduced, it was anticipated that it would be exceeded in about 10% of the targets. Criminal justice is a kind of table-shaped compensation that is applied under certain conditions. In 2020, the criminal law rate was exceeded in 60% of cases for plaintiffs and 34% of cases for public defenders. In 2020, only 13% of the expenses of legal counsels were charged according to the criminal law rate, which is thus an instrument and a tool for having a cost control over the compensations. The Moderates believe that a solid cost control over all central government expenditure and appropriations is the basis for good government finances and management of taxpayers' money. No appropriations or areas of expenditure shall be left unchecked or allowed to run without action being taken and control withdrawn. In addition, state payment systems must always contain control mechanisms against fraud. The vast majority who receive state funds do not cheat. But any tax chandelier who, through cheating, goes to an unjust recipient is money that could have gone to a truly needy person. The attitude of the Moderates to this issue is both practical and principled. It is bad for Swedish taxpayers that the Social Democratic Government does not share the opinion of the Moderates. In the Government's letter in connection with the Swedish National Audit Office's review, it appears that the attitude of the Government and Social Democrats is lenient in relation to the apparent increase in costs. The matter is that in its review, the Swedish National Audit Office criticises the Government for not taking the initiative to curb the development of costs. According to the audit, the Government does not allow regular follow-up to the statutory controls. Since the presentation of the report on Justice, the government has taken only two initiatives on this issue. In addition to an ongoing assignment to the National Court of Justice to analyse the development of costs and the recently referred proposal on appointment cases, the Government has still not taken any initiatives to ensure that the internal control system is well-designed. The Moderates believe that it is important to change the legal framework for compensation to legal assistants in criminal matters. The regulatory framework needs to be modernised, and it needs to be examined whether the criminal law rate should be increased. The investigation should cover the specific points pointed out by the Swedish National Audit Office. In addition, a new system of claims for compensation should be introduced and designed in such a way as to ensure that control and scrutiny are routinely carried out and that fraud is easily detected. It is therefore very good that the committee and a majority in Parliament also think that we should carry out such a complete overhaul of this system in order to put an end to the apparent cost development that we have seen.
i-HtVzThovVisEpcR5DLnREz	Madam President, I would like We are debating the Swedish National Audit Office's report on compensation to legal assistants in criminal matters. I think it has been summed up very well what this conflict is really about. To those who listen to the debate, I can also say that this may sound very sad. It is ultimately about the crown and the crown, but it is the crown and the crown that are governed by principles, and we have a little different entrances when it comes to what kind of control you need of these crowns and the crown. In the debate, we have been told that, for example, we must not allow greater efficiency to be passed on to the needs of legal assistants, for example in the case of victims of sex crimes who are reconsidering their case in higher courts, in the Court of Appeal and in the Supreme Court, where we have heard clear warning bells. There are concrete examples of the fact that you have lost your legal counsel in the higher courts when you have been subjected to serious sexual offences, for example. This is something that the Swedish Democrats, together with not least the Christian Democrats and the Moderates, have reacted to. We have also requested the Government to review that such effects do not occur in the work to streamline the cost development of legal counsels. However, this debate is more specifically about the Swedish National Audit Office's report, where concrete proposals are made as to how the whole system could be redeployed in order to gain better control of cost developments and better control over cheating, double debits or other errors that may arise when compensation is paid in district courts. In this case, the Social Democrats and the Left Party have chosen to reserve their reservations against the Riksdag giving the Government an announcement to implement the concrete measures that the National Audit Office has pointed out and strongly criticised the Government for. They believe that the government should have a fairly large margin of discretion to decide for itself what to do and that they feel almost the same in substance. If you are to stand behind such a reservation, you must have a fairly high level of confidence that the government actually listens to criticisms coming from the National Audit Office and announcements from the Riksdag. Nevertheless, I would like to say that we have seen quite a few examples of the government not always listening to what Parliament has announced to the government. You make very large interpretations when you give the government an interpretation space when it comes to what needs to be done. In concrete terms, the Social Democrats and the Left Party write in their reservation text that they share the government's assessment that further considerations can be made within the framework of various types of investigation or authority assignments. So it says can be done, should not be done. More can be done than the government has already done. It is precisely these interpretation spaces and some semi-open doors that I and certainly many other parties in this House do not want to give the government at this time. Instead, we choose to support the committee's proposal for a decision to implement the measures that the Swedish National Audit Office has quite clearly indicated in its work. Having said that, Madam President, I do not wish to prolong the debate. I think the positions are clear enough as they are. I therefore call for the committee's proposal for a decision to be approved.
i-AmbQJe5f9M811fz9Jk47tS	Madam President, I would like I suggest that I possibly spend a little time speaking and ask for indulgence. There have been some headlines over the past year – headlines that have not been very flattering for the Swedish law profession. Encrochat revealed that two lawyers from Stockholm with clients in the serious criminal Vårby network had leaked secret information during the same time that their clients were in custody with restrictions. One of them received in 2020 more than SEK 8 million from the state for his public defense duties, and he ended up on the top ten list of the country's best-paid lawyers that year. On the same list, with charges of about 7 million tax dollars, another lawyer was found who was also caught leaking information to clients. In that case, the Bar Association first allowed itself to be content with giving the lawyer a warning, but after an appeal by the Chancellor of Justice, the Supreme Court concluded that the lawyer's actions were so serious that he had exhausted the right to retain his title. So there was another well-paid lawyer on the same list that last year brought in almost SEK 10 million and thus ended up among the three in the top. That lawyer was expelled at the beginning of the year from the Society after Aftonbladet revealed that he had repeatedly deceived the courts. Among other things, he charged for time with a client in Gothenburg, where he claimed to have been during several police interviews. But the newspaper's review showed that he was actually in Gävle on one of these occasions and that he had a court hearing in Stockholm at another. Madam President, I would like The vast majority of lawyers are hardworking and serious people. I know a large number of them. Their mission is absolutely central to the functioning of the rule of law. Anyone suspected of a serious crime is, of course, entitled to a public defender, and it goes without saying that anyone who has been affected by a serious crime has the right to a plaintiff. The existence of rogue lawyers salting their bills makes it more difficult for serious lawyers to operate and run a profitable business. It risks undermining public confidence in lawyers and understanding of their central role. However, it is clear that we do not have a working system to check whether the cost claims presented in court and on which the Court is to base its decision are really well justified. In fact, the Court does not even know whether the claims are correct. It is not acceptable for a journalistic review to be required in order to expose fraud using state funds. I saw a feature on TV4 in connection with the latest scandal – the one with the lawyer who charged as if he had been in Gothenburg and Stockholm at the same time. The studio reporter reported that the best paid lawyer in that year, who received almost SEK 11 million, would have had to work 20 hours a day all year long in order to be able to collect that amount based on the hourly rate of SEK 1,442 stipulated by the Court of Justice. The former lawyer Jens Lapidus was in the studio commenting. He said: I'll be straight and honest– it's a system error that the courts don't have an overview of what these lawyers invoice in different places, either internally at the courts or the different courts among themselves. And everyone understands that with the figures we see here, something is not right. Madam President, I would like In 2020, the central government transferred more than SEK 3.3 billion to legal counsel in criminal matters. It is almost twice as much as ten years before, and it is the cost of public defence that has increased most. In the last five-year period alone, it increased by more than SEK 400 million to just over SEK 1.8 billion in 2020. This is a development which, at least in part, could have been foreseen when more and more objectives are such that the so-called criminal law rate is not applied. It is limited to cases involving few people and with relatively short negotiations in court. As early as 2003, an experiment was carried out in western Sweden. For a period of time, the district courts there allowed the application of the criminal law rate even in the case of so-called tariff cases. So it was an attempt to see the outcome afterwards. At the end of the trial, it turned out that more than 80 percent of all legal assistants, when they had been given the opportunity to claim compensation freely without sticking to the tax, had charged more than they were entitled to under the tax. The cost increase started a little cautiously, but it gradually increased. The last month of the trial saw that a defender cost 35 percent more than the tax rate stipulated even though it was a tax case. The limits of what they considered to be entitled to charge for were thus moved. I certainly do not say that the lawyers in the trial cheated in any way, but this clearly shows that a tariff that can be used in far more cases than today has a positive restraining effect, not least when a lawyer is going to decide which measures are justified to spend time on. And that question should actually be asked: how many of the actions carried out by lawyers today are it justified for society to pay for the mission they have actually been given? Overall: far too little has been done to get control over running costs. The Center Party demands far more than the Government has delivered and delivers and urges the Government to truly comply with the announcement and the recommendations made by the National Audit Office in its review. Madam President, I would like Finally, I cannot help commenting on a proposal from the Christian Democrats, who want prosecutors to speak on cost estimates in even more cases than are already being done. It is up to the Court to assess cost estimates and to ensure that reliable evidence is available and that effective control procedures are in place. A prosecutor does not have insight into the specific actions of lawyers in all the cases that a prosecutor simultaneously runs – there can be quite a lot of them. In addition, prosecutors act as lawyers' counterparts in court. It is therefore less appropriate to have opinions on cost estimates, which relate to the work carried out by the counterparty. Let prosecutors focus on prosecuting criminals, and don't put more administrative burdens on the prosecutors.
i-Dh47Dv8MpMUZiZBxA3B4V2	Madam President, I would like As we have heard here, the Swedish National Audit Office has examined whether the District Courts and the National Court of Justice exercise a satisfactory control over the handling of compensation to public defenders and plaintiffs in criminal proceedings. Their overall conclusion is that district courts do not exercise adequate control over handling. We Liberals support the committee's proposal that the government should review the entire framework for compensation to legal assistants in criminal matters. As we have heard, expenditure has increased sharply in recent years. We politicians have a huge responsibility for taxpayers' money and for ensuring that it is used properly. It is totally unacceptable when the system is exploited by double debiting, as we have seen, or if the system is ineffective and lacks a clear control system. But, of course, it must also be recognised that crime has increased considerably, as we often debate in this House, and then the costs of assistants are also affected. The debate that we had before this debate was about victims of crime. When we discuss the costs of public counsel, I think it's important to see how important plaintiffs are to the victims. I think of all the girls, women and children I've met over the years. The plaintiff's assistant has really been their lifeline. I am also thinking of the need to create security in order to be able to participate. After all, the feeling of giving up is constantly present. That is why I think it is important to see the differences in this review so that victims are not placed in an even more difficult situation. Many times it is a matter of one's parents or even partners who have committed a crime, or there may be several in the family who have practiced violence. There may have been terrible sexual crimes that have turned your whole life upside down. Of course, this should be done within reasonable limits. The Liberals support the committee's proposal but are careful to stress that differences should also be seen and the victims should definitely be given the support they need and are entitled to.
i-MGgDhHEcJZwLDzwU4dH6sR	Madam President, I would like I would like to take this opportunity to express my joy that we have people looking at us here from the gallery and also from home. It is often very useful to follow the parliamentary debates. You learn a lot about how society works and where we're going. But you also get a little better at Scrabble, as a small bonus. Because today we're going to talk about biometrics. It is a word that may not everyone knows, but biometrics is about individual characteristics, such as fingerprints, facial images and so on. The Government decided on 20 May 2021 to instruct a special investigator to review the conditions for using biometrics as a tool in law enforcement. The aim is to enable more persons suspected of offences to be identified using fingerprints, DNA, facial images or similar information. The mission concerns the legal possibilities to collect, store and use such information. The Directives provide, inter alia, for investigators to make proposals that allow fingerprints, DNA, facial images or similar information on persons suspected or convicted of offences to be collected for registration in the Political Authority's register in a more uniform, comprehensive and effective manner than at present. In addition, the investigator will make proposals to allow information to be stored in the Politiska ombudsman's register in a more uniform and effective manner than at present. The investigator must decide whether the Police Authority should be able to use facial images or fingerprints from criminal investigations to search for, for example, the passport register, the Swedish Transport Agency's register of driving licences or the Migration Agency's register for the purpose of identifying persons suspected of offences. And the investigator will make the necessary constitutional proposals. The Directives state that the investigator should carefully weigh the need for effective law enforcement against the individual's right to privacy protection. The investigation adopted the name Biometry Investigation. Madam President, I would like On 17 March 2022, the Government decided to extend the mandate by means of additional directives to the Biometry investigation. The Directives provide for the identification of legal obstacles to comparing DNA from criminal investigations with DNA data in genealogical research databases, to consider whether and under what conditions the Police Authority should be able to use DNA-based genealogical research databases in order to identify suspected offenders and to submit necessary legislative proposals. The investigator may also raise and submit draft laws on other matters directly related to the additional mission. The investigator shall also carefully weigh in this part of the mission the need for effective law enforcement against the individual's right to privacy protection. Fundamental rights and freedoms shall be taken into account in the same way as under the original Directives. The investigator's proposal must also remain within the framework of the EU directive that regulates the processing of personal data in law enforcement and which forms the basis of the Criminal Data Act and other Swedish legislation. Madam President, I would like To the extent necessary, the investigator shall collect views and information from the relevant authorities and organisations. The investigation period is fixed, which means that the assignment must be reported no later than 20 February 2023. With this, I believe that the directives for the Biometry Study are well-balanced and well-designed. The government, as I have explained before, has also recently decided on additional directives on the use of DNA-based genealogy methods. Even when the aim is to clear up serious crimes, the protection of the individual's privacy must be safeguarded, which means that both fundamental protection of human rights and EU data protection law must be taken into account. The fact that the use of DNA-based genealogy practices raises complex issues is clearly demonstrated by the Politiska området and the privacy authority's opinion. My general view is that the investigations that are being carried out in committee must also be given reasonable conditions to plan and carry out their work with good quality. Against this background, I believe that it is inappropriate now to shorten the investigation period for this part of the investigation by about six months. We are therefore not prepared to support such an announcement on the egg directive for the investigation that is now being proposed. With this, I support the reservation on the matter.
i-8nfVrCBy33r3xYeWMJrkEs	Madam President, I would like We are debating today the report that has come about thanks to the committee initiatives of the Swedish Democrats in the Committee on Justice and which deals with biometrics in the fight against crime. I will leave it unsaid, but I think this may be the first time a committee initiative signed only by the Swedish Democrats has reached this point in the parliamentary process. At least what I can think of, although, of course, we have achieved the same success in several cases where we have had joint committee initiatives with other parties. The issue as such is based on the progress of technological development, which has meant that most methods and tools for more effective law enforcement are now in place. A project that was brought to the attention of the subject was the method of DNA-based genealogy – which is commonly called Forensic Genetic Genealogy – whose use led to conviction in the highly acclaimed double murder in Linköping. The police pilot project, which was subsequently halted following an ex ante opinion by the Privacy Protection Authority, was recently the subject of the egg directive for the Biometry investigation on behalf of the government. The investigation, whose assignments must be reported by 20 February 2023, is now tasked with deciding whether, and under what conditions, the method should continue to be used. Right now, the method is not being used. However, the wording of the directives leaves clear scope for the investigation to make no proposals at all on such a system, if the investigation considers that there are overriding reasons against this. The fact that the investigation should take a stand and explain the reasons for the introduction of the system is certainly an appropriate approach. However, the investigation should, in our view, also make proposals for the introduction of such a scheme, regardless of the investigation's own position. The SD thinks so and also a majority in the Committee on Justice. It is, and should be, the task of the policy to decide on the basis of the evidence thereafter whether or not the issues dealt with in the investigation should lead to legislation. The result would otherwise be that, if the political will exists, further investigations would have to be set up. We have seen this in other cases where it has been left to the investigator to decide the issue and thus not come up with proposals for its implementation. This means that we need to re-examine whether there is a political will to actually go forward with the proposal. We see that risk in this case too. The investigation period has also, in our view, been unwarrantedly long and, according to the current directive, should not be finalized until after the election. This is also something we have seen in various cases, where a question is simply buried in part by long periods of investigation that run during electoral periods, in which case it may be difficult for political opposition to highlight the substance of the matter. It should also be noted that a year has passed since the prior opinion ended the police's project. Given the development of crime in society, there is reason to quickly get evidence in place, not least because, according to the police's report on the pilot project, the tool as such is exceptionally powerful. Given the urgency of the issue of forensic genetic genealogy, we therefore believe that there is reason to ensure that a partial report is received as soon as possible. A separate interim report is simply drawn up in this section, which is reported before the elections. In connection with the addition of a new supplementary directive on DNA-based genealogy methods, parts of the original directives should also be reviewed, according to the Swedish Democrats and the Committee on Justice. The Swedish Democrats advocate that the Swedish Police Authority should be able to use facial images or fingerprints from criminal investigations to search for, for example, passport registers, the Swedish Transport Agency's register of driving licences or the Migration Agency's register for the purpose of identifying persons suspected of offences. It is therefore problematic that in the original directives, like the supplementary directive, the government did not establish that the investigation would propose such a scheme regardless of the balance of the investigation. In conclusion, Madam President, I note that the committee wishes to strengthen the police's capacity to investigate and combat crime and that the tools are put in place quickly. Having said that, I would like to ask for the committee's proposal for a decision to be approved.
