i-6HdkVzLgTHzmjNzzqF7VjK	Mrs. Old President! Marléne Lund Kopparklint has asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure that there is knowledge-based healthcare for children and adults who have been sexually abused in childhood. Marléne Lund Kopparklint has also asked me how I intend to act in order to clarify who bears the ultimate responsibility for action in the case of failing medical care by victims of sexual abuse. As Marléne Lund Kopparklint himself notes, I have answered interpellations and parliamentary questions about health care for children and adults who have been sexually abused on several occasions during the autumn. On these occasions, I have highlighted how important it is for the regions to take responsibility for organising and planning health care so that all children and adults who have been victims of sexual abuse receive good and knowledge-based care. I have also highlighted several of the efforts made by the government in this area. Among other things, the Government is carrying out a major investment in maternity care and women's health, which also includes efforts to strengthen access to accessible and equal care for victims of sexual abuse. As regards the question of what the government is doing to ensure access to knowledge-based healthcare, I would like to emphasise that the National Board of Health and Welfare has the Government's mission to develop knowledge support and regulations that will contribute to healthcare being conducted according to science and proven experience. The government has seen a particular need to support the development of knowledge-based care for professionals working with traumatised children and young people. The Government has therefore commissioned Linköping University to develop and implement a programme of competence development in psychiatric trauma care for affected staff in first-line care for children and young people with mental illness and in specialised psychiatry for children and young people. In addition, the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare has, on behalf of the Government, designed educational material on violence in close relationships and honour-related violence and repression for health care, dental care, pupil health and social services. With regard to the question of how I intend to act to clarify who bears the ultimate responsibility for actions in the event of a fall in the care of victims of sexual abuse, I would like to point out that the Patient Safety Act requires healthcare providers to carry out systematic patient safety work. This means that the donor should ensure that the requirement for good care under the Health Care Act is maintained. The care provider must also investigate events in the business that have caused or could have caused a health injury in order to ensure that the event does not occur again. In addition, the Health and Welfare Inspection has the task of overseeing health care and its staff in order to ensure that the population receives care that is safe, of good quality and is conducted in accordance with laws and other regulations. Finally, I would like to point out that the prevention, detection and prevention of all forms of violence against children and adults is a priority for the government. In 2016, the Government therefore decided on a ten-year national strategy to prevent and combat men's violence against women, with an accompanying action programme. The strategy aims to lay the foundations for a more targeted and coordinated work against men's violence against women based on the objective that women and men, girls and boys should have the same right and the possibility of physical integrity. An action programme for the implementation of the strategy 2021 – 2023 was agreed at the end of 2021. Finally, I would also like to mention that in 2021 the Council appointed a special investigator to submit a proposal for a comprehensive national strategy to prevent and combat violence against children, including honour-related violence and repression and sexual violence. The investigator shall report on his/her duties by 31 May 2022.
i-UUT9xXwc9XuBdjSuvJrDQ3	Mrs. Old President! I thank the Minister for his reply. The Government, in debate after debate, has postponed the responsibility and said that she cannot control the regions and municipalities with regard to different requirements. In this case, we are talking about knowledge-based trauma care for people who have been victims of sexual crimes. The Minister has also advised me on several occasions that I should go to Region Stockholm if I want to make a change quickly. It's amazing how a minister can stand and say that. What I'm talking about is not that there's going to be a change within a region, but I'm talking about that there has to be a national change to help all the people – children – who have been sexually abused in childhood. Mrs. Old President! The fact that there is a minister who cannot even keep his own role in order is remarkable. If you go into the Government Office's website, you will find which areas of responsibility are the welfare minister's, including children's rights, public health and health care. In addition, we have seen the Minister go over the heads of the regions on health care issues time and again pointing out with all his hand how they should work. We have also seen examples of how, at the turn of the year, the Minister clearly showed the municipalities where the cabinet should stand when it comes to care contacts in the home care service. The Government cannot say that neither the Government nor the Riksdag can tell the regions how they should work when you keep telling them how to work. In this matter, things have not turned out well. As far as these issues are concerned, the statistics look bleak. The fact that the statistics look like they do is the responsibility of the current government. As many as one in four 18-year-olds have been subjected to sexual abuse in various forms in childhood, and this is an increase from one in five since 2014. Statistics from the Swedish Crime Prevention Council also show that in 2020 the highest number of rapes against children were ever reported. If politics does not talk more about sexual crimes against children, because it is too gross, terrible or uncomfortable, consider how it feels for the children. If society does not take a stand for them and ensure that there is adequate trauma care, then they are betrayed twice. It is here, Madam President, that the government could actually make a difference if you really had the will. I understand that you can't do miracles in three weeks, but you can change things for the better in three years through your office as Minister of State. This has not been done during this term of office. You can also start dialogues and be a big blowtorch to show which direction you want the regions to go on these issues. But I find it hard to believe that the government, led by Minister of Social Affairs Hallengren, is so much to save children and adults from the suffering of childhood sexual abuse. Nothing has probably happened since criticism has been brought forward from various quarters for a long time. All respect for mapping processes, but that time is over. We must act now for the children who are being subjected. And we must act for the adults who have been exposed, because otherwise their lives will be put at risk.
i-QYU4d1fXRB8reUjot2SPdG	Mrs. Old President! We do not need to devote the debate time to discussing whether it is serious for children and young people – and for that matter women, no matter when, but not least children and young people – to be subjected to violent crime and sexual violence. We are in complete agreement on that. Marléne Lund Kopparklint begins by saying that I refer to Stockholm. I did so in the previous interpellation debate, when Marléne Lund Kopparklint himself in his interpellation had just Stockholm as an example. I think, Madam President, that it will be difficult to have a serious discussion in this House about Marléne Lund Kopparklint seriously believes that it is the government and perhaps even the Swedish Parliament that will organise exactly what health care should look like. We're making big additions. Knowledge support will be developed. I described earlier what assignment Linköping University has received and how the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare works. Agreements are made with the Swedish Municipalities and Regions to ensure that the positions are moved forward in order for healthcare to develop. It is about funds, not least the so-called psychiatry agreement of 2.2 billion. Not all the money is being spent, but it is the addition that is being made. Just as Marléne Lund Kopparklint describes, it is not rarely a trauma that can be discovered much later. This does not always happen directly in connection with the violent crime itself, and it is not uncommon that it is precisely psychiatry that in various ways must be able to meet these children or young people, perhaps even in adulthood. It is therefore an important part. I would also like to say that there are special receptions in some regions. Region Stockholm has an emergency department for raped people. Region Sörmland has something called the Team for Sexually Violent. Region Västerbotten has something called the ASTA reception. Region Uppsala has a women's peace reception. Our largest municipalities Stockholm, Malmö and Gothenburg also have a so-called Mikamottagning in municipal direction. There are also municipalities that look at how to develop specialized activities. We have project start in many municipalities. I want to say that to Marléne Lund Kopparklint. I have no confidence that the interpellier would be happy with that answer, but to everyone who listens I want to say that a lot is happening. This is not something that we do not take seriously, but the regions are the ones that organise health care. That's what I'm trying to say. We have a responsibility because we have legislation, because there are resources and because people are educated. However, precise organization of care is not done from the Government Office or from the Swedish Parliament. On the other hand, we are keen to follow the issue and provide all the support necessary for the regions to be able to give a good reception in the emergency situation, but also to have the knowledge needed to provide care also for a long time after the violent crime has occurred, not least in the psychiatric agreement and at all in the knowledge that needs to be found in psychiatry and in youth clinics and other places where children and young people and sometimes even adults are met.
i-FsoGQvKx1US84HCfVi6WQJ	Mrs. Old President! But now I have given several examples that the government has actually gone in and steered regions on various issues. I also find it difficult to hold a debate in this House when a minister stands and talks against himself all the time. Mrs. Old President! If the government had acted on this issue, not as many as 1 000 people would be in line for the only specialist clinic – Wonsa, World of no sexual abuse – which has adequate trauma treatment, which is required to treat sexual crime victims. To compare with 80 per cent in 2017 it is today 93 per cent of those who apply for this reception who say that they have already tried to get help before moving on to Wonsa. The patients who get there feel that they have not been helped by the healthcare system. They are still highly valued for PTSD and depression, and the risk of suicide attempts is rising for sexual offenders after contact with health care. Here one might wonder why the government does not act when it turns out that the care does not work, when people constantly fall between the chairs and the statistics look like it does. I believe that the Government should ensure the establishment of a national centre for clinical methodology development and research with the task of supporting the regions in this. That is something you could do as a government. How many arguments does the Minister need to hear in order to understand that there is a huge need for adequate medical care for people who have been sexually abused in childhood? I have one that I think should be enough, and that's that 25% has to be zero. Mrs. Old President! If we are serious about protecting children from these vile crimes, effective methods must be put in place. It could happen to a child in our vicinity. We should not wait to raise our voices until that happens. SKR's national survey from 2020 shows that healthcare does not meet the needs of sexually abused people. The report points to shortcomings in the treatment and availability of care for those who are not relevant for emergency care, as well as a lack of knowledge and competence in healthcare on the treatment of complex traumatised persons. There are also cases where the question of abuse is not even raised in health care. SKR points out that the inability of healthcare to meet the needs of the patient group leads to inefficient use of resources. According to SKR, the way forward is through a clearer healthcare chain and increased knowledge and competence about sexual violence and the needs and conditions of the vulnerable. Sexual offences cause serious health damage. Rape is the trauma that usually leads to PTSD and has the strongest link to suicide, suicidal thoughts and self-harm. We know that if you have been exposed to sexual crimes in childhood, this increases the risk of suicide in adulthood by 12 times. There is a great risk that this will be the consequence because you do not get the care that you need. This is where the Minister can act. Here you can point with your whole hand and tell that you have a will. I would like to ask Mr Hallengren once again: what does the Minister intend to do here and now for those who have been exposed and do not receive care, who are in line and who are at risk of dying?
i-655qgsiTnwDTbs7PuG14yw	Mrs. Old President! We are, of course, conducting a very close dialogue with the Swedish Municipalities and Regions. They have not made any specific demands that we have been able to meet. On the other hand, we agree that we need to increase knowledge. If there is any doubt whatsoever as to whether the government is serious about this, I would like to say that these are very serious crimes. That is not what we are going to discuss here now, but the question is who is organising care. Marléne Lund Kopparklint mentions that there could be some kind of national center. Then I want to repeat what I said in my interpellation response. It may not have been quite clear, but that is exactly what Linköping University is given a mission to do: In addition, on behalf of the Government, the National Board of Health and Welfare has designed educational material on violence in close relationships and honor-related violence and oppression and so on. Knowledge is incredibly important. Last year, 16 regions planned further measures to increase their own knowledge and to strengthen the care of victims of sexual violence. It's about understanding what the picture of needs looks like. It can look a little different in different regions. It is clear that the largest regions unfortunately have larger target groups, more affected, and perhaps organise it in a way while doing things in another way elsewhere. You look at the needs picture to be able to inventory and map the healthcare process, because it is just like Marléne Lund Kopparklint says about getting a functioning healthcare chain. For those who make a quick contact, that contact is not enough. How do you ensure that the person is passed on or further assisted in the care in order to really get the care that is available and required? Many have also looked at starting special receptions. I mentioned in my previous speech which ones already exist. Further receptions are underway. I look forward to also looking at what the results are, how the regions work and what shortcomings we can continue to see. But there will be a strange discussion, Marléne Lund Kopparklint, when you stand in Parliament's chambers and compare close care contact in elderly care with the government's organisation of exactly how the care is conducted. I believe that this is the wrong perspective. But if Marléne Lund Kopparklint wants to devote her last speech to talking about what further efforts she and the Moderates think the government should make to organize Swedish healthcare, rather than how we set aside funds, train staff, produce knowledge material and make agreements with the Swedish Municipalities and Regions, I am happy to receive this.
i-TMUT4g8bJMdQhVBRyK4L4Q	Mrs. Old President! We're talking about how you can actually react and act as a government. I then gave the example that the Government itself mentioned. As long as there is no adequate help in health care, I have to go to the eleven-year-old girl that we had up in the last debate on the exact same question and say: Unfortunately, You will have to go with your pain, grief, anger and frustration without getting the professional help you need to heal. Unfortunately, the terrible sexual abuse that your perpetrator has subjected you to will give you bad odds in life, precisely because this government did not point with the whole hand and said stop– it is completely unacceptable that there is no adequate medical care for these vulnerable people. Mrs. Old President! I refuse to say this to Little F. Instead, I will be standing in this Chamber until the Government comes back here and says: I have acted now. We will not risk the lives of these children. We cannot accept that. We need a Minister of Social Affairs who comes back here to the Swedish Parliament and says: Now, a Member of Parliament, a Lund Kopparklint, I have taken my responsibility and started dialogue with the regions and perhaps even presented a Council of Law referral, just as I did on the second issue with the municipalities when it comes to home care. I'd like to hear that. No, Mrs. Old President, I say tightening up! This is disrespectful, shameful and reckless. I expect more from Sweden's Minister for Social Affairs – that children are saved and protected. See you on this matter!
i-JUSZdX5FmjcjrunjFkUgAx	Mrs. Old President! It is wrong to claim that there is no adequate care, but it is correct to say that we have more to do in this area. There are two quite different perspectives when it comes to a lot of other things. It's not that the care can't help, but we have more to do. Regions need to learn from each other. Those who have receptions should of course ensure that they continue to develop them and contribute with the knowledge they have. Those who do not have receptions but work in other ways must nevertheless ensure that the first line is sufficient – that those who turn to everything from primary care to youth clinics, school health care, social services or others can move forward and receive adequate care. That is why we have a ten-year national strategy to take a much greater approach to this issue than is a mere care. We must also work to ensure that fewer are exposed. In which environments should we make sure to break the trend? The ten-year strategy now has five years on its neck. It needs to be updated, but above all it needs to be completed. It is a question of financial resources being provided in the regions. I very much hope that the municipalities will use those resources for what is currently very topical, to deal with a pandemic, but of course we have to deal with other health care at the same time. I am not calling on any region to do so, but to spend the money. This is, of course, one of the areas in which the knowledge that exists must be made available and implemented. I know that we have amazing healthcare in Sweden and that there are professionals who have ideas and knowledge about how to organize this, who have come a bit along the way but need to feel support in that they will do even more. I promise that if Sweden's Municipalities and Regions feel that the government can do more than we already do through agreements on common goals and resources, the government will be happy to respond to this. That is our ambition.
i-LH9SMzBBydXwSG3VUyWDY9	Mrs. Old President! Bengt Eliasson has asked me what initiatives I am prepared to take to ensure that the development of the possibility of having escorts that have been sighted in our country is moving in the right direction. Bengt Eliasson also asks if I am prepared to seek consensus with more parties than those who are now part of the government base to improve the situation for those who are currently in need of leadership. Accessibility and universal design are the very foundations of an inclusive society where everyone can be involved in society. For people with disabilities, this means that you should be able to control your everyday life and move outside the home without special adaptations. With the ambition to increase individual autonomy, individual support is needed for the time being, and this is one of the four areas where the implementation of disability policy is directed towards. I would like to emphasise the responsibility of municipalities in this work, because they are responsible for social services and therefore have the ultimate responsibility for ensuring that individuals receive the support and assistance they need. The Social Services Act is a framework law, and municipalities must also work to ensure that people who, for physical, mental or other reasons, encounter significant difficulties in their way of life have the opportunity to participate in society's community and to live like others. Ledning is an example of individual support and an important effort to ensure that the blind and the visually impaired are involved in society. The Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare's statistics show that people who receive accompanying services under the Social Services Act, unlike the corresponding measure under LSS, have increased slightly for several years, but a decrease has taken place in 2020, when the last measurement was made. There may be several reasons for this reduction, such as the continuing pandemic. However, the number of persons who have a visual impairment or are blind and who receive this benefit is not shown in the statistics of the National Board of Health and Welfare. The National Board of Health and Welfare has been contacted by the R Iksförbund, which has described the situations in which their members end up when they do not receive the accompanying services of social services that they feel they need. It is worrying if the municipalities do not accept their responsibilities, and I am closely following developments in this area. The Government has previously commissioned the National Board of Health and Welfare to map the task of escort services, and I do not rule out giving new assignments if needs exist in order to clarify how the law's intentions are followed in order for the visually impaired and blind to receive the support they need to be able to participate in society's community and live like others.
i-W6HFJhG6mhz5TNw6cxX7Ff	Mrs. Old President! Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Ledning is an incredibly important issue and the very piece of the puzzle that becomes the most important part for many people so that they can truly enjoy freedom in their own everyday lives and lives, according to their own circumstances. Last week I met Birgitta, a woman of my own age who is almost blind, has a good job and lives in her own apartment. Just before Christmas, she had a cut from about 20 hours a month to 4 hours, on the grounds that she can walk all by herself – moving her legs. She has a guide dog and is otherwise an active person who can participate in society. The problem is that she cannot find herself in, for example, the large shopping mall where she buys her food. She cannot perceive the surrounding environment on the way there or in the hospital. It is a must for her to be able to get through, not least when the neighborhood where she lives right now is one big building call, a construction site, where the environment changes almost daily. Now her travel service is also threatened for both work and leisure trips. It is, of course, a different debate from this one, but it is something that affects Birgitta enormously. Unfortunately, this is not a unique case. It's become everyday. I agree with what the Government says about accessibility and universal design being the very basis of inclusive society. But then we have that piece of the puzzle that is not quite enough – the one needed for the next step. We know that in just over ten years more than half of those who should be supported as circle 3 of persons in the LSS legislation – many of them are blind or very visually weak – have lost their hand. Ledning has almost become what one might call a rarely purchased product in municipalities' aid-giving, both through the Social Services Act and through LSS. Whatever legislation is leaning on, there is a need for a thorough review of decision-making practices. The Government's response may give the impression that what is happening in many ways is the municipalities' fault and that it does not matter very much whether it is the Social Services Act or the LSS that forms the basis for the efforts that are granted. But for the individual, it means a lot. This is precisely where a review is needed. LSS is, of course, the law of rights that most people who belong to the individual circles should get their input from outside. It means greater freedom, and there are cost issues involved, as well as the duration of decisions. My question remains: does the Government intend to move from mapping and screening to action and law review in order to strengthen the right to escort?
i-d8MF3AFxkPNwUGodJ1W3u	Mrs. Old President! Thank you, Bengt Eliasson, for a very important interpellation! I think we should look at this issue in a broader context. Since 2014, the Social Democratic-led government, regardless of its constellation, has cut down heavily on support for Sweden's disabled. It is an unprecedented system approach if you add together the combined effects. We know about the LSS uprising. We have seen ourselves in the media how people have died in toilets in Malmö because they have received withdrawn assistance. We have seen terrible examples of the fact that, for example, cars have not been adapted. We have seen how young disabled people are being kicked out of our security systems and are being referred to municipal support. This does not come out of thin air, Madam President-in-Office, but is a mere policy of signaling and an effective policy. It was Magdalena Andersson personally who, in an interview in Dagens echo, said that we should finance the refugee crisis through cuts in LSS and disabled people. The problem was not that Magdalena Andersson said it, although it was terrible enough, but that the government has systematically implemented a policy aimed at removing the participation and accessibility of Sweden's disabled people. In this context, we should also see this interpellation, which deals with how the opportunities of the blind to participate in society are also destroyed. It is just as Bengt Eliasson writes in his interpellation: In ten years the stake has decreased by 22 percent. It's a pure systematic. It could have been hoped that the Government would have had a somewhat more offensive response than simply saying that she is closely following developments in this area. What is the Government's need to follow? In the area of disability policy, we can see strong cuts. There are a lot of people who get caught. The R iksförbund had us try walking a few blocks blindfolded. I have done it myself, and certainly also the Government in one of its different roles. Then it is very difficult to understand how one can still lack empathy for the blind who need this effort. I believe that the government needs to restore individual rights. Disabled people must have the right to participate in Swedish society. Even if you're blind, you have to get community support. That's why we pay taxes. We do not pay taxes for the Social Democrats to use the money for a family week. The Parliament has now stopped this proposal, thank God. There, the government suggested that parents of healthy children in healthy families should receive more paid leave, while cutting down this greatly on Sweden's disabled. Only the politician and the government that has lost the compass do so completely. We pay tax jointly and severally in Sweden to help those people who really need the support of society. I think the Minister should try to answer Bengt Eliasson's justified question.
i-Cor4ZJ495FiVr7J6zvD8p8	Mrs. Old President! Yes, we pay tax in solidarity. But those with disabilities should pay a little more. Lars Beckman and the opposition have seen to that by changing the budget. Then you also respond to the interpellations you receive. Now this is not a general discussion about everything Lars Beckman can think of that is connected to funki politics. Let us have that debate on another occasion. Then we can have a more serious discussion. On the other hand, Bengt Eliasson is doing a service by actually focusing on what is escort service. If you get a little general sweeping, as Lars Beckman is almost always in the speaker's chair – no one wants to do anything, and there is a belief that you should punish people with disabilities – it becomes an unserious discussion. This is, of course, an issue that deserves us to talk about it as seriously as Bengt Eliasson and I have talked about it in the years that we have worked with the January agreement as a basis. I don't know what Bengt Eliasson says, but my picture is that we are making huge investments. There were investments in our budget, and although Bengt Eliasson did not vote for that particular budget, we have worked together for a number of years to ensure that we gradually remedy what has come to be the consequences of judicial review. Now we're there one more time. It is not a political assessment that someone in need of accompanying services should not have it. After all, we have legislation that says that anyone who needs support in order for everyday life to work will get it. That's why we have LSS legislation. No change has been made there. In my answer, I made a distinction between the Social Services Act and the LSS. It is clear that the reduction has not taken place in the part concerning the Social Services Act, but is on the LSS side. On the other hand, it is a little problematic, and that is why I am talking about the fact that we might need to, as well as further deepen our knowledge. We can well jointly assume that the vast majority of those who receive accompanying services are those who are visually impaired, visually impaired or blind, but we do not know that that is the case. Perhaps we need that knowledge in order to be absolutely sure of the assessment that is being made. With great respect for the importance of these issues, it is also the case that the concept of circle 3 is not defined on the basis of diagnosis but on the basis of the extent of the needs. I think we agree that there is a wide-ranging need to be fundamental to getting LSS intervention. Had it been a definition of diagnoses today, it would have been easy to add, and above all, we would never have removed them from there. But that's not what it looks like. I know that both Bengt Eliasson and Lars Beckman know that, but everyone who listens may not know how the entire LSS legislation is built. It is for those who have extensive needs. It is also not the government that interprets the law, but if I am to say what I think, I can say: It is difficult to understand how a person who does not see navigate in society. You can try it yourself sometime for a little while. If you live with it for a long time, it is clear that in another way you learn to navigate, but it is clear that it creates extensive problems in everyday life. I find it difficult to see how the assessments that you do not need escort service are made. I also want to have time to say something else – I might come back to that in my next line. We had an LSS investigation that got a lot of criticism. I think it was partly very undeserved. It tried to get a grip on all the LSS operations. We have had an important and very good debate on personal assistance, but sometimes it has perhaps been at the cost of many other efforts having hardly been up for discussion. It is welcome that we are discussing it. I will come back to the proposals of the LSS investigation on this particular issue in my next line, because I do not have time now.
i-2j1rX8LFPQqcPNBWJvBYJ9	Mrs. Old President! Of course, we agree on several of the elements raised by the Government. The government came into the so-called LSS investigation. I suspect that this is the investigation that is sometimes referred to as the Malmborgian government. With regard to the main pillars of it, we in the Liberals believe that their introduction would have devastating consequences. That is why we recommended that the entire investigation be stopped. The small parts that were good could be taken care of in other ways. Having said that, Madam President-in-Office, it is an extremely stressful situation in life to have its existence curtailed as Birgitta and many of her fellow sisters and brothers have been given by decisions to reduce it. Just the fear of soon being affected by these contractions and withdrawals is an extremely stressful life situation. These are people who are actually wholly or partly dependent on someone else's support because they somehow have shortcomings in their body function that make them unable to live fully. When I hear the Government's answer, I understand that knowledge exists and that even, in large parts, empathy exists. However, I am still calling for action, for action to be taken, from mapping and screening to action and actual review of legislation. That's exactly what it takes. Yes, practice has rolled away. Yes, the decisions are on a sloping plane and are getting harder and harder. Today, municipalities and courts apply the law so narrowly that only persons who have a severe visual impairment or lack vision are considered to have significant difficulties in their daily lives, as described by the Government. That, of course, with significant difficulties or serious obstacles, is a question of definition. These are also definition questions: What is it to participate fully in society? What is it to be able to live like Svensson? This is how you can interpret LSS: live like Svensson. That is an important interpretation. It is about being able to go to the toilet yourself, to be able to manage your personal hygiene, to be able to move, to be able to go shopping, to be able to go to the gym or to the library or to be able to pick up your children at preschool or whatever it is. It is incredibly difficult to define what is significant difficulty in the daily way of life, including this help. I believe that it is our duty as legislator in this House and as an executive government to actually examine and see: what has gone wrong? What sets these people aside? What is it that makes people unable to live a part of their lives? That is the act I would like to see instead of mapping and screening. It is also necessary, but it must lead to action.
i-XajaHY7TvVRi7yzMQiWqg8	Mrs. Old President! I can understand that the Government is upset when someone talks about how the Social Democraticly led government has consistently cut back support for Sweden's downgraded function. The disability movement has not gone by. RBU and other interest groups have not been sitting on their hands, but have been alerting for many, many years. That is what I think we need to see when it comes to this interpellation. The government sits on its hands and does not act when the blind do not receive sufficient support from society. It sounds just like the government is some kind of paralysed spectator. There is someone else doing things, and the Government can do nothing but follow developments closely. Mrs. Old President! Then it is actually better that the Government and the Government resign and let someone else's government and another minister take responsibility for Sweden. If you are paralysed and unable to act and cannot lead Sweden, it is better to resign. If you want to sit in the gallery instead of being on the ice playing hockey, you should sit in the gallery. In fact, one must be empathetic if one does not see and understand that the blind should be entitled to the support of society. We are paying solidarity-based tax precisely to give the support of society to those who really need it. Of course, a government's role includes prioritising. It is about what you want in politics and about giving clear directives. What this government wants to say then, Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson very clearly in an interview in Ekott in Swedish Radio – just go in and listen: We need to cut back on support for Sweden's disabled people in order to deal with the immigration crisis. That's exactly what the government has done, unfortunately.
i-8KgqU1sjHGYGbELukhSfvS	Mrs. Old President! I would like to underline the answer to the second question put by Bengt Eliasson, whether the government intends to have dialogue with parties other than the parties included in the government base. In fact, I am a little unsure how Bengt Eliasson defines government documents, because it is not today a January agreement in any form that governs. It goes without saying that we need to cooperate with different parties on the policy that the government wants to see implemented. I can only say that if there is continued good will with Bengt Eliasson and the Liberals, as there has been before, it is quite obvious that we should continue to have dialogue and talks and to cooperate on this. It is based on the fact that we are basically constructive and want to achieve it. I feel that Bengt Eliasson wants that. I told him I'd come back in the next line to the LSS investigation proposal on the lead. The LSS study proposed to have a new effort that would provide regular daily support for ordinary residents. It is a part of what is accompanying service, but it would not be limited to transfer. At least this has been defined. You could pick that part, because it is a proposal that an investigation has produced and which is referred. But our dialogue with Sweden's visually impaired showed that it did not want that proposal, so that proposal is not relevant. Otherwise, it could be a way of doing things, so to speak. I think it's important that we go ahead with mapping to find out more. It is clear that a survey always aims to gain better knowledge in order to be able to act. But, once again, the R.I.K. Association of Visually Injured is not satisfied with this proposal. It could still have been a proposal, but we are, of course, keen to have a good dialogue there. I'm happy to listen to Bengt Eliasson. I would just like to emphasise the difficulty of changing the wording of people's circles. Should we begin to define diagnoses, it is something quite different; it is definitely no small thing. But I think it can create huge problems when we have an idea that something should change. In that case, it will not be a definition that ties in with having extensive and lasting needs. However, I would like to understand – I mean it for real – why a different definition is made when nothing in the legislation has changed. It has been incomprehensible how the area by area of assistance has come to be defined much narrower; it has been coordinated, and it has had dire consequences. For many years we have worked very hard to find ways not only to solve one problem and at the same time create five others. That is because there is constant concern when you go into this complicated legislation. You think you're solving something, but you're creating new problems. It is important to look further at the survey, so that we really know what we are talking about and understand what the problem would be. I have nothing against wanting to act. And I am happy to listen to Bengt Eliasson if there is a very concrete proposal. But to go in and change people's circles, I don't think that's a good way to go. I see a lot of new demarcation problems ahead of me. It won't help us.
i-NkRzytMar9199C2arADTRS	Mrs. Old President! My second question in the interpellation is really about seeking support, discussion and dialogue in order to bring about changes in legislation. I feel just as insecure as the government when it comes to the basis of government, but that is another matter. However, I believe, without knowing, that if we were to take up, for example, the debate on the right of companionship wider between the parties in a party-wide dialogue meeting, we could find majorities for fairly significant changes and improvements in legislation. That is my conviction when I listen with colleagues from other parties. Having said that, I believe that one way forward is to broaden the political discussion on these important issues. It is, as the Government says, a bouquet of areas of disability policy that need to be discussed and really strengthened and changed. It is particularly important to restore the original intention of the LSS. I'm not sure it's people's circles that need to change. We have seen that social services legislation, social security legislation and other things can actually go in and point out broad groups to capture them when decision-making practices and case-law have defined them. I therefore believe that the possibilities exist.
i-5FE3FwBw8MrrsL156dr6Lk	Mrs. Old President! As far as the government base is concerned, I don't think you have to joke so much about it. It is a fact that we will not have the same basis and the same support on all issues. At least that's not what I think. If Parliament's majorities are to be reflected, it looks a little different. But, of course, it is based on a desire for dialogue and dialogue, on the desire to come to an agreement and try to meet. The difficulty in these matters is when you talk about restoring as if you can do so in a certain way. It's very complicated. Bengt Eliasson is well aware of that. I do not want to suggest that if we only have a dialogue, there is a simple solution. It's super complicated. LSS and the Social Services Act also interact. They should overlap to ensure that if you are not covered by one law, you should be caught by the other. Therefore, it is important to know what is actually happening, how something is interpreted, but also what the reason is for falling in between, if you do so. This is both the LSS, of course, and the Social Services Act. This is a very welcome discussion, and it is welcome that we focus on other and specific LSS efforts. It has sometimes been forgotten. In fact, I think that sometimes the public believes that LSS is the same thing as personal assistance. It's an important part of the LSS. But there are other parts. If people are not granted these efforts, there are major problems. It is not helpful that another effort may be available, but it wants to get the right effort, that the individual support really is right. I look forward to further dialogue, not least on various LSS operations and accompanying services.
i-Drnx7kBfafeF98bMcgz4nB	Mrs. Old President! Lars Beckman has asked me when I will act by presenting proposals for a new legislation to Parliament to resolve the emergency situation of all the thousands of people affected by the issue. With this question, I understand that Lars Beckman intends support for access to wheelchair garages in order to be able to receive an electric wheelchair prescribed by the health care system. The development of the housing adjustment allowance raises questions even in me. The Government has also commissioned Boverket to follow up on the new law. In the assignment, the Authority shall propose measures if disabled persons do not have access to the necessary accommodation adaptations. This may also include proposals for amendments to the Housing Adaptation Allowance Act. In order to be able to submit legislative proposals to the Riksdag on a factual basis, the Government needs a basis that clearly shows how much the need is, what costs the bill may entail and to whom the cost would arise. Lars Beckman says it's about thousands of people. Neither Boverket, the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare nor the Swedish Municipalities and Regions have been able to state how many people are affected. Boverket's task in its government mission is to find out, among other things. There are people who suffer from loneliness and isolation in their homes for a number of reasons. In order to support these people, municipalities have a great deal of responsibility and room for manoeuvre. Within the framework of the Social Services Act, it is possible to grant a variety of measures. Pending the necessary documentation to review the Housing Adjustment Allowance Act, there are thus opportunities to meet the individual's needs in other ways. The government therefore believes that there should be better solutions than laws made on loose grounds.
i-WcBdLJDp6wo1ygprFeqE5z	Mrs. Old President! Thank you, Minister, for your answer. This is an issue that we debated on at least two other occasions last year. The background was the judgment that came in December 2020 that means that many of Sweden's disabled people who are in need of assistive devices are now locked in their homes. The judgment thus came in December 2020. It is possible that the Government thinks a year is a short time. But for someone who's locked up in his apartment in an apartment building somewhere, it's probably a nightmare-like long time. The change has not come out of thin air either, Madam President. The S-led government has since 2014 had a systematic system with cuts on LSS, cuts on support for Sweden's blind and so on. The car adaption went down, too. Mrs. Old President! In fact, this week there was a report with the terrible name The support that disappeared – Bureaucratic obstacles stop the right to electric wheelchairs and isolate disabled people in their homes. It is therefore about older people, who have worked and worked their whole lives and may have had a stroke, who are in need of a per-mobile and probably live in an apartment. This mainly concerns those living in rental apartments. The person needs a per-mobile, an electric wheelchair, and you're entitled to that. Then the question arises: Where should it be kept? And then the older person, who has worked and paid taxes all his life and who then needs the support of society, has nowhere to store it. For 25 years this has worked very well: the county council, nowadays the region, prints out the right to the electric wheelchair – no problem – and the municipality has usually provided a mobile wheelchair garage. It's been working for 25 years, and everyone's been happy and happy. Perhaps it is a matter of a few years in the final stage of life when you need this wheelchair garage. What happened when this verdict came was that they said that the municipalities should not print this out, and it had an immediate consequence. The immediate consequence was that mobile wheelchair garages were not printed. This means that the person is entitled to the electric wheelchair but cannot get it because there is no place to store it. Why don't we just put it in the stairwell? No, you can't, according to current regulations. You can't load that thing. You can't charge it indoors, it has to be located somewhere. That's why the commons have been so committed to this issue and say, "We can't solve this--we can't open up a place." If you live in owned property, Madam President, you can receive a housing allowance to build a friggebod or something else. This issue primarily concerns those who live in rental apartments. When we had this debate quite just a year ago, the Minister shared my concern. The Government would have a dialogue with SKR to find a quick solution. Now it is true, Madam President, that the report The support that disappeared shows that the issue has not been resolved. Nothing has happened in a year. It doesn't help that the Government shares my concern, Madam Old President. It does not help that the Government intends to follow developments, Madam President-in-Office, but what is required is action. No one with the slightest empathy can think that it is reasonable for people in need of a per-mobile to not receive it. They get the permobil, but they have nowhere to store the n. Once again, Madam President, action is needed to resolve this issue.
i-Dhppc4pMW9aV9QVUBYdk71	Mrs. Old President! This is another important debate on something similar to the previous interpellation debate. By the same theme, I mean that the individual's needs are ignored and that there is a struggle between authorities and decision-makers. It is incredibly unfortunate, just as Lars Beckman describes in his also otherwise very well-written interpellation, that it is municipalities and regions that have some form of economic struggle to pick the cost between themselves – and that the state stands between them with a legislation that tends not to work properly as it is intended. The intention of the legislation is clear: you have the right to assistive devices. You have the right to have them on the basis of certain conditions, and when they are fulfilled you should only have them. Then a rule has been introduced – in fact for actuarial, fire, building and all possible and impossible other reasons – that this aid must have safe storage. It should be safe storage, fireproof storage and so on, just as Lars Beckman has described. The bottom line of the whole thing is that the individual stands without. The individual has no means in this case, which can be compared with other social support that the individual may need in a situation in order to be able to live a participating life, be able to participate in society and get out. The solution to this problem should be fairly simple. It should be possible, in a fairly simple way, to reach an agreement with those concerned, i.e. SKR in this case, on how to resolve this issue. The state should be able to point with the whole hand and say Because it is the individual who gets caught. Is it then legislative changes that must be made – à la bonne heure! Then we'll have to go on and look at it, and then the government will have to come back with a bill. But if it is only the case that there are economic activities between municipalities, it should be solved either through the intermunicipal transfer and transfer systems – or by inserting a rather small amount in the general state grant, I believe. But that we solve it is undoubtedly what, from the point of view of the individual, just has to happen. It is certainly not acceptable for an individual to get caught because there are two authorities that do not agree on who should actually pay the final bill. That is ultimately what it is all about, even if it is then blamed on different regulations that make it impossible to put that garage down. However, since the garage depends on whether or not to provide the individual with aids, the only acceptable thing must be to solve this. So if the kids usually put it: Just solve it!
i-HV9wr4TgFmvEUJFYmAdyxG	Mrs. Old President! When the Supreme Administrative Court ruled that after 25 years the wheelchair garage should no longer exist, a large group of people were squeezed because they were not eligible for the allowance under the Housing Adaptation Act. The immediate consequence was that relief centres no longer left the electric vehicles prescribed when the vehicles required lockable and frost-free storage with charging capability. It is not that people do not get the vehicles, but if they do not have a place to put them, it will be a problem. For all disabled people whose home lacks storage facilities, it becomes a kind of element 22: You get a wheelchair or a per-mobile, but you have nowhere to have it. And then what? Well, as my colleague Lars Beckman has talked about, you become isolated, and the quality of life is reduced. For a person with disabilities, it affects life drastically. Here we can see a clear example of people who end up between the chairs when it does not work between regions and municipalities. It is in this situation that the government must go in and act and take responsibility for it to be right. The current Housing Adaptation Act was aimed at facilitating the adaptation of housing in the event of a disability, and it entered into force in July 2018. This goes against that law. I do not believe that it was the Government's ambition to make it more difficult for people with disabilities when it came forward with the new law and ensured that it came into force. With the new law, the government wanted to clarify and place the participation of the applicant at the centre. It wanted it to improve quality of life and modernise and simplify the process as a whole. But after what happened in 2020, this has been destroyed. I think it is extremely important for the government to go in and look at what can be done to simplify. Because it is not the person with a disability who should take this responsibility himself. This is a typical example of what we mean when we say that you have to be healthy to cope with illness. It does not have the capacity to pull this off. That is why we are in this House today debating this. You have to act. It's been a year now. It is a long time for a person to be isolated and not be able to use the aids to which he is entitled.
i-CKT8fU7ejBK6AvmHqBAnB6	Mrs. Old President! In my first interpellation answer, I tried briefly to describe that the dialogue I had with Boverket as well as the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare and the Swedish Municipalities and Regions cannot confirm the picture that this is extensive or that they have received the signals that Lars Beckman spoke about. I think it is very good that we are catching up on this, even if it is not so many. I think, however, that we should nuance the picture a little, because it is important to know why this is. It is about the fact, I would say, that you can borrow an electric wheelchair but will own your wheelchair garage. Some suggest that this becomes a problem – you return the electric mop or wheelchair when you no longer need it, but the storage garage is not taken care of. They have come to decay, which is very unnecessary. This is another perspective. A woman who is the administrator of the housing adjustment allowance and who follows these discussions wrote to me that the vehicle can now be used as a loan from the region. The vehicle is returned to the region when it is no longer needed or when the person dies, which is perhaps most often the reason. In order for people to borrow this vehicle, it has long been argued that the region should require the possibility to store the vehicle at a certain temperature for the battery to last, which is currently not correct. It may take a little longer to charge a battery when it is chilly, but with forward planning in use it should work perfectly well to store an electric vehicle outside even in winter. The technology of batteries has improved tremendously. Electric vehicles are kept outdoors today – a simple cover is enough. On the other hand, access to a socket is needed. There are many different bases on this issue. It's not just that someone says it's not gonna prescribe a wheelchair garage. In fact, DHR describes – a little in contrast to what Lars Beckman said here – that it seems somewhat easier to get access to wheelchair garages if you live in a rental apartment, because then the landlord has that responsibility. If you live in a right-of-occupancy apartment, it can be more difficult to persuade and get the right-of-occupancy association to like this. This is DHR's view, not mine. For this very reason, Boverket has now been tasked not only with mapping but also, if necessary, with legislative proposals. Is the question such that it is a question of rents or flats? Does it have to do with the form of living? Can storage be done outside? Is it the case that the region imposes too much pressure to prescribe? A wheelchair garage may not be needed at all, but it may be sufficient to store the vehicle well in another way. Does the law make any demands to do both? Is it unfortunate that this is a loan for one and a grant that makes you own in the other? In response to Marléne Lund Kopparklint in particular, I would like to stress that Boverket will return. They're not just going to tell us that this is a problem, they're going to map it out. If there is a need for legislative proposals and legislative changes, they should come up with it, because that is what we need to do in order to make any changes. I would also like to say something about the change made to the housing allowance. The idea of changing the housing allowance was not to reduce its use. On the contrary, it was wanted to open up so that the housing adjustment allowance would not only be used to adapt a fixed function and get the right door, for example, but could also be intended to supplement a fixed function, for example with a hand transmitter for a door automation. There is a great example in the house I live in myself. One of my neighbors in this apartment building has received a special transmitter. There is an adaptation of the door, but she gets a hand transmitter that makes it work for her specifically. It is important to work with individual adaptations. It may not be enough to push a button, but for her something else is needed.
i-6ffz9csWhNQ27sUc7JuERP	Mrs. Old President! From the Government's answer, it is understood that the Government has never been close to a per-mobile. It is obvious that the Government is not at all aware of this issue. I can respect that. It's hard. Of course, we who live close to people with disabilities have a completely different view from a minister who stands here and seriously says that you should put a permobil worth a few hundred thousand SEK outside a rental apartment. It was supposed to be stolen the first night; the Government may have heard that we have an increasing crime in Sweden. What, then, are the facts, Madam President? From 2015 to 2019 local government housing adaptation costs fell by 22 per cent. Every five crowns have disappeared. In my municipality of residence Gävle, we have been able to see many elements in SVT Gävleborg – the Minister can google on it. We have been able to look at William, who is in a wheelchair and who was denied something as elementary as a door opener. Imagine you went shopping. You come in a wheelchair and bring groceries. You are in the wheelchair and will try to open an elevator door without a door opener. It is not possible – or at least there are significant difficulties. Mrs. Old President! If we have legislation that does not work, then it is the duty of the government and the government to ensure that it works. 365 days ago we stood here debating wheelchair garages. The Government then promised – she can go back and read her own words in the minutes – that she would find a quick solution with SKR. Of course, it does not matter to the individual whether you own the wheelchair garage or borrow it. It does not matter whether it is the municipality or the region that pays. But being without the wheelchair garage is very important. That means you're trapped in your apartment; it's mostly apartments we're talking about. It does not matter to me whether it concerns 1, 100, 1 000 or 5 000 people in Sweden. If a person is trapped because of a lack of legislation, that should be enough for the matter to be resolved. However, if we look at the cuts that have taken place in this support since the change in the law came, we see that it is a dramatic cut in the housing adaptation effort. When you talk to the companies that are in this industry you get a pretty good idea of how many there are. I'd say it's closer to thousands than hundreds. This must be resolved, because we are talking about people. The report that came from the trade association contains a number of examples around Sweden. One example in the report is an elderly man, living in a smaller mid-Swedish municipality, with long-developed cancer. He was informed by the region that his electric wheelchair would be taken back, provided that he did not provide storage within a certain period of time, which the municipality announced was pointless to apply for. Another example is a woman who lived in a big city and was the holder of an electric wheelchair and a wheelchair supply. She applied for a new place for her storeroom some house further away when changing apartments within the municipal real estate company. She was turned down by the property owner with reference to the current judgment. The effect was that she is now sitting in her new apartment without an electric wheelchair, when she was forced to return because she lacked storage. Mrs. Old President! This report is full of examples. The issue must be resolved. It's been 365 days since the Government last promised a solution. When does the Government estimate that Sweden's disabled people will be able to leave their apartments?
i-FtRaStFnepxpwxKPdf6pP5	Mrs. Old President! Thank you, Minister, for your answers and discussion. This is, of course, a fundamental and important issue. It is often that the opportunities and rights of the disabled end up between the decision-making powers of the authorities and between them in discussions about who should take the costs or bear the responsibility. This is quite embarrassing. I believe that, in connection with their travels and dialogue meetings, the Government also meets many people who constantly feel that they are in the middle of things and who have the feeling every day that it is their lives that lie in the middle of all the important discussions, fine words, legislation and regulations. Of course, living under that pressure and stress is an extremely vulnerable situation. In the early 2000s, I was responsible for the supply of assistive devices at home in Halland. The prescription of electric wheelchairs and electrical mobility aids accelerated quite a lot during the four years when I had direct operational responsibility. At the time, the big question was whether home insurance covered damage to the aid or not. With some insurance companies, it turned out it didn't. The question was also how to draw the electricity for charging possibilities. We solved that. With Halland having a good interaction between municipalities and regions, we solved this in a good dialogue spirit, and the region paid for these different efforts in the end. But now it's not solved. Therefore, the question to the Government remains: What does the Government intend to do to resolve these important issues?
i-UP1554k76nW95YbDLp4tho	Mrs. Old President! I have been told by the Minister of Social Affairs that one should now wait for a report. But until then? These people, who sit in their apartments and don't come out using their tools, how are they supposed to be handled? What dialogue will the Minister of Social Affairs have with the municipalities and regions on this issue, so that it can be resolved temporarily until the report is presented? Here we can really talk about the pattern of the Social Democratic class society, which is clearly intended to preserve and even strengthen on this issue. A lower class of vulnerable people with disabilities is created in this way. Then one might wonder why this unfortunate situation has arisen. What is the reason why nothing has happened this year? What are you waiting for? I can tell you that. No one seems to want to act. No one seems to want to take responsibility for the situation. Those affected are people with disabilities, who are constantly between the chairs and who are already vulnerable in our society. Their quality of life is reduced and affected. I want an answer from the Minister of Social Affairs on how she will act here and now for these people.
i-JmjMEuDSW1cj1KrqK6YrZG	Mrs. Old President! First of all, I would like to give an answer to Bengt Eliasson on how to resolve the issue. Then I go back to what I described in my interpellation response. When Boverket gets an assignment, it is for them to review the problem. After all, there are representatives in this debate who are absolutely convinced that we know everything about what this is and what we could do about it. The question is more complex than that. When Boverket has an idea of what it looks like, they will make legislative proposals if this is required. Lars Beckman says it doesn't matter if it's 1, 100 or 1,000. I agree. But if you're going to change the law, you have to know what this is all about. When individuals are affected, it may not be beneficial to change the legislation. It is then, of course, enforcement and supervision that are at stake. How do we ensure equal application of the legislation? It is not that there are no prescriptions. For example, 5 888 electric wheelchairs were prescribed in 2020. It is also sold wheelchair garage. The question is: Why is this happening in some cases? The picture is not that it never happens. I would really like to emphasise – it is a response to Marléne Lund Kopparklint too – that one must know what the problem is in order to address it. I am opposed to this expression, waiting for a report. If anything is to be done and if you want to change the legislation, it is about having legislative proposals ready to refer and present in this House. We will do so if necessary.
i-CrhQjziET2TjfvkyRP2ovU	Mrs. Old President! A year ago, 365 days ago, the Government promised a quick solution. Now we stand here a year later. Nothing's happened. I'll take one more example from this report.In January 2021, you were contacted by one of my patients who, together with me, have struggled for 3 years to get an electric wheelchair prescribed and extradited, but who did not receive because she received rejection of her housing adaptation applications for wheelchair garages. I work in primary care and carry out extensive and resource-intensive assessments before the electric wheelchair is prescribed and write comprehensive housing adaptation certificates that do not lead anywhere when the municipality rejects them. This is something that we have in common around Sweden. There must be a change of law in order for it to be equal throughout the country and for our assessments, our certificates, but above all those who are really in need to have the means to which they are entitled without further obstacles along the way. ..................................................... There should be no difference of opinion between the parties in such a matter. It is a question of decency, Madam President-in-Office of the Age – the people who need tools should get them, and when you know that a matter area does not work, you solve it. We have extensive contacts and dialogues with SKR, we heard the Government say in another interpellation debate. But if you have these extensive dialogues with SKR, how is it that you have not prioritised that Sweden's disabled people get aids? It should be a matter of decency, Madam President, to find a solution to this. In a few weeks, there will be a report from the trade association. This will show the similarities and differences in the granting of housing allowance by municipalities. If there are significant differences this year too, the issue falls to the government.
i-H477mMKHRN6U8f3xFpgatc	Mrs. Old President! I missed a comment on what was said earlier about the reason why the housing allowance has been reduced. This is what Lars Beckman – I think it was who mentioned it – is right in. Then it is important to know that adaptations to special accommodations, something that is done to quite a large extent, are no longer covered by the housing adjustment allowance; the municipality may finance this via its regular budget when building properties or renovating. That's one of the reasons. It is not clear, then, that fewer aids are prescribed. Otherwise, I can agree that 20% – 22% would be quite astounding. My answer to Lars Beckman and everyone who listens to the debate is that if we are to change the law, as Lars Beckman suggests, a basis is required. We expect to be able to get that data from Boverket if you make that assessment. But I think it would have been reasonable not to simply describe the issue as not being given aids prescribed. It is prescribed aids all the time. It is a question of identifying what shortcomings there are, so that we do not take measures that make it difficult at the other end. I think Lars Beckman understands what I mean. In view of the fact that I read a little bit from a letter that I received from a woman who is an administrator of housing allowance and electric wheelchairs, I would like to say that the question is perhaps a little more complex than what Lars Beckman sometimes wants to describe it as in the speaker's chair. As a minister, I need to take this into account, especially if I were to take the initiative to change legislation.
i-4EfgDdc8oN4yHbfKaZU81h	Mrs. Old President! Lorena Delgado Varas has asked me whether I will work to ensure that Sweden supports the proposal for exemptions from the rules in Trips, when I will present more measures that can lead to a real increase in production and distribution and whether I am willing to promote the distribution of vaccines and medicines globally as needed, not according to countries' economic conditions. She has also asked me whether I will work for vaccines and medicines to be produced and sold at the lowest possible price. I would like to begin with the fact that the government shares Lorena Delgado Vara's strong conviction that global vaccination is one of the most important keys to ending the covid-19 pandemic and its severe consequences worldwide. I also share the concern about the low level of vaccination in particularly low-income countries. Efforts to continue increasing the rate of production and the roll-out of vaccines in the world, especially where few have been vaccinated, are vital. Sweden is now making a powerful contribution to increasing the production and distribution of vaccines and to distributing them globally as needed. Both in relation to the EU's joint procurements and in Covax, Sweden is actively pushing the issue of vaccines being produced and sold at the lowest possible price. It is a question of international solidarity. Mrs. Old President! With the current regulatory framework, approved, safe and effective vaccines have been developed in record time. D annual global production of vaccines has tripled, and new vaccines are still being developed, most recently the Novavax vaccine approved by the European Commission on 20 December 2021. Sweden continues to support the EU's position that the existing IPR regulatory framework creates the conditions for developing the vaccines and medicines needed to combat covid-19 in the world. In mmaterialrätt, it also plays a role in a pandemic. A too wide-ranging exception risks undermining patent protection and thus an important driver for research and development – research and development that may be crucial in coming years and in future crises, also due to the evolution of the pandemic. The current regulatory framework also provides for the possibility of issuing compulsory licences allowing production without the patent holder's consent. In June, the EU presented an alternative to the TRIPs exemption with the aim of clarifying this mechanism while safeguarding the role of intellectual property in innovation and avoiding the regulatory uncertainty that an exception would likely create. The aim is to find a solution before the 12th WTO Ministerial Conference which is expected to take place in spring 2022. To date, just over 11 billion doses of covid-19 vaccine have been manufactured. There are about twice as many doses produced annually throughout the world for all diseases before the pandemic. In the EU, more than half of all manufactured doses have been exported to over 150 countries. All of this has been achieved through joint efforts. S verige has been and will continue to be a driving force in the work of ensuring global access to vaccines against covid-19. Nobody's safe until everyone's safe.
i-6G3rNqPZoZoGYvUvCLWpL3	Mrs. Old President! Sweden is doing a lot that is good when it comes to global access to vaccines. Among other things, SEK 2.1 billion of the aid is given to finance the donation of Swedish vaccine surplus to other countries and financial support for the global vaccine procurement mechanism Covax. What I find very surprising is that the government is not interested in ensuring that we get as many doses as possible for the over 2 billion – this despite the fact that our best chance of stopping the pandemic is to ensure that all people everywhere have access to free vaccines. This will only be possible with a transformation of how vaccines are produced and distributed globally. The pandemic has been ravaging for two years with serious consequences, such as death, physical and mental health impacts, exhausted health professionals and other groups that have increased workload, reduced economics, unemployment and a daily life under restrictions. Already at the UN General Assembly in September 2020, 16 multinational pharmaceutical companies based mainly in the US and the EU signed a declaration to support, among other things, fair and affordable distribution and access globally, which has not yet been realised. The same company presented over-optimistic production forecasts that they missed with billions of doses, aggravating a vaccine deficiency that they helped create while securing their profits. Part of the story that often falls into the narrative about the development of vaccines is that companies were able to obtain vaccines so quickly thanks to an already solid basic research work that has come about through the financial support of various states. Although I support intellectual property rights, I cannot turn a blind eye to the fact that the driving force is usually the research carried out at universities and state institutions worldwide. The company Moderna has tried to win plus points by releasing the patents. But it is not that simple because parts of technical knowledge remain business secrets, and thus no more can produce vaccines. In fact, therefore, the requirement should be to pause the patents and share the technology. It is one of the keys to achieving global vaccination. The Minister mentions that 11 billion doses were produced and production tripled. However, according to the report A dose of reality, the pharmaceutical companies have consistently produced and distributed less than what was promised. Modern, Johnson & Johnson, Pfizer and Astra Zeneca would produce an estimated 7.5 billion doses in 2021, but in reality they reached 6.1 billion. Is it possible to rely on the numbers of pharmaceutical companies when their driving force is profit?
i-EojsCn5dcfPscUtqd2MhQg	Mrs. Old President! I will start with the last question as to whether it is possible to trust the intentions of the pharmaceutical companies. It is true that their forecasts have not fully come true, but we have to understand that it was a completely new type of vaccine that was produced in record time, which made it difficult to make forecasts. I share Lorena Delgado Vara's view that the forecasts have not come true, but I also see that there is a good explanation for this as many vaccines were produced in a short time. I also share the view that it is not just the patent itself that is the problem. It is also about production capacity, production skills and distribution. It is not just about the fact that the EU is one of the world's leading vaccine manufacturers and that over half of the vaccine produced here has been exported to other countries. It is also about Sweden, and also the EU, from the outset, having the ambition to contribute to achieving global availability of vaccines, and ensuring that vaccine production and availability are also in place in the world. It is becoming increasingly important to support pharmaceutical companies and these countries in setting up production facilities around the world. That is why we are expanding cooperation with the African continent and the African Union. The EU is investing EUR 1 billion in building manufacturing capacity for vaccines and other medical technologies in Africa. The first is South Africa, Senegal and Rwanda. Just as Lorena Delgado Varas says, vaccine production is a complex process. It is not just a patent, and then you can start producing. Equipment, training and skills are required. The Swedish Government therefore sees that Sweden must be in place and ensure that all necessary ingredients are in place in these countries. In Rwanda, for example, Sweden contributes specifically to the training of staff through a collaboration with Karolinska Institutet. In Rwanda, Sweden donated 1 million doses of vaccine at the end of last year, and many people have been able to be vaccinated thanks to it. We talk a lot about Covax, but the International Vaccine Institute is also available. In this way, Sweden will contribute additional capacity-raising measures in these countries, which have no competence to produce vaccines at all. With this, I want to show that there is a transfer. From the outset, we are talking only about patents and that production should take place, above all, in selected regions, such as the European Union. We now see that if we can deliver close, safe and effective in those countries that do not have that competence at all and do this hand in hand with the pharmaceutical companies, we have a lot to gain there too. Through Sida, Sweden has provided financial support to IVI for the current five-year period. It is an example of long-term commitment. We don't know how long the pandemic lasts, but this is something we need to work on. We have learned a lot from the crisis. We have to be out there all over the world. That is not enough with one or two initiatives, but we must work on a broad front, especially with the European Union as a base. Sweden is a role model. We are one of the countries that has donated the most vaccines in the world so far during the pandemic. Finally, it is important to say that vaccine distribution is becoming an increasingly dominant challenge. We have seen throughout the pandemic in all trade flows that it has been difficult to distribute and get the goods out. There we must have access to medical personnel to ensure that the material is put in place, that it is safe and that the vaccines that are to be chilled and frozen are properly taken care of when they arrive. We are ensuring this right now in the countries that need it.
i-Xr6YsKCQyd9PJJXV8sV5WP	Mrs. Old President! Two years have passed since, among other things, South Africa and India raised the issue, pleaded and said that something needed to be done. Early on, you saw what was going to happen. Africa is the continent that has been hit hardest. The Minister mentioned, among other things, that the EU has exported more than half of all manufactured doses to over 150 countries. But the truth is that only 261 million of the 1.8 billion donated doses promised by the G7 countries and Team Euro have been delivered to low and middle income countries. In addition, more than 10 million doses have been donated to high-income countries during the pandemic. It is clear that the systems are inadequate. It is enough to look at the number of completed vaccinations: Tanzania has 1.5 percent, Haiti 0.58%, Congo 0.3 percent and Jamaica 17.3 percent. The EU has 77%. At the same time, mutations are increasing, and the pandemic is prolonged. This affects all of us. Given the responsibilities of the European Union, I would like to return to the minister's introduction where she mentioned the EU proposal as an alternative to those of South Africa and India, supported by more than 100 countries. South Africa and India's proposal is simply to pause patents and make technology available so that producers from medium and low-income countries can also contribute to global vaccine production. These are important keys that have proved to be vital to accomplish this. On the other hand, the EU proposal is based once again on compulsory licences for patents and does not address legal barriers related to data and business secrets, which are crucial for starting up fast production. It focuses on products but excludes underlying technologies, components, processes and methods that are also protected under intellectual property rights and are equally important for initiating production. Each country would still be required to individually submit and apply compulsory licences to each component, product and so on, making the necessary international cooperation difficult. It is indeed a pity that the EU is not transparent about what the proposal really means, especially since companies refuse to share technology to a large extent with skilled producers in low and middle income countries. This leads to the current situation, where very few can produce while companies earn a lot of money at the expense of poor people. But I am pleased that we have now begun to look at how to educate people in low-income countries and distribute technology.
i-8N2dL1CkC5ktiMULut1Wee	Mrs. Old President! I share Lorena Delgado Vara's impatience in being able to distribute more quickly to those countries that have far too low vaccination rates. Of course, this is deeply unsatisfactory. I would also like to say that the Swedish Government has not shared the EU's view generally in all areas of precisely solidarity in these difficult times during the pandemic. Sweden has been a driving force, for example, to remove the export restrictions on vaccines imposed by the EU and has repeated this a number of times. The Swedish government has been at the forefront, and it has had an effect. Over time, we have gained a hearing for this within the European Union. Now the EU has finally removed the requirement for export restrictions and instead has a transparency mechanism. It is extremely important that the EU does not restrict the distribution of vaccines just because there is so much production within the EU. There, the Swedish Government has gained a hearing and been a driving force. I would like to return to the issue of patent protection, which is fundamentally concerned and which India and South Africa have pursued within the framework of the WTO. There is currently a discussion in the WTO. I have a hope for the Swedish initiative, which we call Trade for Health, which has been taken forward within the EU and has gained a hearing and which the EU has then taken to the WTO. I myself have met the Director-General of the WTO on this particular issue, and they call it the Swedish initiative. Now there was no ministerial conference in the WTO due to the pandemic, but hopefully there is room to address at least the issue of trade and health and solidarity around vaccines and medicines. But it is not just a question of vaccines and medicines; it is also a question of protective equipment and so on and of removing all forms of trade barriers for it so that we can have deep solidarity on this issue. I'll get back to patent protection. There we do not share the view of South Africa and India that this is the crux of the matter. Rather, it is about what we are now launching more and more and accelerating, namely the process of skills transfer, distribution capacity and, not least, production capacity in those countries that do not have that possibility today. Removing patent protection creates uncertainty. It also creates a lack of incentives and mechanisms to further develop the vaccine. Now that we see the new mutations that are coming all the time, the pharmaceutical companies must be very quick to have the resources to do so and get capital and funding in order to develop the vaccine continuously. We have seen, not least recently, how important it is to constantly adjust the vaccine. I therefore believe that removing patent protection and stopping it, as Lorena Delgado says, Madam President, would create uncertainty and would have a negative impact on the possibility of constantly developing the vaccine at the rapid pace required during the pandemic.
i-PKSV2FKLXA1MT3kxC9NMmq	Mrs. Old President! I would like to remind you once again that the basis for the development of vaccines has been paid by several states, so it is not only the companies that have developed this. As far as patent protection is concerned, it is, in fact, an obstacle. It is not a lack of incentives, but companies get agreements before they start producing the vaccines. They've already signed a contract and sold the production before it's even finished. It's good that the government has been working on the export restrictions. We are in complete agreement that they should be removed. I really think that Sweden could be a strong voice in changing how the vaccines are produced and distributed globally in the event of crises, because we are talking about a crisis now. Sweden is a leading country in research, innovation and pharmaceutical companies, and therefore we have an extra responsibility to do what we can to stop the pandemic. Mrs. Old President! We have seen that the rich part of the world has grabbed all the vaccines and how this has hit the poor part of the world. Only the other day FHM boasted that they bought up the entire stock of vaccines from a certain production. This has enormous long-term and short-term consequences for the whole world. More women and girls are exposed to violence, including sexual violence, more girls are married away and fewer children go to school. At the same time, less resources are being spent on health care, HIV medicines and contraception. I therefore wonder why Anna Hallberg, who is the minister of a feminist government who claims to be running a feminist foreign policy, is not doing everything to get as many doses as possible.
i-AA8TZaW64srDznLvDjkU4u	Mrs. Old President! I would really like to emphasise that the government is deeply concerned about the lack of justice in the distribution of vaccines. I also share the picture of the consequences of this. It is becoming more unequal societies, and it is also becoming increasingly difficult for those who are already vulnerable. That is why, as I said, Sweden is at the top of the countries in the world that have donated the most per capita. We have donated both in the form of money and in the form of doses and contributions for, among other things, Covax to try to face this injustice. But that is not enough; we have also called on the European Commission to look at what is in the compulsory licences and the mechanism that is not working because they have not been used. That is the second question. What we see and hear is that it is not patent protection that is the crux of the matter, but that we must be much more solidarity-based but also active in ensuring that these countries get production and distribution on the ground. Then I come back to what I have said before: it is about passing on skills, but also capital, of course, to build up the production facilities that are needed, not least in Africa. In June, the EU presented an alternative to the TRIPs exemption with the aim of clarifying the mechanism and seeking to simplify the mechanism that already exists today. The aim is for us to find a solution in the spring within the framework of the WTO. But it is not enough for this to happen in the spring; it is urgent here and now. That is why the Swedish government is working on all these fronts at the same time. I would say that Sweden is one of the absolutely strongest voices in the EU for this, and we have pushed the issue from the beginning of the pandemic. We named the Trade for Health initiative, and as Minister of Trade in the Government, I have been the driving force for this. I see that we have done a great deal, but we are not satisfied. We will continue to pursue this issue, and I hope that we will reach the goal of the next WTO Ministerial Conference. This is a global issue to be resolved globally.
i-9g6uhEDsuQnAfT1rVaYBP5	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered today by Minister of Finance Mikael Damberg, Minister of Justice and Home Affairs Morgan Johansson, Minister Matilda Ernkrans and Minister Anna Hallberg. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. Minister for Finance Mikael Damberg answers both general policy questions and questions within his own area of responsibility.
i-NUUeR1aJ3yzx3joZsEkNdm	Madam President, I would like A month ago, the Moderates put forward a proposal to compensate households for the booming electricity prices. It is good that the government now also seems to understand how hard households are hit, although it is sad that the government does not want to compensate all households but only some. The state should not make money from increased electricity prices, and reduced electricity tax should be better than subsidies. Indirectly, however, the government now recognises its responsibility for the situation. The fact that southern Sweden now depends on prices in Denmark and Germany is a political choice. Swedish power networks already pointed out in 2015 that if nuclear power is shut down, we are facing higher electricity prices. The government closed down nuclear power plants, and we got higher prices. It is clear that the government lacks a long-term plan for energy supply, for household electricity bills and for the green changeover. So my question is: is the government prepared to reconsider its opposition to nuclear power, and what proposals are we prepared to put forward?
i-J3dn2gfQAZB6P4QQQG7dDv	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Government has not shut down nuclear power plants. We made an energy agreement with some of the Moderates. Afterwards, the Moderates had shared images on Twitter where they said they had saved Swedish nuclear power – nice – in a deal with the other government. However, we in the government take the issue of high electricity prices very seriously. It does not matter so much that Swedish electricity prices are slightly lower than electricity prices in Europe when they are rising as strongly as they have during this winter. That's why the government is acting. We have allocated SEK 6 billion to compensate those households that have received high electricity bills recently. Our ambition is to be able to replace them December, January and February. I can also say that the allowances we have proposed go beyond the compensation that the Moderates have talked about.
i-XXJizKDumAxLQyxu2oezq4	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. I welcome the fact that the government has now also woken up and wants to compensate households. It's important. But it does not solve the long-term question that we need more electricity generation in southern Sweden in order to succeed in the transition and safeguard household finances. The Moderates have put forward several policy proposals:
i-HLK8LeB3VVHgG4gkDLC2qq	中 Allow more reactors than ten. 中 Allow reactors in more places than where it is currently permitted. 中 Replace nuclear and hydro power for the stability they provide. What is the government prepared to say yes to?
i-9FK6UqQsX1JkUhjgq8RrxS	Madam President, I would like It is quite possible to build new nuclear power in Sweden. There is no ban on it. We note that neither have the Moderates put any subsidies into the adjusted budget for the construction of nuclear power. The quick solution, and the most important solution for electricity consumers in the near future, both households and companies, is to greatly expand electricity generation in Sweden. The fastest and cheapest solution is wind power, not least at sea, because there is huge capacity in southern Sweden that could be used. Unfortunately, many moderate municipalities are slowing down.
i-8Dm61GTh3rPJSJJZhcxsBB	Madam President, I would like With arrogant disregard, in recent years social democratic governments have actively and deliberately ignored the elected parliament and its decisions. The government has, among other things, put in a system to draw long-haul announcements and, in repeated cases, ignored Parliament's decisions. This handling of parliamentary decisions has resulted in the Riksdag now beginning to decide on the timing of announcements in order to push forward the actions of the Government. One example was that the Riksdag decided that before 1 January this year the government would return to the Riksdag with a proposal on how to abolish the five-year licenses, the bureaucratic breakdown that today affects law-abiding arms owners. This deadline obviously meant nothing to the government. However, will Morgan Johansson, albeit too late, act on the matter?
i-Mkyxqfy9DsgVjZGjfPNMf4	Madam President, I would like I have seen how Tobias Andersson and the Swedish Democrats attack us Social Democrats because we do not follow democratic structures and principles. I represent a party that, 100 years ago, was involved in driving democracy through this country. The Swedish Democrats are a party with roots in the White Power movement and that kind of entrance. You never miss an opportunity to go after the media and the courts. I take that criticism quite lightly, I guess. With regard to the subject matter raised by Tobias Andersson, this is an announcement which is fundamentally rather problematic. If we were to do what the Swedish Democrats want, we would increase the risk of dangerous weapons, including automatic weapons and semi-automatic weapons, coming into the hands of people who should not have these weapons. That is why, of course, we are analysing the announcement carefully. However, I am not going to help in this situation, with the problems we have with shootings and gang crime, increase the availability of this type of weapon so that they come into the wrong hands.
i-6oMYCDh5ds5tURN1Bta3Y8	Madam President, I would like It is not up to Morgan Johansson to decide what is problematic or not in decisions taken in this House. It is up to this elected House to land in the decisions it itself considers reasonable to continue. In this case, we are talking about a bureaucratic, administrative breakdown that affects law-abiding arms owners. Then it is not up to Morgan Johansson to say that one should disregard the decisions of the elected representatives in this House because he personally finds it problematic.
i-AfhAt72kYmHtZW5Z9PBw5P	Madam President, I would like There is nothing to prevent Parliament from acting on its own if we now want to enforce legislation that reduces the control of weapons in this particular situation. Of course, the parliament is free to do so. I would just like to say that the announcement made by Tobias Andersson is problematic from this point of view. We will, of course, analyse it and see if we can find a path that does not increase the risk of weapons falling into the wrong hands. But there is still no solution to the problem. I am not going to help reduce the control of weapons at this stage. I think that's the wrong way to go.
i-CizK5MUvukBeKPPmQky16n	Madam President, I would like My question goes to the Home Secretary. I would like to begin by welcoming the Minister for the Interior back to the important work of working with civil defence in Sweden. We're still in a pandemic. The pandemic has put enormous strain on life and health, and on society as a whole, and it has been a challenge for our democratic institutions. We all agree that civil defence must be strengthened in order, among other things, to help society resist the type of major crisis that we are in now, but which we also believe and fear will happen more times. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for the Interior who he considers to be the most important efforts in the future for civil defence and its construction. That is a big question and very short time to answer.
i-UzDDb5acVw6NivYyWFX84f	Madam President, I would like It is, as Hanna Gunnarsson says, a big question, but in brief we can say that today we are undertaking the greatest escalation of civil defence in modern times. We spend a total of SEK 4.2 billion in increased support to municipalities and county councils and other actors to strengthen areas such as food supply, pharmaceutical supply, transport, health care and everything else that needs to be strengthened so that there should be a broad preparedness if you end up in different forms of crisis situations, where the ultimate of course is the risk of increased preparedness and war. What we are doing now, the scale-up to 2024 with these just over 4 billion, is a huge effort and a very strong initiative, which is, of course, based on the defence decision that is at the bottom.
i-6NcEhcJRYivJPeAXJdr5N7	Madam President, I would like At the People's and Defence Conference at the beginning of the week, welfare was also brought into the discussions about the broad security perspective. It is of course very pleasing and very important. I know that the Minister for the Interior also highlighted in his speech the need for a strong welfare society. What is the Minister's view of welfare during the major crises?
i-E12iW6Zx2JMiCTSGJ1U4T8	Madam President, I would like My view is that a strong welfare state is crucial for dealing with severe crises when they come. We have, of course, the principle of responsibility, which is that there should be roughly the same actors at the bottom, i.e. the ordinary health care system and the regular transport operations, which should quickly be scaled up in the event of crisis and war. Then we must have margins so that we can do it, and that is what this additional money is now going to do, that is to strengthen those activities.
i-WDNAfRboN7RLeAeVWqNBeA	Madam President, I would like After Wednesday morning's press conference, where the government presented a grant solution to those affected by exceptionally high electricity bills this winter, a number of questions accumulate as the government has now chosen a model based on the number of kilowatt hours spent per month. This means that it is not those with the highest electricity bills who will receive the government's contribution. Because the price varies quite significantly between the different electricity areas, it depends instead on where in the country you live. Estimates from Fortum show that if electricity prices in southern Sweden had been at the same level as in the north last year, the bill would have landed at around 35 billion less.
i-3kdMM4Bf24YR7qmpjRzEdy	Madam President, I would like An important discussion when we talk about the fact that we now want to provide compensation to households that have actually been hit very hard by the high electricity prices is that you can interpret the questioner as so that you would not have given any support to everyone who lives in northern Sweden and who every winter has a very high electricity consumption because it is cold there. I think we should stick together Sweden, and if we are going to target support for households, we will do so from a national perspective. It has been discussed whether electricity tax can be reduced retroactively, and I think it is almost impossible to do so without completely unreasonable consequences. Now we have found a system to support households more strongly than the proposals that have been discussed in the general debate. Many of those households probably see that it is important that we agree in the Swedish parliament and make sure that this money comes out, because there are many who have been very worried.
i-7wwMmi32P2YZKVtp9QpWjF	Madam President, I would like The reason that has been presented by the government that the situation has become so exceptional in Sweden is the high electricity prices on the continent and that they have become dependent on Russian fossil gas. Russian dependence has arisen and is reinforced by the closure of nuclear power and the construction of wind power. This is where I can't get it together. According to the government, prices are falling with discontinued nuclear power and wind power in Sweden. Does the government still think that it was a good idea for Sweden to shut down working nuclear power prematurely?
i-WXWZjnXv6X5nK7SymbVNyY	Madam President, I would like The government has not shut down nuclear power. It has been done on a commercial basis because it has not been profitable to renovate nuclear power. What we are seeing now is that there is a huge interest in expanding, not least offshore wind power. In southern Sweden alone there are plans and interests to expand more than twice as much as all of Sweden's electricity production. Then it is important that we now focus on long-term solutions such as increased production of electricity and also better transmission capacity in Sweden so that we do not end up in this situation again.
i-7fgSe5Amri9cUNHcuEELEt	Madam President, I would like I welcome the fact that the Social Democrats have finally come to the realization that we have an electricity crisis in Sweden and that our Swedish households are severely affected. On the other hand, I do not see the electricity contribution presented by the government as anything other than a whale's freckle. Here the government is looking for votes from the 1.8 million households that would otherwise never have voted for the Social Democrats. If the government really wants to help all vulnerable people – pensioners, young people, entrepreneurs and single people – who turn every penny around to get the economy together, they would have delivered a proposal that came to all 4.8 million households in Sweden. Liberals want to reduce the excise duty on electricity in the first step, and in the long term we want to halve it. It is unreasonable for us to equate fossil-free electricity with spirits and cigarettes and thus impose penalties on them. My question to the Government is: Would it not be the right way to go? In addition, it would be a fair and long-term solution.
i-MnhW9LtRvuiaVoL28wc6rb	Madam President, I would like It is right that 1.8 million households will benefit from this support. So there are a lot of them. Those who will benefit from this support are those who have received very high electricity bills. They have a high consumption and the price is high. This means that people who live in a villa, a townhouse, a small house or an apartment that consumes a lot of electricity receive this support. What the Liberals are not telling us about their way of looking at this is that you would give a lot less money to those who pay the highest electricity bills. I do not think that would be a good solution either because we are doing this because we have very high price levels right now that affect some households exceptionally hard. I also note that a retroactive reduction in electricity tax is not possible without totally unreasonable consequences. This is something that the Ministry of Finance has studied very carefully.
i-KLVUEfrVwFouGLzW6Xt8DB	Madam President, I would like Bengt-Olof-Isaksson Isaksson will pay almost SEK 11,000, Caroline Hallström sleeps with the wool sweater on and Magnus Stålnacke's electric invoice tripled. Not everyone lives in a villa. The list can be long, i.e. 4.8 million pages long. I find it strange how the Government makes a difference between people and people. It would have been much better to reduce excise duty and, in the long term, halve it. It would have been of benefit to all.
i-7jUXEy3xRX2x3caR96YZUv	Madam President, I would like Reducing excise duty would not give as much to those who have had high electricity consumption and thus high costs. So many of those listed here would surely lose out on such a proposal. We have addressed the proposal to those who have suffered the most during this cold winter. Then we put a ceiling at 2 000 kilowatt hours to ensure that those who live in very large villas actually have to pay for themselves because they have the economy enough to do so. In this way we can direct the resources to the small houses, to the large apartments that have a large consumption and to ordinary people who live in a villa.
i-JT5wxTpCVVggGsmDsSjw77	Madam President, I would like Today, a national reinforcement starts when a large number of police officers are commanded to work in the Stockholm region, although they are needed at their regular workplaces in the country. The situation of deadly gun violence is considered so serious. At the same time, some of the local police officers who work directly against the criminal environments where it is pushed or with the preventive work to prevent recruitment are forced to staff receptions and solve administrative tasks that had been better handled by civilian employees, as the money shortage in the Stockholm police have created rock hard savings requirements that in turn have led to the recruitment of vacancies for civilians.
i-UenByoLktPEvjitG2VSKT	Madam President, I would like If the question is what we can do to solve the urgent problems, then the police authority is now being strengthened with very large amounts of money with the new budget. The police authorities have never had as much money as they have right now. You have never, if you look at year-end figures, had more employees than you have now. There are almost 6 000 more employees from the time we started to scale up the police, of them almost 1 500 more police officers that we could register on 1 January. We are continuing this reinforcement, which is why, every six months now, hundreds more police officers come out who can be involved in both fighting crime as such and preventing crime as a whole. More money, better tools and also more employees are thus the path that the Police Authority is on.
i-Ggwm8RDeKsA9nKb3to2Wha	Madam President, I would like Despite the efforts made, it is easy to conclude that it has not been enough. The shootings continue. Some of the police officers best placed to put an end to both violence and recruitment are staffing receptions and doing other tasks as civilians, which are on the market and could be hired here and now, could easily have been solved. But the money is over, so the question remains: what can the Government do here and now to resolve the acute economic situation, which is much about a lack of money?
i-pFD13TEwkCHMnTjkV3n6r	Madam President, I would like The more money comes from the new budget. The Police Authority is further strengthened. The power that we are now doing in Stockholm is motivated by the fact that it is in Stockholm that we currently have problems. The shootings have turned down sharply in Malmö and have decreased by almost two thirds in recent years. The shootings have also turned downwards in Gothenburg with almost a half in recent years. In Stockholm, however, we have seen a very negative development. That is why we need to pool our energies in Stockholm, and by doing so, I also believe that we are laying the foundations for better development in the region.
i-6pBMRBiHYsxiK5ejBMBGop	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Finance Mikael Damberg. Now the government is tightening restrictions due to the increased spread of covid-19. The risk is then that Sweden's economy will suffer and go worse. My question is: What is the government doing to help the Swedish economy and its entrepreneurs?
i-YHWwboPgmDTtYRyAMaYnjL	Madam President, I would like It is true, as Anna Vikström says, that we have been through a very tough period, a pandemic that has struck not only against Sweden but also against Europe's and the world's economies. We saw a huge challenge when 600 000 people, for example, went to short-term work. They were saved in a job and can now continue their lives. We made a historic effort on the part of the state. SEK 400 billion was invested during this time of crisis. Right now we have a huge spread of infection in Sweden, the highest ever, and then we have again taken a number of measures to overcome this and reduce the spread of infection, not least in order to cope with health care. What we have done is to go in with the aid that industry has appreciated, that is, the conversion aid, the turnover aid and the possibility of being deferred to the tax account. We have reintroduced the event support and extended it. We are following the situation very closely, because it is clear that there are companies that are now affected by people's behavioural changes.
i-5J9kVjv6YymnqYBwESDppz	Madam President, I would like What effect does the Minister of Finance estimate that the measures taken so far have had?
i-L2e7Y8iB3u2ENeAxLZLux4	Madam President, I would like We see a very strong development of both the bnp and the labour market. In fact, Sweden has taken back the whole bnp-tap we saw during the pandemic. We are above our level before the pandemic and are actually on the growth path that we had before. The Swedish economy has fared better than the economy in most other European countries. Unemployment is now at the same levels as before the pandemic, according to Arbetsförmedlingen's statistics. So far we have done this financially well, but we also have the resources to do more if necessary.
i-zCmLAdNe1tdNoGW4vwNh7	Madam President, I would like I believe that everyone in this House agrees that more police are needed in Sweden, and in order to have more police officers, the attractiveness of the police profession needs to be increased and the salaries of the police increased. The government itself has not wanted to provide sufficient funds for this, nor has it ensured that the budgetary resources that we in Parliament have decided on should actually go to higher police salaries. The government's lack of clarity has led to the Police Authority having instead distributed much of the money on temporary wage supplements. Four departments of the Swedish Police Federation in West Sweden have therefore notified the Swedish Police Authority not to comply with Parliament's decisions.
i-TxpZFkHWc3nNE88bWEx86p	Madam President, I would like First of all, police salaries have risen sharply in recent years. The average salary for a policeman is now 38,500 kroner a month. It is an increase of 6,000 SEK since the increase began a number of years ago, 2015. This is a wage increase that is higher than for the vast majority of other groups in the labour market. The extra money referred to by David Josefsson has gone out precisely to cover these salary costs. We are now doing the same with the extra money that comes with this budget. We write in the regulation letter that the extra money that is now coming and that is specified for it should go to salaries and other compensations. Apart from the fact that wages are now starting to increase and this is increasing attractiveness, I think there are many other things that need to be done to improve the working conditions of the police, and the fact that there are now more and more people who can share their work and help each other, I think is of great importance.
i-GF5PgEvWiCEbfLzybFS4S5	Madam President, I would like I believe that the key word in the Minister's reply is a lot of other compensation. That is exactly what the Police Association is critical of. The lack of clarity from the government has meant that the Police Authority has not dared to spend all the money on permanent wage increases but instead distributed it in wage increases. That has not been Parliament's ambition, and the question is therefore once again: what does the Minister intend to do to ensure that wage increases become permanent?
i-9pBABAyK2VqkvUbHf3jPVd	Madam President, I would like There must probably be some flexibility. After all, it is not the Riksdag that should sit and decide what salaries you should have in different positions in all our agencies. Then, of course, we would put our legs completely away for the wage-setting structure that we have had over the years. When you put money aside, you must also be prepared to give flexibility to the parties, in this case the police authorities and the police unions, to distribute that money in a reasonable way. Otherwise we will sit here and discuss exactly how many crowns and crowns different services should have. That discussion will never be resolved politically.
i-SmDXyiaGd1iPU9gkDQRaUQ	Madam President, I would like The fact that the SD, M and KD have directed additional funds in their budget to the judiciary has enabled, among other things, the salaries of police officers to be further strengthened. Better wage conditions are one of the most important ways to attract new police officers and keep experienced police officers in the profession. We see this as one of several steps in continuing to further strengthen police salaries. My question is: Will Morgan Johansson follow the will of the Swedish Democrats and continue to strengthen police salaries further in future budgets or will the government, as before, not prioritise this?
i-3pSt3vyx9YQPE5FEAFDb3v	Madam President, I would like It's a completely wrong picture. As I said, the average salary of a Swedish police officer is now 38 500 SEK a month. The average wage has increased by SEK 6,000 since 2015, which is more than most other groups in the labour market have received. It is actually based on an agreement concluded between the Police Authority and the Police Union in January 2018. It was then one of the best agreements in the labour market. It was then that this very development began. Since then, the Riksdag has paid extra money and has earmarked money. That is also good, but the big money always comes in the ordinary budget, that is, what we regularly go with to the Police Authority. The money that Parliament now wants to allocate to salaries will be spent in such a way as to strengthen the working conditions of the police.
i-LeMiDCTvobGtuNjceTeXX6	Madam President, I would like What Morgan Johansson says is true; the police have received increased wages. But that is largely because the opposition has kicked the government in front of it. However, the salaries of police officers need to continue to be increased. That is my question. Will the government continue to work to ensure that police salaries increase more than they have so far?
i-8Do4EpqjwSTW5yVm95RkwV	Madam President, I would like No, the basis for the increase in police pay is in the agreement concluded in January 2018 between the Police Authority and the police union. Then, from the government's side, we have made sure that money has been provided so that it has been able to finance these salaries. Then the opposition here – for purely opportunist reasons, I would say – has added a little more than that, so that it can then be said that it was indeed they who were behind this. But this is probably part of the political game. We will of course continue to spend money so that you can have a good salary development for the police also in the future.
i-XzwT28eD8D9cPrz33zCbtW	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Matilda Ernkrans. The way the rich countries get all the vaccine has hit the poor part of the world extremely hard. As many as have died from the virus have died from the consequences of the restrictions, and the long-term consequences are horrifying. More girls and women are exposed to violence, including sexual violence. More girls are married away, and fewer children are allowed to go to school. Sweden spends 2.1 billion on vaccines and Covax, which is good. However, the government does not listen to the European Parliament, the countries that have tried to flag something else, scientists and civil society organisations, who say that patents must be paused and technology transferred during the pandemic in order for the whole world to have access to vaccines. I wonder why the Government, which claims to stand for a feminist government, is not struggling to get as many doses as possible for the aid money.
i-5rvZvAGMD2hJjZxBTnJQp7	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, Lorena Delgado Varas! Initially, I would like to say that it is quite clear to all of us that Sweden has not come out of the pandemic until the world has come out of it. Therefore, I am very proud that we in Sweden and the Swedish Government are able to take responsibility so that people here in Sweden have access to vaccines and can vaccinate themselves. If you haven't already done it, it's time to do it now or take dose 3. We are also the country that has looked at our population has contributed most to distributing surplus vaccines into the world, not least to countries where there is very low vaccine coverage. Only today, the government decided to donate half a million more doses of Janssen's vaccine to the Covax cooperation, and they will now be distributed according to needs in the world. This is a work that continues to be a priority for the Swedish government.
i-JBD7hNKpAJfbv71zp45arS	Madam President, I would like The Covax vaccine programme has not only distributed vaccines to poor countries, but also rich countries have received doses. I can tell you that the EU has donated several million doses to rich countries, including Canada and the United Kingdom.
i-5vrkL3P6K5SH342N4b6NQX	Madam President, I would like Sweden gives 1% of our gross national income to international aid to improve living conditions for poor people in the world. When we see that not only Sweden but the whole world is affected by the pandemic, it is important that we as a country contribute our commitment and our strength to ensure that vaccines are distributed globally and fairly. I believe that co-operation within Covax can do this. We are putting full effort into ensuring that it works as effectively as possible.
i-8Wja31JuQfXG7N6Y5v7hcs	Madam President, I would like I address Mikael Damberg with my question, which concerns Bosnia and Herzegovina. Many of us have followed the situation in Eastern Europe with concern. Unfortunately, we are seeing an upload by Russia in and around Ukraine. Just today, news has come that indicates that Russia may not withdraw from Kazakhstan, even though Kazakhstan has asked them to leave. At the same time as this is happening, we see that the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina has escalated. In the mid-1990s there was a terrible war in Europe. Many refugees came to Sweden. Many have established themselves well and still live here. But there is a great deal of concern about what can happen again. We also know that the Bosnian Serb leader Milorad Dodik has visited Putin. My picture is that this is an escalation linked to Ukraine. What's the government doing?
i-XUmk77XFCaezBGycvGSZJN	Madam President, I would like This is a hugely important issue. There are probably many of us reading the Balkan news reports right now and seeing signs of an increasingly serious situation. For everything in the world, we do not want to end up in a situation similar to that we were in in the 1990s. I know that Europe is committed to this, and our Swedish Foreign Minister has also spoken on this issue and takes it very seriously. I very much hope that all the good forces, including international ones, can now help to de-escalate the situation and, above all, that all parties on the ground take full responsibility for not contributing to conflict and the development of violence in the future.
i-Duo1ZGVCKMw962QQ1FxEnx	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. I believe that all of us in this House are in agreement and that there is a great deal of agreement. With my question, I do not really want to seek conflict, but rather to make it clear. It is important that we in Sweden stand up for the peace agreement that Dayton meant. However, the Dayton Agreement may also be part of the problem. We would have to continue working on democratic processes in order to make people heal and be a peace-promoting nation. What else does the government intend to do in the future?
i-DhdBpXLq8GWXFU6hXoTbZ1	Madam President, I would like I hope and believe that we have a broad political consensus in this House that Sweden, with the large proportion of our population with its background, family and friends in the region, is on hand when times get worse, and they are worse now. I trust that the Swedish Foreign Minister, Ann Linde, will continue to be very committed to this issue and look forward to a good cooperation with the parties in Parliament.
i-2CcSLCSKJNyXcZd6NNDWMd	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Anna Hallberg. Nordic cooperation is important in a number of different areas. What I want to highlight in this post is health and life science. In these sectors, well-functioning societies, such as the Nordics, have great benefits, and we can achieve a lot together. Within the Nordic Council's Welfare Committee, where I myself am active, issues of equal health and improved public health in our countries are constantly on the agenda. A year ago, representatives of society, research and industry gathered around the initiative Starts for more Nordic collaboration within life science. A similar example for me is the work that is taking place in my home county of Skåne with the Swedish-Danish collaboration agency Greater Copenhagen, where questions about life science, cancer and diabetes research and medical technology are highlighted. Does the Minister intend to take further initiatives in this area to strengthen this work?
i-WKA251mGQuPee5tahw9F7Q	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Per-Per-Arne Håkansson, for a very topical question! When the world is now hopefully starting up in the wake of the pandemic, this is just one of those areas where you can look with credibility at Sweden and Denmark and towards the Nordic countries. Sweden is very credible on this issue. We have a deep and broad competence in life science. This applies not least to vaccines and public health sciences in a broader perspective. For me as both Minister for Trade and the Nordics, it is a very central issue. I have also started a collaboration with the Danish Government and the Danish Minister for the Nordic Countries where we have met in the Öresund region together with representatives of companies, universities and research institutes to connect the Öresund region, among other things. There we are most credible in the Nordic countries to be able to lift this up as an incredibly interesting place to invest in, but also to attract skills. Nordic cooperation in life science needs to be strengthened. We have already started that work there.
i-To2g9d4A4SsuSrM3YnecVa	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. I welcome the link between the Ministry of Commerce and Nordic cooperation and see it in a common context. There is strong popular support for Nordic cooperation. I also see this in the parliamentary body of the Nordic Council. What is the response from the Minister's point of view from the Nordic governments and the commitment of the Ministers for Cooperation to this?
i-4L7tLfJiFMASk7zJbkTeBb	Madam President, I would like Former Minister of Economic Affairs Ibrahim Baylan and I invited other Nordic governments to discuss, among other things, vaccine production and vaccine development in the Nordic region. The response was exuberant. We initiated this last summer. Work is now continuing at the service level. During this year we will continue that work to see if we can add even more vaccine production in Sweden due to the pandemic and the current issue.
i-LdnbpuAra3FyMnYMfjz1hC	Madam President, I would like We see a serious and increasing security threat here in Sweden. This applies not least now that yesterday three heavy landing vessels from Russia sailed into the Baltic Sea. It is important that we have a strong total defence. This applies both to military and civil defence. In Sweden we are very good at digital. But we're not very good at cyber security. We have seen this in various authorities, regions and municipalities, and most recently in Kalix in December. My question to Morgan Johansson is: How does the government work with industry to analyse and learn from all these attacks for the future?
i-GywQPpwT42Gvjit3L7MLjY	Madam President, I would like It is just as Alexandra Anstrell says: It is a tangible threat that hangs over us every day. All of us who work with the new information technology at all know that it is very vulnerable in different ways. We have made sure to strengthen our authorities, especially when it comes to MSB's ability to provide advice and support and support different actors in order to secure their technical systems in a good way, and we work very actively with cyber security. That is also part of what I was talking about earlier. We now spend 4.2 billion to various actors to secure Sweden in different ways within the framework of civil defence. Here cybersecurity is a very important part of this. I have also followed the situations that have affected some municipalities in particular. Kalix was such an example. There was also support from state authorities to deal with the issue.
i-73J2w2NGQa1sLCpwzeXmxj	Madam President, I would like The only thing I want here is cooperation with the business community on this issue as well as on so many other issues where it is incredibly important to have good cooperation with the business community in our total defence and not least in civil defence. The defence committee and several investigations by the government have touched on this, and we have a total defence decision that we will have a business council that will work on total defence issues. I wonder: When does it really come?
i-QxykCLaKr6LmEbUyqYFSS6	Madam President, I would like We are preparing that question. I look forward to being able to form such a business council. I think it would be important both ways. It is important both to be able to bring information about what is happening on the state side to the business community and also from the other side, i.e. information from the business community to the state, government and parliament. We'll prepare the question. I look forward to being able to get this business council in place during the spring.
i-QGwjvgy6J5sFLH2oXdHKo2	Madam President, I would like I would like to address my question to Minister of Finance Mikael Damberg. Swedish fuel prices are among the world's highest. With the reduction obligation increase at the turn of the year, the Swedish diesel price has passed the level in Hong Kong, which means that Sweden now has the world's highest diesel price. It is not possible to blame the high Swedish prices on the world market price. It is the Swedish Government's tax policy that has put us in this situation. This is of great importance for a sparsely populated country such as Sweden and especially for those who live outside the metropolitan regions and where public transport is not as well-developed. Therefore, my question is this: is there any upper limit to how high fuel prices can be before the government can consider in any way compensating those who do not live in big cities?
i-Ltjo5b2MvijaG5n3ViEYUg	Madam President, I would like We have seen high prices of not least diesel but also other fuels recently. One of the explanations is that we are still very dependent on fossil fuels. But it is also about the transformation that Parliament has decided in rather broad political agreement that by 2030 we will have a fossil-independent vehicle fleet in Sweden. It's a huge change that we're going to make. One of the starting points is that we should be able to use, for example, forest products or other biofuels to reduce emissions from fossil fuels and thereby reduce Sweden's emissions over time. Right now we have seen a very high price level. This has to do not least with the fact that the production of fossil-free fuels that should be available does not really exist in Sweden or in an international perspective.
i-KHVvgrNEEUmJ8qw11xW2Ln	Madam President, I would like For those of us who live along Sweden's rich borders, restrictions during the pandemic have really been a misery. Actually, I would have to use much stronger words than that. It's not about the fact that it's a golden edge of existence that disappears. It's not about us going on a trip because it's fun. It's about getting everyday life together and making it work. We have previously been critical of our neighbors in how they have handled us. Instead, it is we who are causing trouble for our neighbours. Therefore, it was very gratifying with the news flashes that came on Monday that the testing requirements would cease from yesterday. Unfortunately, the signs with the text Entry is prohibited, and the test requirements remain. Apparently, quite a few media outlets in several Nordic countries have understood the same thing, but still it was wrong.
i-XhA5U3ejJerbjSAzP14QgH	Madam President, I would like There has been a request to make a change. We're preparing it now. We should not have the requirements longer than they are needed. But I think you have to be aware that they have actually been needed and needed. It is enough to look at what is being reported in the media right now about a dramatic increase in the spread of infection. A few weeks ago it was very strong in Denmark and Norway, and then it came to Sweden. It simply shows that we need to take the necessary steps to be able to limit this. I live in a border area in Skåne. I know that tens of thousands of commuters and others are affected by this. But it is probably the case that in such dramatic events as this that we are in, one simply has to accept that, during a transitional period, one needs to be able to make these decisions and accept that this is the case. We are now preparing the proposals from the Public Health Agency. We should not have any further restrictions beyond what is needed. But right now it's necessary.
i-MHQpfQdCCeBLKh6qLhUKEP	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister of Aid Matilda Ernkrans. The world is facing an acute climate crisis. The world's poorest are least indebted to climate change but have the greatest consistency. All countries must reduce their climate impact in order to achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement. However, the wealthier countries must, in particular, take responsibility for taking the lead and contributing to the climate change of developing countries. It is a responsibility that Sweden shows that we can take. The Government has announced a doubling of climate aid to SEK 15 billion by 2025. What efforts does the Minister of Aid see that this money can contribute to or speed up?
i-mkAsCUgREjpfN2ZkGGWYp	Madam President, I would like I thank Markus Selin for an important question. Magdalena Andersson has made it clear that we are going to create jobs by leading the climate transition here in Sweden for this government. It is about improving our living conditions. The objective of international aid is to improve the living conditions of people living in poverty and oppression. In addition, we can add what the honourable Member so well points out, namely that it is often a question of people experiencing conflicts, poverty and the effects of the climate crisis. The fact that we are doubling our climate aid is that we can contribute to improving people's living conditions around the world. If we can have a better world, we will also have a safer Sweden. Sweden, for example, contributes through the Green Climate Fund, and we are deeply involved in the work that is being done now. Together with the African Development Bank, a huge project is being carried out which is about harnessing solar energy and ensuring that people get electricity on the African continent, not least important for women and girls.
i-YKqqRZTpS3u1ZLFUxBThGW	Madam President, I would like My question is addressed to Minister of Commerce Anna Hallberg. Sweden would have to produce more food of its own, not least in order for us to survive in the event of war and conflict and also to cope with the environment. Swedish agriculture is good at environmental issues. Swedish agriculture needs a lot of fertilizer for its production, and fertilizers are imported from the world market. Now the world market has been strangled due to an increased domestic demand for fertilizers in China and a sharp increase in demand in India. The prices of the manure imported have tripled.
i-Cab5CGKfkE155iMnxs84q2	Madam President, I would like I thank Lotta Olsson for the question. This situation is a consequence of the disruption of trade flows and transport chains, as well as the imbalance that has arisen on the world market during the pandemic. An example of this is this particular product. It is also about a country like China controlling its economy and flows. We then need to look, together with farmers and the business community, at how we can become more resilient in our value chains and steer our supply chains. We are working on this within the EU and, of course, the Swedish Government is driving – among other things, for the kind of products that are so crucial for our agriculture and for our economy.
i-U2QFoG7w2cgQukeDJ8edA1	Madam President, I would like My question is addressed to Minister of Finance Mikael Damberg. We are all well aware of the high price of electricity that currently prevails throughout our country. It has put many families in a tough situation. The government has recently announced that it will release support measures for households with the highest electricity bills. The proposal is for 1.8 million households to receive about SEK 6 billion. The Minister of Finance mentioned at the press conference yesterday that it was an important contribution for all of Sweden's electricity consumers. At the same time, many industries and companies are struggling with similar problems. One example that we have been able to read about this week is the paper mill Klippan Bruk, which may be forced to close after producing paper for nearly 450 years. It's Scandinavia's oldest paper mill. Does the Minister think that exceptional support measures aimed solely at households are reasonable when there are industries and businesses suffering as a result of the high electricity price?
i-Bfp3BVEDizTK4qaVhvigjx	Madam President, I would like It is not only households that suffer from high electricity prices. Companies do too. We follow what the European Commission has recommended, namely that, in this crisis with an exceptional situation, support measures should be available for households in particular. In particular, the business community wants to know about long-term rules of the game and be able to return to a system where Sweden has low electricity prices. It is something that has excellent Sweden for a long time. In recent decades, Sweden has had competitive electricity prices, not least for industry and industry. Then we need to expand electricity production in Sweden, and then electricity transmission is required to work better so that there are not the high price differences within Sweden. The government has a strong focus on this for both the short and medium term. At the moment, the government is embarking on this support effort for those households that have been most affected by the high price increases.
i-FM6UUhTYPwdYvKFi5hSAuG	Madam President, I would like That everyone who can work actually works in Sweden is the foundation for Sweden to be a well-functioning welfare state and also for the freedom of all individuals. That is why the government has really given priority to getting more people to work. By the time we entered the crisis, 300 000 more people had got a job in Sweden compared to when the government Löfven took office. During the pandemic, of course, the focus has been on saving people's lives and health, but after that an important priority has been to protect companies that are fundamentally viable and jobs in Sweden. This has been successful in much. Despite this, not all jobs have been saved. Unemployment has risen and long-term unemployment is at risk. How does the government view the future? Will it be possible to push back long-term unemployment? What role will the withdrawn extra services in the M-KD-SD budget play here?
i-48N35NeFjfE4iWqjY6BDDe	Madam President, I would like This is a very important question. How can the Swedish economy move forward after the pandemic so that we get a strong labour market? We are now seeing a sharp fall in unemployment in Sweden in general. The forecasts, the employment plans and the notice look good. Now the pandemic is insecure again. Where does it go? But, generally speaking, it looks good. However, there are some areas that risk getting stuck if we do not make further efforts. One of these is long-term unemployment. The large budget of SEK 74 billion means additional employees in health care, in elderly care, with the police and so on. After the financial crisis, we learned that we must have the courage to invest financially in order to get out of the crisis. It's important. But it is also a question of targeted actions: extra services, labour market training. Unfortunately, these are cut back in the budget decided by Parliament. This risks a slightly higher rate of long-term unemployment than would otherwise be the case. But the government will work hard to ensure that the long-term unemployed also get jobs when we get out of the pandemic.
i-TFiHhwrsD2XELuHi68PQ6E	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Finance Mikael Damberg. The events surrounding the Prime Minister's cleaning aid have raised the question of the expansion of shadow society in Sweden. No one knows how many people are staying illegally in the country or what they're doing. Some become victims of rogue employers. Others are criminals and commit serious crimes. We Moderates want those who do not have the right to stay in Sweden to be expelled. That is why we have proposed a census and the withdrawal of all coordination numbers. Does the government intend to implement the Moderates' proposal?
i-B7uqC347WqAV6DNgapvQXc	Madam President, I would like The question of how people are both exploited and engaged in unfair competition in the Swedish labour market is hugely important. That's where we do a lot of things. We clean up the population records, that is, the coordination numbers. A pilot project is under way between authorities with increased information exchange. The penalty's been tightened. The work of the authorities is directed towards this important issue. But if you take this issue seriously, you also have to think about how we got here. The world's most liberal labour market regulation played a role. It has been a situation where Swedish politics has not understood that people have been exploited. Employment contracts have been sold in Sweden, which have since been paid back. It is also the basis for why the government is now tightening up the system of labour immigration in several ways so that people are not allowed to be exploited in this terrible way in the future.
i-PGVRMuupoRo6KkrbMhV8uB	Madam President, I would like During the recent People and Defence Conference, the head of the Swedish Police, Anders Thornberg, made a statement that one of the reasons for the apparent crime is migration. Although this has been completely obvious to us, as it were, living on the ground in Sweden, it is obviously news for the Political Authority's management and also for the Government Office. As late as 2017, when the National Operations Department reported the causes of crime in the so-called vulnerable areas, there was no thought that it had to do with migration, no matter how strange it sounds. I would therefore like to ask Morgan Johansson when and how the Police Authority made this groundbreaking discovery and how surprised Morgan Johansson was when he heard about it.
i-ETg4QZnQzJ1EfKvLU7wZmT	Madam President, I would like I think we will see this reasoning in its entirety. It is clear that if you do not have a system where people who come to Sweden can get into society, get jobs and become part of society, but rather in a long line of years have had a situation where class divisions have grown very much, equality has decreased and people have been left out, then there is a breeding ground for crime. At the same time, the Swedish Democrats are always convinced that it is all about immigration and that it is all the immigrants' fault. I can only remind you that the risk of being killed in Sweden, the deadly violence, was greater 30 years ago – that is, when I graduated from school – than it is today. Mortal violence per capita has actually been reduced. We do not always see this in the debate. It was bigger long before we had the great immigration. The situation and the question is therefore a little more complicated than the Swedish Democrats and Ludvig Aspling would like to give the impression of. What it is basically about is to build a society where everyone gets jobs and enters society, no matter what origin they have.
i-VLmJo3ns78BRRqARn1LuVb	Madam President, I would like Last summer, we were able to take note of a package of 40 points put forward by the government to step up efforts to combat men's violence against women. A few weeks ago, we received another 99 points in order to prevent violence, provide support and protection for victims of crime and strengthen legislation. Unfortunately, during the pandemic, we now see that men's and boys' violence against girls and women has increased. It also has the honour-related violence. We are thinking of this further now, because next week it is 20 years since Fadime ahindal was murdered. My questions to Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson are how all these points are followed up so that they really make a difference and how to increase the security of children who experience violence and have the violence in their everyday lives so that they experience security and take part in the welfare, such as schooling.
i-Mck6vwt7EmjB5bPcuK93kw	Madam President, I would like This is an important issue highlighted by Carina Ohlsson. Here we have the government's ongoing work on the 40-point programme against men's violence against women that we produced last year, where we are now working on a point-by-point basis. As of 1 January, for example, we have tightened the penalties for violations of women's rights legislation. We've made it easier to put a anklet on the men who persecute their ex-boyfriends. We have made it easier to port violent men from the common home. We've tightened the penalties for breaching the restraining order. So did we on 1 January. During the spring there will be additional points on this programme. For example, we will tighten the penalties for certain sexual offences. We will also go forward with a special crime involving honour-related crimes with our own scale of penalties so that we can raise the scale of penalties in that part too. Speaking of this with the children, we also have the new child peace crime, which has meant that the police can now work in a completely different way to protect children in vulnerable families and situations.
i-5qWdW9Rbizc2uNBEz1yY7m	Madam President, I would like The Social Democratic one-party government begins its reign by paying subsidies so that people can afford to pay taxes. It is said that reality surpasses the poem, and we can well note that Pomperipossa policy is back in full force. The Social Democrats and the Green Party have focused on a policy of closure that clearly wanted to phase out Swedish nuclear power. How many nuclear power plants have been shut down is less important if you are to believe the new Minister for the Environment, who did not know how many or how long Swedish nuclear power plants have been closed down. Gone will be the Swedish clean electricity that has given us enormous competitive advantages. Now we see the consequences: sky-high electricity prices. In southern Skåne, price development has been greatest throughout the country. Here you can pay up to 200 per cent more for electricity than last December. Despite major differences, the government will compensate everyone throughout the country equally. Does Mikael Damberg think it's fair?
i-4BPSnfdK2AvSJy4bX2VRqk	Madam President, I would like It is not that the government has shut down nuclear power plants. It is still a false picture described. Sweden has very high electricity prices right now. Unfortunately, Europe has even higher electricity prices. We have received these high electricity prices because Europe is dependent on fossil fuels, not least fossil gas imported to a large extent from Russia. This is the fossil dependence we have to get rid of in order to get lower electricity prices. Sweden is in a very good position to push electricity prices by expanding electricity production in Sweden. We have plans and applications to expand offshore wind power twice as much as Sweden's total electricity generation. But then it is important that moderate municipalities in southern Sweden do not put an end to this.
i-UQjhHdzDt6uoFuotnFvLFV	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Morgan Johansson. I have previously worked as a preschool teacher in Husby. Preschool is located a few hundred meters from where I live. I don't want any of the kids I had in preschool to grow up to be gang criminals or run into gang crime. Unfortunately, violence affects many people, either directly or indirectly. A while ago one of my old preschool students was in the center of Husby. There he was a few yards from a person who was shot to death. I don't think that's something a 12-year-old should have to experience, not anywhere in our country. I know that the fight against gang crime and violence is one of the government's priorities. I therefore ask Minister Morgan Johansson what further measures the Minister considers necessary to tackle gang violence – criminal law, but above all preventive measures.
i-9ywkVxsovm1uyrDkwavTwq	Madam President, I would like Yes, that is an important question Anders Österberg asks. How do you get to this? I would say that a combination of measures is required. We must fight crime as such by caged the most active individuals and giving them long prison sentences, ensuring that we can intercept them so that we can clear up these crimes, set up cameras so that we can see when crimes are committed and perhaps also prevent crime, and so on – all these repressive measures, all that we are now rolling out and have rolled out for a number of years. But there is also a need for something more. It is also necessary that the municipal sector, now that the state is going in with so much money to the police and other legal systems, responds to that with exactly what Anders Österberg points to – school, social services and leisure activities – so that it can manage to break the new recruitment to the criminal gangs. This is the only way to reverse the trend in the long term. We see that the local government sector is running at 50 billion in surplus. In fact, they did so in 2020. Now spend some of that money on prevention school, social services and leisure activities!
i-H1bs9s8tHGtxNtowBTMnhc	Madam President, I would like It is worth waiting a long time to ask how we can create even more jobs throughout Sweden. A good way to do this is to encourage more SMEs to want, dare and export goods and services to other countries. Another way is to work to get foreign companies to invest more in Sweden.
i-4HBSCNfU1p1pv5m935b1Xz	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Åsa Eriksson, for a highly topical question! International competition to attract foreign investment to its own country is fierce at the moment. The Swedish Government is making, I think I can say, historic efforts on this. We are investing hugely in putting Sweden on the map. The Expo 2020 World Exhibition is currently under way in Dubai. There is the biggest investment the government has ever made, together with the business community, precisely to put Sweden on the map. Why are we doing this? We're creating green jobs all over the country. We want to let skills and capital come to Sweden to strengthen the whole of Sweden and strengthen welfare throughout Sweden. Today, 700 000 people go to work because they work in a foreign company. Foreign companies account for about half of Swedish exports and half of Swedish research and development efforts. That is why this government is actually making historical efforts. We are now commissioning Business Sweden to organise a large high-level conference in Sweden in the coming year, but also to create a completely new structure, which will be unique to Sweden.
i-Mzn4EuKcdSLxzGvMSKLTe4	Madam President, I would like Michael Rubbestad has asked me what I and the government intend to do to improve the situation of women in specific e-sports and the gaming industry. It should be stressed at the outset that the world has an important place in society and is an important part of civil society. It arouses great interest and commitment and organizes and gathers many, both young and adults. With regard to the situation of women working in the gambling industry, employers have a particular responsibility to prevent sexual harassment and discrimination. According to the Discrimination Act, employers in the area have, among other things, an investigation and action obligation if they receive information that someone feels harassed or sexually harassed at the workplace. In addition to employer responsibility, gender equality should also be a matter of course for companies and other types of organisations active in the field, such as organisers and associations. Organisations that represent both men and women have the potential to reach new target groups and at the same time broaden interest in gaming culture. The government monitors the reporting and welcomes the initiatives taken by players in the gaming field. For example, the Female Legends Association, which gathers girls and non-Binary games, has been recognised during the autumn for producing a report with solid tips for increased inclusion. The report is mainly aimed at relatives but also at players in the gaming world. Statistics from the computer games industry also show that the number of women employed in the field has more than doubled over the past five years. Women are still under-represented in the gaming industry, but progress is moving in the right direction while the industry has shown an ability to take initiatives. My hope is that the industry, together with other players in the gaming world, will continue to push the issue and will not turn away from taking further action. Gender equality requires long-term commitment over time.
i-4tHnHmc1y6QdAhLBaq422n	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Culture, for your answer. I am very pleased to hear that the Minister for Culture shares my view that the world of gambling and e-sports are an important part of civil society. E-sport is a collective concept for games and competitions performed on computers, game consoles, phones and tablets in a virtual environment where people play different kinds of digital games on their own, in teams or against each other. The competitions can be played via the internet or local networks, at LAN meetings or with players who co-operate on the same computer or console. In fact, 80 percent of Sweden's population play digital games in some form, and e-sports covers so much more than the stereotypical image of a youth who drinks soft drinks and eats chips in front of his computer. Candy Crush Saga, Wordfeud, Quizkampen and Angry Birds are e-sports in exactly the same way as for example Counter-Strike, Counter-Strike, Battlefield and Minecraft. Several of these games originate in Sweden. In fact, Swedish e-sport spends more money than the entire Swedish haulage industry. From the perspective of participation, e-sport can actually be seen as one of the most inclusive and equal sports available, in theory. Almost everyone who wants to can participate on equal terms regardless of age, gender, most functional variations, language and social status. Of course, access to a computer or similar may be needed, but it can be compared somewhere with other types of sports where you always need a certain type of equipment to be able to attend. The e-sport thus has every opportunity to be equal, perhaps even better conditions than any other sport. However, this is not the case, but rather equality is a major problem in e-sports. And here I mean a government has a pretty big responsibility. Bullying, online hate speech and harassment is a major problem on the internet and in social media, unfortunately also in e-sports. Unfortunately, this very often affects female players. Just as it is totally unacceptable in both social media and society at large, it is of course totally unacceptable even in e-sports. It was for this reason that I put this interpellation on equality in e-sports to the Minister for Culture. The latest governments, Löfven 1, 2 and 3, have said that they are so-called feminist governments. I suppose Andersson's government is, too, even if the Green Party is no longer involved. In my interpellation, I conclude with the question: what do the Minister and the Government intend to do to improve the situation of women in specific e-sports and the gambling industry? The reply given to me by the Minister for Culture refers, among other things, to the responsibility of employers and to the reports produced, for example by Female Legends. The Minister concludes with the hope that the industry and players in the gaming world will continue to push the issue and take a strong stance. Somewhere this is what other actors do, so my question may not really be answered. I again wonder what the feminist government and the minister specifically intend to do to improve equality in e-sports.
i-FBbSU4Ers9Y2msPs1yAbSm	Madam President, I would like I am personally pleased that Michael Rubbestad is asking what I and the government intend to do to improve the situation of women in specific e-sports and the gaming industry, because that is precisely the issue that is close to my heart. It's something I personally have been working on in different contexts. For example, one week before I was asked to become Minister of Culture, I recorded a podcast. The question we are now discussing was so important that one of the invited to the podcast was Lillie Klefelt, founder of the Female Legends Association, and it was about the report Go back to the kitchen – why are there no girls in e-sports? and about the online hatred of young girls in e-sports. I hope that, with that background, I have been able to demonstrate to Michael Rubbestad how important I personally think this is. What did the government do? Yes, a lot has been done here too. First of all, it is a matter of course for the government that women and men should have the same opportunities to establish themselves in a specific industry or to cultivate a certain interest. This is emphasised not least in the gender equality policy objectives, which state that women and men should have the same power to shape society and their own lives. The Government is actively working with the objectives and monitoring gender equality in the different policy areas. The government takes serious account of all forms of harassment and hatred in the digital environment and has therefore also taken initiatives to curb this problem, including through specific information actions on online hate speech and knowledge acquisition. The government sees that more efforts need to be made, but it should also be stressed that each individual in the digital environment also takes responsibility. Online hate is everyone's responsibility. The gaming world, as Michael said, consists of a wide range of activities. For example, in November 2021 the government decided to instruct a special investigator to submit proposals for a comprehensive national strategy for cultural and creative industries. The assignment shall be presented by 31 March 2022. In addition, the Government has allocated 32 million to Kulturbryggan, an activity of the Agency that distributes grants to innovative cultural projects, where projects in the field of gaming can be supported. The Government has also involved the Swedish Film Institute in the EU Creative Europe programme. Through the sub-programme that the Film Institute works with, players in the gaming world can apply for support. Since 2013, around ten players from the gaming area have benefited from the support. In addition, associations that bring together children and young people, for example, can receive support in the context of youth policy.
i-FVSQHKckPRZhZgSAEnR37G	Madam President, I would like It is gratifying that we can actually agree a little in this House from time to time. You don't always have to argue about everything. We clearly agree on the objective. Then we may have some different paths there, but that's how it works in politics. I hope that we can continue to have interesting discussions on this. E-sporten has put Sweden on the map and contributes with everything from jobs to tax revenue, but it is still not considered a formal form of culture, unlike, for example, film and music. When e-sports is not recognised as an official sport and cultural form, this poses a number of problems and challenges. Since e-sport is not classified as an official sport by the National Sports Federation, smaller and local e-sport associations lack the opportunity to seek financial resources from there for their activities. At present, the business is therefore completely dependent on equity and sponsor money. By opening up the possibility of applying for funding from the Swedish Sports Federation, e-sports would be given equal opportunities to develop. In the 20 countries around the world where e-sports is classified as culture and recognised as an official sport, we see that it has been positive for equality and for the benefit of women. In fact, a recurring argument in these countries is that the help from above is crucial to moving forward with gender equality work. Today, many Swedish associations do not dare to act in situations where they should act, for fear of perhaps losing members or sponsors and thus risk losing the entire association. Then they leave it alone. There is a number of darkness that I regret to think is quite large, and it also hampers development. Many of the aspects relating to gender equality could probably be resolved if e-sports is classified as an official sport by the National Sports Federation and as a formal form of culture by the Arts Council. Grants can then be applied for by local e-sports associations in order for them to be able to conduct their activities on the same terms as, for example, the local chess club. Games and gambling in e-sports would then be controlled to the same extent as games on football and hockey. Large Swedish e-sport events can more easily accept foreign contestants, as they do not become dependent on tourist or work visas to participate. Today, a foreign e-sporter cannot apply for a visa in the same way as a basketball player, for example. In the spring of 2021, the Riksdag discussed the Swedish Democrats' claim that e-sports practitioners should be treated equally with other athletes. Unfortunately, it was rejected by the Social Democrats and the Green Party, among others, who were in the government at the time. But after several major e-sport events have had to cancel or move abroad as a result of this decision, a storm of criticism arose, which led to the fact that Minister of the Interior Mikael Damberg, the Social Democrats, and then Minister of Culture and Democracy Amanda Lind, the Environmental Party, made an exception and temporarily recognised foreign e-sporters as elite athletes. It is very gratifying that the government reconsidered and instead chose to follow the proposals of the Swedish Democrats. But the exception was only temporary. We Swedish democrats believe that the exemption should be permanent and that foreign e-sporters should be treated as elite athletes. I therefore wonder how our new Minister for Culture and the Andersson Government sees the proposal to recognise e-sports as official sport and culture, if only for the sake of equality.
i-Hga5kxzhXNKrKD8RRKJytB	Madam President, I would like I am also very positive that we agree on the importance of e-sports and the gaming industry for Sweden, although the road, how we want to achieve the goal, sometimes may seem different. Much work remains to be done on gender equality in society, not least in the gaming world. However, as I said earlier, the number of women in the industry has doubled over the last five years, and that is a positive thing. Gender mainstreaming combined with specific gender equality policies is the government's main strategy for achieving the objectives of gender equality policy. The Government decided in October 2020 on a new programming period for gender mainstreaming in government agencies. The programme extends until 2025, and the participating authorities will strengthen their efforts to achieve gender equality policy objectives. In addition, they will also collaborate with relevant actors to increase gender equality in society. In the policy areas under the Ministry of Culture, the Swedish National Council for Culture and the Swedish Agency for Youth and Civil Society are also involved, whose work the Ministry follows during the programme period. I would also like to say something briefly about what the government is doing in terms of online threats and hate, because this is also a big and important issue in the e-sports and gambling industry. The government takes threats and hates seriously online and is actively working on the issue. During 2021, the Government has, among other things, commissioned the Swedish Crime Victims Agency to carry out a comprehensive information effort on online hate speech in order to increase understanding of the types of threats and hatred that can be reported to the police and what types of support are available. The Government has also previously commissioned Totalförsvarets forskningsinstitut, FOI, to analyse the presence and extent of offensive language against women in Swedish digital environments. The results of the mission were reported a short time ago and showed that men and women suffer similar violations but that the content differs, and against women it is much harder. The government therefore needs to continue work against threats and hate online. At EU level, intensive work is also under way to look at the responsibilities of digital platforms. There we will come back in the spring, because it is a work in progress.
i-PSsLTXamNKWdakz34UeCPg	Madam President, I would like Gender equality involves much more than women in e-sport being treated properly and obtaining a level playing field. A truly equal e-sport means that everyone can participate regardless of age, gender, background and disabilities. Since it doesn't look so bright– I don't think I really got an answer precisely to the question of whether we should classify e-sport as an official sport and cultural form– I would like to send the Minister of Culture some suggestions that she can take with her in her further work. My speaking time is running out. I would like to thank you for a very pleasant debate. I am pleased to hear that we are still moving in the same direction. As you say, the roads may be a little different, but we have the same goal. I hope that we can reach the goal together in one way or another.
i-BXUe6Lox3u2u4jeR7ugSZV	Madam President, I would like As a small addition to my closing speech, I would like to remind you that during the last Parliamentary Sports Meeting, which was held in May 2021, a majority voted in favour of rejecting the E-sports Federation's application for precisely that this should be regarded as a sport. An application submitted by the E-sports Federation was also rejected at this meeting. I say that as a small addition, in response to Michael's question. I would like to thank you for initiating this debate. It is gratifying that the issue of gender equality is touched upon and highlighted here in Parliament. This is the kind of issue that requires commitment from all sides. It is only when there is a broad commitment that we can achieve a revolutionary change. Having said that, I hope that the industry will pay attention to the discussion that has taken place here, but also to the reports that have come in the autumn. As previously emphasised, the government wants to see momentum and commitment that extend over time. Gender equality should shape society as a whole, and no sectors or parts of society should be seen as excluded. Finally, I would like to emphasise the value of gambling as activity. In a time where screen time has become an established concept, it is easy to look down on the type of game that takes place in front of a screen. Many games, for example, can contribute to developing strategic or logical thinking. That everyone should have the opportunity to take part in the values that this activity can bring with it is therefore a matter of course and a reason why equality in the area is so important.
i-MnCHuwwtDbrFnowdmceKz9	Madam President, I would like Angelica Lundberg has asked me how I intend to act to meet Parliament's announcement to strengthen and develop the municipal consumer guidance, and whether I intend to work to ensure that all Sweden's consumers have an equivalent level of consumer protection, regardless of where in the country they live, and if so how. I would like to start by thanking Angelica Lundberg for the question. It is often complicated to be a consumer today, and many consumers therefore need information and guidance. A large number of consumers are assisted by the Swedish Consumer Authority's Consumer Information Service Hello consumer. However, consumers in particular need of support are often more helped by preventive and personalised measures. Local consumer guides therefore provide important support for these consumers in particular. However, as Angelica Lundberg points out, many municipalities reduce resources for consumer guidance. My predecessor Lena Micko has held several meetings with representatives of municipalities and civil society, as well as with individual consumer advisors, to discuss support for consumers. As late as October, she, together with the Swedish Municipalities and Regions Chairman, invited elected and municipal administrative managers to a seminar on consumer guidance in order to increase understanding of the issues that consumer guidance can address and highlight the challenges of providing support and assistance to particularly vulnerable consumers. But more players need to be involved in supporting vulnerable consumers. The Swedish Consumer Agency has therefore been tasked with identifying and supporting various societal actors, including civil society, who are in a position to help consumers in particular need of support in taking advantage of their interests in relation to purchases and in dealing with private financial problems. People with more extensive financial problems can primarily get help from the budget and debt advisors that exist in all municipalities. The government takes the issue of over-indebtedness very seriously and has recently set up an investigation to propose measures to counteract risky lending and over-indebtedness. I am closely following developments in this area. Further measures will be considered by the government, including in response to the announcement by the Riksdag that the government should review how the municipal consumer guidance can be strengthened and developed.
i-L62J2444AMqgb24gXcN7qQ	Madam President, I would like Over-indebtedness in society is increasing, which is worrying. It affects the individual and can lead to difficulties in obtaining a loan and in obtaining and maintaining a home. Over-indebtedness also leads to suffering and mental illness. According to a report from the Swedish Consumer Agency 2015, one in six debtors tried to kill themselves. Anxiety and depression are heavily over-represented in the group of people in debt compared to the general population. In addition, society suffers, with costs estimated at between 30 and 50 billion each year. The Swedish democrats have therefore, and because of the government's slowness in this area, developed a strong action programme against over-indebtedness. There are 20 proposals to really reverse the trend and tackle the problem of increased indebtedness. Preventive work is a central part of our action programme. Preventive support and advice to consumers regarding complex contracts, or guidance for loan decisions, reduces the risk of over-indebtedness. According to a study from the University of Gothenburg, each consumer has on average three problems per year with something they have bought, and over-indebtedness due to consumption is increasing sharply. Local consumer guidance plays a major role here. Consumer guidance is usually seen as a pre-filter for budget and debt counselling. However, unlike budget and debt counselling, which is mandatory for municipalities, the provision of consumer guidance is optional. The Hello Consumer service is a great complement to the local consumer guide for easier cases and for those who can assimilate digital information. Unfortunately, however, more and more municipalities have chosen to close the local service with reference to Hallå konsument. However, the national service can never replace the possibility of physical contact with a guide based locally, who is familiar with the local business community and who can provide specialised support in a number of areas and make legal judgements. This is important, especially for older consumers and consumers in need of special support. In view of this, I have asked the Government how he will act to meet the Riksdag's announcement to strengthen and develop the municipal consumer guidance. This is something that should happen urgently in view of the developments we are seeing. Madam President, I would like However, I am a little worried when the Government states in its reply that the Government will consider further measures. If the Government does not intend to meet the wishes of the Riksdag, it should reasonably inform the Riksdag accordingly and state for what reasons. If, on the other hand, Max Elger and his government intend to meet Parliament's stated wishes, what is the reason why there is not yet any ongoing work on this announcement? Does the Government not consider the issue to be important?
i-MgdR1JDC3qMcB8FRzPDhho	Madam President, I would like I have just outlined the work of the government, which has been prompted by the announcements that are on our table. However, if further action is to be taken, it is in the nature of the matter that these should first be considered. Afterthought is underestimated when you formulate your policy. The Government has implemented several measures to counter the over-indebtedness raised by Angelica Lundberg. We have removed credit as default when buying online. This has led to a decrease in the rate of growth of consumer loans. We have also introduced an interest rate ceiling for high-cost credit which limits the level of spending on a loan. However, I believe – and this is important – that the most important way to combat over-indebtedness is to help people actually make a living. The root of the problem here is poverty, financial vulnerability and the difficulty of making ends meet. It is basically about combating unemployment, assisting long-term ills and, not least, contributing to the economic vulnerability that a disability can entail. Here, unfortunately, there is a clear dividing line between the government and the Swedish Democrats. Action programmes in all honour, but in the budget that the Swedish Democrats just decided on together with Moderates and Christian Democrats, it was decided that disabled people living on activity compensation should pay higher taxes than others. It's a funkist. Why is that good? And how does this fundkish tax not contribute to the problem of over-indebtedness?
i-3tFwyCEidFR1ndQHAB5JkK	Madam President, I would like When I, as a Member of the Swedish Parliament, call the Minister to the House for an interpellation debate, I do so in order to get an answer to a question on a particular subject. I am not doing this to listen to the Government's statements on other policy areas or to jump in on the policy of the Swedish Democrats on the budget issue. My question was: Does the government or does it not intend to follow Parliament's call to develop and strengthen the municipal consumer guidance? It's a simple yes-or-no question. I would appreciate it if the Government could consider responding to it. At present, 115 municipalities lack complete consumer guidance, and a number of municipalities offer only one or a few hours per week. Only 79 annual workers work with consumer guidance for the entire population of Sweden. In view of the state of local government's finances, it is no wonder that things that are not mandatory smoke in various savings packages and policies in our municipalities. That is a pity, because consumer guidance is a pre-filter for budget and debt counselling, which in turn can be a pre-filter for social services. It is also not rarely those groups that are vulnerable as consumers who have the greatest need for personal contact with a consumer advisor. As the social costs of over-indebtedness are high, it would also be a profit for society with more local consumer guidance. If a single consumer is rescued from over-indebtedness, it is likely to be equivalent to the cost of a local consumer advisor. The reduction in consumer guidance also means an inequality between Sweden's inhabitants. The support you receive may depend on which side of the municipal border you live on. In order for consumer support to be equal throughout the country, regardless of the municipality in which you live, the state should assume a broader responsibility for the development and strengthening of the municipal consumer guidance. For example, guidance could be made compulsory. However, instead of a forced guide, it would be interesting to examine whether a contribution, like that given for energy and climate advice, can strengthen those municipalities that choose to invest in local consumer guidance. Together with information to municipalities about how and why local consumer guidance is an asset, it can probably contribute to increased accessibility and more equal support regardless of where in the country you choose to live. Although I welcome the report on over-indebtedness mentioned by the Government, the proposals in that report, which can be put on Parliament's table at the earliest in 2023, risk being more of the same evasive and watered-down policy as we have seen so far. That's not good enough. Therefore, I wonder how the Government intends to act in order for all Swedish consumers to have an equivalent level of consumer protection regardless of where they live in the country. I would also like to ask whether the Government is willing to promote state aid for those municipalities that choose to invest in consumer guidance.
i-Rpe6mwMkwyThtVpMH1gwpU	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question. It is very important that we have a well-functioning consumer guide throughout the country. What is perplexing on this point is that the budget currently in force in this area is decided by Swedish democrats, Moderates and Christian Democrats in association, and the contributions that Angelica Lundberg mentions to go to consumer guidance are not there. I looked closely, but I didn't find anything. I maintain that the problem we see in relation to over-indebtedness and problems in this area is essentially about supply. I regret that I do not get an answer to my question as to why a special tax has been implemented for very vulnerable people, a funkis tax, in the budget where, therefore, no money has been allocated for consumer guidance. It is true that municipal resources are being reduced. It seems to me that we agree that municipalities should give priority to this task. It does not seem, however, that the Swedish Democrats are, in the end, prepared to set aside money for this purpose, as they shine with their absence in the budget decided by Parliament last autumn. When you study the municipalities where the Swedish Democrats sit on the municipal board, you can't see that they are an exception either. Some people are completely lacking consumer guidance. Others have recently put it down, while some of course are betting. The picture is split. I have explained the government's policy in this area. I started our discussion on this. It is about trying to encourage further efforts in collaboration with SKR, and we have done so. It is about the Swedish Consumer Agency's efforts centrally, such as Hallå konsument, which is of course services that are well-functioning and highly appreciated. It is also a question of cooperating with civil society. The government will, of course, contribute to the continued handling of the Riksdag's announcement; it is in fact in the nature of the matter. Finally, let me ask you a question. When I listen to the Swedish Democrats about the importance of consumer guidance, I think it sounds totally sympathetic, but when it comes down to it, you don't spend any money, Angelica Lundberg. When you get to implement a budget, the result is zero crowns. Why is this the case?
i-TU4AkwSRgDrczdn7Gwdy6G	Madam President, I would like We in Sweden Democrats set aside money for local consumer guidance in our budget. When we then collaborated with the Moderates and the Christian Democrats on a common budget, it was one of the proposals in which, unfortunately, we had to give way, and I regret that. Support for local consumer guidance, on the other hand, was not included in the Social Democrats' budget. If the Social Democrats are now so obviously eager to support this process, the Government, why did you not include it in your budget? As I said, the Swedish democrats had done so. So the Government has misunderstood a little. As far as the municipalities in which the Swedish Democrats rule are concerned, a majority of them fortunately still have consumer guidance. Two of them have not, and there has been the closure before the Swedish Democrats came to power. I regret that, but given the costs that the government has passed on to the municipalities in the form of huge immigration, commitments within the LSS and so on, I understand that the municipalities are having a tough time. It may be little wonder that in that situation you choose to cut back on things that are not mandatory. In conclusion, local consumer guidance is important. That the support should be the same regardless of where in the country you live should also be self-evident. It is therefore reasonable for the state to take greater responsibility, and here the government has not done enough. Instead of reducing resources, we should move in the opposite direction. The Parliament's explicit opinion is that the municipal consumer guidance should be developed and strengthened, and now it is time for the government to address this issue and start work to meet Parliament's wishes. I thank the Government for the debate. It was our first debate in this House, but I would guess it will not be the last. I think we will have reason to come back to this and other issues in the spring.
i-PnyjXndcL6EuuKvDf3ZQFb	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Angelica Lundberg for this discussion. I think it has been informative and instructive. I have been able to explain the efforts the government is making to strengthen consumer guidance, not least through the Swedish Consumer Agency's efforts, but also in collaboration with SKR and through support for civil society. We have also learned a few more basic things about the Swedish Democrats. We have learned that they do not see the economic vulnerability with which the disabled live as a problem that contributes to over-indebtedness, but that they are fully content with imposing a special tax on those people who live in vulnerability – the so-called functional tax. We have also learned that the Swedish Democrats, when it comes down to it and they negotiate with Moderates and Christian Democrats, immediately abandon the efforts of consumer guidance in favour of other efforts of moderate and Christian-Democracy colours. It is clear that this is important information for the entire Swedish people: What you hear from the Swedish Democrats does not need to see the light of day, but you should listen more carefully to the Moderates. Finally, I very much hope that we will have reason to return to this and other discussions. Consumer issues are very pressing issues – where we seem to be fundamentally very united – which Sweden is well advised to discuss and push forward.
