i-Ny6d6caUGbXuBWL3dQoheX	Madam President, I would like War criminals walk around on Swedish streets. That's what Patricia Rakic Arle says, who's the head of the police war crime group. But when the police search their names because their victims have recognized them, they are not registered here, because they are here under false identity. Identity issues may seem a little abstract, but they are incredibly important. The fact that we clarify the identity of those who come to Sweden and the EU from other countries is fundamental for several reasons: to combat illegal immigration and trafficking in human beings and to prevent all kinds of threats. Over the past few years, the migration of family members to Sweden has been very large. Anyone who wants a residence permit and move to a relative in Sweden submits documents and conducts an interview at a foreign agency. The Finnish Immigration Service in Sweden then decides on a residence permit. The Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed whether the Migration Agency and the foreign authorities, i.e. Swedish embassies and consulates, ensure that the handling of connection matters is of high legal quality. The short answer is no, it does not. The review shows that there are major shortcomings, in particular in clarifying the identity of the applicant. In Swedish: We don't know who's coming here. One explanation is that the Migration Agency has not provided the foreign authorities with sufficient technical equipment, competence development and guidance to enable them to review documents and ID documents. In addition, according to the procedures, the foreign authorities are not responsible for verifying the authenticity of documents. Nevertheless, administrators in Sweden usually assume that the foreign authorities carry out adequate checks and that the identity of the applicant is thus clarified. With current procedures, resources and responsibilities, no actor fully verifies the authenticity of the applicant's documents. Swedish authorities are therefore not aware of who comes here as relatives, the Swedish National Audit Office states in its report. That is extremely serious criticism. When such a report comes from the Swedish National Audit Office, the Government shall submit its reply to the report in a letter to the Riksdag. That is what we are now debating. In this case, the Government's letter shows a remarkably passive attitude. It appears that the government chooses to completely close its eyes to the shortcomings and their serious consequences. The government also believes, unlike the Swedish National Audit Office, that the legal quality is ensured. I don't understand how that's possible. The lack of control over who is staying in Sweden has very serious consequences for both individuals and society at large. It opens up to fake marriages and trafficking in human beings and to the abuse and abuse of children, and it creates a breeding ground for organised crime and subsidy fraud. The fact that we do not know who is in the country undermines the ultimate confidence in regulated immigration and poses a threat to the security of the country. The Government refers to the Finnish Immigration Service's own quality follow-ups in support of the Government's failure to share the Swedish National Audit Office's assessment that the legal quality in connection matters is not ensured. However, this argument can be reversed. Is it not in fact very serious that the responsible authority's own investigations do not even indicate that there are such serious deficiencies that the Swedish National Audit Office has found? The Swedish National Audit Office is also clear that it is unclear how the Migration Agency concludes that the legal quality is high, and according to the Swedish National Audit Office's assessment, the Migration Board's assessment rests on an arbitrary basis. How can the government be content with that? The Swedish National Audit Office's recommendation on easier exchange of information between authorities is not new. The relevant authorities have been asking for easier information exchange over a long period of time. The Riksdag has done so repeatedly. Swedish authorities are sitting on a gold mine, but we can only drill in it with plastic pipes," says the Director General of the Swedish Tax Agency, speaking that the authorities cannot share information with each other. Under the Social Democratic-led government, a number of studies have been presented with proposals for increased exchange of information. But responsible ministers have been completely passive, and no proposals have come to Parliament. Instead, it has chosen to bury the issue in further investigations. Since the RIK's criticism is so serious and because the government does not seem willing to take it in, I am pleased that a broad committee majority is hitting the government's fingers on three points. Firstly, identity checks must be tightened up and work on identity issues given higher priority by the government and the authorities. Secondly, the Government must ensure that the legal quality of ancillary matters is ensured, and thirdly, the Government must urgently present legislative proposals aimed at facilitating the collection of information and the exchange of information between authorities. Madam President, I would like Security threats should not be allowed to enter Sweden via family immigration because identity control is poor. But that is the case today, and the Social Democrats are turning a blind eye to it. As I said, I am pleased that a broad majority in Parliament will demand that the government act on these three points. But to be perfectly honest, Madam President, I do not have much hope. I am convinced that it takes a bourgeois government to get Sweden in order.
i-SzyWwaLH9b54VqsotVk71u	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for the approval of reservation 1 in the report, but I naturally support our other reservations as well. It is important to stress when we debate the report on the Swedish National Audit Office's report Coming to Sweden as a relative – the legal certainty in connection matters that the Migration Agency has worked both before and after the Swedish National Audit Office's review to strengthen the ID work on the foreign authorities. In addition, extensive work is being done at EU level to improve controls on persons travelling to the Schengen area. During 2021, the Finnish Immigration Service has decided on an action plan to address the shortcomings identified by the Swedish National Audit Office. Among other things, the agency permanently posts several identity experts at strategically selected foreign authorities. These experts will have a regional responsibility to improve the quality of the control and audit of identity documents and to ensure that there is a uniform and standardised minimum level of competence in all foreign authorities. The authority shall also ensure that the foreign authorities have access to new technical equipment to better carry out travel document audits, introduce a procedure whereby a document review protocol is recorded in permit matters to increase transparency and communication between the foreign authorities and the Migration Agency, and increase access to training for staff both at the migration sections of the foreign authorities and at the Migration Agency's permit units. The Government has commissioned the Finnish Immigration Service to report back by 1 September this year on the implementation of measures in accordance with the action plan drawn up by the Agency, in order to ensure that it actually does what has been said to be done to strengthen identity issues at the Agency and that the handling of related matters is actually done properly, well and with good certainty. As part of taking advantage of other countries' experiences regarding identity issues, the Government commissions the Migration Agency to acquire more knowledge about how other Schengen countries work with identity issues linked to migration and to analyse further opportunities for improvements in this area. When it comes to taking care of the Swedish National Audit Office's recommendations on effective exchange of information between authorities, the Government set up an investigation on 20 June 2021, which will, among other things, assess whether there is a need for amended rules in order to achieve a more effective and effective exchange of information. It will also look at what needs to be changed and whether changes need to be made to a greater extent in order to have a more effective and effective exchange of information and, if necessary, propose necessary constitutional changes. Madam President, I would like It should also be said that we naturally welcome the review as a valuable basis for the government's governance of the Migration Agency. It is extremely important to ensure that the Migration Agency improves the process of clarifying the identity of applicants. Several EU Member States have seen an increase in the incidence of false documents in recent years. The Migration Agency therefore started a project in September 2018 to develop and test a method to strengthen the Migration Agency's identity checks at Swedish foreign authorities. If the processing of ancillary matters is not carried out in a legally secure and uniform manner, there is a risk that applicants who are entitled to a residence permit will be refused their application, and vice versa that applicants who do not meet the conditions will still be granted a residence permit. There is also a risk that families who have the right to be reunited will not be able to do so, that false marriages and trafficking in human beings will not be detected, and that children will be abused and harmed. Weaknesses in the procedure can also lead to unnecessarily long waiting for decisions, which can put a great deal of strain, especially on families with children, and increased costs. Ultimately, there is a risk that public confidence in migration activities will be adversely affected. It is therefore important that the Migration Agency and the foreign authorities have investigation procedures that ensure that the basis for the decision is of high quality. This is extremely important. During the period covered by the Swedish National Audit Office's review, the Government has demanded that the Migration Agency have defined and quantified targets for the legal quality. The Finnish Immigration Service has not previously reported such indicators in the agency's annual report, which has prompted criticism from the Swedish National Audit Office. Nowadays this is being done. In its assessment of the legal quality of extension cases, the Government has looked at the frequency of changes in court. We have received a report today from the Finnish Immigration Service on the issue of legal certainty and measurement of the frequency of changes. In connection cases, it was 5 percentage points in 2016, and for 2017 – 2020 it was about 2 percentage points. The Finnish Immigration Service conducts on an annual basis various types of follow-up of legal security. It is extremely important that you work with this all the time. In order to increase quality follow-ups, people work in a way that means that there are several people who handle the cases and review them when it comes to connecting cases. During 2019 3,500 extension cases were examined and in 2020 around 1,900 cases, which is comparable to 2018 when only 400 were examined. It is a quality-enhancing part to review the way the cases look and are written. We Social Democrats do not take the report lightly at all, but we follow the work and the measures that the Migration Board and also the Government take in connection with the Swedish National Audit Office's report.
i-6k5WRawFCpCGabHpohR2Ag	Madam President, I would like The Swedish National Audit Office's criticism is very serious, and I almost get scared when I read it. The Finnish Immigration Service has therefore not provided technical equipment, competence development or guidance to the foreign authorities in order to review documents and ID documents for applicants. In addition, according to the procedures, the foreign authorities are not responsible for checking whether the documents are authentic, but in Sweden it is assumed that such an audit has taken place. This means that no one today fully checks the authenticity of the applicant's documents. Swedish authorities do not know who is here as relatives in pure Swedish. War criminals can enter under false identity. Children can come here with people who claim to be their parents but are not. The Social Democratic Government replies that it does not share the Swedish National Audit Office's assessment that the legal quality is not ensured. But, Madam President, if no one checks the authenticity of documents that a person invokes in order to come here as a relative, how can the Social Democrats claim that the legal quality is ensured?
i-UxAtD9paPihevV4zMWDjUs	Madam President, I would like As I said in my speech, we take criticism very seriously. Reading about what it was like before the proposed measures that I read would also make me very worried and cause me to fall into Maria Malmer Stenergards's concerns. In fact, however, it has been stated that action is being taken. And these are not the only measures, but a letter based on the Swedish National Audit Office's report. Maria Malmer Stenergard also knows that this is not the only thing that the government has changed and changes in the review of looking at identity. We will talk in the future about labour migration, family immigration and so on, so it is not that there have been no changes or improvements in legislation. But we will of course follow this up carefully so that we do not continue to be like Maria Malmer Stenergard paints without the measures actually being followed and there will be an improvement. We shall also follow the work that is being done within the European Union in this area. It is extremely important to cooperate and see if there are other ways of improving quality and legal certainty.
i-8FaoCxDuE9rcoXEG8WzVtv	Madam President, I would like It is good that the Social Democrats are prepared to follow up on a regulatory framework that will allow war criminals to travel here under false identity. However, I wish that much stronger action had been taken, because I simply do not feel safe as a Swedish citizen. It is quite striking that the government seems to be turning a blind eye to a number of social problems. And if you see them to some extent, you bury them in investigations that, despite more than seven years of government, do not seem to result in any proposals. One such problem is the issue of sharing information between authorities. We have the famous case where a person who stayed here illegally was found in connection with the Prime Minister's residence. Then the confidentiality rules look in such a way that if it had been the Tax Agency that had discovered this, they would not even have had to pick up the phone and inform the police or the Migration Agency about it. I believe that there are some problems linked to the possibility of sharing information between Swedish authorities. Instead, in his speech here, Carin Ohlsson says that, if there is a need for changes in rules for the exchange of information between authorities, we shall of course look at it. And it is something that is then buried in an investigation, as you usually do. This makes me very concerned. Again, is it the case that the Social Democrats do not see the problems at all? Their own Director General at the Swedish Tax Agency recently said in Dagens Nyheter that Swedish authorities are sitting on a gold mine but only allowed to drill in it with plastic pipes. It is not only she who says this, but authority after authority has written to the government and said that it must change the confidentiality regime. But you still haven't done it. I would therefore like to ask the question quite clearly: does Carina Ohlsson have a problem with the Swedish authorities not being allowed to share information?
i-V6zbjdWoSRHS8xM3hhG5br	Madam President, I would like Yeah, I see problems. It's about crimes in the welfare sector. It is also about looking at this with identity, as Maria Malmer Stenergard points out. Not only did I say about, but I actually said that if legislative changes are needed to assimilate information between authorities, then it must, and also constitutional changes, be done. Of course, I also see the problems that Maria Malmer Stenergard highlights, but I may not paint quite as much in black as she does. The changes that have nevertheless been made and are now being made have taken place under a Social Democratic government, even if it is a long time by seven years. But we will, as our Prime Minister says, turn every stone around. What we see in the Swedish National Audit Office's report is part, but there are many more parts that we need to review. Among other things, I highlighted labour migration and things that are seen in the welfare sector. Of course, we have to deal with it in order to change. I will continue to listen to suggestions and comments from Maria Stenergard. I take this very seriously and I do not ignore in any way the proposals made by Maria Stenergard.
i-FA5gnQvZALTpfRjzrNJcnH	Madam President, I would like As everyone in this Chamber knows, of course, but perhaps not everyone in the cabins, the Swedish National Audit Office regularly reviews the authorities to ensure that they do their work properly. Thanks to, or perhaps more due to, the migration crisis in 2015, the migration area has also been more reviewed. This is, of course, absolutely necessary on the basis of the difficult irreversible consequences that it has brought to large parts of society. But now it is not the migration issue as a whole that is the focus of today's debate, but more specifically how the Migration Agency has worked with family immigration. It is therefore about foreigners who move to Sweden to be with a wife, a husband, a common-law spouse, or for that matter children and parents. The immigration of relatives has represented a very large part of the immigration to Sweden in recent years, while the demands on how it should be done have been far too low. Supply requirements have been low or even non-existent. There have been no demands for integration. Immigrants have been allowed to fill in already overcrowded exclusion areas, while controls have been lacking and the regulatory framework has been full of loopholes. So there are lots of angles of approach – many threads to pull and lots of knots to dissolve. But what the Swedish National Audit Office has looked at more specifically this time is whether the handling of connection cases has kept a good legal quality. It is a limited area where the Swedish National Audit Office has nevertheless found many problems. A basic one is that the Migration Agency is poor at controlling the identity of applicants. How should we have control over who can be in Sweden if we do not even know who it is that we let in? If you are going to try to explain this problem in a fairly simple way, it is about the following way: The Migration Agency has the main responsibility to investigate matters about relatives who are abroad and to decide who can come here. However, since applicants are normally abroad, it is necessary to rely on staff who are also abroad in embassies and consulates. They interview the foreigners, check various documents and send their conclusions to their colleagues in Sweden. So far so good, Madam President. The problem is that communication and the division of responsibilities between them do not work as it should. The Finnish Immigration Service, for its part, assumes that staff abroad have carried out certain checks, asked certain specific questions and checked the authenticity of various documents, although this often does not happen. The staff abroad, for their part, feel that they have done what they have been able to do on the basis of existing directives, although it does not at all correspond to what the Migration Agency is actually asking for. Nor is there any equipment that controls documents and scans the authenticity of documents of various kinds, but it is done more arbitrarily and without real expertise. Everyone therefore feels that they have taken responsibility in some way, and in this way the problem is built into the system. The answer to the question who takes responsibility for the fact that relatives who come to Sweden are really the ones they claim to be is therefore someone else, or in other words nobody. Also routines, manuals, legal positions and other types of guidance have broken both here at home and out there. It may sound a bit sad to nag about these eternal documents, but when you as an administrator at the Migration Agency or as an official of an embassy are going to work on a matter, you need legal support. You have to know what to do, and you have to know how to do it. There are also shortcomings in the follow-up to various decisions. The Swedish National Audit Office states that the Migration Agency has too many shortcomings to measure the legal quality of the proceedings. Another issue related to what the Swedish National Audit Office is addressing concerns the supply of skills. As another new report has shown, the Migration Agency has undergone a steel bath since the crisis in 2015, and thousands of experienced and knowledgeable administrators have left the work in just a few years. This, of course, also has consequences for the handling of ancillary cases. Less experience leads to less competence, less efficiency and perhaps even less legal certainty. This not only hits the applicants, but also has consequences for Sweden as a nation. We must be able to rely on everyone who works with controlled immigration to do their job and keep Sweden safe. With poor skills supply, the risk of fake marriages and human trafficking increases. It also increases the risk of people taking children to Sweden who are not their own and who are abused and fathered in different ways or that a person can act as a connecting person several times in different cases. Madam President, I would like It is, of course, the government that is ultimately responsible for all of this. The government governs the kingdom, the government appoints heads of authorities, the government decides on assignments and grants for authorities and will constantly review them. The government has proved to have failed in this case, as in many other cases. We Swedish democrats have always had a different view of migration policy than the government's hopelessly naive pretend attitude. We have advocated responsibility, precautionary principles and impact assessments. Of course, this must also apply to family migration. There are no excuses not to tighten up the identity checks. It should be a matter of course to improve the work of the foreign authorities, provide proper conditions for legal certainty and efficient management, and ensure that there are competent staff both here and abroad. Madam President, I would like Of course, we can and should continue to discuss migration policies, volumes and all that up to the elections in order to give voters as much chance as possible to decide which option is best for a future Sweden. However, regardless of the 2022 elections – whether Sweden should have a naïve Social Democratic migration policy or a responsible Swedish democratic migration policy – we must be able to agree that regulated immigration requires solid controls. No more war criminals! No more Iraqi defense ministers! No more Rakhmat Akilov on our streets! Like the government, it is not possible to invest everything in having a great deal of immigration and then ignore the controls. It can never be good. Madam President, I would like I would like to conclude by thanking in particular the Left Party and the Centre Party for agreeing together with us on the points concerning identity issues, legal quality and information collection, so that we obtained a majority for those texts. It sends a strong signal to the government about the seriousness of the issues at stake. I would also like to ask for the approval of reservation 5.
i-C1tvgZiHkiSgUsHpFjBbyS	Madam President, I would like With regard to that story that came at the end of Jonas Andersson's speech, I would just like to correct the following: the Left Party had its own criticism, but in the report the committee puts it together under the reservation. Lying might not be a good idea, I'd say. The Left Party welcomes the Swedish National Audit Office's review of the Government's and the Migration Agency's handling of family immigration. The review is limited, and there are areas that would need to be further highlighted. However, we will have to take that at another time. What we can take now, however, is the serious shortcomings in that the work of the Migration Agency is not carried out in a way that ensures that the processing in connection cases is of high legal quality. These deficiencies are particularly serious with regard to the work of the Finnish Immigration Service and the foreign authorities in identifying the identity of the applicant, where the foreign authorities assist the Finnish Immigration Service. Looking back a few years, we see that the Migration Agency between 2017 and 2020 underwent one of the fastest and biggest reductions within the Swedish state administration in many years. There have been shortcomings in both planning and implementation. For example, both the government and the management of the Migration Agency expected that the productivity of the agency would increase in 2017 and 2018, which the government used as a justification for reducing appropriations. However, the Migration Agency succeeded in reaching the targets, and this led, among other things, to asylum seekers and persons seeking residence permits being forced into unnecessarily long times in the reception system. At the same time, new and partly complex rules were introduced in the Aliens Act, which made the agency's mission even more difficult. Madam President, I would like I thought I'd stop at the processing times for a while. At the beginning of 2021, JO strongly criticised the Migration Agency in several decisions regarding long processing times. The JO notes that for several years many people have been addressing complaints about slow processing. That the processing times were long in the years after 2015, when many people applied for asylum in Sweden, is understandable. However, the increase in migration has already slowed down in 2016, and the Migration Agency has had a good time to adapt its operations to the new conditions. JO lands in the conclusion that, although there may be lingering effects, it is no longer possible to excuse long processing times at the Migration Agency with reference to 2015. The Left Party has repeatedly criticised the lengthy processing times and shortcomings in the government's work to shorten them. For extension cases, the Migration Agency is expected to reach the controlled processing times in 2022. The fact that this does not happen until seven years after 2015 is unacceptable. Nevertheless, I think that the report we are debating today shows the greatest Socialist lie in modern times, namely that we needed a so-called breathing space for asylum reception in order to improve capacity. That is what was promised when the temporary law came into force. But what have the Social Democrats used this time for? Yes, it has not been to strengthen reception and shorten processing times; it has only been to tighten up and compete for who can treat people on the run the most badly. Those who have lost and become pawns in government games are families of children who are torn apart and caught and children who are deprived of their childhood overnight. If the government is to learn some kind of lesson from the report we are debating today, it must be that the capacity of reception should be increased and preparedness strengthened rather than the possibility of family reunification being restricted. The deliberate and active introduction of barriers for families with children and not allowing them to live together is indecent – just like the long processing times, which keep children separate from their families. The ambition must be to have a much faster procedure with strong legal certainty. I therefore support the Left Party's reservation 8 in the report. I see that I still have speaking time, Madam President, so before I finish, I would like to take this opportunity to welcome the school class up in the gallery to the House. Before I came to Parliament early this morning, I met this class, that is, the students who are up in the gallery. It is that their classmate Zarif and his family have an expulsion decision over them, which the students have long protested against. Zarif has a strong connection with Sweden through school and activities, and he has lived here almost all his life – just like your children, you in this House. He speaks fluent Swedish and knows nothing but the security and identity he has here. The parents work here. They come from Bangladesh from the beginning and have done exactly everything right, ever since day one when they came here over 11 years ago. They have even met the tough demands of the legislation. Zarif has lived here almost all his life, and yet Sweden wants to expel the family of children to a country that the children do not know much about or have any connection to. You in this House should ask yourselves what this does to a society and how we view each other. What does this mean for the class up there in the gallery? Asylum law must be allowed to be an international insurance policy for those of us who must flee, and more must be able to stay. Everything else is obscene. To continue expelling children in this way is insane, and I actually think that those behind this policy can go and meet these brave students afterwards and answer their questions. To those of you who are sitting up in the gallery – to you, to other families with children and to unaccompanied minors who are listening and who have been in trouble because of government policy – I would like to say that you also have the right to freedom. You have the right to your families and the right to security. At least we'll do everything we can to get you to this court. To you, Zarif, I want to say that you are not alone. Your life, your family and your future also count. You up there in the gallery should be really proud of yourselves who come here and protest and take the fight against this shit policy. I hope to see you soon. You're the one who's doing the right thing when the politicians are doing the wrong thing!
i-AC6yGWja36f1mrQFn5zJ4d	Despite the distressing case, I would like to remind you that we are not discussing individual cases in this House.
i-2jLUvCyk2RtMFFPfhK5vLi	Madam President, I would like This was an extremely strange speech in many ways, I have to say. Among other things, Tony Haddou accused me of lying. After all, it is enough to look at the SfU8 report and look at the proposals for parliamentary decisions: paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 do not include a left-wing party reservation. Then one must assume that the Left Party is behind the majority text. The only reservation from the Left Party concerns processing times. So I don't really know why Tony Haddou accuses me of lying. Does Tony Haddou mean that the Left Party has made a mistake and has not really understood how the work in committee and parliament works, or is there something else that has gone wrong? After all, I had the hope that the Left Party, too, might have woken up and begun to advocate a responsible migration policy, but does Tony Haddou think that he intends to vote differently in this House when this comes to a decision?
i-GDxmDktHk6zEfMnxdsTpq2	Madam President, I would like After all, I voted in favour of reservation 8 in this report. If there is anything that needs to be sorted out, we have raised a motion that has become a reservation in the report. If the Swedish Democrats are offended that I say they are lying, I can say that they are turning the truth when they stand up there and say that we are backing up the Swedish Democrats.
i-E1FMVisFFTiuPgDetY29Ub	Madam President, I would like I have no idea who's violated here. This, too, is a rather strange accusation, I might say. I don't feel very offended at all. I just think it would be reasonable if the Left Party could also stand by what has been said in committee. It has not been reserved for paragraphs 1, 2 or 3, so I assume that the majority text is supported. If you've done wrong, maybe you should thank me for the information, apologize and do the right thing next time.
i-KhXUGAsBWgkDRK4s1MeiNg	Madam President, I would like I have nothing to thank for and nothing to apologize for. We have raised our motion, and I have called for approval of the reservation that we are also voting on in the House later today.
i-RWgZHLoQdA1mGMKr6RrN7k	Madam President, I would like Today is 206 days away from the elections. Every day it becomes much clearer what two government options we have. On one side there are four parties who want a change of power and who think that this Social Democratic government has been given over seven years and has thrown them away. It is the Moderates, the Swedish Democrats, the Liberals and the Christian Democrats. We agree on a lot. We agree to get Sweden in order and to ensure security. We also agree that Sweden needs a reduction in immigration in order to be able to reverse the integration crisis, where so many – not least children – suffer in exclusion. If Sweden continues to stand out with a high reception of asylum, Sweden will not be able to reverse the trend. On the other side we have – I believe – an alternative consisting of the Social Democrats, the Left Party, the Green Party and the Center Party. If in any way they are to form a government or join forces to support a government, they also need to agree on policies. There, for example, safety issues are obviously not a priority. We have a Social Democrats who now say that they are in favour of sustainable immigration. The rhetoric is not entirely in line with practice, but this is claimed. At the same time, we have the Left Party, which calls the current migration policy shit policy, to quote Tony Haddou. I am, of course, very curious – and I think the voters are also – about what demands the Left Party will make on migration policy to release an S-led government.
i-ARt8vkvpP5QmUZEmmYrcoX	Madam President, I would like I think Maria Malmer Stenergard knows very well that the Left Party is moving forward on Left Party policy. Maybe I should have invited Malmer Stenergard to the Left Party Congress a week ago. There we decided on an election platform where we describe the right of asylum. That's something we go to elections on. It's left-wing politics. I would like to say that security issues are also important for the Left Party, as Maria Stenergard mentioned this. You should definitely be safe at work; I think that's very important. You're supposed to be safe in your neighborhood. I do not share the view and reality that is being expressed by the Moderates here about tightening up immigration. I'd like to ask you back a question. Now the Moderates are talking about what will be required to release this government and so on. There is a long way to go before the elections, but the question that the Moderates need to ask themselves is what SD will require to release Ulf Kristersson. Perhaps you in the Moderates need to ask yourselves that question and think about it to see what position you are in.
i-7rmcsr4MhdnJaUH4RYQbfq	Madam President, I would like I have no problem at all with that question. The Moderates, the Swedish Democrats, the Christian Democrats and the Liberals put forward a joint counter-proposal when the migration bill was discussed last year. The proposal fell in this House with one vote. This shows, of course, that the four parties that want to replace this government also agree on an alternative with regard to migration policy. I think that is quite clear. On the other hand, on the other hand, we have a party, which Tony Haddou represents, which calls the current policy – which has been pushed through by the Social Democrats, the Environment Party and the Center Party, which it intends to cooperate with – for shit politics. I do not believe that there is really a consensus. Therefore, I think that my question remains relevant and continues to require an answer. I received the reply that the Left Party has presented an election platform where it has advanced its migration policy. It was certainly not an answer to what you are prepared to compromise on. Everyone knows that it needs to be given and taken when a government basis is to be developed. What is the Left Party not prepared to compromise on? Will it, for example, agree to language requirements for permanent residence permits and citizenship? In itself, I am not sure that this is something that the Social Democrats will demand. How will the legal framework for family migration be viewed? It is also something that I think the Swedish people are quite interested in and that is linked to today's debate.
i-QS3Hv9EsX7Wt7piBpN4Jf8	Madam President, I would like There are a lot of questions that the Moderates want answers to, but I don't think we need to sit here and speculate when we don't know the situation at all. Migration legislation has been addressed in the debate. You didn't have the majority. You don't have a majority today either. You have tried to get a prime minister elected a few times during this term of office, but you have not had a majority. I don't think you'll get a majority after that either. What's a little strange, honestly, is that you're standing here counting on the Liberals. It's like counting on rain in the Sahara. It's hard for me to see. The Moderates can stand here in the debate asking questions and speculating in this way, but it does not give any clarity in the debate – quite the contrary.
i-J1RQpn4bg3hhLiCfAjCn6o	Madam President, I would like Our own border police have noted that we have a parallel society that is only growing and that we have lost control of who is here. With this, I believe that everyone listening understands that this issue of identity is something very important. Today we have a debate about coming to Sweden as a relative, and as a basis we have the Swedish National Audit Office's report, or alarm report, on this. The Finnish Immigration Service receives a number of recommendations from the Swedish National Audit Office on how to improve its work in clarifying the applicant's identity. We may disagree in this House as to how tight the Swedish migration policy should be, and of course how it is, but what amazes me a little is that we are not touchingly agreed that the identity of a person who comes to Sweden and has to stay must be clarified. Let's know who's in our country. I believe that a responsible policy does not frustrate this, and it certainly does not wave away the measures proposed. Madam President, I would like I say this because, surprisingly, it is exactly what the government is doing. The Swedish National Audit Office believes that the government's allocation of resources may have been too low. I find this remarkable, not least in view of the fact that the Migration Agency pointed out that it would be a consequence of taking over responsibility for the migration activities carried out by the foreign authorities on 1 January 2020. The Migration Board noted that this resulted in a deficit of SEK 30 million and that, if you did not receive this money, you would be forced to reallocate resources from the permit examination to the asylum examination. Permit trials would thus be prioritised down as a consequence; this was clearly stated by the Migration Agency. Licensing – that's where we find what we stand and debate here and now, that's connecting matters. The Migration Board wrote this in 2000 in connection with an investigation – keep up with it now:.The person A claimed to be his wife is his sister. A and B are not the parents of the children. Two of the children are children of A's brother. Two more children are brothers to A and have also reached age of age. It is still unclear who the parents of the other four children are. ..................................................... That the clarification of identity is important cannot be misunderstood by the reader of this report from the Swedish National Audit Office. Nor can it be misunderstood that the Migration Board warned that if they do not receive this money, they must give priority to the licensing process. We Christian Democrats therefore made sure, together with Moderates and Swedish Democrats, to correct this in the budget adopted by the Parliament and to add this SEK 30 million. Words must be linked to action. Madam President, I would like The importance of making identities clear cannot be stressed enough. It is so crucial for us to have at all what we call the rule of law. Incorrect information, uncertainty and lack of confidence in public authorities can cause asylum seekers to dispose of identity documents or not dare to provide accurate information because they believe that it may affect their ability to stay negatively. However, this jeopardises legal certainty, not only for the system but for the asylum seeker himself. High legitimacy for the asylum system is important, both for the asylum seeker and for the public's view of immigration and for our opportunities for integration. We Christian Democrats have a completely different proposal in this area, which I think could help to strengthen legal certainty in connection matters. We believe that a rule should be introduced whereby, within three months, an asylum seeker should notify all family members concerned for family reunification. Then we know right from the start when a person is allowed to stay here who are his or her relatives. Then there are not suddenly people out of nowhere who think they are connected. Madam President, I would like We can talk about the identity issue forever. When there is a lack of control or routine, it opens up opportunities for fake marriages, human trafficking and for children to be exploited and fathered really badly. This is shown by this report from the Swedish National Audit Office. Problems concerning the identification of identity also open the door to what we call welfare crime, i.e. subsidy fraud, but also organised crime. Welfare crime is estimated to cost Swedish taxpayers between SEK 15 and 18 billion annually. Not knowing who is here in Sweden and who is allowed to be here is a direct threat to national security. We Christian Democrats therefore support paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of the committee's report, that is, the position of the majority. We also support the Swedish Democrats' proposal to investigate a national ID centre. As it is today, responsibility is shared between a number of different authorities. The responsibility for examining these foreign documents also lies with various authorities. To gather this into a national ID centre, we believe, like the Swedish Democrats, that there is a need to investigate. Turn over every stone, says the government. Do it, because then maybe we can get better quality! Together with the Swedish Democrats, we Christian Democrats have also put forward a proposal that the government should prioritise a proper and long-term development of the Swedish Migration Agency's digitalisation. We need to be able to use the technology, when it does exist, to do a better job. Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats, the Moderates and the Liberals have a reservation in which we believe, among other things, that the Government will instruct the Finnish Immigration Service, in collaboration with the relevant authorities, to investigate how the Migration Agency can more easily access the necessary information needed in the processing of connection matters. I request the approval of reservation 4.
i-4dSeH6Nt7P3xTe4Po44hN5	Madam President, I would like We are now debating the Swedish National Audit Office's report on coming to Sweden as a relative and the applications made by the Swedish Migration Agency. I would like to start by saying a few words about the possibility of family reunification as a whole and the conditions under which family members can be reunited at all. It is an issue that is incredibly important and which we have discussed a lot, both here and in the migration committee that sat and worked as well as in other contexts. This is an issue on which we from the political parties have very different views. For the Green Party, it is incredibly important that parents and children should not be separated, that partners should live together and that families should be kept together. Madam President, I would like Sweden has and must have regulated immigration. There are conditions that need to be met in order to obtain a residence permit. If you do not reach them, you do not have the right to remain in Sweden. It is essential that legal certainty is as high as possible. It's something we need to work with all the time. This morning, the Migration Board was in committee and reported on its work on this. I think that we agree across all party boundaries on this particular issue – this is something that you never get done with, but on which it needs to be worked on all the time. The report from the Swedish National Audit Office has pointed out that there are shortcomings and that improvements need to be made when it comes to family immigration, especially when it comes to proving identity. It is an important issue of legal certainty. The report proposes a number of announcements. Some of them relate to what is going on. There's an investigation that's working on how information is to be shared between authorities. It was set up a year ago. Confidentiality issues are not something you can change from one day to another. It takes an investigation and preparation to do so in a balanced way. The Migration Agency has also been commissioned in regulatory letters to work on the issues highlighted in the report. Madam President, I would like Another thing that I think is important in this context is that the Migration Agency gets sensible planning conditions. It is an authority that has sometimes been treated in a stepmotherly way. They have a difficult mission from the start. They have had different regulations that they have got with short notice. They have had a rather tight funding framework, which has also shrunk. They also have different time limits that they have to meet. In order to maintain legal certainty, it is important that the Migration Agency is given the conditions it needs. Madam President, I would like With this, I would like to endorse reservation number 2.
i-FxDrEa9SjcvU25EC61GwFY	Madam President, I would like Rehabilitation is an important part of the work to help more people with long-term illness get back to work and become healthy. We are now debating the Swedish National Audit Office's report on Försäkringskassan's work on preventing sick leave. The report shows that there is a need to do more to strengthen prevention and rehabilitation. I therefore agree with the committee's view that workplace-oriented rehabilitation support and preventive sickness benefit are important tools for achieving the goal of a long-term and stable low level of absenteeism from work due to illness. However, although we welcome the broad agreement in committee that prevention is important, we believe that the government's response to the letter is sufficient. We Social Democrats therefore support our reservations, but for the gain of time I only ask for reservation 1. Sickness insurance shall provide security in the event of illness. We pay our premium when we work. If we suffer from illness, we should, while it takes to return, be protected financially and be entitled to support and efforts to regain our work capacity as quickly as possible. Accidents and sickness can happen to all of us. At the same time, however, we know that more short-skilled people are suffering from long-term illness. More women are affected, and they are more affected than men. When health insurance does not work, when people are not given the right to the financial security they pay for or when the right support is not available, this contributes to increased inequality and insecurity in society. The pace of reform in health insurance is high. We want order. That is why we need to take back democratic control of welfare, and this also applies, of course, to health insurance. During the term of office, several steps have been taken which now have an impact. We have raised the ceiling of sickness benefit and improved the economy for sick leave. It reinforces the important principle of loss of income and strengthens confidence in insurance. In March a year ago, we changed the regulatory framework for review at day 180. Only a few weeks ago, Försäkringskassan reported that after six months of sick leave, the share of out-of-insurance has decreased significantly in the previous year. When more people are given the opportunity to stay in health insurance, the possibility of rehabilitation and getting well also increases. Other important changes in the regulatory framework are coming into force these days, which will also help to increase the focus on rehabilitation. It will be easier to get sickness benefit and rehabilitation after 365 days. It is about more people being allowed to do their rehabilitation in order to get back to work. It is a victory for both the individual and society. Staff members shall be entitled to sickness benefit. It is a group which, although often paying the premium, does not qualify for health insurance. It includes many women who work in health care, in stores or in the hotel and restaurant industry. Despite the fact that we are now at a high pace in the process of change, we need to do more in order for prevention and rehabilitation to work better. The committee chooses to propose a number of announcements on this matter. We believe that the work that is already under way must continue and that the committee is in danger of breaking open doors. The Government has clarified Försäkringskassan's work on preventing sick leave by clarifying this in the agency's regulation letter 2021. The Social Insurance Agency will focus on prevention and past rehabilitation efforts, and there will be better coordination. Last autumn the government received the investigation A health insurance with prevention, rehabilitation and security, with proposals for a new benefit: prevention benefit. It is a benefit that can be granted to an insured person who makes loss of income in order to undergo a preventive medical or work-life measure with a view to shortening the period of illness or preventing a loss of work capacity due to illness. Other important proposals in the same investigation concern the responsibility of Försäkringskassan to keep statistics and a clearer responsibility for its coordination mission by developing a plan for return to work and rehabilitation within 60 days in case of illness. In addition, Statskontoret analyses Försäkringskassan's work on how to follow up and measure effectively in order to ensure that the insured are given the help to which they are entitled. That mission will be sub-reported later in the spring of March and will be completed next year. We believe that it is crucial that we proceed with the analysis work and that we continue to prepare the detailed proposals before us. Madam President, I would like Let us admit: our health insurance has not worked well enough in recent years. Many have been severely affected by harsh regulations and narrow interpretations of those regulations. For a long time we have heard stories where people get sicker in contact with the authorities. Several studies and analyses in recent years show that it is the regulatory framework that makes it difficult to work preventive and rehabilitative. For us Social Democrats, health insurance is an important part of our welfare. If you do not get the right support and efforts, you risk being hit financially but above all human. Those who are ill should feel confident that health insurance works, and poverty does absolutely no good. This debate is about prevention and rehabilitation. But it cannot be decoupled from the whole. Over the last few years, we have started a job of fixing health insurance so that people get what they pay for. It's about respect. We know that if our welfare fails, people who already have it hard and hard will suffer. Effective rehabilitation and safe health insurance are therefore essential elements if the aim is to increase equality in society.
i-5XWHvLztjSdC69MkuMFX5K	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal in the report to be approved, except for paragraph 4, which deals with cooperation in which I request the approval of reservation 4. The Swedish National Audit Office's review has focused on Försäkringskassan's work to prevent sick leave through preventive sickness benefit and workplace-oriented rehabilitation support. The review shows that the work with preventive sickness benefit and workplace-oriented rehabilitation support is a low priority within Försäkringskassan, and here a large responsibility falls to the government. The Government's mission to Försäkringskassan regarding preventive work is not clear and consistent over time. The mission is unclear in terms of both responsibility and content. Nor has the government ensured that the impact of the interventions is evaluated. It is easy to make the assessment based on this wording, given the current application of the assignment by Försäkringskassan, that the Authority's ability to influence sickness benefits and ill-health rates with these benefits is severely limited. It is serious, not least in the light of the fact that it is an important tool for achieving the goal decided by the Riksdag that absence from work due to illness should be at a long-term stable and low level. In addition, from a human perspective, past efforts can help avoid absences from work due to illness whenever possible. The current government has held government power for the last seven years. As shown in the Swedish National Audit Office's report, the Swedish Social Insurance Agency has during this time not received any explicit statements that the agency should work preventively against sick leave. It was only recently that Försäkringskassan received a revised regulatory letter with wordings on preventive measures. However, it is not only wording in regulatory letters that demonstrates the lack of governance. Survey responses from local collaboration officers give a clear picture of this lack of government governance. The Swedish National Audit Office also points out that the Swedish Social Insurance Agency has pointed out in various contexts that there are uncertainties in the task of preventing sick leave. The wording of the regulatory letter, which reads, with a focus on prevention, is not clear enough at present to give the desired impact in practice. The Moderates and a majority in the committee therefore believe, like the Swedish National Audit Office, that the Government needs to clarify Försäkringskassan's responsibility and mission in terms of preventing sick leave, incapacity for work and sick leave. The Swedish National Audit Office's review also shows that there is a lack of opportunity to evaluate the effects of preventive measures that can be provided with compensation from the Swedish Social Insurance Agency. As a result, it is, of course, difficult to express an opinion on the importance of compensation as an effective instrument for preventing sick leave. Therefore, it is incredibly important that the Government urgently returns with a plan for how the effects of the preventive measures that can be given with compensation from the Swedish Social Insurance Agency can be assessed earlier.
i-F21G8j3JiYnDaXx7w72Wkk	Madam President, I would like Today, we are debating the Social Security Committee's report on the Swedish National Audit Office's report on the Swedish Social Insurance Agency's work on preventing sick leave and the benefits that belong to this work. I support the committee's proposal for a decision in paragraphs 1 to 3. Otherwise, we support all of our reservations, but I choose to endorse only reservation 7 in the report. Madam President, I would like Swedish health insurance policy has been re-debated and, in my opinion, unstable during the last term of office. Either politics has slipped into the ditch where people have been stuck in long-term sick leave without adequate efforts to care and rehabilitation to return to work for them wherever possible, or politics has slipped down into the ditch where high rates of sick leave are regulated downwards by the insurance of severely ill persons. Instead, efforts could have been made to really help people to improve their health and return to work. Madam President, I would like It is about time that we got a workable health insurance and also a workable process around those people who in different ways suffer from both physical and mental ill health. A worrying trend we are seeing today is that the most common cause of sick leave is mental illness. Among these, stress and burnout among women are common. Here, Madam President, I believe that there should be a potential for early detection of these people and, in various ways, for prevention to be able to contribute with help before it goes so far as to make sick leave necessary for recovery. Madam President, I would like Preventive sickness benefit, known as preventive sickness benefit, was introduced almost 30 years ago in connection with the so-called rehabilitation reform in 1992. Since then, this legislation has remained unchanged. The purpose of both the benefit itself and the medical treatment or rehabilitation required for reimbursement is to prevent a person from becoming ill and thus having reduced work capacity and must be prescribed sick. It may also involve shortening the illness period or lifting the person's reduced working capacity. However, it is not required that the person already has a reduced working capacity. The Swedish National Audit Office has in the report Försäkringskassan's work on preventing sick leave – an unclear assignment investigated Försäkringskassan's work with this compensation. Unfortunately, the report shows that preventive work to prevent sick leave has not been a priority at all from Försäkringskassan. The government has also been unclear with its wording to Försäkringskassan. The regulations to Försäkringskassan for the period 2005–2020 did not set specific targets for preventive sickness benefit. Nor was there any requirement for the Social Insurance Agency to report back on how the benefit is used to prevent and reduce sickness absence. In addition, instead of actually preventing sick leave, the benefits have mainly been used for people who have already been on sick leave before, and then the whole purpose of preventive work falls a little bit. According to a report by the Inspectorate for Social Security on preventive sickness benefit, only 10% of those who received the benefit have actually received it as a preventive measure. I mean, then, that the objective of compensation has really been missed. It has also been shown that there are significant regional differences in the use and extent of the compensation. The review from the Swedish National Audit Office also shows that the regulatory framework itself regarding preventive sickness benefit has been problematic and has contributed to the low use of the benefit. Madam President, I would like We in the Swedish Democrats take seriously the shortcomings that are emerging. It is good that the government has now set up an investigation to look at the regulations, but at the same time we believe that the changes that have been made in this area are not enough and that they are coming in the latest. The committee therefore proposes that the Riksdag should issue an announcement to the Government that it should clarify Försäkringskassan's responsibility and mission to prevent sick leave and thereby endorse a request regarding this from us in the Swedish Democrats, the Moderates and the Left Party. Madam President, I would like It has also been shown in the Swedish National Audit Office's review that there are shortcomings in the Swedish Social Insurance Agency's follow-up work and in evaluating preventive measures. But in order to be able to work effectively, the Swedish Social Insurance Agency must know which preventive measures work and have an effect. The committee therefore proposes that the Riksdag announce to the Government that it will ensure that the effects of the preventive measures provided with these benefits from the Swedish Social Insurance Agency are evaluated. This is why the report approves the Moderates and Christian Democrats' proposals for this. Madam President, I would like The Swedish National Audit Office also points to major shortcomings in the knowledge of the actors about preventive work and preventive sickness benefit. However, if the compensation is to be used and for the right purpose, it is crucial that the actors involved actually know that this possibility exists and how it can be used. The committee agrees with the view expressed in motions from us in the Swedish Democrats and the Left Party that the players' knowledge in this area must be increased. The committee therefore proposes that the Riksdag should address an announcement to the Government that it should take measures to increase the knowledge of stakeholders about this. Madam President, I would like The fact that the regulatory framework for preventive sickness benefit poses difficulties for its use is a problem that we see as a problem that needs to be addressed. While mental illness is the most common cause of sick leave, preventive sickness benefit is currently particularly difficult to apply and use in cases of mental illness and diffuse physical symptoms. This is problematic, as it is precisely where it would really be needed and useful. This was also requested by the interviewers in an investigation from the Social Security Inspection. According to the study A health insurance with prevention, rehabilitation and security can one of the reasons why the benefit is not used so much is that there is a requirement to use at least a quarter of the working time. For example, it can cause problems if a person needs to have a conversational therapy session for an hour. Then you don't get the right to compensation. Another reason may be that the health service believes or suspects that the Social Insurance Agency will not approve the treatment plan because it contains educational and social elements. Therefore, this is not recommended. It has been particularly difficult to use compensation precisely for preventive purposes, before problems arise. As a result, the regulatory framework poses so many problems that it cannot even be used for the purpose for which it is intended. I think this is very problematic. That is why we have a motion and a reservation in which we believe that the government should return with proposals to introduce the prevention allowance, as the investigation proposes. I myself was part of the reference group for the investigation, and I believe that this proposal for a new form of preventive compensation, called prevention compensation, solves many of the problems surrounding the regulatory framework. For example, the compensation should be able to be given hour by hour, and it will not be quite as narrow in terms of the type of operation to be eligible for reimbursement. I would therefore like to call for the approval of reservation 7 from us in the Swedish Democrats and the Left Party that this new prevention allowance needs to be introduced as soon as possible. I would like to apologise for exceeding my speaking time.
i-Ho52vYxVmNmL3BquR7XbSC	Madam President, I would like It is incredibly important to feel that you have a job you can go to or that you can study to develop and work with what you want to do in the future. It is important for security and participation in society. This is precisely the goal of the education we have in Sweden: that we should actually be able to have a job to go to. However, if you suffer from illness, you risk losing part of this security that our society contributes. You are at risk of financial or social insecurity. Many also lose meaning, because sense of purpose is often about it: having a job to go to, being involved in society and contributing in different ways. Madam President, I would like It is very important to prevent people from suffering from disease by any means possible. It's about a lot of different parts. We need to have a good working environment at our workplaces. We need to have the opportunity to retrain during working life and change jobs. It is also about in the school environment, from early school years, letting health and movement be a natural part of the school, so that we create a sustainable way of looking at our own health. But it's also about working together at a workplace preventively to get a both physically and mentally good workplace. And when you suffer from illness, it is important to work with rehabilitation in order to be able to return to work. In order for us to be able to work with all these things, many people have a responsibility for the fact that it actually works. It is about me as an individual – that I take responsibility for my health, pay attention when things are not good and also participate in the various joint efforts that take place to prevent ill health. The employer has a great responsibility – both for the work environment, which I have been involved in, and for preventive work and for helping with rehabilitation when I have suffered from illness. The Arbetsförmedlingen also has a responsibility to make sure that it works, that I get support so that I can change jobs if I can not return to my regular work. Then there is Försäkringskassan, which we often talk about. Försäkringskassan has a great responsibility for coordination, prevention and rehabilitation. In the report that we are handling today, the Swedish National Audit Office criticises and makes a number of recommendations to the Government to clarify the responsibility and mission of the Swedish Social Insurance Agency to prevent sick leave and to ensure that the effects of the interventions are followed up. Recommendations are also addressed to Försäkringskassan to collect data in order to be able to make evaluations, to work with knowledge and preventive work, to spread this to different actors who need to work with these things, to spread the competence within their own authority and to simplify for companies so that more people can apply for rehabilitation support. All these pieces are important, which I've been into. There are many of us who share the responsibility for ensuring that it works. I expect the government to direct its authorities in doing the very things to be done and in taking on board the recommendations contained in the report so that prevention can actually be improved. With this, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation number 6 and to refer the rest to my particular opinion.
i-BhYfw99FJ36W4hNXwVaTkq	Madam President, I would like For many years we have had ill-functioning health insurance in Sweden. People don't get what they're entitled to. Thousands of sick and disabled people have been thrown out of the system. Society has lost control of the purpose of social security: providing security. Insurance has been carried out on an assembly line. This is how Sweden has worked for too long. For those affected, this has, of course, had disastrous consequences. It is a huge scandal and a great disgrace to the welfare country of Sweden. The Swedish National Audit Office's report on preventing sick leave also shows shortcomings in Försäkringskassan's work. Coordination is not working and efforts are too late. I hope that all parties that are now showing commitment to this issue will also act when it comes to it. There are detailed, concrete proposals on prevention, sickness benefit and better rehabilitation efforts. The investigation was completed this summer, and I assume that the Government will present the proposals to Parliament. Then we could deal with some of the problems. When this happens, it would be nice if all the parties that are talking about how important this is today also took the opportunity to take their responsibilities. Once again, it risks becoming empty words – a lot of talk and a little workshop. The so-called rehab chain, which the Alliance introduced during its time in power, does not work. Instead, it has become an insurance chain. Rehabilitation and prevention have not improved. Instead, the time limits are used to magically pronounce people healthy on lines that are actually sick. We, who are elected by the people to represent the citizens, should act decisively, not close our eyes and, above all, act as chatterers. The promises we make will be fulfilled. I understand that many have lost faith in politics after all the years of deterioration. Politicians say one thing but do another. The political decisions taken have been completely different from those promised in electoral movements. Madam President, I would like Instead, the Left Party will stand for what we promised. We represent our constituents, not ourselves. We compromise and are constructive, but we demand political influence on our core issues if our mandate is required. That is why a number of improvements have now been made to health insurance. In the autumn budget, the votes of the Left Party were required for the first time during this term. The investigations have of course the government appointed, but until the Left Party made the demands they lay and dusted in some drawer in the department. The left-wing party was needed in the budget vote, which is why improvements were also made. It's not a little thing we're talking about. More are now being granted compensation, and the levels are being increased. Madam President, I would like Grant policy, say some in the right-wing block. Others, like the Swedish Democrats, talk hot about health insurance but fold as soon as the Moderates enter the room. Instead, M, KD and SD reduced the tax only for those who work and thereby created a new penalty tax for the country's disability pensioners. It's bad. That's not how the Left Party works. While others are talking, we are acting, and so are we. You have my word on that. Maybe it's not so strange that the right is against a reinforced health insurance. It should pay to work, they say. M en de de don't understand that working social security policies that everyone who works has allocated part of their salary to are part of such a system if we are to have strong and secure employees in Sweden. Preventing and rehabilitating them seems to be primarily about saving money on insurance that we citizens financed themselves through our very abandoned pay space. We have imported an American work line in Sweden where wage developments are held down by precisely poor remuneration levels. Instead of strong change insurance and strong job policies, politicians have acted to make employees insecure and poor through record low pay levels. Many do not even get the right to the low benefits, but are forced to make a living at best from relatives or through social services. Instead, tax subsidies and sector aid to already profitable multi-billion-dollar companies have been implemented. Madam President, I would like The Alliance implemented today's system. They emerged as healers of the new age, who, contrary to Sweden's collective medical corps, medical expertise and the current state of research through a magic spell, were able to cure 90 000 sick people. Unfortunately, S and MP continued the focus and introduced in 2015 a target on the number of sick days. Then the rejections quadrupled without any legal amendment actually being made. During a burning pandemic, record numbers were secured, but now it has turned around, and we are going to make sure that what is happening now is just the beginning. The goal in the regulation letter has been removed after the Left Party strongly opposed, and the rules have been partially changed. Focus on preventing and rehabilitating can only be a good contribution if the urgent goal of keeping health rates down does not control the operation. Only then can you make sensible, personalised efforts. Madam President, I would like People do not get healthier but suffer more from the treatment that the system puts them through. Not to be believed is the height of humiliation. That's how you destroy a human being. Today we are healthy, but tomorrow it may be you or me who get sick. Among other things, the Left Party, together with all of you who are active in various appeals and in trade unions to change health insurance, has baxat the government and other parties in front of us. Now also those who have been insured through the years need redress and financial compensation, and they need to get their SGI back. There's still a lot to do. The sharp deadlines need to be removed, medical certificates must be valid and those who are chronically ill or have a disability must be entitled to permanent compensation. Therefore, the changes in sickness benefits already examined need to be presented by the government at the latest in connection with the spring change budget. Not least, this would be important in preventing and rehabilitating. Madam President, I would like The promise of prosperity must be restored. The Left Party will remain on until all changes are made. I support the Left Party's reservation 7 in paragraph 7.
i-M5DLMuXmYuADtsr4RY3u9n	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the review made by the Swedish National Audit Office regarding Försäkringskassan's work to prevent sick leave and with a special focus on preventive sickness benefit and workplace-oriented rehabilitation support that will provide access to preventive treatments and efforts to avoid, if possible, sick leave with sickness benefit. I believe that there is a consensus among the parties in this House that we need to reduce sick leave rates, and there is also a commitment, I believe, to this. As a Christian Democrat, I would like to emphasise that preventive work, which we are debating today, must be given a very broad perspective if we are to get the results that we are aiming for. I do not think it is enough to have preventive work that focuses only on the workplace and the problems that may arise there. To me it is obvious that for the individual it is the possibility to get together their unique life puzzle, if you call it that, that affects the feel. Madam President, I would like I remember so well today when, as President of the KDU, I was able to represent the Christian Democrats in the Committee on Agriculture in 1995 and 1996, which I believe was what I was sitting with there. The committee flew in experts and lecturers from many parts of our globe, and I particularly remember a professor who told us that in the future we would hear about people entering the wall. This then aroused a bit of merriment, and we wondered, "What's going on in the wall?" He explained it and also told of another expression that he thought would be used, namely, burning itself out. This isn't that long ago. I asked about this: How is it that people go into the wall and burn themselves out – working time we have never had shorter hours than now, and the working environment has actually moved forward? I remember his answer. He meant that modern man has two jobs, not one. First you go to work, and when you get home, there's another job waiting. Modern man, according to his expression, is an experience novel that can't just be still and boring. He pointed out that he was absolutely not religious but felt that this rest day is not bad, because it gives a chance to recharge the batteries. Madam President, I would like There is also reason to highlight the situation and ability of healthcare to respond to existing needs. We Christian Democrats, as you know, believe that the state should assume responsibility for health care. In connection with this, and it has bearing on what we are talking about here today, we want budgetary responsibility for health insurance and health care to be integrated. As the cost of not preventing ill health becomes clearer, we believe that there will naturally be more preventive measures and their prioritisation. Then we need to compile much more knowledge. There is a lot of research, and sometimes the results contradict each other, but here we also see that there is reason for us to move forward. Madam President, I would like Perhaps this was a somewhat broad perspective on this issue, which concerns the Swedish National Audit Office's report on the prevention of sick leave. The Swedish National Audit Office has made a number of comments, and given the importance of preventive work, of course, is the criticism that is given seriously in s ig. Although we who are participating in this debate agree that the importance of preventive work is important, the Swedish National Audit Office notes that the task of the Swedish Social Insurance Agency to prevent sick leave is not clear. The Swedish National Audit Office notes that the assignment has not been explicitly stated in the Government's regulation letter since 2013. ..................................................... I note that the Government agrees with the Swedish National Audit Office's point that the task of the Swedish Social Insurance Agency regarding preventive work should be clear. That's what you agree with. Surely, Madam President, it is very strange, even given what has been said here today, that, since this government took office, this preventive work has not been included in any of the regulations to the Social Insurance Agency until now. It is a bit difficult to understand, not least in the light of the developments that we have had in recent years regarding sickness rates. The fact that preventive sickness benefit is so widely used for rehabilitation purposes is a failure, and here the government bears the ultimate responsibility, not least when it is said that it has known about this and has not managed it through the regulations. The lack of awareness of the benefits of employers and primary care is a direct consequence of the lack of cooperation of the Social Insurance Agency, we mean. In the case of small and medium-sized enterprises, the remuneration is used to a lesser extent than in larger enterprises. The fact that knowledge of these benefits is also low in primary care becomes a major problem as it primarily affects people with mental illness whose treatment often takes place there. The Social Insurance Agency must therefore ensure that the information about the benefits is available in primary care in order to ensure that the possibility of applying for preventive sickness benefit does not depend on the problem and hence on the healthcare provider. Madam President, I would like Preventive work requires active collaboration with a number of different actors: Försäkringskassan, employer and health care units. That is why we think it should be included in the government's regulation letter to Försäkringskassan, and here, given the importance that we all attribute to preventive work, should also be included as a priority issue for Försäkringskassan. It doesn't. I therefore call for the approval of reservation 4 of us Christian Democrats, Moderates and Swedish Democrats to ensure that the Government ensures that the Social Insurance Agency cooperates actively with both employers and primary care.
i-K4r819emVHFYutSknfGGY6	Madam President, I would like This is a debate on the Swedish National Audit Office's report on Försäkringskassan's work on preventing sick leave. The Swedish National Audit Office has looked at two different forms of support. One of these benefits is preventive sickness benefit, which a person can receive if there is an increased risk of illness, which in turn would lead to a risk of reduced work capacity. The second aid does not have the easy title of a place of work-oriented rehabilitation aid – it is sometimes a bit of a tangled concept. Such a contribution may be made by an employer if there is a need for expert support of some kind in order for an employee to be at risk of reduced work capacity due to work-related or non-work-related illnesses and injuries. What kind of disease is involved, then, is immaterial. Both aids have been used far too little. The lack of clarity in Försäkringskassan's role is highlighted in the Swedish National Audit Office's report. This may be one reason why aid is used in different ways in the country. Administrators seem to perceive their role differently and so do partners. The possibility of receiving preventive sickness benefit is clearly not sufficiently known either to individuals or employers. Of course, it's troubling. For the individual, the possibility of not getting sick, not getting into a longer period of sick leave and being able to come back quickly is very important. Preventive sickness benefit is a tool in this. The Social Insurance Agency does not seem to have informed sufficiently that these subsidies exist. It has also been perceived as tangled to seek them for those who have wanted to apply. It is the larger employers and those with occupational health care who seem to have done so to a greater extent. Madam President, I would like The environmental party was still part of the government when it responded to what the National Audit Office highlights in its report. The government also agrees with much of what is highlighted in the report. The government, among other things, says this in its letter on whether or not it is enough. The Green Party believes that it does so to a large extent. The government has done a lot in the area of social security. Problems have been identified and a number of studies have been set up which have also made important proposals. An investigation has, among other things, been tasked with reviewing the regulatory framework for preventive sickness benefit and rehabilitation benefit. That report came in August 2020. It highlighted how to work prevention better and a new benefit called prevention benefit. It should include the possibility of both so-called prevention allowance and prevention allowance. The aim is to make it easier for the individual to participate in preventive measures. The Social Insurance Agency is proposed to compile statistics related to this. There are also proposals for the state to set up funds for research into the effects of various rehabilitation efforts. From what we understand, these proposals have been well received, in broad terms, by the consultative bodies. We now hope that the government will make proposals based on the investigation. We believe that this would lead to important changes. The actual instructions to Försäkringskassan have also been changed. The goal now is for Försäkringskassan's overall work to lead to a reduction in the long-term sickness benefit rate with a focus on preventive measures, past rehabilitation measures and better coordination. In other words, it should be quite clear that prevention is considered to be one of the main tasks. We believe that this is an important change. It will be better for all those who are ill and dependent on health insurance to receive support from the authority. Madam President, I would like That the Environmental Party is critical of the basic construction of the so-called rehabilitation chain, we have mentioned in many contexts before. When the Alliance government introduced a lower limit in health insurance to reduce the number of sick leave, many people were in trouble in the system. Disease and the chance to recover and if so, when has been examined. Some have passed the needle eye for the sharp time limits, others not. It has not rarely been possible to be horrified when reports have highlighted events and how they have affected individuals. Madam President, I would like The system has been improved on many points. We hope that through the new compensations there will be a greater focus on prevention, better information and support for the new goal. Madam President, I would like With this, I would like to endorse reservation number 2.
i-DHRjSYdLByKjth3fnonDfa	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered by Minister of Justice and Home Affairs Morgan Johansson, Minister of State Ardalan Shekarabi, Minister of Climate and Environment Annika Strandhäll and Minister of Culture Jeanette Gustafsdotter. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. Minister of Justice and Home Affairs Morgan Johansson answers both general policy questions and questions within his own area of responsibility.
i-NoYCMcZ79uszr7JiqM7sgL	Madam President, I would like There are many of us who have culture as the air of life. It is therefore with great interest and commitment that we are following a new Social Democratic Minister and wondering what direction cultural policy should now take. We have also followed several interesting interviews, including the talented Stina Oscarson who asked many interesting questions – which, however, remained unanswered.
i-Ajueh4n5D6Z6byCvJUzKPr	Madam President, I would like I haven't read everything that's been written about me, and that's so that I won't lose focus on why I took the assignment, that is to prevent the democratic conversation from drowning in hate and threats, to ensure that the culture is all over the country for everyone regardless of background and of course for strong, free, independent media. I think that if I focus on what has been written about me now I lose the momentum on what is absolutely important.
i-APMXQQX4p2o7QTWkxRbk2A	Madam President, I would like I do not think I received an answer to my question as to what the Minister for Culture considers to be culture. I can narrow down a little more: Does the Minister of Culture think that there is something that is Swedish culture, and what is it?
i-UBT91stubktZwPzkHqbANe	Madam President, I would like There is something called culture in Sweden. That's the most important thing for me. There should be culture all over the country for everyone, regardless of background. We're not supposed to have democratic conversations drenched in hate and threats, and we're supposed to have free, strong media. What we should also focus on now is to get crisis and re-start funds.
i-G3fobTwpHu8PRU6MZizHYt	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister for Climate and Environment Annika Strandhäll, who is responsible for the reduction obligation. Today we have a situation in which severely affected households and bleeding small businessmen in the field of haulage and agriculture are punished for being based in Sweden. In Finland diesel is 2.50 SEK cheaper. In Denmark it is more than SEK 3 cheaper. If we compare with Germany, the price difference is SEK 4.50. Sweden is today, despite its size, the world's largest consumer of the bio-based diesel HVO. We account for 30 to 40% of the market in the EU, and we import over 90% of this. It is clear that this is an unreasonable policy that other countries cannot adopt without an environmental disaster as a result. My question to the Minister is therefore: Is it prepared to reduce the reduction obligation and restore Swedish competitiveness?
i-FeTzcojbMv3tnr2hrfTkwf	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Martin Kinnunen, for the question! The reduction obligation is perhaps one of our most important tools for reaching our emissions targets, and it has served us very well so far. Last year, Sweden was the country in the EU that had the most new car purchases of an electric car type, which is a fantastic rating. The transition is much faster than we originally thought. It is also important to drive investment in biofuels. We from the Social Democrats and the government want to see more biofuels from Sweden and less oil from Saudi Arabia. Now we are well on the way to domestic production of biofuels, and that is thanks to the reduction obligation.
i-EV511Loor9r4aSPmR5J91A	Madam President, I would like I note, therefore, that the Minister is not prepared to work towards a lower reduction obligation. The Minister spoke of many winners. I wonder what private households, haulage and agriculture have benefited from this. Why does the Minister think that these industries and these people should have an extra price shock in 2023?
i-ReKXtrkk1wEE5RJ3mewvsS	Madam President, I would like I am not going to repeat the arguments I just put forward. We can only say at the outset that if we set lower standards, the pace of change would also slow down. Having said that, before Christmas the government gave the Energy Agency the task of just producing a basis for a so-called control station. It is partly about analysing how well the reduction obligation works, and also what financial consequences this has for households and business.
i-SaLwp8WxCPVckJFy3CDoaT	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Justice and Home Affairs Morgan Johansson. Last year, more than every other company in Sweden suffered from crime. It covers everything from repeated thefts to systematic fraud. This is shown in a recent report from the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise. This crime costs an enormous amount of money, both for companies themselves and also for society as a whole. Many of those affected are considering whether it is worth continuing to fight. Nevertheless, we hardly hear of entrepreneurs as victims of crime. Even less are they visible in the statistics. There is no systematic recording and collection of data on entrepreneurs who are victims of crime. In order to take the right action, we need to know what that crime looks like. Brå sits on a huge amount of statistics but lacks criminal codes that give a comprehensive picture of the crimes committed against companies. My question, therefore, is what the Minister intends to do to identify crime against the country's companies.
i-V55S43WEWz98mvsD6KaAQb	Madam President, I would like I think we know quite well what kind of crime this is about, not least the fraud offences, and the police are working very actively against these frauds. I note that the number of frauds has actually decreased in recent years as a result of police and other law enforcement authorities going in the way they do. When it comes to mapping, registering and so I do not think that is the path we should take, but we should tighten up and expand the ability of law enforcement authorities to access this crime. Malin Björk knows that we are doing a great deal. From January there are the largest number of police officers in Sweden ever. It's 21,929 police officers. A little later in the year, there will also be the largest number of police officers per inhabitant in Sweden as a result of the efforts we have made, which means that more and more policemen leave their training courses, fewer leave and more are re-cruited. We must continue to tighten up the fight against crime in those parts.
i-7w9PtCtLNr2bAzQ5TtmDoF	Madam President, I would like We believe it is important to identify what crime is all about in order to be able to take the right action. In fact, I don't understand why there are no crime codes in Bruy that register that it is companies that are victims of crime. There is also no safety survey aimed at entrepreneurs, but there are safety surveys that refer to the general public and also to us elected representatives.
i-SyfBToBPAYvUNbFK5eeuSE	Madam President, I would like Now it becomes a little more concrete. First of all, it's Brå who's on the crime codes. Brå decides them. If there are too many crime codes, it is a huge administrative task for the police to register. However, Malin Björk points to another thing that can be done if you want to raise this type of crime, namely to look at the security surveys and the security measurements. It's an idea I'd like to take with me, and I'll see if we can do anything there.
i-K6xkN8gGffVYVpSNiXbwa6	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister for Climate Change Annika Strandhäll. We need to reduce emissions from the transport sector by at least 70% by 2030. There's only eight years left till then. The other day, the Swedish Transport Administration provided new statistics on emissions from our road transport. They fell by only 0.3 per cent last year. It's far too little. Is the Minister for Climate and Environment satisfied with the statistics? Government co-financing for public transport could be envisaged, increased investment in electrification of the fleet of vehicles and a road user charge for heavy transport to shift transport from road to rail. I want to know what the Minister for Climate and the Environment intends to do to reduce emissions from road transport quickly so that we reach our climate target by 2030. That's the plan, isn't it?
i-5LQ9h1UEDkLkR8WmMeaMpc	Madam President, I would like I thank Jens Holm for the question. This government is working hard to speed up the green transition. Sweden will be the world's first fossil-free welfare country. As Jens Holm said, statistics from the Swedish Transport Administration recently showed that last year's emissions decreased by 0.3 percent. We have also recently received recent statistics on emissions in general showing that there have been record reductions in emissions in 2020. That is something that I find very pleasing. Of course, we also see an effect of the pandemic, namely that we fly less. So parts are a pandemic effect. But there is no doubt that we need to speed up. It is therefore gratifying that we see that Sweden is at the top of the EU in terms of new car purchases of electric cars. The government intends to continue to support the development with an expansion of more charging stations.
i-AHCSmbg5EEqRCBVXnxnbyE	Madam President, I would like It's strange that the climate minister seems so pleased with the statistics. Emission reductions are not at all sufficient. Like the Minister, they are mostly an effect of the pandemic. But we can benefit from changes in behaviour that have occurred during the pandemic. Unfortunately, the government has subsidised air traffic by SEK 16 billion. Rail transport has not received the same support. What does the Minister intend to do to promote sustainable transport?
i-c6dagzyEr3hCR6crAugwu	Madam President, I would like As I mentioned at the outset, we must have a high level of ambition, and it is incredibly important to bring down emissions from the transport sector by many different means. We need to phase out the fossil fuels. Biofuels are one of the elements to get there. I initially told you that we stand up for the reduction obligation. It's an important part. Even the bonus malus system has proven to be successful. We'll continue on our way.
i-WXyPZtBFnK6S73UA3emirU	Madam President, I would like There is an internationally coordinated Islamist influence campaign against Sweden, and social services are in focus. Lies spread that children are kidnapped, that they are forced to carry crosses and that they are forced to take off the veil. The aim is to arouse anger in the Muslim world. According to the Swedish Agency for Psychological Defense, feelings of exclusion, ignorance of Swedish society and mistrust of the authorities in the Muslim target group are exploited. The false rumors run the risk of social security and school staff being exposed to increased threats and violence. In Sweden, the exiled imam Abo Raad, which poses a threat to national security, together with the radical party Nyans, has participated in Islamist propaganda. Islamism must be fought.
i-APL7WU9BC84MxRw6s4zohs	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by agreeing with what Andreas Carlson says. This is a serious campaign against Sweden. There are a few different backgrounds to this. Among other things, there are those who want to blacken down and smudge Sweden as such. They always exist, and I am not particularly concerned about this. Sweden's reputation in the outside world is strong; we have a good reputation. What I'm more worried about is what Andreas Carlson says about the campaign leading to increased threats and hatred for those who work in social services, and about people not having the courage to contact social services – it concerns people who need the support and help that social services can offer – because they think they will be unfairly treated. I was in contact with the Department of Psychological Defense last week. The MPF supports other authorities that can go in with counter-messages, and for example, the National Board of Health and Welfare has done so. We do a lot on many different levels to try to counteract the campaign.
i-pzbEYBp86PTVbQG4ZvKX7	Madam President, I would like Swedish Islamists have an advantage over their partners from other countries because this in Sweden is free for foreign states to finance extreme activities. Countries such as Turkey and Saudi Arabia have a direct line into Swedish mosques, where the impact campaign is in full swing. The Christian Democrats want to strangle that possibility. How does the Minister of Justice view the proposal to stop the financing of foreign extremists?
i-UaFK921opqz3trt6D8w8KW	Madam President, I would like It's even worse than that. The free school system that has existed for many years is fully open for those extreme movements to take over. The former government, the alliance government, opened the free school system. It is we who are now closing schools where there have been Islamic links, and we will continue to do so. I myself have raised the issue of the financing of mosques in the European context, and I will continue to do so. Do not forget that the free-school system is a major concern in this respect.
i-BJk2eSoQf5Tqv7ks9D4gQS	Madam President, I would like Sweden has been opened. Concert halls and theatres are starting to get audiences again. But at the same time, many have a hard time. We have had a difficult period behind us, and the construction will take time. The consequences will probably be long lasting. That is why an ambitious and long-term policy is needed to strengthen cultural life and reconstruction, and it is likely to take many years. It is about attracting back audiences, daring to re-employment, attracting future talents and investing in culture instead of something else. Madam President, I would like It would be wise if we had a broad consensus in Swedish politics on a long-term and predictable cultural policy that makes it possible to feel secure in opening up. This security is difficult to achieve when there is weak parliamentary support. Few proposals have been put forward by the Minister of Culture to the Riksdag, and it would be wise if the Minister of Culture put the Riksdag behind him. Is the Minister of Culture prepared to gather broad political support for a long-term cultural policy?
i-5pSt17TTKap5d4jPDNxeos	Madam President, I would like Yes, that is true – the cultural industry has recently undergone the greatest crisis in a very long time. The cultural industry has also taken great responsibility for this. For the government, it is of the utmost importance to have a close dialogue with the industry and its representatives. That is why we have also set up a new Crisis and Restarting Council. Actually, we're having another meeting tomorrow. In parallel, the consultation period for the re-launch investigation is ongoing from crisis to force. Christer Nylander calls for a broad cultural policy collection to discuss the long-term conditions of culture. I am happy to have a dialogue with the representatives of the parliamentary parties on how we can jointly shape cultural policy.
i-MqufunK8GbaKQ7tS8rNWzA	Madam President, I would like I very much welcome the fact that there is close cooperation with the cultural industry. I also welcome the fact that, as I understood the Minister, there will soon be an invitation to Parliament's parties for close cooperation on how to get a long-term, ambitious and predictable cultural policy. I really think it's necessary. At the moment, there are individual cultural policy proposals on their way to Parliament. I don't think that's enough. There is a real need for action here, and in order to achieve long-term action, there is also a need for breadth. Have I got the Minister of Culture right? Will there soon be an invitation to Parliament's parties?
i-AbH7FjF1Ly15oGBHAWXBR3	Madam President, I would like Now the focus is on getting the emergency and re-start funds out. Then there is the focus on putting together the referrals as soon as possible. After that, the exact form is not ready yet – I expect to come back as soon as possible. But I look forward to a continued dialogue with Christer Nylander in the future.
i-NBWYZTLxTn5amhVPp2wTTs	Madam President, I would like At the moment there is massive dumping of toxic sludge in Öresund from the Danish side. It is an acute threat to the sea, to the coast and to Natura 2000 sites. There are ongoing protests against this from organisations and political parties.
i-HzwYrEkEcW6TsUj5XGyB3N	Madam President, I would like I thank Rasmus Ling for a very important question. Let me begin by saying that the work to protect the Öresund marine ecosystem is a high priority of the government. It is also of great importance that we cooperate with our neighbours on things that can have a significant impact on our common environment. From the Swedish side, the government, through my representative among other things, has clearly expressed its views on deficiencies in the basis of the Lynetteholmen project and objected to the choice of dumping site for dredging masses. Despite this, the people approved the construction of Lynetteholmen, and physical work has now begun. Swedish authorities are now monitoring their respective expertise and responsibilities, including environmental monitoring of the ongoing dumping of dredging masses.
i-9fStkKUTs39V7RcfCSokqp	Madam President, I would like I am aware of the decision made by the people on this issue. It was incredibly unfortunate. Since this has been started and the situation is so urgent – it is going on now – the government must act and protest against what is happening. Once it has happened, it lies on the bottom and poisons the sea, and then it is too late. It is now the opportunity to do something, and I hope that Annika Strandhäll and the government can do it quickly.
i-WsNziYz6n7h2YkyMeaPxKN	Madam President, I would like My assessment is that in the situation we are in now, it is probably the Swedish authorities that have the best conditions to conduct a constructive dialogue on the project's implementation with regard to its various environmental effects. The authorities have been involved in the consultation on the project for a long time. However, I will continue to follow this issue, and I am not ruling out any further action by the government.
i-VKYP1wwM5cSBxGR2zs58Cy	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask Mr Ardalan Shekarabi my question. In my profession as trade union ombudsman at Seko, I meet a lot of workers. They are teleworkers, excavators, road workers, postmen and others. When they reach retirement age, many of them receive an income pension which is in principle equal to the guarantee pension. Some of our members who earn something better still receive a pension that lands very close to the guarantee pension because they have had heavy jobs and have not been able to work a full professional life. This damages the legitimacy of the system in our workplaces.
i-JkKyxEmVyKgRKRHRT2MJEm	Madam President, I would like I thank Alexander Ojanne for the question. We will show respect for Swedish pensioners. This is not just a matter of words, but also of pension increases. Pensions must be increased. We have now increased pensions in several stages. The pension supplement was introduced in September. At the turn of the year, the pension was raised. Now we have a proposal for a guarantee supplement that lifts the poorest pensioners. Around 1 million Swedish pensioners receive an increased pension, half of which receive the maximum amount of SEK 1 000 tax-free per month. But that's not enough. Pensions must continue to rise. That is why the government has taken a stand in favour of increasing the provisions for the general pension system so that we are given the opportunity to continue raising pensions in the long term. This issue is dealt with by the Pensions Group, and we hope to reach political agreement in the Pensions Group so that the pension contribution can be increased in order to increase pensions for Swedish pensioners.
i-MwFGwcVq2UUUMHFE8XQTPx	Madam President, I would like I know that the government is doing very well in this area. But there is still a lack of legitimacy in the workplace. When we raise the guarantee levels very much, it is that those who have worked a full working life and live on income pension will live on basically the same pension as if they had not worked at all. This is an extremely important issue in order to create legitimacy in the workplaces of our members.
i-7EFA9k7APVRcwgbNrzvKu5	Madam President, I would like That is precisely why an increase in the minimum level through the introduction of a guarantee supplement must be followed by an increase in public pensions, based on the income of life. An increase in the pension contribution, i.e. the provisions for the general pension system, is a prerequisite for us to be able to show respect for our pensioners and a prerequisite for the legitimacy of the Swedish pension system.
i-DkkAkF7Z58CjtP1uH8JAjV	Madam President, I would like Well-carried out legal certificates are often important evidence in court proceedings. Unfortunately, the number of legal certificates issued by the National Board of Forensic Medicine has decreased sharply over the last decade. The number of legal certificates issued by the National Board of Forensic Medicine based on physical examinations has been halved since Morgan Johansson took office as Minister of Justice, from 2,487 in 2014 to 1,243 last year. Instead, it has become more common for the police and prosecutors to use only patient records as damage documentation, which, not least in cases involving sexual offences and violence in close relationships, often provides a significantly worse basis in the legal process.
i-5cemQcM4JHiaqyqi3ZQbzR	Madam President, I would like When it comes to how law enforcement is carried out in detail, who orders what from which authority, it must after all be the police and prosecutors who decide. We cannot go in and regulate this in detail as politicians. It's just going to be wrong. There are many different sources in a criminal investigation. These certificates are one of them. Then we have everything that the police themselves order from their own unit, NFC, which is also evidence tracking and various investigations that the preliminary investigation may need. It's about fingerprints and blood traces and other kinds of tracks. After all, however, it must be the police and prosecutors themselves who decide it. In fact, I have not heard anyone, either the Forensics Agency or the police, addressing this as a problem. If such a problem should arise, then, of course, we must be prepared to do something. But trust law enforcement authorities to decide for themselves where to retrieve their information! I usually do.
i-JksV6SEfWoHWWfgjsR6PCF	Madam President, I would like My question goes to the Minister of Justice and Home Affairs. To smuggle dogs into Sweden can be a very lucrative business for criminals, but it is done at the animal's expense. Not rarely do puppies come from puppy factories where they live under miserable conditions. This was a problem even before the coronapndemine, but unfortunately it is clear from the numbers of the Customs that the illegal introduction of dogs is increasing. They enter Sweden either by keeping them hidden in the transports or by having forged papers or by even taking a chance and hoping not to get caught in a check. Despite ongoing work to combat dog smuggling, this illegal activity continues. From the statistics it appears to be increasing. My question to Morgan Johansson is therefore whether the Minister believes that the measures that exist today are sufficient. If so, when can we see an end to this trade?
i-GNGLD8hAiuz9mC9naDYJUR	Madam President, I would like Of course, some criminals take advantage of every opportunity to make money, even when it comes to trading completely innocent animals in a way that is often terrible to see. How, then, do we counteract this? Of course, we have the general efforts in the field of law enforcement, with more resources for the police. But we also need to strengthen Swedish border protection in general. I would think that, since 2015, we have now been carrying out border controls, the risk of detection of these smuggling opportunities has also increased. Then we have also strengthened the Customs Office very strongly. Since 2017, we have increased the Swedish Customs Agency's funding by 30 per cent, and we have another 100 years of work coming to Customs during this year. We are therefore making a great deal of effort on customs and also on border protection, and then this type of crime will also be tackled.
i-VjqNjVsaasdyVePWSmXwfx	Madam President, I would like My question is addressed to Minister for the Environment Annika Strandhäll. Since the introduction of the broader definition of municipal waste, we have seen that more operational waste falls under the municipal waste monopoly. This has caused widespread concern around the business community and around the country so that you can not continue with the processed waste management you have and that your work for sustainability and increased recycling will be made more difficult. This should not be news for the Minister for Climate and the Environment, but my question is what the government intends to do to alleviate this concern, try to solve the problems and ensure that efforts can continue to be made to increase recycling even for the operational waste that is outside, and should be outside, the municipal waste monopoly. A closely interlinked question is why the government has not chosen to put the proposal of the election inquiry on the table of the Riksdag. Why can't we go forward with a proposal based on the free choice inquiry, which stated that it is beneficial for the circular economy if more businesses can manage their own waste and choose who manages it for them?
i-7KZNLwaiFuR5SjcJboEdYF	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Magnus Ek, for this! Waste issues are among the government's and the climate and environment's more prioritised issues. We must in every way increase the recycling of our waste. At EU level, a great deal of work is now under way to see waste as the resource it actually is, as well as its contribution to the circular economy. Otherwise, I will take with me Magnus Ek's question regarding the proposal that he raises up here and intends to return.
i-7NRm3bxfwHsbuJCE1ese14	Madam President, I would like Gang crime in Sweden is large and complex. For many years, the police have received extremely large financial resources. There have been changes in legislation and more secret coercive measures. The police department wrote the December description, with a large number of requests. Teachers should have greater ability to set limits, without being able to specify what that would mean. The evidence requirements should be lower, without the police being able to answer how it would help. The penalty will be longer, but there is no evidence either. Many others, both authorities and municipalities, will do more. When will Morgan Johansson demand that the police leadership stop writing wish lists and make sure you start delivering results? It's time now, with the enormous resources we're spending on the Police Department.
i-HhP6iaFisxuMotTeQoRtbP	Madam President, I would like My opinion is that the police have been underfunded. We have had far too little funding and far too little staffing in the police and other law enforcement agencies for a very long time. This has led us to what we are seeing today, that is to say that the gang criminals have been able to take root. We haven't caught them enough. What we are doing now is building this up. We now have, as I said before, the largest number of police officers ever in Sweden. If you compare 2014 with 2025 you can see that we almost double the grant to the Police Authority, which is an incredible reinforcement. But what the police do in their dialogue with the government, and also externally, is that they also point to what others must do. School, social services and leisure activities must do their part. The municipalities must do their bit to break the new recruits to the criminal gangs. I require the police to deliver more, but I also have to make demands that other authorities and other actors in Swedish society do their bit to break the recruitment. That's where I think the police tapes are good.
i-TrC9G59qgC1PJNwftzZo9j	Madam President, I would like When the care allowance was converted into a nursing allowance, the Minister of Social Security promised that no person eligible for the allowance would receive less compensation. Now the Social Security Inspection shows that as many as 33 percent of the parents who previously had care allowance, contrary to the Government's promise, have received a lower level of compensation and 21 percent have been rejected. The Social Insurance Agency, for its part, says the following: However, it is difficult to draw any conclusions about the level of compensation in relation to the health care allowance has been too high because of the legislation you say has been unclear. In the legislation on nursing allowance, it is more clearly defined what is needed to be entitled to a certain level. My question to the Minister for Social Security is therefore: will the government keep its promise and take steps to compensate the families who have been affected by deteriorating conditions since the introduction of the nursing allowance, or has Minister Shekarabi made a promise that he cannot keep?
i-XQYx4WH7ohHxqCXwGbhQFC	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Pia Steensland, for the question and for the commitment to our social security, not least the policy that creates security for people with disabilities in our country! What we see about this benefit is worrying. The government has taken this very seriously, and we also asked the Social Security Inspection to follow closely the Swedish Social Insurance Agency's application of law. The social security inspection has now presented its analysis. We are studying this carefully and are prepared to act in order for our citizens to have the financial security they deserve. We have these systems in place to support citizens in need of support. It was very clear from the government and parliament that the amendment of the law would not mean a more restrictive approach. We will keep this promise.
i-AJ5zAgiB8cEd3eXAn6V2ah	Madam President, I would like About ten days ago my municipality of residence Västerås suffered three very serious crimes. The most remarkable thing, which I think shocked the whole country, was that a school class was stabbed in broad daylight during class. This shows that the development of crime is serious. We have seen for a long time that the development is going in the wrong direction in several of our towns, even in Västmanland County, from which I come. We need more crime prevention and more police, and we need to continue to tighten the penalties. As far as penalties for young people are concerned, there are still gaps in the system. The Minister says we have an all-time high, but let me tell you that we have 20 fewer investigators and 32 fewer police officers in Västmanland than in 2015. What does the Minister of Justice intend to do about this?
i-DXLGQfEC6wSyCy7aCM2KVT	Madam President, I would like Yes, we have all-time-high when it comes to the number of police officers in Sweden. The number of police officers was 21,929 in January. This year we will also receive an additional 800, which will be released from the new police training courses that we have started in Borås and Malmö. Police training now delivers in all five locations where they are located. We will also continue to impose penalties in some respects. I presented last week's severed punishment just for violations of the Knife Act. We have seen that it has been far too low for a long time. We must make sure that we do that. We also have proposals in the pipeline regarding increased punishment for robberies and also increased arrest possibilities for those who rob, so that we take care of the most criminally active individuals. But it should not be forgotten that if we are to succeed in real life, the municipalities must also do their bit to help break the new recruitment. This involves investing in schools, social services and leisure activities in order to reduce recruitment to the gangs. It's hugely important.
i-W4BThjQdfTCYDYwf6fZGJX	Madam President, I would like I have noted that the government finally adopted the sea plans the other day, which will regulate the activities of Swedish waters. It is positive that the government is pointing out a high level of ambition for offshore wind power for the future. At the same time, however, it is worrying that the level of ambition here and now is only about 20 to 30 terawatt hours of sea wind when we know that the potential is so much greater. In any case, there are other major obstacles to the actual start-up of the deployment, one of which is legally insecure and poorly functioning local processes. That is precisely why the previous government, on the initiative of the Green Party, had to investigate how local influence could change and be made more legally secure. But on the government's bill list there were no proposals on this, so I now wonder whether the government will act to make the local process better and more legally secure.
i-9HcjnqwvJpKB2CdJs5Uano	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Axel Hallberg, for a very important question! I am extremely pleased that we have now been able to decide on the first Swedish national sea plans, which in a first step provide a basis for the expansion of offshore wind power at somewhere between 20 and 30 terawatt hours. We have also submitted a mission to the Swedish Energy Agency to coordinate and submit a quick proposal to the Government on further possible areas for offshore wind power. The government is also working to secure support for the wind power bill that we hope to put on Parliament's table soon, which aims at both the municipal veto and consultation structures. Hopefully, this is a step in a direction that is about increased incentives for municipalities to just allow more offshore wind from wind turbines that will not be seen or noticed from land.
i-EZrQMY2V2FM12FD3Ad8hqX	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Morgan Johansson. More than 1 million Swedes currently live in residential units. It is a popular form of living both for smaller families of young children and for the elderly. Since it is such an important form of housing, it is also important to have strong protection for those who want to buy a right-of-occupancy apartment. Today we have some problems with the hijacking of tenant-owner associations. This can lead to very difficult problems with, among other things, neglected maintenance and poor economy. I want to know what the Government intends to do about this problem.
i-5NhgcPe6xefk8sYKFWQmJK	Madam President, I would like I agree that this could be a huge problem for those living in housing associations that are being hijacked. We have a current example in Malmö, the Chinese Wall. Fortunately, we have a good and strong municipal, utility housing company in Malmö, MKB, which could go in and save the situation by buying the property and thus saving many of the residents from a situation where they would otherwise have lost everything they had invested in the apartment. That's fantastic. But we must ensure that we prevent this from happening again. In this particular case, it was a company based on Östermalm in Stockholm that controlled the association and milked it for money. It was crazy, actually, if you look at how it happened. No reconstruction was financed, and eventually the house fell. We now have proposals under way to ensure that housing associations will no longer be able to be controlled in the same way. It will be a household, a voice. You can't deviate from that. We are thus avoiding this situation for the future.
i-QKGS9F9trdthzbD5kbktDD	Madam President, I would like The other day, Mr Demoscope announced that energy is the fourth most important issue for voters. Unfortunately, for me who lives in Skåne, the electricity supply has been worrying for many years, and Scanian politicians have alerted us about both electricity shortages and high electricity prices. This is, of course, an effect of government policy. Nuclear power has been put down prematurely. In addition to this, Sweden has the world's highest diesel price. The high electricity bills combined with extremely high fuel prices make many difficult to reconcile, and the situation is now unsustainable. The Moderates want to move from targets of 100% renewable electricity production to 100% fossil-free energy production in 2040, where nuclear power would be an obvious part. What does the Minister for Climate and Environment think about this change?
i-6hTihZXUtroQ7LUYAxPwA6	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by stating that many Swedes depend on the car. I'll start at that end. That's why it feels extra in many wallets when the prices of petrol and diesel rise. In order to compensate those living in rural areas, we have reduced the tax on people living in 80 sparsely populated municipalities. There are also exemptions from the vehicle tax for people in sparsely populated areas, for the same reason. Now the government has also put forward a proposal to reduce the tax on petrol and diesel by 50 cents. But let me also comment on the second part. With moderate proposals to expand nuclear power, we will not see much new electricity over the next 10 to 15 years, given the state of the environment and other things. In addition, it can be observed that once we get electricity – which we need to put in place much earlier – it will be more expensive. Just look around the world and see how it looks.
i-5o1iSr42iYeDf4RMcWRZVo	Madam President, I would like In recent days, social media has been overflowing with love for the brothers in the Kevin case. The brothers were accused as children of killing four - year - old Kevin, but were removed from suspicions 20 years later, when the preliminary investigation was reopened and major deficiencies were revealed. One thing that has not shown love for the affected brothers, however, is the Social Democrats. Morgan Johansson's representative as Minister of Justice at the time of the murder only cared until election day. In retrospect, it has been speculated that the Social Democrats were involved in the case in order to avoid an immigrant debate. Today, too, the Social Democrats show no love. The two brothers applied last year, after JK rejected their claim for damages, for ex gratia compensation from the government. The government has not yet made decisions. Can Morgan Johansson promise that the brothers will receive the compensation they demand and deserve?
i-3DG26LzoYMpc54K71Jm6vE	Madam President, I would like The only people who have speculated on this are the Swedish Democrats and their likes. I think we should take this issue very seriously. We know that from time to time the judiciary actually does wrong. It is important, then, that there are means of redress in cases where the authorities make mistakes. I think that is an extremely important principle. Then there are ways to do it. You can go to court. You can ask for compensation by other means. You can claim damages and such. Ultimately, there is the ex gratia possibility with the government. There has been an application to the government for this very thing. At the same time, we have wanted to follow the question otherwise, because it has been moving in terms of how the municipality should deal with this. That's where we got new news just the other day. I do not, therefore, want to go ahead with the events, but I want everyone to know that we are following this issue with great seriosity, and we will come back to the question of ex gratia. But there's no new news for me today.
i-6ZN7ABtabgyLQ7coqamWQy	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Morgan Johansson about Burma, or Myanmar. A year ago there was a military coup in Burma, and then it was also found that a Swedish company had exported dual-use items to Myanmar. Now the Government is coming forward with new legislation, and I wonder whether the holes will be closed so that this type of police computer, which can be used to search for opponents, cannot be exported in the future. I also wonder whether Sweden supports Gambia, who has sued Burma's military dictatorship in the International Court of Justice, ICJ, for the genocide of Rohingyes.
i-tfgVmAKaVMsGbj1EQJ75c	Madam President, I would like If it is the legislation for arms and other materiel that can be used double that Håkan Svenneling is after, there is a responsible authority, ISP, that reviews this in accordance with the legislation Sweden has for arms exports and other products. There is a great deal of political agreement on this new legislation. I am happy to take a closer look at this particular case, but it is ultimately the authority that decides which export can take place. With regard to Gambia and the ongoing legal process, I would ask you to refer to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I don't have that detailed knowledge and I won't even try to answer the question. The Member may return in special order to the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
i-SENuJy7ycQe1tcnT3ps3HQ	Madam President, I would like I have a question for the Minister of Culture. The Opera House in Stockholm is from the 19th century, and no one really knows what to do with it. For ten years it has been planned at a cost of SEK 200 million but without anything actually happened. There are two scenarios. One is to renovate the old 19th century house, which costs about 6.5 billion. The second is to build new ones, which in the long term is likely to be cheaper. There are sketches for an opera house in Masthamnen on Södermalm, at Stockholm inlet. Reykjavik, Oslo, Copenhagen and Helsinki all have modern opera houses but not Stockholm. How does the Minister view this? Is the Minister prepared to act so that we can move forward on this issue?
i-PEQT7X9dPV2iwapTxtxNDZ	Madam President, I would like I thank Roland Utbolt for the question. The Royal Opera is Sweden's national scene for opera and ballet and an important national scene for the government. I am well aware that the building is in need of investment in order to meet the demands of property owners to have a modern opera that is available to more people. It must also be a working environment. At the government's table, there are now a number of bases. The various departments of trade need to deepen their work, and this work is currently under way. Let me also remind you that there has been a pandemic in the last two years, which has delayed the process. However, my intention is to look at this as soon as possible.
i-8SJfNEaq9njoWbRfZs3y9p	Madam President, I would like This week is the Week of Victims, and it is to be welcomed that there is an extra focus on those affected by crime. Too often, a great deal of focus is placed on the perpetrators. The government has done a great deal about victims, as we have seen over the years, and more will be done. It is about dealing with victims of crime, about information about Victim Support Finland but also about health care, psychological support and contact with other authorities. The financial compensation is, of course, central and self-evident.
i-WSgz8qHebL7SjniscDHHZk	Madam President, I would like It is precisely today that the government has decided on the biggest reform for victim support in 20 years. It was presented publicly yesterday, and I am very proud and happy that we are now delivering it. It is another Social Democratic electoral promise that we can check off. We are talking about double compensation for victims of crime, and for certain forms of crime more than a doubling. We are also establishing new support for those who have lost a close relative through deadly violence. We make it easier for police and security officers to receive compensation for violations, and we make it easier to impose damages on suspects when they have been detained if they have debts to other victims. This is a major reform, and as I said, I am very pleased that we can deliver it. I look forward to the parliamentary treatment of this important victim reform.
i-85rmXc2jZQjkD6FWvk2S1c	Madam President, I would like In my hometown of Gothenburg we have had extensive problems with disorder around Brunnsparken, Järntorget and Avenyn. Since the Alliance took over control in Gothenburg, we have worked systematically to overcome these problems, and an important tool has been to strengthen the police with municipal security officers. Among other things, this has been done at Brunnsparken and Järntorget, where security officers under police supervision have been able to work crime prevention and reduce the mess. However, the city has not received permission for security officers at Avenyn. The fact that the permit process is cumbersome and not very predictable is a well-known problem, and the government also set up an investigation that reviewed the law on security and that made its proposals this summer. However, I cannot find any proposal in the government's bill list.
i-Q8KDQF7Dq8gzaazWXJPopW	Madam President, I would like Our basic attitude is that security guards are good, and we would like to develop the possibilities for security officers to operate. We are working on the report referred to by David Josefsson, but I cannot now tell you about the timetable. The reason we set up the investigation was precisely because we saw that there were some things that needed to be developed. We will continue to work and return to the Riksdag when we are finished. Let me say, however, that even if we develop the ability of security guards to work, they should not replace police officers. Our basic strategy is to increase the number of police officers. Now it's all-time-high when it comes to the number of cops, and we continue to train police officers. It is important to continue this development. When it comes to the interaction between police and security officers locally, it is the police that decides how security officers should act within the municipality. We will come back to the issue of legislation.
i-FkH1prgDMYtsNWLUWZKmoS	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Armed Forces are in an expansive phase, and to build capabilities, opportunities are needed for practice activities. The Swedish Armed Forces currently have eight environmental review cases that are with the government for decisive purposes, and the oldest is from January 2012 – this despite the fact that the government decided a few years ago that the environmental review delegation will handle completed permit applications within six months. Despite many announcements, the Swedish Armed Forces see no difference, but a permit process still takes ten years on average. There are really no laws that prevent more efficient handling. Looking at the design of the law, it is explicitly stated both in the Environmental Code and in the previous Natural Resources Act that in cases where national interests are opposed to each other, the Swedish Armed Forces should take precedence. My question to the Minister for Climate and the Environment is: when will we see that the matters on the table of the government are being dealt with?
i-RHPm9ou4QRCmKBrAb13Cct	Madam President, I would like I thank Caroline Nordengrip for the question. This activity is of course extremely important for Sweden as a nation, but it is important to have respect for the fact that there are many aspects that need to be taken into account. In addition, it must be ensured that the decision has in all its parts weighed together all the different aspects. Our ambition is to be able to decide the major cases this year, and we are actively working on this at the Ministry of the Environment. That's my clear answer.
i-S263TAJraRmswo78msy9tW	Madam President, I would like In recent days, a great deal has been discussed about the decision to allow a Chinese company to take care of security checks at Arlanda. The company has military connections in China and has been blacklisted in the United States, and there are investigations from Canada. Quite a lot has been discussed about this. In Sweden we have had a long discussion about foreign ownership and foreign operations in socially important activities lately. The Left Party of course believes that it is important that social-important activities are carried out publicly by the state, municipalities or regions. We have adopted a security law, and we have discussed foreign direct investment in various ways.
i-EN3kUC2cZ8ZU8W7Ec9kNoj	Madam President, I would like Measures have already been taken. Those who have followed the debate in recent days know that the Swedish Transport Agency is now reviewing the deal, with the support of the new Swedish Security Act, i.e. the parts that apply from 1 December 2021. It's pretty fresh. This enables authorities to intervene in such matters if there is evidence that there is an established value for protection in this area. The process is allowed to take its course. The Swedish Transport Agency will have to do its investigation, and then we'll see what it finds out. Hanna Gunnarsson also mentioned another issue, direct investment, that is, when foreign interests can go in and take over companies, for example. There is a report from Mr Sten Heckscher which came last year and which we are working on. I have received a presentation on this as late as today. It is also an urgent issue for us.
i-9wyNP32KHdVuB6ssWGkFY5	Madam President, I would like I would like to address my question to Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson. SEK 100 billion is the sum of the costs that affect our companies in Sweden every year due to crime. This concerns, on the one hand, direct costs and, on the other hand, revenue losses and prevention, and it affects the local trader through threats and thefts, the truck company that loses equipment and fuel, and construction projects that are delayed and expensive due to various thefts. Often the crimes are committed by theft leagues, and the stolen goods disappear out of the country. Darkness is great when many companies don't report the crimes. Companies are a prerequisite for the construction of our society, and that is why this development is worrying. It is high time to take corporate crimes more seriously. The Christian Democrats see, among other things, the need for increased powers for customs, a European level of police density and a higher level of penalties when several crimes are committed at the same time.
i-QcSjoW3Q1QroK63JV6rqt7	Madam President, I would like It is about continuing to strengthen law enforcement authorities. Now the police have more resources than ever, better tools than ever, more employees than ever and all-time-high in terms of the number of police officers. We are also reviewing the powers of customs. I mentioned earlier that we have increased customs appropriations significantly – 30% since 2017. They have received 265 more employees since 2017, and they have another 100 more employees this year. We will go in with additional funds in the coming years and expand customs. We are also reviewing customs' powers in this part, as a problem is precisely theft goods that are being taken out of the country. At the same time, I can see that the number of burglaries in Sweden has been at its lowest level since 1975. We know that half of all burglaries committed in Sweden are committed by international theft leagues. The work that has been done in recent years against international theft leagues may well have borne fruit in that part too. It is about continuing the work as we are now doing.
i-JiFiHocRBtjBX5sJkceSEy	Madam President, I would like The Government of Ardalan Shekarabi has on many occasions said that 2022 should be the year of retirement. Since I have been a pensioner for 18 years, I know that pensioners have been waiting for a long time. It has been mentioned earlier during Question Time, but I think we will go on about it many times.
i-7pN594gB7dECDubUQ2bN4s	I think it is important that future pensioners should also notice something, for example that a decision has been taken to add more money to the pension system. It will benefit both today and tomorrow's pensioners.
i-Wqxpt51wx86RkRWNYbdMta	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Elsemarie Bjellqvist, for the question. Our work on increased pensions is ultimately about respect for the people who have built up our well-being and prosperity. Therefore, the government is now implementing several reforms to raise pensions. Last year in September, the pension supplement was introduced. At the turn of the year, the housing supplement and consumption support were increased in the housing supplement, and the tax on pensioners was reduced. Soon we will be putting on the table of this House a proposal for the introduction of a guarantee supplement, which means a pension increase for around 1 million Swedish pensioners, half of which will receive the maximum amount, SEK 1 000 tax-free each month. We are also working on the issue of increasing pension provision so that we can continue to raise pensions. We should not have poor pensioners in one of the richest countries in the world. We are able to raise pensions, and that is exactly what we are going to do.
i-5sqQuxkp1aSnGR2MMPRFme	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister for Climate and Environment Annika Strandhäll, who is also responsible for outdoor issues. During the pandemic there has been an increased demand to stay in nature and the possibility to engage in outdoor activities. This is very positive for outdoor life and public health. It is more than ten years since Sweden's first outdoor policy was developed by the then alliance government, and in 2012 ten objectives were set for outdoor policy. The objectives are to develop and take measures to improve the conditions for outdoor activities. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency is the collecting authority, but several other authorities are responsible for individual targets. The latest follow-up report from December 2019, by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, concluded that only three out of ten targets are in a positive direction when it comes to achieving them. How does the minister responsible intend to act in order to achieve the other objectives of the open air policy?
i-EFjKNZHo7meHuoQuUKLiUQ	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ulrika Jörgensen, for a very good question! Open air policy is incredibly important. Sweden and the fantastic opportunity we have to move around in nature and land have stimulated many Swedes to do this. I recently met the new secretary-general of Friluftsfrämjande and had a long talk with her. We discussed, among other things, the very fact that it has been ten years since the policy was developed. We also looked at the follow-up report referred to by Ulrika Jörgensen, and it is clear that this is moving in the right direction for some objectives but not for others. In particular, schools, in relation to children, are far too low to stimulate the positive development of children and young people to move around. On the contrary, it is going the wrong way. I look forward to taking new initiatives and also to considering whether we need to update the policy overall. Thank you again for a good question!
i-uEd5sX8qEU4Mx7X5ZBz6Y	Madam President, I would like Yesterday Annika Strandhäll tweeted a statement about a connection between our party and Putin, this in the light of a recent party leader hearing. Although I think that this kind of pie throwing is really a bit ridiculous, I would like to ask: Who prefers Annika Strandhäll herself by, for example, Xi Jinping and Donald Trump?
i-ACvTHdRC1Augci7yJKJm2K	Madam President, I would like I am not sure whether this issue relates to the performance of my duties. But no matter what, I can answer it. I would of course prefer Donald Trump in that case, a democratically elected leader in a Western country. I would like to say that the answer to that question is probably simple for almost any party in the Swedish Parliament. But there is a party that has a problem answering the question of whether one prefers an authoritarian leader, a dictator or a democratically elected Western leader. That party is called the Swedish Democrats. Since Ludvig Aspling has now asked the question and I have been given the mandate to answer it, everyone should perhaps look at what problems the party leaders of the Swedish Democrats have repeatedly had to answer if he prefers Macron or Putin or if he prefers, in this case, Biden or Putin. This happens at the same time as Putin rolls tanks against Ukraine. It's amazing.
i-Wr1tHHbQ3X8gCEQaoHZh9y	I would like to remind Members that the questions will relate to a subject that falls within the remit of the Government and concerns the performance of its duties.
i-LNLFcxLSiyJGp5Ri9kcTjm	Madam President, I would like Being judged can define a person. At school, grades should reflect pupils' knowledge, but the risk that the person receiving a grade will take it as an assessment of their own ability is rather imminent. Few things are as reproducing as their own self-image. Anyone who gets feedback that gives the feeling of being ignorant in something will only in rare cases perceive it as motivating. The danger is that the person who learns that it is rejected will give up and identify himself as ignorant. Furthermore, if the feedback a person receives is mostly based on his worst performance, it is no wonder that such a harsh judgment leads to anxiety, stress and bad feeling before and at every assessment. We all have better and worse days. The latest grade reform has led us to have a system that ascribes the worst days to students' greatest importance. It's unfair, it creates unnecessary stress and pressure, and it leads to students getting worse health and less accurate grades. That is why, Madam President, it is a major and important reform that we are going to debate today. The rules on grading, as they now look, say that a student must meet at least the defined knowledge requirements for a certain level in order to get a certain grade. The requirements for levels A, C and E are defined. For intermediate grade levels B and D, all requirements for the next underlying grade shall be met and to a large extent the requirements for a higher grade step. To illustrate: Those who speak Spanish at E-level but read, write, understand and can realia about Spanish-speaking areas at A-level can therefore get the highest grade D. In its worst application, the provision is interpreted as meaning that a student who has ever performed low on a test can never get a high grade. This, of course, creates enormous stress at every assessment a student is subjected to. When it comes to the course grades in upper secondary school, they end up in the final grade, i.e. those who receive a low grade in the subject Swedish in the first grade cannot raise the grade in the coming years. It necessarily has the low grade in its final grade, even if the student's knowledge develops during the years 2 and 3 so that it gets a high grade in upper secondary, more advanced courses. This creates a fragmented education, it impairs the whole and continuity of the student's knowledge development and it does not give a true picture of the student's knowledge at the time of graduation. All in all, these two sets of rules cause students, often rightly, to feel judged on their worst performance. Nothing can create a worse working environment. How would you who listen to this feel if every day at work, in the relationship, in the football team and in the position of trust were constantly judged on your worst achievement? Madam President, I would like Therefore, it is incredibly beneficial, great and important reforms that exist in the bill. We build with this about upper secondary school so that it becomes subject-shaped instead of course-shaped because it benefits students' learning and larger wholes rather than details. The scoring system indicating the extent of a course, nowadays subjects and levels, is maintained. Topics covering many points are proposed to be divided into several levels. A grade shall be given at each pass level. An approved grade on a parent level replaces the grades even at the underlying levels. This means that bad days or periods of low motivation do not have to affect a student's final grade. This will also ensure that the final grade gives a more accurate picture of what the student has with him/her after completing upper secondary education. It is as well as the knowledge a student goes out with that is relevant for admission to further studies and for any future employers to take part in, and not any failures on the way there. The shift from courses to subjects is therefore important, and it should also apply to upper secondary school, komvux and komvux as special education at upper secondary level. We are also changing the rules for grading so that teachers' professionalism is strengthened. Teachers will in future make an overall assessment of a student's knowledge and put the grade that best corresponds to the knowledge rather than ticking off boxes in a matrix. This will make the grades better reflect students' skills. It should also reduce stress among students and increase their motivation and desire for further learning. On the whole, this will benefit the pupils' feeling and learning. Madam President, I would like All grade criteria for the E-level must be met in order for students to be able to get the grade E, the lowest approved. That provision now exists, and we leave it untouched. This is usually called the hard pass limit. It, together with rigid eligibility rules for upper secondary school, has led to that between 15 and 20 percent of every year's litter leaving grade 9 is unauthorized to continue at the next stage of the education chain. Instead, they end up in the introduction programme of upper secondary school, and too small a proportion of those who end up there end up taking their matriculation examination. It is a socio-economic defeat that these individuals' entry into the labour market is delayed or made impossible, and this, of course, leads to human suffering in the form of perceived failure and lost geist. That is why I think it is an important point that is contained in the bill that the Government intends to revise the strict pass limit and the eligibility rules for upper secondary school. Please note, Madam President, that this does not mean lowering requirements. This simply means that exclusion in the transition between primary and secondary education must end. The current order says that qualified teachers decide on students' grades. The Vice-Chancellor is responsible for ensuring that rules on grading are correctly applied. The investigation that preceded the bill states that in such a fully decentralised system with target-related grades, the grading can never be equivalent. The ratings are at the same time the currency of the school market, and the school units themselves determine its value. Schools whose employees have absolute power over which grades are set use ratings as a competitive tool because ratings are considered a measure of school performance and quality. This order leads, of course, to grading inflation. This means that the grades are getting higher and the knowledge is not increasing at the same rate. In practice, it erodes the value of each given grade. We Social Democrats want to regain democratic control of the school. But, of course, the majority of committees, in this case consisting of M, KD, SD and L, do not want to do anything about the basic system error, i.e. that school leaders who compete with each other if students can make money by having higher grades. The right-wing conservatives want to cover this system failure by introducing digital and externally corrected national tests in which the grades can be anchored. And do not misunderstand me, Madam President – there is total political agreement that the national test of subjects should be digitised and corrected centrally. That is also why the majority of Members of this House feel that such an announcement to the government is superfluous. The government is already working on digitalisation and on introducing external correction tests. That is why I am in favour of reservation number 2. Madam President, I would like This debate is about a major and radical reform to improve students' knowledge development and mental health, to strengthen teachers in their professional practice and to better reflect the skills they gained during school life. The new rating principle proposed by the government makes the term rating criteria more appropriate than the term knowledge requirements. It is this that the right-wing conservative bloc has managed to mobilise as its strongest opposition policy in this matter: to question the change of concept from knowledge requirements to grading criteria. I think it is ridiculous, Madam President, that, when we are dealing with a reform of this dignity, we are beginning to distort the words in order to try to make ourselves appear to be tough and hard-core parties. I would like to point out that the reform will in no way lower the requirements. It will, on the other hand, improve pupils' sense and knowledge development and give greater autonomy to the teacher profession. I apologise for having oversold my speaking time somewhat.
i-JiYjQPEEqHxmFKnVo293LP	Madam President, I would like The S-government has failed with the school. About eight years ago, Magdalena Andersson said that Sweden would now have Europe's lowest unemployment rate. She also said that serious crime and the percentage of failed pupils in school would be halved. The question then is how things have turned out. Not very good, is the short grade. On the contrary, Europe's lowest unemployment has become one of the highest, and so far this year the number of gang killings and shootings has set an unwanted record and about as many children and students are being knocked out today as eight years ago when the government took office. 16 000 children in grade 9 have no complete grades in comprehensive school and are therefore not eligible for upper secondary school. More than one in four children in grade 6 fail on one or more subjects. If you add to this serious flaw in your studies and if teachers cannot fully carry out their important work, you can see that there have been a number of lost years with the Social Democrats. We need a new focus on education policy. An important part of this is a completely different focus on knowledge and results. The Moderates welcome the introduction of a class rating system. It is both reasonable and proper to make an overall assessment of what students can do. It is wise to try to make it clearer for students and teachers what you are expected to be able to do and how the rating should be done. But I also think there are a few, Madam President. Changes in grades must be complemented by a completely different follow-up of the results of the knowledge. It is a long time ago to introduce fair national tests, centrally corrected. The first time Parliament decided on this was five years ago. Anna Ekström and the S-government have since done nothing to introduce these fair national tests. It's almost as much a scandal as Pisafusket. If you can get an equivalent correction in national tests, this can be the basis for counteracting grade inflation in the Swedish school. We would like to complement it with an offer to also be able to have digital diagnostic tests in order to give both students and parents a tool to watch the school develop and what students actually learn. On this subject, Madam President, the government proposes that the word "knowledge requirements" should be deleted from the school's policy documents and that different levels of requirements should be abolished. Instead of words such as knowledge requirements, you should talk about grading criteria and criteria for assessment. The government is also proposing to simply abolish the knowledge requirements for the youngest children and instead talk about, as it is said, criteria for assessment. It is very possible that this will be good, but it is not really obvious that it will be. The Swedish school does not need less focus on knowledge and follow-up; on the contrary, more focus is needed on knowledge and follow-up. That is why I would simply like to raise the finger of warning in this context. Then someone can say that this is semantics, that it is language. Rather, I would say that it is a matter of clarity about the importance of knowledge in this context. Let me sum up, Madam President: the Moderates welcome a developed grade system with subject grades. It is reasonable and proper to make an overall assessment of what students can do. However, this is not enough. It has to be paired with other activities. We must break with the rather lax attitude of the government to knowledge and follow-up and simply give teachers proper tools to carry out their important work. Centrally corrected and equivalent national tests are needed as well as an opportunity for schools wishing to use central diagnostic tests as well. Of course, a completely different focus is needed as a supporting part of Swedish education policy: a focus on knowledge. Finally, I would like to endorse reservation number 3.
i-DAnhRF8vKorJMNT1rtZ8oT	Madam President, I would like School policy needs a new direction," says Hjälmered from the speaker's chair. The big problem is that the Moderates show no interest at all in giving school policy a new direction. The Moderates want to preserve the status quo of defective systems that make up the Swedish marketing school and which is the main reason for the grade inflation we see. The Moderates don't want to change the funding. The Moderates don't want to change the selection rules. The Moderates do not want to change the right of establishment. The Moderates don't want to stop the winnings. The Moderates do not want transparency in the free schools – all this that creates the defect in the Swedish school system, which would really need a new direction to counteract segregation, to counteract the leakage of tax funds and to provide a fairer allocation of resources. The Moderates don't want that direction. The Moderates want to keep the system as it is. Then you'll have grade inflation. Then we will continue this journey. Or you need to put a patch on the wound, cover it with something. We can cover it with the proposal to anchor the grades in the national exams. That seems to be the best idea of the Moderates.
i-7Zzr591RYBLmLzPyoGcYLq	Madam President, I would like About eight years ago, Magdalena Andersson promised that the Social Democrats would deliver Europe's lowest unemployment rate, a halving of gang killings and shootings and a halving of the proportion of failed students. Eight years later, we can measure how things have gone. On the contrary, the lowest unemployment rate in Europe has become one of the highest. Sweden sets unwanted records when it comes to insecurity and crime. About as many students are being knocked out in the Swedish school now as when Magdalena Andersson took up the role of Minister. This shows something that we need to change education policy to have a completely different focus on knowledge. We need to enhance the role and role of teachers, simply so that teachers can lead teaching and decide in the classroom. The focus should be on facts and knowledge. We need to have completely different tools to follow up and look at the progress of students and schools. We can stop, Madam President, during the discussion of the centrally corrected fair national tests. Five years ago, the Parliament demanded that these be introduced. What, then, is the importance of this? It's about children knowing that you get an equal assessment when you do the tests. This is, among other things, the basis for the rating. It is also important to know how things are going in the Swedish school in general – between different classrooms, between schools, between municipalities and ultimately in the country as a whole. National tests today are not comparable from one year to another. They have an unfair correction and thus, among other things, cannot curb grading inflation. This is a morass on the part of the government, that nothing has been taken up that would be a reasonable and proper reform – of course along with much else, Madam President. Then we are back in order, focusing on knowledge and restoring the role and authority of teachers. That is the way forward.
i-Vb5tH1Z8MAti6tq66uHLkk	Madam President, I would like We agree that we want to see digital and externally corrected national topic tests introduced. We have also legislated for a clearer link between rating and the results of the national exams during our time in power. We have a system that does not work. As I said in my speech, the grading system we are wrong is leading. This leads to stress, pressure and increased mental illness. This leads to a poor picture of the skills that students have when they finish upper secondary school. It leads to unfair grades. That's a rating system Lars Helmered's party is responsible for. It was the Moderates along with the rest of the Alliance who introduced this rating system that we now agree that we need to change. A little healthy self-criticism could therefore be appropriate in this context, I think. We also agree that exclusion must stop. It is gratifying, I think, that Lars Hjälmered's statement that exclusion must end cannot be interpreted as anything but that he also thinks that the transition between primary and secondary school must work for much more students than it does today. I assume that Lars Helmered is also in favour of the review of the strict pass limit and eligibility rules for upper secondary school that the government in this bill announces that it intends to initiate.
i-9wEUWGwiDhUrBo5emNn21Q	Madam President, I would like Let's look at the rating after eight years with the government Linus Sköld supports. We can see that when it comes to the promise to remove, or rather halve, as Magdalena Andersson said, the percentage of failed students is not even close to reaching it. Then we have to do something else. If we keep going like this, it won't work. There are absolutely reasons for self-criticism. I'll be clear about that. The rating system is a typical example. Me and the Moderates were involved in the design of the previous course-based system, and we can only conclude that it is better to have a subject-based rating system. That is an example, and I can give several others. This is, for example, about the inspection of schools. For me, it is unbelievable that we can have an inspection that is so toothless that one cannot cut to poorly functioning schools in a way that one should be able to do. Nevertheless, we have not been able to see any legislative measures on the part of the government in such an important area. We come back to the debate on the important national tests, Madam President. In fact, there was an announcement as late as yesterday from the government and the National Board of Education. The latest offer is that they should be introduced in 2029. It is five years since the Riksdag made a decision, and now they say in 2029. It's a total of 12 years. A whole generation of young people miss a chance to get fair national tests. I have to say that I think it is a pity that it cannot be done more quickly. It is also a clear priority for a new government, I hope, to reverse this. We come from the Moderates, in gathering with other parties, to focus on knowledge and on making reforms that develop the role of teachers. We will also opt out of certain proposals – I think that we should be clear about that. The Social Democrats and the Green Party propose that social experiments should bus pupils to poorly functioning schools. This is not the case, but we must protect the role and influence of parents in choosing preschools and schools.
i-SazsTQEaYsfMXtLM6ji8CF	Madam President, I would like I can begin by saying that the Swedish Democrats support all our reservations, but for the benefit of time we only ask for the approval of reservation number 1. In this proposal, the Government proposes measures aimed at better reflecting pupils' knowledge. It is a good thing, but it is about time that this happened, because we have had to wait a long time for improvements in the current rating system, despite all our attempts to put this forward in debates, put forward motion proposals and so on. Unfortunately, the government's slowness continues by announcing in the bill that it wants to wait until 2025 instead of, as we suggest, autumn semester 2023 with an implementation of subject ratings, which we think is good. Waiting so long with something that's good isn't something that benefits our students. If we had been in a government position, we would not have waited so long to create a good school, that is, with reforms that make the school good. For those we have absolutely in this bill. Madam President, I would like The proposal concerns the introduction of an overall assessment of pupils' knowledge in relation to grading criteria, as well as the introduction of subject grades in upper secondary school, upper secondary school, municipal adult education at upper secondary level and komvux as special education. The Swedish Democrats are in favour of making the necessary reforms to the current rating system. At the same time, we must regret that this needs to be done. Over the past 30 years we have had no less than three different rating systems where each change was caused by shortcomings in the previous system. Before that, for more than 30 years, a relative rating system was applied with a scale from 1 to 5, as I myself recognize, where the grades would be distributed according to a normal distribution curve. Among other things, standard tests in comprehensive school and central tests in upper secondary school were used as a benchmark. The relative rating system was presented as objective and fair and also prevented subjectively based grade inflation. The problem was that the application was not always correct, which led to comments such as the end of the fives. That, of course, was a disadvantage. But perhaps there were points in this rating system that need to be picked up. The question is open. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats supported the introduction of the knowledge requirements at the time. However, we have seen that the application of the system has had unreasonable consequences. There is only a small space for a student to be able to achieve a higher grade level in case he or she has made a poor performance on a single occasion. It is not reasonable that a student who may write A on all tests except one or is ill at the time of the test cannot get the highest grade. You will recognize this phenomenon. Too many students do. The same applies to other grades. This phenomenon has often been severely criticized. In view of this, we believe that the proposal for an overall assessment of pupils' knowledge in relation to the grade criteria is a good one. Hopefully, this will lead to the cessation of unnecessary stress and an increase in study motivation. Similarly, we believe that the introduction of subject grades instead of course grades is a good thing. This is also something that we Swedish democrats have been exercising over several years. It is sad, however, that we have not received a response from, among other things, the government parties until now, because then more students would have had the opportunity to get more accurate grades. But better late than never. The Government proposes to replace current knowledge requirements with rating criteria for all subjects. Although on the whole we see advantages in introducing clear rating criteria instead of today's extremely abstract knowledge requirements, which in many cases are difficult to understand and explain to students and guardians, we believe that it should remain for the lowest level, i.e. E. It is a question of ensuring that there is a minimum basic level to proceed to the next grade or degree. This should not be compensated. However, both criteria and knowledge requirements must be very clear and focus on pure factual knowledge. Unfortunately, this is something that the government itself can afford. We have no control over this in Parliament, but perhaps the message will go forward. The Government also proposes that each language should be a subject of its own in native language education in upper secondary school. I want to make it clear that the Swedish Democrats believe that the school should focus on teaching the Swedish language. Motherhood education is something that should take place outside the school framework and is funded by own resources. That is why we say no to this change. The Swedish Democrats, as you know, want to abolish mother tongue teaching for all languages except national minority languages in preschool and up to upper secondary school, i.e. throughout the school.
i-A6vAGQWrCk3bT1yEsa5PXS	Madam President, I would like I think it is also worth giving Jörgen Grubb the opportunity to respond to his position on what would be the real remedy to grade inflation: to settle the market forces in the school system. This means that large school groups can make big profits, as long as they maintain the grades in their activities. As a result, pupils who come from independent upper secondary schools on average find it more difficult to get by at the next level, i.e. the first year at the university, even though they have equally good grades. This also means that the school that can segregate students best, who can best pick out students with Swedish language background and with good socio-economic status, can make the greatest profits. As a result, high grades and good segregation can make a lot of money. The whole system is the basis for grade inflation. Jörgen Grubb, together with the others in the right-hand conservative gang, is driving the line that we should have rating systems that put greater pressure on the student at the time of the test. The sample should thus be attributed even more weight than it already does. The whole point of this reform – to reduce stress, pressure and mental illness – risks being counteracted because the Swedish Democrats and their friends would rather attribute even more weight to the student's test session, even more pressure. Jörgen Grubb! Are you with us when we say that we want to combat inflation by making a real deal with the problem?
i-YSoYgSZxfTamyUgT7vEG9k	Madam President, I would like Linus Sköld! Now, all of a sudden, there has been a debate about grading inflation. It's not good with grade inflation. This is worrying for the whole of Sweden. That's why I started talking about relative grades, which can be a cure. But there were other disadvantages, as I'm sure you know. But that may be something we need to lift up. The last time I looked at the statistics that were out over the grades in Sweden was the 2019. In the system called Siris equals results on national tests from different schools all over Sweden. I noticed that somehow you want to blame the free schools, Linus Sköld. I don't really care who's to blame for the grade inflation. But when I looked at the statistics on the four subjects – Swedish, Swedish 2, math and English – it turned out that it was most grade inflation in the municipal schools. It was a little louder there. I don't know if you want to go on them in any way. But I think it's bad wherever we have grade inflation. I recently ran a case in Malmö against a municipal school that had extreme grade inflation. We did so together with a trade union. It was also a municipal school. Grading inflation is not good in any way. We must ensure that. Which is the best system I can't answer right now. We shall have a special debate on that. But maybe it's the relative rating system. What do I know?
i-Ao57Yj8WRKyg6EAmaVqByH	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by pointing out that it is Jörgen Grubb and his fellow opinion who have placed grading inflation on the agenda of this report. I can read before, if necessary, but I think Jörgen Grubb knows what the majority of the committees have produced for any text linked to just digital and externally corrected national tests as a tool to counteract grade inflation. So I am not the one who makes up the argument about this. Jörgen Grubb himself thought so. I play by those rules. Very well! I think it is also worth talking about Jörgen Grubb's opposition to mother tongue teaching. Learning languages is a process determined by the amount of words you know. If you know several words in your native language, you also have better opportunities to learn your second language faster and more advanced. If you can develop in your native language, you can also develop in your second language. This is covered by research. But Jörgen Grubb and the Swedish Democrats are in the usual order completely immune to what science says about how language development works and persists in the idea that mother tongue teaching should be abolished.
i-JcqJuDryr7bZyduWUUtEmB	Madam President, I would like Jörgen Grubb and the Swedish Democrats listen to what it's like in reality and also to research. I find it sad that the honourable Member does not listen to what it is like in reality. As far as the reality of this case is concerned, you can travel across Öresund and come to a country called Denmark. A number of years ago, a huge survey was carried out throughout the country – they looked over everyone – to see if they would continue with mother tongue teaching like the way we have in Sweden. It was found that there was no difference. It did not go any better or worse for those students who had the so-called voluntary mother tongue education, which we also have in Sweden. In amt after amt it was then removed, and it is now removed throughout Denmark, based on how it works in reality.
i-JWV9B9MbzSD5c4uUPHkE5R	Madam President, I would like We'll see how high marks this debate gets from Sweden's students and teachers when we're done. It is positive that we are now approaching a new rating in the Swedish school system. Criticism of the existing rating system has been clear, sustained and concrete. Today we are taking a good step forward, I think. However, it certainly does not solve everything. The rating stress will remain. There are still some obstacles to getting it perfect. There have also been many changes to the rating system over the past few years. That in itself is an obstacle to its working well. A little more stability is needed. I hope we can have it soon. I am pleased with the cooperation we have had on the parliamentary committee. Several of us who are in the discussion here today are in it. We had good discussions there too. What is the name of this report that we have come up with? It's called Subject grades – grades should better reflect students' knowledge. It's a fantastic entry point for a grade system that it should reflect students' knowledge. As stated in the report, the new principle is that the teacher should make an overall assessment of the student's knowledge in relation to the grading criteria and set the grade that best corresponds to the student's knowledge. That's good. That's great. But that's not really true. This applies only to those students who do well in school. That is what we are going to decide today. If you are in some parts of C but in one aspect of E you can now get a D. That's great. The knowledge is weighed together, and the teacher makes an overall assessment so that it is not only the worst thing that determines the grade. That's extremely reasonable. That is how we are valued in working life and hopefully also in private life. We are seen as wholes, and there is an understanding that you can be good even if you are not good at everything. But for those who have a hard time at school, it is not that way. If you lie in some parts of D but in one aspect below E you get an F. The only aspect that should be counted is then the one that lies below E. You might reach the rating criteria in everything but one aspect. But you don't pass. Where classmates are judged on their overall achievements, they are judged on the basis of the worst performance. That is a completely unreasonable principle. With the proposal on the table, we are legislating that those who do well in school should be judged on different criteria from those who have difficulties. That the grades are different is obvious. The fact that the criteria are different makes no sense. But that is what is to be decided on here today. We were trying to find something else. But we could see that there was no support for it. This must be dealt with in the future. We would like once again to call on the government to start the work they have promised us on this issue. The purpose of the grades shall not be to exclude pupils from education. It should be to provide the education system with better tools to contribute to the learner's learning. Here the Parliament has not yet landed quite correctly, I can say. Despite improvements, the grading system and the proposal do not mean that students' knowledge should be best reflected. Part of the purpose is still to keep students away from further training steps. It may sound strange, but that's the way it is. We're sticking to the hard pass limit. It means that a student who does not reach a certain minimum level in all aspects of all subjects must not enter the next stage of education. The student can be good at most things, but it is not enough if it is a small point it cannot handle. If you don't pass every part of the grade criteria in Swedish, you won't get on. It is not important if you are good at all other parts of the subject Swedish or if you are good at math or what it is. You'll get unapproved anyway. Let me be clear. There can certainly be knowledge that is absolutely necessary for one to be approved. For example, it is likely that all aspects of electrical safety will have to be available if you are to be an electrician. It sounds like a typical good thing to be able to fully-- you shouldn't be a little half-ass. But then it is about that it is very well thought out that this particular knowledge is absolutely necessary for a specific profession. This is true of very few of the rating criteria. In most cases, an overall assessment could be made – the student lying around an A, the one lying around a C and the one lying around an E. But today we are making a difference between those students. It doesn't make sense. With this in mind, Madam President, I would like to support our reservation 2.
i-JTNBegcS9Q9cJ34EnFDTR2	Madam President, I would like As has been noted earlier from the speaker's chair, today's debate is, among other things, about the introduction of subject grades instead of course grades. The Government has proposed a number of amendments to the School Act that aim to better reflect students' knowledge and promote students' knowledge development. I am happy to say that I have been involved in the work of the political reference group, and I am very pleased that the proposals are finally coming forward. What is proposed is that subject grades should be given instead of course grades in upper secondary school, upper secondary school, municipal adult education at upper secondary level and komvux as special education at upper secondary level. In upper secondary school and upper secondary school, the proposal no longer provides for courses to be designed in the same way as at present. The training in each subject shall instead take the form of one or more levels. Ratings shall be given on a subject after each level has been completed. A new principle for rating is also introduced. This means that the teacher should make an overall assessment of the students' knowledge in relation to the grading criteria and set the grade that best corresponds to the students' knowledge. Madam President, I would like In the 90s, upper secondary school subjects were divided into courses. Instead of a single grade per subject, a grade is then given for each course. This has had very negative consequences. The many grades fragment the learning and counteract a holistic view of knowledge. How can I sum up these perhaps a bit difficult academic concepts? Well, that basically means that the pursuit of deep knowledge and progression in learning has been made more difficult. Regardless of a student's knowledge development, a low grade in an early course risks hanging out with the student for the rest of high school, perhaps even for the rest of his life. This has resulted in many people wanting to read grades in municipal adult education. This means in many cases a waste of time and resources both for the individual and for the educational system. Moreover, the fact that it is now barely possible to get into Komvux to raise their grades is perceived by many as a great injustice, which the Left Party agrees with. Madam President, I would like The many course grades are also a stress factor for students. It is important that early in upper secondary school perform at the top of its ability, as an early grade cannot be raised during upper secondary school no matter how much a student develops later. According to several studies, many students, especially on pre-school programs, report a high workload and experience so much stress that they have considered dropping out of high school. And pupils who are tired of school or who have had difficulties in school risk being punished early. The frequent rating is also a stress factor for teachers. At a time of lack of teachers, which is largely about health and safety problems, it is our responsibility to improve the working environment for teachers in order to retain the teachers we have and to attract more to the profession. In other words, it is clear that the reintroduction of subject grades in upper secondary school will be an important part of the solution to several of the problems facing upper secondary school today. The Left Party has been proposing the introduction of subject ratings for many years. We are therefore very pleased that the government finally set up the investigation and that we have a broad consensus today on the proposal. Madam President, I would like When you talk about grades, you can't get away from one of the main problems we have today. Marketing is one of the reasons why schools are becoming less and less equal. Profit-driven independent school groups establish themselves where they have the best market prospects, in other words often in areas where the population has a high level of education and good income. In addition, these schools have a strong interest in driving up students' grades with the hope of attracting more customers or students, as we normal people call them, leading to grade inflation and increased segregation. Unfortunately, this has also led to municipal schools being forced into that system because of competition. Curiosity and desire to learn must be more important than grade. We must therefore stop grading inflation by attacking the root of the problem, and that is the marketing school. Madam President, I would like This has also led to an unfortunate introspection of the school's mission in recent years. The achievement of goals has become tantamount to knowledge results on national and international tests and only grades. The school's mission, as formulated in the school law and school curricula, is much more comprehensive and has higher ambitions. The Left Party argues that the school's mission as a whole should be strengthened. This applies in particular to the school law's demands for the development of lifelong desire to learn, respect for human rights and fundamental democratic values, and the development of pupils into active, creative, competent and responsible individuals and citizens. Madam President, I would like The fact that we do not want a grade and that we want to counteract the grade inflation that the marketing school has caused does not mean that students' knowledge development should not be followed up – quite the contrary. Students' knowledge development needs to be monitored from early ages. After that, it should be a continuous part of the school's work. It is only through early follow-up that early intervention becomes possible. A clear and equivalent follow-up at an early age is better than early grades. There is nothing to suggest that early-age grades have a positive effect on learning. This has been noted earlier when we have debated, among other things, grades from grade 4. The Left Party, together with the entire profession and all the consultative bodies, opposed the proposal. Unfortunately, however, we had a majority in Parliament who voted in favour. In conclusion, Madam President, the Left Party wants a subject-designed secondary school with subject grades instead of course grades. There must be opportunities for students to be examined on the basis of academic years and knowledge development rather than the rating system we have today. At the same time, the content of the subject must be clear enough to enable students to follow their knowledge development continuously. Then we also have to deal with the difficult disease, which in this case, too, leads to the suffering of pupils. Of course I'm talking about marketing school. It is time to take back democratic control of the Swedish school. The time of the market is soon over in the Swedish school system. I'm in favour of reservation number two.
i-WRzNXQV9BmSNXCHSVgRzYi	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for approval of the Christian Democrats' reservation number 4. The Christian Democrats work for a school where knowledge is in focus. According to the Swedish National Agency for Education, the average grade level in primary and secondary schools has increased. That sounds good. In fact, however, the level of knowledge has fallen. This is, of course, unreasonable. Ratings shall be objective and comparable over time. The Christian Democrats believe that this discrepancy needs to be addressed. It should be the student's actual knowledge and level of knowledge that determines which grade you get, nothing else. It has often been pointed out that the current system of grades on each individual course is too rigid. This means that the student who has had the bad luck to feel bad during a course and thus received a low grade has the low grade as a sinker during the rest of the course. Even if you do top results in all other courses, this only low grade beats through and pulls down the whole, although the teacher estimates that the student has a level of knowledge that is at a higher level. The Christian Democrats therefore take a positive view of the proposal to replace today's course grades with subject grades. One hope is that a more long-term learning can be encouraged by grading after completed subject studies and that the grade better reflects the student's real knowledge of the subject. However, there is a risk that the student may be tempted to take it a little too slow and postpone the studies ahead of him if the goal, that is, the grade, is too far ahead of time. The proposal we are debating today, Madam President, instead represents a compensatory rating in which the grading criteria no longer need to be met in all sub-courses on the subject in order for grades A – D on the grading scale to be set. However, in order for the student to pass the grade, all criteria for the grade E must continue to be met. Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats, like the Law Council, believe that the term We therefore oppose the replacement of knowledge requirements by rating criteria in this regard. The government is now proposing to abolish the knowledge requirements for the younger students and instead replace them with the more abstract and assessment criteria. We believe that knowledge requirements and requirements levels should remain in the lower grades where grades are not given. Knowledge requirements should remain as a concept in the legislation. The Christian Democrats would like to emphasise the importance of fair credit for higher education. Students who make an effort and choose to read more advanced levels in a particular subject should not be disadvantaged in relation to those who have not chosen studies at a more advanced level. It should always pay to study more. Madam President, I would like Grading is an important tool for students and parents to be informed about how the student relates to the school's learning goals. The grades should be clear and contribute to the student's knowledge being continuously monitored and evaluated. The results should be communicated with the home so that parents can assume their parental responsibility. Grading inflation and different grades have, however, been discussed extensively in recent years. The Swedish Agency for Education's report from 2019, Analyses of equivalent grading between student groups and schools, shows that the difference in grading in relation to the national tests between different schools is large and that the grading varies greatly depending on the average performance level of pupils in schools. In plain language, this means that it is easier to get high grades in some schools than in others. In view of what has been said earlier in this debate, I would argue that it would be some kind of verdict that it would be more attractive to go to an independent school and that it would be easier to give higher grades. I know a person who comes from a suburb and who chose to go into Stockholm city to one of the schools with high status. The student had to struggle hard to get decent grades and helped his friends at home in the municipal suburban school. They got A on the essays and jobs she helped them with. She herself was barely approved, as the requirements were so much higher at the other school. So one cannot necessarily say that it is one type of school that gives higher grades than the other. But no matter what form of operation it is behind, grades must be matched by the student's actual knowledge and nothing else. Therefore, an objective measurement point is needed to compare with, and therefore the Christian Democrats believe that it is urgent that digital and externally corrected national tests need to be put in place as soon as possible, in order to prevent a shift to compensatory grading leading to a further deterioration in the equivalence of the rating. We are therefore pleased that the committee is now proposing an announcement to the government on this. It was planned that the national tests would be digital and assessed externally this year. It has now been delayed until 2024 at the earliest, according to the government. That's not good enough. I talked about the need for an objective measurement point to compare with. This can be achieved by the external correction of a national sample and the correlation of grades to the results of the national tests. In this way, the grades would be more fair. Teachers should continue to be able to take into account results from other tests, tasks, how the student works during the hours and so on when grading the individual student. The Christian Democrats believe that the correlation with the results of the national tests should apply at group and school level and not at individual level, because then the individual student who may have felt bad when the test was done would be hit unnecessarily hard. Therefore, a model needs to be developed for how the grades should correlate with the results of the national tests. We also want to investigate whether national or final tests need to be included in more subjects where students receive grades. This would ensure a fairer rating on more subjects. There is also reason to examine the question of how teaching teachers could be complemented by independent teachers and independent examiners to avoid grade inflation. Therefore, we see that the bill that the government has come up with and which we broadly support still needs to be supplemented with more proposals to better reflect students' knowledge.
i-XuVqixDFF87JiVnP46jUfN	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation number 5. We have today to debate subject ratings. Seven parties do it anyway; then we have the Left Party talking about something completely different. But there are seven of us discussing this, which is about taking a position on a fairly important change in the Swedish grading system. Madam President, I would like When I was in high school – it's a long time ago, even if it doesn't show – you had grades from 1 to 5. It was just that if you got a first grade, the worst grade you could get, you were still approved. You could get a line, but it was if you weren't in class at all. Then it was not even possible to assess your knowledge, and then you got no grade at all but just a line. But they were all approved. In the early 1990s, the grading system was changed to a system where you could not pass, pass, pass or pass very well. Suddenly, overnight, between 10 and 20 percent of all students in Sweden failed, simply because you could be. That was not possible in the previous system. The consequence of this was that there was a much greater focus in Swedish school on making contributions to those who did not pass. We had a debate that was gradually turned into focusing more on support efforts, individual programs and finding different bridges for students who had difficulty reaching the goals in order to move forward. This has been very good and important. When we discuss grades, we should have with us that there must be different levels to strive to achieve. A teacher should not be afraid to give a low grade because the teacher does the student a disservice if he is released through the grades, stage by stage, up into the school system if the student has not reached the goals to be achieved. This is kind of like jumping high jumps. You can try to jump high jump without there being a bar-- you can do that. On the other hand, it is completely impossible to know how high you have jumped. But if you are able to skip the bar, the bar can be raised. So it can be done, and then you can raise a little bit more, practice a little more, exert yourself a little more and fight a little more. It's important in the grade system. That is why the grades are basically important. How do you design a rating system not only to promote learning and knowledge learning, but also to ensure that it is fair, equal, transparent and so on? There are a number of different models here. Previous speakers have discussed the relative rating systems, and now it is target and knowledge-related ratings. Madam President, I would like One thing is important to include in this. If the grades are at the same time a selection instrument for higher studies, it is unreasonable to focus on what a student in upper secondary school received on a course the first semester of grade 1. If the grades are to be a selection instrument, this must apply to the student's knowledge at graduation and then apply for a higher education. We Liberals are behind the change. Madam President, I would like It is important in the discussion about grades to see how the grades also affect other parts of the school. Failure at school affects your self-esteem and income for the rest of your life. At the other end, it can be an unreasonable situation with grade that can drive mental ill health, pressure on young people to just study for the exams and so on. Rating correlates and affects other parts of the school. Today there are many students who lag behind in school. There are problems with teachers without qualifications being forced to grade, which of course is not good either. There are major problems of order in school, which of course also affect learning and grades. There are also problems with grading inflation and large differences between municipalities, not least in the financing of the school. Madam President, I would like Nevertheless, I am a little surprised that the government wants to sign the word knowledge requirements out of legislation. They want to replace the word with grading criteria. In my world, it's not all about rating criteria. In my world, not everything in school is about studying just for grades. In my world learning, going to classes, reading homework and learning things have a greater value than just the grade itself. If you undermine or thin the concept of knowledge in this way and replace it with knowledge that is important only for a certain Swedish test but not very important for reading and enjoying a novel, then I mean that ultimately you undermine the value of knowledge, education, education, enlightenment and so on in the wider perspective. The school needs to be seen in a broader perspective than just specific grades. The government writes in its legislative referral that it does not want the word knowledge requirements because it has a strong signal value for a strict focus on knowledge. I agree with that; it has a strong signal value, and it's great. Knowledge has a great signal value. Is there any signal value better than knowledge? The government believes that grades are a more important signal value. I don't really agree with that. That is why I agree with reservation 5 on not removing the word knowledge requirements from legislation.
i-JTqju2mpTp4nVvo9ATZC9K	Madam President, I would like How does a dream break? In today's school system it can be easy. A bad day at the beginning of the first grade – and then the dream of becoming a doctor disappeared. Many are the students who have testified about how they go to every test throughout high school with their dream in hand as something fragile that can break at any time. The worst achievement has weighed heavier than anything else. Madam President, I would like This has made a lot of people feel bad. We must take seriously the stress-related mental illness of young pupils who are diagnosed as burn-out even in high school. Today's proposal on subject grades, that grades should better reflect students' knowledge, is important because it will be more fair, but it is also important because we will get students who feel better, who can feel that it is not only the failure that matters but also all the other things. It is a great and important day today when we are able to debate the proposal on subject ratings. The investigation was already established by Gustav Fridolin in 2018 during his last six months as Sweden's Minister of Education. We in the Green Party have worked a long time to get to the reform, especially because we are worried about the stress-related mental illness. Madam President, I would like If there had been a subject grade even in elementary school, my little brother would probably have given up a long time ago. If his poor performance in grades 6, 7 and 8 had been counted and followed with him for the rest of his life, he probably wouldn't have uprooted himself for the last year of grade 9. His new math teacher looked at him when the grades were to be awarded and asked: How come you had E in grade 8? You've written "A" now. No, said my brother, I wasn't motivated. Nevertheless, he received the grade that corresponded to what he could when he wrote the national test in grade 9. That's the way we want it in high school. That's what we do with subject ratings. Your French skills on the last day will determine what grade you get in French, not how it was in grade 1. In this way it will be fair, but it also makes it worthwhile to keep trying even if you have failed at the beginning. We don't turn out the motivation of those who are having a tough time. Madam President, I would like The grades should better reflect the students' knowledge. We are taking a big and important step today, but we are not getting all the way through. There are two major gaps left to plug if we are really to have grades that reflect students' skills, not only better but fully. One of them is the one related to grade E. In all other grades we now say that it is a balanced assessment, the total, that should be counted. But for those who will receive the grade E, it continues to be every single failure. We have a clear limit for approval. It sounds nice and good, but it means that many people don't get into high school even though they might be able to do it. It is not good for them, and it is not good for Sweden. I am pleased that the government in this bill is saying that it should also address this issue. The big question is whether we should have fair grades is that we have to get away from the marketing school where the ratings are used to attract customers. This is the exercise of authority that determines the future of children. But we know it's being abused. Although on average the pupils of independent schools have higher grades, they find it more difficult to manage at the university. Happy grades, you can talk about. I have even read examples where the International English School gives almost every student A in music. It is a substance that we do not measure with national tests. Smells like cheating a long way. The right-wing conservative parties are not interested in correcting this particular test. Madam President, I would like We still have a lot to discuss. One thing that interests me less than much else is the discussion of choice of words. Of course, word choices can play a role, but the big and important thing today is that more people get a fair chance of success even if they failed in the beginning and that more people can carry their dreams all the way through. With that in mind, I would like to endorse Amendment No 2 and the other proposals contained in the report.
i-QfG94fYatUDzq3MBBaFeac	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for the approval of reservation 2. This debate is about a report from the Swedish National Audit Office. Let me start by saying a few words about the reports from the Swedish National Audit Office. If you have been here for a while you notice that they follow the same pattern to 90 - 95 percent. The Swedish National Audit Office notes that a large part of the operations work well. Then there is always a certain amount of criticism. It is said that this works less well and that there are opportunities to develop and improve the business. Often the criticism is quite mild, and you come up with some sensible suggestions for improvement. The government's response also follows the same pattern to 90 – 95 percent. The Government notes that the Swedish National Audit Office is right in some cases. It is often the part that is easy to fix and fix. It doesn't require much resources. That's where the government agrees. When the criticism is about bigger things that are a little harder to correct, a little more extensive things, the government does not agree with the Swedish National Audit Office. There are exceptions. I've been through a total sawing from the National Audit Office. It was about the Sameskol board. That's the worst thing I've ever read, actually. In this report there were two obvious, concrete things that I reacted to, things that one feels should be corrected and that are easy to correct. The first thing we are making a request for. This means that organisers who apply to start a course at the Swedish National Agency for Higher Education sometimes receive a rejection, and they do not get a justification for the rejection. If I interpret the report correctly, most organisers get a justification, but there are a lot of places where they do not get a justification. This is just too bad, I think. All organisers who are refused an application to start a training course shall have a justification. After all, the Authority has a justification – it knows why it has accepted certain applications and rejected others. I think it is fully justified and relevant rejections that have been given. It may be that the organiser does not meet certain requirements, that there is no labour market need or anything. But the organisers must be given a justification. Why should they have a justification? It is, of course, because it is an obstacle to corruption and violence, as the report says. But there is another aspect that is not in the report, and that is that a serious organiser who is rejected for a certain reason can do it again and do it right only he knows what he has done wrong. This should just happen, I think. It is really bad not to give a reason why you reject an application. If you can't do that, you can start working at Samhall or something. In its reply, the government states that it believes that the university of applied sciences is already engaged in important development work in the decision-making process. No, no, no. This isn't rocket science. This isn't very difficult. Give a reasoned answer to why an organiser is refused! Just do it! And it should preferably happen from today, I think. The second thing I reacted to in this report concerns joint admission. I think and believe that a common admission across the country is much more rational and better and would probably work much better, Madam President. Now, however, the government's answer was that an investigation has already been set up on this. We cannot make a motion, I think, for the government to start an investigation when the government has already done so. But we are eagerly awaiting the outcome of that investigation, and we hope that it is relevant and serious and does not waste too much time. Having said that, Madam President, I hope that organisers will receive an answer from today if they are refused their application.
i-EC3NHhMsFFYRVtLkBb4oE6	Madam President, I would like Actually, I'm going to make a little declaration of love for the university of applied sciences. It's a fantastic form of education. Shall we make the heart of the hand, too? Yeah, it's beautiful. Actually, it's incredible. The university of applied sciences is probably the only form of education in Sweden where we actually take the starting point of what the labour market needs. It is the form of education where the most people come in and come directly to work where the impact on both the individual and society as a whole is at its best purely socio-economic. It really is an incredible form of education. So many people get skills that enable them to move on to work, either directly from high school or from a profession that may not have such great prospects. It is precisely this that is the purpose of the education system – to lift people further in life. It's incredibly wonderful. It is an amazing form of education, but it is worth recalling that it is not we who sit here who create it. It's not the government that's creating this. It is the individual training coordinators who are out there. It is both municipalities and independent. It's really-- hear and behold now, everyone who didn't know it-- profit-making companies, and it's going very well. It is the most successful form of education in Sweden. You can think about that if you want to. What is the strength of this is precisely that there is a closeness between those who run the education and those who need the skills. This is not often the case in many other forms of education. If you are going to start an education within the university of applied sciences, you need to bring business with you locally. You need to show that there is a need for education. You also need to show that this is something that is demanded at community level. You don't get the education unless you can show that there is a real, real need out there in the real world. It's fantastic – demand and supply. It's a pure market lesson. Here's the thing, too. What is not important is that you know what is missing in Umeå if you want to start an education in Malmö. If you want to start an education in Malmö, you need to know what the working life is like where it should start. This whole regional and local anchoring is crucial to the functioning of the university of applied sciences. One of the most important criticism points that the Swedish National Audit Office has included is that we are increasingly moving towards the Swedish Agency for Higher Education basing its analyses on what competence is needed on the national perspective. I know that many parties in this Chamber like to nationalize things and so on, but I can promise you that analyses of what the labour market really needs should not be nationalised. We rarely need mining personnel in Skåne. They do not have as much need for programmers in Kramfors as we have in Malmö. It is different what you need; it is depending on which sector is large locally and much more. Today, the Swedish Agency for Higher Education starts to go further and further away from the local and regional needs, which means that there is a great risk that competence is actually approved as important and gets allocations based on incorrect conditions and that the local needs that exist, for example in Malmö, Umeå and Västra Götaland, are not met. There is an association in Stockholm that evaluates national needs, but it can certainly be different from local or regional ones. These are criticisms on which we have made claims, for which, unfortunately, we were not supported. But I think it is very important that all parties bring this along – that we really have a real threat to the strength of the university of applied sciences in this particular case. Whether there is a sharp decision here, I know that you will all continue to discuss YH, and then it is important to take this with you. The regional is the force. It is also meat and blood in the companies that are the strength of YH. It is the local executive who has ten employees who can say: I need this competence in three years' time – I agree that it is needed. It is not officials in the region who have development responsibilities and who now come under the YH umbrella to evaluate what skills are needed. It is not necessarily the interest organisations with headquarters in the vicinity of the Riksdag that have the best knowledge of what skills are needed locally. They have good control of the overall, absolutely, but it can be very different. It can be a programming language that is needed in parts of the country and another in Malmö, for example, if we are talking about a bit more modern aspects. We really need to improve on this: to draw the attention of the University of Applied Sciences Authority to the fact that it is the real need for the labour market, what the activities have, and not what the officials see, that needs to be strengthened. Therefore, it is also very important that the authority in the analyses carried out, to the extent that they should be done at all, takes into account the fact that the Swedish National Audit Office says that they often do not reflect the needs of the labour market. This is what those who work in the university of applied sciences and receive grants say. They also say that the analyses are not reflected in the allocations either. So we have analyses that do not reflect the need, which is then not reflected in the allocation. This is the basis for the degree programmes that come within the university of applied sciences. That is not very good, Madam President. Many good courses are applied for within the university of applied sciences, so those who receive awards are good – that's not the case. I think that the authority itself says that about half to 60% is of such high quality that they can be given an education, and it is about 30% that receives an award. But we need a boost in skills in relation to the needs we see in society. If we get a little less lift, it's in itself very serious. We see a huge number of people who get courses awarded that have a lot of empty places, while there are many courses that are not awarded. That's a problem. It is a fantastic education, but we have some problems that we need to take a little more seriously than is currently happening. It should be recalled that there is no possibility of appeal in this system. The last thing raised by the Swedish National Audit Office, Madam President, is that it is unclear why there will be rejection or award. This must be made clearer, with better justification, not least in order to prevent the conflict that is also said to be at risk within the Agency. Again – I love the university of applied sciences, really! It is a fantastic education to lift people, both those who come straight from high school and especially, which is absolutely fantastic, people who have a long career behind them and get new opportunities when an industry may be dying out. But we have opportunities to make it better. I'll give it more money. We need to strengthen it. We have been fighting for this for many years, and we want to keep fighting for it to get better. There are things to do better.
i-U7r1TfuWFJ6o7jYYLnk36z	Madam President, I would like Madam President, I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservations 1 and 3. Sweden faces a major skill shortage in virtually all professions, not least in industry and crafts. There are also a great many jobs in these areas. But many young people have a wrong idea of what it means to work in a workshop or industry. Therefore, too few young people apply for vocational preparatory programmes in upper secondary school. Study visits and prao are important to give a more nuanced picture. Information for young people should indicate that vocational training often provides guaranteed jobs after education, often also summer jobs during studies. The University of Applied Sciences is an important form of education which partly compensates for this mismatch, since it directly connects with the needs of the labour market. It is not usually necessary to have read a certain high school program before. I would like to add my voice to the praise of the previous speaker, because the university of applied sciences is, on the whole, an excellent form of education, with a very high proportion going into permanent employment immediately after studying or at least within a year of completing studies. Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats believe that it is of great importance that the Swedish National Agency for Higher Education is evaluated and reviewed. It is also, of course, important that resources for university of applied sciences education are used efficiently and effectively, as this audit report shows. The Swedish National Audit Office shows that it happens that training courses are cancelled and that places are empty in educations where defections have taken place. As each application is administered by the individual organiser of polytechnic education, one person can accept several places in different schools, for safety's sake, but the person in question can finally only start one of the courses. This entails a number of empty places at the start of the training courses. MYH uses the measure of utilisation to know to what extent funds have been used for training places. The measure indicates the proportion of state grants granted to training programmes actually paid during the year. In cases where the students have completed their training, it can be said that the resources have been used effectively. In 2019, the utilisation rate for polytechnic education was 78.3 per cent – that is high. According to the Swedish National Audit Office, there are reasons to reduce losses via drop-outs and empty spaces and thus get up the utilisation rate significantly. Madam President, I would like The Swedish National Audit Office recommends that a common system for applications to the University of Applied Sciences be investigated. This would improve planning conditions by providing a better overview of how many people have applied for several courses and would thus also facilitate filling empty spaces. This would help to make more efficient use of resources and give more people the chance to attend polytechnic education. The Government replies that an investigation has been set up to be reported by 15 June 2023. We look forward to hearing the investigation's proposals on how to design a common system for applications for courses and programmes within the university of applied sciences. The Christian Democrats believe that a common system of applications would reduce the risk of empty places in education and for resources not being used effectively. It is therefore of great importance to carefully follow up the Government's mission to the investigation on proposals for how a common admission system for the University of Applied Sciences can be designed. It is also important that the Authority ensures that there are no threats to independence or risk of conflict in its activities. We therefore welcome the fact that MYH is now reviewing the documentation of procedures in relation to conflict and threats to independence. We therefore agree with the government's assessment on these points and therefore support the letter. Madam President, I would like Furthermore, we have more proposals that we believe would have a bearing on ensuring the supply of skills. Since there are few study paths after the University of Applied Sciences, the Christian Democrats want it to be possible to validate and supplement their grades after the University of Applied Sciences for those who want to proceed to higher education or university studies. Otherwise, some would refrain from studying in polytechnics if they perceive it as going into a dead end. We also want the main rule to be that upper secondary professional programmes are extended to their content in order to be able to grant higher education qualifications, with the possibility to opt out of the qualification. This is in line with the proposal put forward by the government to increase access to basic qualifications for professional programmes. We also believe that this would help to increase the participation of more people in vocational programmes, whether at upper secondary level or at university of applied sciences. Furthermore, study and career guidance needs to be more clearly linked to the individual's interest and ability to respond to the needs of the labour market. There is a need for better promotion of vocational training, polytechnics and apprenticeships, such as ways of obtaining a vocational qualification and entering the labour market.
i-Sj5Ww8t1zrrtuMhUUfMncB	Madam President, I would like I also agree with Mr Paarup-Petersen-Petersen's declaration of love for the University of Applied Sciences, but I am a more cluttered person, so I am abstaining from the hands of the speaker. Madam President, I would like We all know that we have major problems with the supply of skills in the Swedish labour market. There are a number of so-called shortage jobs and employers who are practically screaming for skills. Many of these so-called shortage professions are non-academic professions, while they require post-secondary education. Here the university of applied sciences has a crucial role to play, but this requires that it is a university of applied sciences that works in the best possible way. There are many things that work well today. This is shown not least by the Swedish National Audit Office's letter. But let us dwell briefly on what the Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed. Well, it is if the universities of applied sciences live up to, as it is finely said, Parliament's intentions on polytechnic education that respond to the needs of working life, that they are of high quality and that state support is allocated effectively. It is very bureaucratic in many ways, but one should not underestimate bureaucracy. I am also a strong advocate of sanity and balance in a political debate. Therefore, it should be stressed that the Swedish National Audit Office is mainly positive in its report: Generally speaking, the University of Applied Sciences lives up to the purpose and purpose. However, as we have heard here before, there are a number of recommendations to further strengthen this form of education and thus also strengthen the Swedish labour market in the long term and ensure that more people get into work. It is above all the recommendation to the Swedish Agency for Higher Education that we Liberals believe that the government should act more strongly. That is why I am in favour of reservation 1. This issue is about ensuring that there are no conflict situations and that processing processes are characterised by equivalence. Madam President, I would like Equivalence is a word that is often and rightly used in the political debate on schools. It is about students as well as providers of education getting the same opportunities, the same answers and the same chance to follow their processes and know what applies regardless of the administrator or place. The Swedish National Audit Office points out that MYH has many assignments by granting state grants, overseeing, interacting with the working life and is also supportive and advisory vis-à-vis education providers. It is therefore particularly important that the Authority has the structure to maintain its independence in the mission and therefore any suspicion of conflict. Ultimately, it is a question of maintaining the high legitimacy that the university of applied sciences has today, both with regard to students, employers and providers of education. Madam President, I would like Liberals have long and actively worked for increased efforts at the University of Applied Sciences. We believe that this is a very good form – an intermediate between academic education and upper secondary education. The Swedish educational system has lacked the segment of the university of applied sciences, not least because many professions are moving towards requiring further education in addition to upper secondary education, while many professions still do not require a longer academic education and neither should they. The University of Applied Sciences is a valuable complement in the flora of education that exists in Swedish education. It must continue to develop and improve. There are many advantages to the university of applied sciences today. We have pointed this out. It has a high throughput and high attractiveness, and people who go to the university of applied sciences get into work – in relevant work. The latter cannot be stressed enough. Having said that, we must continue to work towards a high-quality university of applied sciences that ensures a labour market that is both matching and countering the skills gap we are seeing today. I ask you to accept reservation 1.
i-XWVx1cDDdutDvGDS4fFLS5	Madam President, I would like I always start these debates by saying that today we are going to debate and discuss, but today I will have to start by saying that I will also give a tribute speech to the Swedish Agency for Higher Education. The report from the Swedish National Audit Office on the achievement of the objectives and the Parliament's ambitions makes it quite clear that we meet our high expectations in a good way, but at the same time they say that there may be potential for improvement and also some risks, but let me return to this a little later. In my opinion, the university of applied sciences is by far the best tool we have to ensure that people receive the right education that leads to a job, but also to ensure that, for professions where it is difficult to find the right skilled workforce, training courses that match their needs can be started relatively quickly. Since the agency is now both responsible for validation and has the possibility of shorter courses, as well as distance training, there should be the necessary tools to complete this assignment throughout the country. Madam President, I would like One of the most important reasons why the university of applied sciences has such a high proportion of students who carry out training courses and then move on to work is, in my view, the need for close cooperation with the labour market and the business community. Granted training is based on a thorough analysis of labour market needs in the region concerned. There is an explicit desire from industry and the relevant employers for a future and long-term need where the necessary Lia or traineeships can also be offered in the initial phase to ensure a high quality of education and training. We Social Democrats have always been driven by the conviction that education and improvement are the way forward. Wage dumping and cost savings in the form of deteriorations in employment security or in the working environment have never been current solutions for us. We have always put people at the centre and the conviction that everyone can and wants if only the right conditions exist. In several areas, the government has strengthened the ambition and willingness to enable skills to be replenished, conversion training and shorter courses to ensure the possibility of lifelong learning based on what the business community and the labour market say is needed. Madam President, I would like Since it took office in 2014, the Government has doubled the number of places of study at the University of Applied Sciences. This has been done to cover the need for many vocational training courses in shortage professions throughout the country. But it has also been one of several important training measures for skills upgrading during the terrible covidpandemic that we have and have had. Many companies receiving lay-off benefits took the opportunity to train their employees instead of sending them out into unemployment. It was also an effort to build individuals stronger and with the right education to be able to apply for current jobs once the pandemic ebbed out and the labour market started up again. These are measures that build individuals and society stronger, and they are, in my view, the absolute best way to face different types of pandemics but also other recessions or other temporary contractions in the labour market. Madam President, I would like Maintaining and ensuring the continued high quality of university of applied sciences courses and courses, both those that are space-bound and those that are given at a distance, is a very crucial and important question both now and in the future if we are to invest in further doubling of places of study. There are several parts there that I am convinced are important for maintaining a high and consistent quality. It is crucial that close cooperation with industry and the labour market is the basis for the granting of training. It is also a quality factor that the training courses and courses are not permanent. It is in order to ensure a healthy competitive environment between training companies that are allowed to apply for new assignments and are therefore subject to regular review by both the authority and the contractors. It is also crucial that it is the applicant region's need for certain professional skills that should form the basis for the Authority's decisions. It is an important issue because there are great differences in the national skills needed. There is scope for improvement here. This can be done through greater interaction between the municipalities in the different labour market regions, which through better collaboration will get a much clearer picture of the needs of a larger region. It also leads to a greater selection of potential pupils and thus higher quality of the education itself. The Swedish National Audit Office's review calls for a clearer and more common application system for polytechnics in order, among other things, to have a more efficient and quality-assured system. This was also welcomed by the government. The Authority notes that development work is ongoing with the ambition and aim to increase transparency and systematics in the application process. Then, too, it becomes clear to those who are denied the cause and effect. The Swedish National Audit Office's second recommendation concerns the risk of threats and conflicts for the Agency, since it both grants training and supervises and evaluates itself. As a result, there is a certain risk of threats and divisiveness. In this case, it is important for the Authority to continuously review its procedures and documentation in order to counter conflict and ensure its independence. Here, the government also has an important task in its official dialogues to ask how the work to ensure objectivity and to prevent the risk of conflict and threats exists. It is underlined by both the government and the authority that they are aware of this problem, but also that they intend to follow it up. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would just like to say that it is a good and effective educational activity that the Swedish National Agency for Higher Education has in mind to be an important piece of the puzzle in order to ensure the supply of skills to all the various companies in the country. I therefore call for the draft decision of the Committee on Education and Training to be approved.
i-PcVcehkgLzst8BpbeMrzvG	Madam President, I would like The Swedish labour market is tudelas. We see growing exclusion in many groups in our society. We now know that about half of all foreign born in Sweden cannot support themselves. At the same time, many industries are screaming for skills. You don't have the opportunity to hire. We have an educational problem in the Swedish labour market. We have a large group of people who do not have a job and companies who are screaming for people with the right skills. Here's a homework to do. We increasingly need to ensure that we train for the Swedish labour market. This is a prerequisite for Sweden's long-term growth and competitiveness. The university of applied sciences plays a very important role here. Since its start as an agency in 2009, the Swedish National Agency for Higher Education has expanded its scope from around 23 000 places to well over 35 000 places. It is gratifying to see that we in this House agree on a continued substantial expansion. There is good reason for that. The University of Applied Sciences shows very good results, better results than perhaps any other form of education. About nine out of ten go to work. In some occupations, all jobs are broadly guaranteed after completion of education and training. It's amazing. But we still see a pressing need for places in several areas. I can take a concrete example. I believe that many of us have suffered from train delays due to signal failures, perhaps almost daily. How is it that only 16 signal technicians are trained in Sweden? It is a concrete problem that many of us face in our everyday lives. Here we need to ensure that there are training places to meet this need. It is therefore gratifying that the Swedish National Audit Office's review, which we have to consider and debate here today, concludes that the University of Applied Sciences generally meets the high goals and expectations that we have on this form of education. Generally speaking, the recommendations that are being made are a work that has now begun. It is above all a question of examining what joint admission to the university of applied sciences could be like. This is something we welcome. Madam President, I would like In doing so, I would like to thank you for today's debate on a subject in which we can see that, for reasons of unusuality, we are relatively in agreement. There are shortcomings, and there are challenges that we need to tackle. But overall, I am pleased to see that we in this House agree on the important role of universities of applied sciences in Swedish growth and competitiveness in the long term. With this in mind, I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-NUuqC3bbXPknaoGbPjuxHV	Madam President, I would like This may be among the shortest speeches I have made from the Parliament's pulpit. I know everyone's tired after a long day. Madam President, I would like The University of Applied Sciences in Sweden is growing and becoming an increasingly important form of education within the education system. The university of applied sciences is constantly changing to adapt to the skills needs of the labour market. This means that the content and focus on the courses vary, and new courses within the university of applied sciences start while old ones are discontinued as the need changes. The University of Applied Sciences plays an important role in enabling people, regardless of their background, to have access to education, to find work or to change their tracks in the middle of life. The Left Party therefore wants to extend the activities of the University of Applied Sciences and give students there the same right to support students in higher education in order to complete their studies. The Left Party welcomes the strengthening of the University of Applied Sciences in recent years, but at the same time believes that large companies should take greater responsibility for certain advanced education courses and therefore their costs. The University of Applied Sciences and those who train there should not be exploited by rogue companies whose aim is to allow the state to provide all the leading educations. Some companies are very good at this while others are worse. Madam President, I would like Higher education should be allowed to rely more on local skills needs. This is also something that has been mentioned earlier from the speaker's seat. We need university of applied sciences all over the country. The Swedish National Audit Office states in a report that the University of Applied Sciences generally meets the expectations that Parliament has on the form of education. It is considered that the courses offered by universities of applied sciences are in demand in the labour market, but it also notes that there are parts of universities of applied sciences that can and should still be developed. Therefore, it has been recommended that the government investigate a common admission system so that everyone who wants to go to vocational education and training can do so. In addition, the Swedish National Audit Office wants the Swedish Higher Education Authority to develop and streamline the processing of applications to organise an education within the University of Applied Sciences. The issue of conflict of interests has also been mentioned. The Government's response to the letter on the Swedish National Audit Office's report states that an investigation has been set up. We are pleased with the government's response in this regard. Madam President, I would like If Sweden is to invest in becoming a green industry nation where jobs are created through green investments in, for example, rail and housing construction, we must agree in Parliament that the University of Applied Sciences has a crucial role to play. I also believe that we agree on this issue. Let us develop this form of education together! Having said that, we support the government's response.
i-2jD1QpkomRLqzcYue84Yu5	Madam President, I would like The biggest crime victim reform in 20 years – so said Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson when yesterday he presented several different reforms to strengthen the position of victims. More people should be able to receive compensation for violations, and compensation for victims should be increased so much that in several cases it will double. Such compensation will be compensation for family members, who will be eligible for compensation for those who have lost a loved one in the event of, for example, murder. We are also correcting something that is an announcement in the report: we are removing the detention ban when someone has been detained, for example because of too long detention periods that have not led to prosecution. This means that victims of crime now have a greater opportunity to foreclose their assets. This question was mediated last autumn, when a person convicted of rape received an enormous amount of detention allowance because he was subsequently judged to be a minor and had been in prison for too long. The amount was then incalculable, so the victim could not get his money from the perpetrator. This is going to stick in the eyes of those who have been victims of crime. It doesn't make sense. But with the legislation that the government is now bringing forward, this person had not got a penny. That's how it's supposed to be. Victims deserve this massive increase. The compensation and the money must be foreclosed from the criminals. This is only fair, and for many victims this is also an important issue of redress. We want to move forward with the changes so that the amendment of the law on the change of preference in wage distribution is proposed to enter into force on 10 September this year and other legislative amendments on July this year. The fact that more parties welcome this proposal is, of course, very positive. However, an announcement does not change the fact that the press conference was held yesterday and that the government's decision came today. So it's an insanely open door kicked in here. We therefore support our reservation 2. Madam President, I would like All of us can walk paths in life that lead us to fall into a debt trap. It can be about divorce, gambling abuse or unemployment. It may also be that you simply lack the tools to create a good economic life. But that is also something that society must constantly prevent. On Kronofogden's website, you can read an article with the title The number of people with debts with Kronofogden has not been so small in over 30 years. According to the Authority's analysts, this is because debts to the State related to, for example, radio and television fees have disappeared and the economic recovery has been strong. This means that the government's economic policy during the pandemic has acted as an effective airbag. The decrease in the number of debtors is a trend that we see in all counties. However, although it is positive that the number of persons in the register is decreasing, it is obviously problematic that the debts of the group in debt are increasing. The longer you've had a mountain of guilt over you, the harder it is to get out of it. As a government, we have taken several steps to get away from the problem of over-indebtedness. We have made budget and debt counselling compulsory for municipalities, which has facilitated debt restructuring. We have introduced interest caps, and we have tightened the gambling market. Last autumn we appointed an investigator who will make several proposals to counteract over-indebtedness. The directives are generous, and Investigator Flossing will come back with proposals on debt registers and measures to make it easier for debtors to pay back. We are also going to review the consumer credit market as a whole, because it is important to emphasise that creditors have a great deal of responsibility here. It is very easy today to trade on credit, but for some consumers this system does not work. I look forward to an investigation that makes many strong proposals to reduce the over-indebtedness we are seeing today in our country. The report must be presented before 3 May 2023.
i-TyHiifZwneQHD4TNiw4EBb	Madam President, I would like During the autumn we were flooded with posts on social media about the man who received 840 000 SEK in damages. He had been convicted of kidnapping, for two counts of aggravated rape and for attempted blackmail. The fact that each of these serious crimes should have given a very long prison sentence is probably the general view. The husband was first convicted as an adult but later had his age written down and thus also a very short sentence in relation to the crimes. A sentence as short as two years' imprisonment for all these crimes combined was the final sentence. So after spending as little as two years and eight months in prison, the man is not only free; he also receives compensation of SEK 840 000. The reason for this compensation is that he has been in prison longer than the punishment was finally. Unfortunately, this case is not unique. It is relatively common for criminals to receive large compensations after being detained. It is often the case, then, that they have spent too long in relation to the penalty that has finally been imposed. We just heard here that this man with the new rules wouldn't have got a penny. At the same time, we were told that we could get twice as much in compensation. The interesting thing is that the government often throws things out at press conferences which then do not really match what is finally in the text and in the proposals. What really pisses people off is the fact that our tax money is being paid out to criminals. The fact that this money is also withheld from foreclosure is just another problem. While the criminal person receives large amounts of money, victims are today denied compensation for the crimes committed against them. Victims are forced to turn to Kronofogden and then to the Crime Victims Authority or any of the companies that make money from our complicated approach to crime victims. I also did not hear anything about that particular approach being significantly changed. It is quite strange that as a victim of crime you should recover your debt while the criminal receives the money paid by the state and does not have to turn to the Kronofogden at all. Now we're told there's not going to be a penny. However, I believe that when we see the final text of the law, it will be as usual: a lot of screaming for little wool. Our system so far definitely protects the criminal at the expense of the victim. With regard to the fact that criminal money is withheld from victims and cannot be foreclosed, the so-called ban on foreclosure, a majority in the committee has supported a proposal for a declaration to the government. Of course you can call it breaking open doors. It should also be remembered that we Swedish democrats want to go further than that. Not only should victims be able to access this money, but we believe that all debts should be recovered from this money. It is unreasonable for criminals to be compensated when they are guilty of crime. Of course, compensation should be paid if you are completely innocent and deprived of liberty for no reason. However, it should be possible to completely deny compensation if someone is guilty of a crime but after an appeal the penalty is reduced. That is not the case today. As far as that particular part is concerned, we did not get a majority in committee to support this. We first tried to highlight it as an initiative in committee, but then it was referred to that it already existed in motion requests. When we then dealt with the motion requests, we ended up with only two parties supporting the reservation, the reservation that says that you should not receive compensation if you have committed the crime. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 1 and hope that it will be supported by more parties in the vote.
i-YZZmkF2bERLLiHXEcTiWMC	Madam President, I would like The fight against crime has been given a rightful place in the political debate at the moment and is included in this report, which deals with motions on compensation and insolvency law. For less well-off people who have incurred debt, the decisions we make here today can be vital. It is also important for those who have lent money or sold a good or a service that we have a system so that they can recover their money by foreclosure and so that the debtor can repay it by granting deleveraging. Victims should not have to wait for their money because there are limitations on how an foreclosure can be made. It has been more important for an perpetrator to retain his compensation for the deprivation of liberty than for the victim to receive compensation for the damage. Madam President, the detention order is to be replaced by a system in which a victim is given priority. No assets shall be considered to be so private that they cannot be foreclosed. We welcome a new law, but we want to press the government further with an announcement. It doesn't hurt to kick in doors, especially if they're open. The same applies to measures for more effective enforcement. You have to be able to make distance measurement possible. You should be able to foreclose assets even when they are not available. This may, for example, be a car that someone else uses or that is registered to a goaltender. To make such an asset executable requires cooperation between different authorities and transparency in registers, such as the car register, as well as safe deposit boxes, bank accounts and other things. We in the Center Party want to do this, and it is also clear whether we are reading our particular opinion. Finally, Madam President, I would like to endorse the Center Party's reservation number 7. The Debt Reduction Act entered into force in 2016. It was based on an investigation that suggested a faster deleveraging than is currently the case. Five years is a long time compared to the three years proposed by the investigator, which we in the Center Party are still behind. The debtor should be able to get free as quickly as possible and start a life where you can have access to your entire salary to consume, buy clothes and toys for your children, maybe go on vacation, take a loan in a bank and apply for credit cards. It is not always debt due to reckless overconsumption or the like. These may be personal tragedies, corporate dreams that have gone into trouble, divorces, illness, or other factors that could not be affected. For most, it is probably more important to be quickly free of debt than to be given three months free of payment. Madam President, I would like Whoever is in debt should quickly get on his feet. Whoever lost money should be able to get them back by foreclosure. A person who has suffered damage from a criminal act shall have the right to a compensation awarded by the offender. The person convicted of the crime should not be able to escape his responsibility.
i-Jw8rVaEHrywnFTzCsjXyn2	Madam President, I would like I call for the Left Party's reservation 10 to be approved. Everyone agrees that society does not benefit from the over-indebtedness that is a growing problem in our country. Some people get caught in the debt trap, but for society and for the people behind the debt, it's an expensive story. The cost to society of over-indebtedness can be as high as 30 to 50 billion per year. It's huge sums of money. And the indebted sheep, besides living on the poverty line, pay with lower health and shorter life expectancy. In addition, many everyday things become much more difficult when you have a payment note and are located at the enforcement office, such as renting a dwelling or getting a telephone subscription. But there are those who benefit from people falling into the debt trap. Large fortunes are built up with a few when the mountain of debt grows. Because the mountain of guilt is growing. About 400 000 Swedes are currently over-indebted, and over the last ten years the debt mountain has grown to a record 94 billion. There is an increase of 30 billion over the ten-year period, and there is no indication that the gloomy development will stop. Madam President, I would like It is positive that the Riksdag decided in 2018 to tighten the legislation on quick loans, including by introducing interest ceilings and cost ceilings. That's when the worst of the scars disappeared. Unfortunately, these measures are not sufficient. Progress continues to go in the wrong direction, and more needs to be done to protect the most vulnerable consumers. Those taking short-term loans are usually families and people with weak finances and lower repayment capacity, which can ultimately lead to them falling into a debt trap and risk falling into over-indebtedness. There is a class perspective on the issue. Among those affected by over-indebtedness are, among other things, low-income earners, single people, sick leave and unemployed people over-represented. People who are already struggling because of the decline in welfare, housing shortages and precarious employment are getting even more difficult. Madam President, I would like We have just passed what is known as the poorest month of the year. Sometimes it can be a tough start to the new year, but the year will not be better with a number of quick loans in the luggage. And as usual, unfortunately, loan advertising is massive. It is everywhere – on the internet, on the radio, in bus courses and on television. The last day I received an e-mail with the elegant title: Borrow up to 600 000 SEK onor – you will be told the same day. For a few there is big money to make from the loan circus while the people and society are taking the fall. These are high costs and risks, but what are the costs and risks? When customers are stuck in the debt trap, the government guarantees that the loan companies will get the money back. It may even be a business idea for the creditors, according to Kronofogden. If you can get someone to be long-term indebted for a small amount, you can raise interest money for many years. In the process of recovering the money, the loan companies have good help from a government-funded recovery service, precisely the Kronofogden. On the top list of the agency's largest customers are a number of so-called niche banks. Only five of the largest credit companies last year sent 157 000 people to the Kronofogden, according to a compilation in Today's industry. Today, even heavily indebted people can borrow money because many lenders are careless with the creditworthiness test. The Swedish Consumer Agency has reviewed some 40 companies since 2012. In many cases, the lenders fail to collect data on customers' income and expenses before lending. However, despite the lack of thorough credit assessments, these companies run little risk because Kronofogden acts as a guarantor for the loan companies to get their money back even after a careless credit assessment. That is why the Left Party wants lenders who have not made sufficient credit assessments to be forced to take their own financial responsibility in the recovery of their debts and to pay for their recovery. It's time they took part of the risk themselves. Madam President, I would like Never before has it been so fast and easy to borrow money. We live in a society built around loans and debts, and shopping and playing online. This is a quote from a head of unit at the Swedish Kronofogdemyndigheten. Strongly contributing causes of over-indebtedness today are consumption loans and aggressive marketing of quick loans and high-interest blanco loans. More and more goods can be bought on payment, and the marketing from creditors who attract fast money to consumption and loans without credit information is great. The loan companies have a business model based on high risk-taking but with high interest rates of up to 40%. Then you can make a profit even if the borrower cannot repay the borrowed amount. This means that a person who really should not receive loans because of high risk of payment problems still receives loans, and the borrower risks being stuck in debt for a long time when only interest and fees are paid. Madam President, I would like SVT News recently reported about a woman trapped in the debt trap. When they looked at three of her debts, it turned out that she had paid $15,000 more than she once borrowed for. And almost everything had been paid on interest and fees. The debts had barely changed. It doesn't make sense. The Swedish Enforcement Authority believes that it is a system error that you should always pay on interest and fees first. Only if the money is sufficient can it be paid off on the basic debt, i.e. the amount that was once borrowed. It is estimated that some 34,000 people of those who are paid for wages have already paid off the loan they once took. Despite this, they are stuck with continued wage foreclosure and debt that is not decreasing. In addition, high-interest creditors are favoured at the expense of more moderate low-interest creditors. In the report of the over-indebtedness investigation, over-indebtedness in the credit community? a proposal was made to amend the settlement rules of the enforcement code so that the borrower first pays off on the principal amount and then on interest rates. In this way, the borrower can become debt-free more quickly, and the debt is constantly decreasing even if the debtor can only pay a small monthly amount, thereby making it less attractive for the lenders to take serious risks in their operations. This is why the Left Party has made a proposal that changes the settlement rules for debtors who have ended up with the bailiff so that the capital debt is paid before the cost and interest debts. Madam President, I would like Svensk Inkasso believes that this would lead to a deterioration in payment standards. But it's not that people can suddenly buy everything they want and then just ignore paying. It is a question of tackling poor lending standards. We don't want people locked up in eternal debt and exploited. We need to clean up a loan industry that's out of control.
i-EwTvMMkX9KMmQZMQNm5EAF	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to say that I am very pleased that the government has promised to review the ban on foreclosure. I think it's praiseworthy. I also think it's morally right. A victim who does not receive compensation probably feels that it is very strange if the perpetrator receives compensation and you cannot get access to it in one way or another. It is therefore very gratifying. Nevertheless, I agree with the announcement contained in the report, because I think it is necessary to press on on this issue, although I hope that this will happen. How important is a strong economy for a nation? You can think about that. And how strong is Sweden's economy? Central government debt amounted to SEK 203 billion at the end of January. The debt-to-GDP ratio, i.e. the debt-to-GDP ratio, has fallen to just over 20% in recent years. In the 1990s it was up to 60 per cent and even 70 per cent. So it has been reduced very much. In an international comparison it is considered that it is a very good and strong economy that Sweden has. A strong economy gives the nation freedom of action to further develop the country but also to be able to invest when times come that need it, for example during the Corona period when we as a nation spent quite a lot of money supporting companies. I would like to remind you that as important as a strong economy for the country's independence and freedom of action is a strong private economy for the family. But since the mid-1990s, the trend is that Swedish household debt has increased more than income. Swedish debts are well above the EU average. According to SCB figures, we are the second most indebted people in Europe. In itself, debt does not have to be a problem, but if you observe the development of how many people end up with the bailiff, as we have heard here before, and the total debt gets an idea of how serious the situation is. In 2011, the total amount of debt owed by Kronofogden was 62 billion. Ten years later it was 94 billion, that is, there has been an increase of 52%. According to statistics from Kronofogden, the number of people at the bailiff is historically low, as we heard, but the debts per person are increasing. High indebtedness affects the individual through reduced mobility and reduced opportunities to counteract a temporary event. And we should not forget the mental status when you end up in a situation like this. It can be both stressful and harmful. This situation is unsustainable for the individual in the long run. Many people need deleveraging as soon as possible in order to return to normal economic life. But debt restructuring is not a quick fix. Moreover, the criteria for debt adjustment are tough. Many who are in a very vulnerable situation are actually never in question. Most young people with major economic concerns cannot meet the criteria that we have set for debt restructuring to begin. I think we need to work more on over-indebtedness. In our reservation, we write that it is important to shorten the total over-indebtedness period of debtors so that they can be restored as quickly as possible and not only economically rehabilitated, but also mentally rehabilitated, so that they can return to a more normal social life. We believe that the debt adjustment period should be shortened from today's normal five years to three years. This isolated measure, of course, will not help. We need to take more steps to help those who have entered this downward spiral, but also to help through preventive measures so that more people do not end up there. I hope we can help each other with that. With that, I agree with reservation number 7.
i-MAZSvPmeihdFsUHkqv45pQ	Madam President, I would like A fundamental part of our legal system is the right to damages. It is the way society has to ensure that the sufferer is compensated, whether it is an accident, negligence or crime. But it is also compensation if, for example, the rule of law or other authorities have been mistreated. Money can never heal wounds, but they can restore and facilitate rehabilitation. The right to damages and the amount of damages are also a way of expressing the will of general legal awareness to compensate. I cannot stress this enough, Madam President. What we are debating today is how we, as the rule of law, view compensation for suffering. But the debate is also about how we value damage and suffering when they are put against each other. These are difficult questions. They subject our ethics and morals to trials. As elected legislators, our clients, the voters, are calling on us to codify the general sense of law in a way that the people can identify with. Madam President, I would like In August last year, a case was widely noted in the media. It concerned a man who, under torture-like conditions, had raped two different women on two different occasions and was sentenced to prison. However, after examination in the Supreme Court, he was considered to have a lower age than the court had assumed and had therefore been in prison longer than justified. The Chancellor of Justice then granted the man a compensation of SEK 840 000. There is much in this case that illustrates the bias in the Swedish legal system, from the absurdity of the so-called youth discount to the courts' handling of age issues. But these are subjects for other parliamentary debates. However, there is an important detail which is illustrated in this case which concerns precisely what we are debating here today. It is important that we do not tolerate suffering from crime or for that matter of mistreatment, but also how we value the suffering of different people, even when that assessment puts our morals and ethics to the test. In an article in Expressen on August 20, last year, one of the man's victims told us that she had received 3 000 SEK in damages from the state. Although the offender owed the woman money in damages, she had not received any part of his record damage. In fact, the 840 000 to which the offender had received damages were protected from foreclosure. Madam President, I would like It is about 3 000 SEK against 840 000 SEK, 3 000 against 840 000, 3 against 840, 1 against 280. For every crown that the woman, the victim, had received in damages, the man, the guilty, received $280. Madam President, I would like This is an anomaly in the Swedish legal order. It doesn't make any sense. The current system thus says that society believes that the offender's right to compensation is greater than his victim's right to compensation. It says, to put it bluntly, that if a woman is subjected to torture-like rape by several men, if she is held captive, humiliated and abused, the rule of law of Sweden believes that the men who committed those crimes have a greater right to compensation if they are wrongly detained than the woman who was held in custody by the rapists are entitled to their damages. The perpetrator's suffering from being locked up in a Swedish penitentiary for too long is most important to replace. The woman's suffering from being abused, raped and locked up by the same man is not as important, according to the current order. A raped woman gets 3,000 kroner. Her rapist gets 840 000 kroner. Every dollar she gets out, he gets $280. Madam President, I would like When you read about such terrible legal applications, you might think that there are accidents at work, a misinterpretation of case law, or a consequence that no one has thought about. It is almost hoped that it has simply gone wrong. Unfortunately, Madam President-in-Office, this is not the case. We Moderates have pointed out on several occasions that this consistency exists in the legislation and that it is completely unreasonable. Last year's reading of this particular motion report in this House, I noted in this speaker's chair that the legislation looked like this and that it had to be amended. It was in April last year, four months before the record damage was noticed. My only interpretation that it has not changed is that the government has fundamentally felt that the current legal system has been good. The Government and a majority in the Riksdag have considered that the right of the perpetrator to compensation should actually be greater than the right of the victim, that the right of the rapist should be greater than that of the rape victim. In any case, the government has been indifferent to the current system and has not given priority to amending the legislation. It was only yesterday that the Minister of Justice announced that there would be a bill, which we are now waiting for. It is really with the breath of the throat that we are said to be doing this, the day before we are going to debate it in this House. It's good that a bill comes, albeit late in the day. However, the investigation behind the legislative referral has only looked at damages in respect of detention. Other damages received by an offender will continue to be protected from the victim's claim. There the right of the perpetrator is still stronger than the right of the victim, according to the government's intention. Madam President, I would like Basically, a completely new approach is needed to the right of victims to compensation but also to the way in which damages to offenders are convicted. The current legal system is simply not reasonable. Its consequences are disgusting. It's not a legal order that I moderately want to rule. It is not in accordance with my view of morality or ethics. It is also not in accordance with the public, the electorate's, legal opinion. The fact that Parliament can now push the government ahead of it towards a first step towards changing these absurdities is right and proper. But it is sad that it should be done only after the system has completely stalled. Madam President, I would like I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-YX8iYrZyujzWWqdgmFXFV9	Madam President, I would like No other party has as much politics when it comes to over-indebtedness and insolvency as the Swedish Democrats have. In this report, we support six out of a total of ten reservations. A little later this spring, we will be debating consumer policy. There, too, we have a number of proposals to improve for consumers on the financial market. These are part of the strong action programme that we launched last autumn to tackle over-indebtedness in real life. Why, then, are we so keen to overcome the unhealthy indebtedness? Well, it is because over-indebtedness is a major and serious problem that affects both the individual and society. Over 400,000 people have debts with the bailiff, and the debt mountain is growing rapidly. At the turn of the year, a new record level of SEK 94 billion was achieved. The increase is as much as 7 billion since last year – equivalent to 20 million a day. The attitude of young people regarding debts arising from gambling and consumption is worrying. Experts have long warned against the effects of the increasing over-indebtedness, but the government has nevertheless done very little to reverse the trend. Unfortunately, the Minister for the Financial Market has chosen not to participate in this important debate today, but from answers to written questions that I have asked it is clear that the Government does not intend to act until the investigation that was set up last autumn has finished its work. It is only expected in May 2023. Until then, then, we can only watch as debts grow and mental ill-health, which affects the debtors, spread out. I am concerned, Madam President, that more parties do not take this issue seriously. Debt restructuring is a last resort when the situation has become completely untenable. The aim is to give the indebted person the opportunity to solve their financial problems. The number of people who are granted debt restructuring and who are thus at the bottom of the economy is increasing – these are now historically high levels. In 2021 12 000 people received their application, and the number applying for debt adjustment has increased by nearly 600 per cent since 2005. When debt restructuring is completed, the creditor has received an average of 11 percent of his money back. The rest, 89 percent, is written off. A creditor may be the State or a company. But it can also be an individual, perhaps a victim. Is it reasonable, then, for such a debt to be written off and never to be paid out? I don't think so, on the contrary. It is completely up the walls that a victim who has been sentenced to compensation after, for example, having been raped or beaten, loses all or part of the damages due to the person's being granted a debt adjustment. The law must therefore be amended so that debts arising from crime are not subject to deleveraging. Madam President, I would like It is good that the committee is now proposing a declaration on the ban on foreclosure. But the Swedish Democrats want to go further. We want all the damages awarded to be treated as equivalent to other foreclosure assets. Anyone who has a debt with the enforcement officer and who receives money should use it to pay off the debt regardless of who the debt is to and even if the money has come from a deemed damages. Everything else runs counter to the fundamental principle of doing the right thing. In the case of damages to a person who has been detained for a crime for which it is still convicted, that possibility shall be completely abolished even if the actual period of detention has been longer than the period of the final sentence. Rapists should not receive compensation. Instead, we need to rebuild Sweden as a proud nation, where it is self-evident to do the right thing and where criminals are put behind bars and are not rewarded with provocatively large damages.
i-SzyaATi6eQc7XwTyNMYj3W	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of our reservation number 1. Otherwise, I support the committee's proposal in the report. It should be easy to start a business. It should be easy to run a business. This mantra has washed over Sweden in a wave of liberalisation for many, many years. Rules have been removed. Pits have been deleted. Responsibilities have been made more difficult. The reduction in share capital, the abolition of auditing obligations and the world's most liberal system of labour immigration are some examples of this. Time and again, various stakeholders have warned and raised the problems with this. The Swedish National Audit Office has criticized. The Construction Market Commission has issued a report. Fair Play Building has alerted. Many more have lifted the shortcomings, pointed to the problems and wanted to improve. Many things have been done. Questions about corporate goaltenders have been addressed by authorities in collaboration. The government has set up a further investigation to tighten the rules. Laws on human and labour exploitation have been introduced and strengthened. Only last week, the first verdict on the latter case fell. The confidentiality rules between authorities have been relaxed. And we continue to look at whether more can be done. Co-operation between authorities is now taking place in a completely different extension than before and is much more systematized, among other things in my hometown Helsingborg. Assets for criminals are seized, and opportunities to use residential and other asset types to launder money have been blocked. Time has simply run away from the crazy liberal order imposed by the Alliance Government, and that is very welcome. Madam President, I would like In the light of these experiences, I am, in fact, astounded and frankly, by one of the proposals that is on the table today. The Swedish Democrats propose that we abolish the requirement that accounts be kept in the country. Today, companies must keep their accounts physically in Sweden, unless there are special reasons for exemption. This is the case because major problems can arise in cases such as bankruptcy, tax audits or a preliminary investigation into suspected crime if the accounts are not available in the country. The fact that the Swedish Democrats want to abolish this requirement is astonishing, for two reasons. The first reason is purely ideological. A nationalist party that claims to put Swedish interests first means that companies should be allowed to send accounts to any country, when it is also in Swedish interests that the accounts are in Sweden. Sweden first, but not when it comes in conflict with the interests of the companies – it is a slogan that I offer to the Swedish Democrats for the election movement. It would also rhyme quite well with the other positions that the Swedish Democrats have made. On the issue of welfare gains, it is companies that benefit. I'm thinking about free schools measuring girls' skirts. Risk capitalists walk around with rulers and check the situation. It is also something that the Swedish Democrats like. The fact that safety representatives should not have access to workplaces is entirely in the interests of companies. It is in line with this, Madam President. This brings me to the second reason why the proposals of the Swedish Democrats are strange. We have heard the Swedish Democrats say before that they are a party that wants to stop crime and strengthen law enforcement. Here they put forward a proposal that undermines the possibilities for the police, the Swedish Tax Agency, the Swedish Enforcement Authority, the Swedish Economic Crime Authority and many others to actually prosecute and stop crime. The whole argument about the legislation that the accounts should exist in Sweden is based on that we should not make it easier for criminals to blow the Swedish people or for criminals to commit atrocities against individuals, companies and our society as a whole. We recently read about a currency exchange office here in Stockholm that had laundered money, up to a quarter of a billion, for ten years. 16 individuals and criminal networks had been involved. To tell these criminals that it is perfectly okay to take the accounts to Russia or the Cayman Islands is like giving the fox the key to the chicken farm. Fortunately, the rest of the House has understood this, and the Swedish Democrats are alone in their efforts to help criminals to eat into our society and spread their poison. I think we should remember that the next time the Swedish Democrats stand in this pulpit and say that they are tough on the gangs and want to do it better for ordinary people. No – they want to make things better for companies. The slogan of the Swedish Democrats is: Sweden first but not when it comes in conflict with the interests of the companies! One can only conclude that that lunch that the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise had a number of years ago has really started to pay off. For the rest, I believe that this recognition bingon, which is mainly dealing with five parties, headed by the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats, is nonsense in this House. We heard it in the last debate, and we see it again here. The government is working on the issue of corporate guardians and has even launched an investigation. Then trying to show some kind of political momentum by kicking in completely wide-open doors is just political theatre and nothing else.
i-QmvqizTVrg8KmHLDKQFTLb	Madam President, I would like On 30 November last year, when Prime Minister Magdalena Andersson read out her government statement from this speaker's chair, she said that the government would turn every stone around in order to combat the ruthless crime that today threatens the entire community. Apart from still wondering why it took seven years to come to that realization, it is difficult not to feel sympathy for the ambition, Madam President. The ruthless crime that shakes our country really threatens the whole community, to use the Prime Minister's own words. It threatens trust between people in our vulnerable areas, where criminal structures try to exert influence and in many ways try to replace our legitimate social structures. It threatens the public's confidence in the judiciary's ability to maintain law and order when the police cannot come and the criminals are not prosecuted. It threatens free enterprise when criminal organisations steal and deceive honest and law-abiding companies while at the same time competing them out through advanced criminal schemes. Unscrupulous crime really threatens the whole community, Madam President. The Crime Costs 2022 survey by the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise investigates the impact of crime on Swedish companies and jobs. More than every other company consulted has been hit by crime in the past year, many times repeatedly. 6% of companies have chosen to refrain from a planned investment because of exposure or fear of crime. Almost as many companies have considered closing down all or part of their activities as a result of crime. In total, the report authors estimate that the costs of insecurity and crime for the Swedish business community exceed SEK 100 billion annually. More than 40 billion are direct costs of crime, and a further 30 billion are costs of security-enhancing measures such as cameras and security guards. The last 30 billion are foregone revenues and costs of cyber-infringement and the like. To use the Prime Minister's words once again: ruthless crime today threatens the whole community. I think that the House should allow these figures to drop in, Madam President: 6% of all the companies polled refrain from a planned investment due to insecurity and crime. Almost as many people are considering closing down for the same reason. Free enterprise in Sweden is literally threatened by ruthless crime, not only in the long term, but here and now, Madam President. Crime against companies is multifaceted. A major problem is the use of seemingly legal companies as façades for criminal activities. Companies and associational constructions go from being important tools for free enterprise and transparent competition to becoming crime tools for felons. Today, the control and exchange of information between authorities is too weak. Again, to use the Prime Minister's expression: Here are many stones to turn over. Last year, the Swedish Parliament issued an announcement that the Swedish Companies Registration Office must be given the tools and the means to carry out checks against suspected corporate goaltenders in more cases than today. This year, the Committee on Civil Liberties proposes that a further announcement be made that, among other things, there should be increased opportunities for different authorities to cooperate in order to curb the use of companies as a crime tool. When the government is unable to lift stones, the parliament can do so instead. Madam President, I would like The claims underlying today's proposal for an announcement were submitted during the general exercise last autumn. The first preparation of the report by the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs took place on 16 December last year. A few days later, on 22 December, with his breath in his throat and rosy cheeks – at least figuratively – the Minister of Justice announces that he now intends to set up an investigation with exactly the same meaning as the claims. With this inquiry as the main argument, representatives of the Social Democrats now believe that no announcement is required. We are already doing this, they say upset and call it nonsense. This, Madam President, actually reminds me a little of when my partner calls me and asks if I have remembered to fix the laundry. I answer confidently while rushing down the stairs to the laundry room to start the washing machine. Had the subject not been so serious, the actions of the government and the Social Democrats would have been almost comical. Madam President, I would like In addition to the burning issue of curbing companies as a crime tool, I would also like to highlight the issue of facilitating the transformation of individual business into public limited liability companies. Individual business, in everyday terms individual business, is a smooth form of business where the sole owner is fully personally responsible. The company form has great advantages as it is easy to register and administer and is well suited for small-scale entrepreneurship. You may run your company part-time or are entirely self-employed. But the more the company grows, the less appropriate the form of the company is, especially because it bears personal responsibility for all risks, including liability for loans and debts, but also because it cannot take in partners. It can be said, roughly simplified, that the larger and more complex a business is, the less appropriate it is to operate it as an individual firm. This has created a paradox because, at the same time, the larger the business, the more complicated it is also to transform it from an individual firm into a limited company. There are many companies that have been formed as individual firms but then grown out of the suit. It would now be more appropriate to run the company in the form of limited liability companies, but complicated regulations make it difficult, if not impossible, to convert the company into a limited liability company. This is something we Moderates want to change. Through simpler rules for converting individual business activities into limited companies, we believe that more companies would dare to grow and develop. This is basically also a gender equality issue, because we know that women run their businesses to a greater extent than men as individual traders rather than in limited companies. Thus, unnecessary regulatory uncertainty keeps entrepreneurship on a smaller scale than it would have been. Today's regulations are precisely what I think many would call a patriarchal structure. Madam President, I would like In doing so, I am in favour of reservation 5 and of the committee's other proposals.
i-9xMyHSS4hGWrTtHvnR3dzc	Madam President, I would like It is an interesting and very strange picture of reality that Ola Möller just painted. I represent a party that advocates a regulatory framework that should be easily transparent to companies. However, I have never understood the point of pitting entrepreneurs against workers as the government's representatives are happy to do. Now I am growing up in a family that was an entrepreneur but also a worker. For my part, therefore, there is no clear line between companies and workers. It is true that my party has a wide range of proposals to make it easier for businesses. Only a fraction of them are included in the report. Entrepreneurial associations often say that there are many rules and too many administrative problems. I can only agree. Personally, I'm what you usually call an F treasurer, so I know a lot about the hassle through my own experience. I am a little worried about the disregard that the government has shown in terms of adding more regulatory hassle, as it has done on several occasions in recent years. It seems to look at companies in general or entrepreneurs in particular as some who are just going to adapt to the whims and whims of the government. The government's view of companies is rather like a cow that can be milked and whipped to the fullest extent. The government has completely missed that the reality is that workers and entrepreneurs live in symbiosis. Without each other, they don't work. The workers need the companies, and the companies need the workers. There is really no contradiction. In recent years we have seen how the regulatory framework for companies in several areas has actually become more complicated. Much is outside association law, such as permits, environmental tests and certifications. Yet they are burdensome, and especially bad when combined with other charges. Obviously, seemingly unnecessary rules that make things difficult should be removed. I believe that the rule of keeping accounting information in Sweden is an unnecessary rule. It becomes obsolete when the information is available on a server that can be accessed from all over the world. It would be reasonable to require the information to be available. There is no contradiction between the fact that the information is available in another country and the fact that it is available. Ola Möller does not understand the difference between availability and physical storage. When it comes to digital information, there is no reason to require the server to be located in Sweden, as long as you can present the information. If you think it makes it easier for criminal companies, a criminal company can place its information on a hard drive at home in the office. On the day that the company does not want to display the information, just break or burn the hard drive, and then the information is gone. To withhold information from the authorities so that they cannot access it is not stopped at all by the information being available in Sweden. If you read the data – which Ola Möller does not seem to have spent much time on – it is clear that there are currently problems in companies where they are forced to have solutions with a service that copies information so that it is available in Sweden, while it is actually stored in another country. This is an unnecessary and complicated solution when problems can be solved so much better. You have to understand new technology, but I understand that Ola Möller has concerns about the issue of new technology. We have discussed programming languages in the past, and then he seems not to have understood at all that they are not something that auditors normally do. Madam President, I would like While we are in the process of facilitating entrepreneurship, it goes without saying that we also want to make it easier to convert individual companies into limited companies. If it gets easier, I'm also convinced that more people dare to take the next step and expand their businesses. Madam President, I would like Then there are companies that we should not facilitate, the so-called bluf companies. I now come to the announcement proposed by the committee to be sent to the government. Unfortunately, companies are used to access people's money. It is effective, and the penalty is almost non-existent when you move in the borderland between what is a business and what is pure fraud. By hiding behind a company, people who are prepared to commit these questionable acts can escape completely. When someone else has been used as a goalkeeper for the company, the criminals are free from responsibility. The police often see it as entrepreneurship and rarely want to deal with fraud. The person who has been cheated cannot do anything because the person who is the person behind the company on paper is just a figurehead who has at best been paid to sign and at worst have his personal data stolen. Bank secrecy also makes it impossible for the victim to follow where the money has gone, which, of course, ends up with someone quite different from the one who owns the company on paper. The problem is far from new. Here it is strange that Ola Möller and his party friends have done no more given the rhetorically high tone he has used in the speaker's chair. Concrete measures are needed to put an end to criminal companies, and we have not seen any concrete measures of the first seven years of smoke. Nevertheless, it is gratifying that we have gathered a majority for an announcement. With this, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 3.
i-C2uaf5HJc89FzvdFpTQTuc	Madam President, I would like It is interesting that Mikael Eskilandersson believes that there would not be a conflict between labour and capital, i.e. between entrepreneurship and workers. Of course there's a conflict. It is evident, for example, when a welfare company collects tax money and sends it to tax havens and nurses have to run faster to cope with the extremely tough working conditions that arise then. This also explains the swing of the Swedish democrats, where they do not protect the workers but instead protect the profits of the venture capitalists. It was good that Mikael Eskilandersson still made it clear that it is simply the case that the Swedish Democrats do not give priority to the workers. I would like to ask Mikael Eskilandersson to explain how a search warrant is made for a cloud service. The whole point of having the information when it comes to accounts physically in Sweden is that in a dawn raid be able to secure the information available on a physical server. With Mikael Eskilandersson's proposal, the information ends up abroad and you have to access it via, for example, some kind of login or similar. How, Mikael Eskilandersson, who is a great and good knower of new digital technology, should the authorities be able to do a digital search against the cloud service?
i-2SLYbaxDgjEP45tdgtoNCk	Madam President, I would like It is not more difficult than requiring that the information be available. If the information is required to be available, it will be a criminal liability if it is not possible to obtain the information. Then I don't really see why that would be a problem. A criminal company that does not want to present its accounts will then be convicted of accounting crimes. A company that can present its accounts does not have to be convicted of book crimes. It's the same problem with physical accounting. If the bookkeeping is physically in paper form and it is burned up when someone enters the company's premises, it is the same as making the bookkeeping inaccessible. The requirement must be that the information is available. The requirement cannot be how the information is to be stored. It's no harder than hitting an axe in the hard drive, so the information is gone anyway. You can do this at the same time as someone carries out a dawn raid. I do not believe that this particular measure will get to criminals. My view is not that entrepreneurs are generally criminals. Maybe that's what makes us different, so see. It is clear, though, that a proper penalty is imposed for accounting penalties. It is, in itself, quite well-applied punishment today, so I do not really understand the problem.
i-AZvf7ZkVA572DmCMt45RRy	Madam President, I would like No, Mikael Eskilandersson, I understand that you do not understand the problem if you think that the information on a hard drive disappears because you hit an axe in it. Forensic technology makes it quite easy today to retrieve information from both one and the other damaged in the digital infrastructure, so I don't think that's a major problem. Mikael Eskilandersson is not aware of how it works when you do a search. It is not that the person suspected of a crime has time to burn some paper in a trash can and to whistle while the police go through the apartment, but it is fast twitching. You go in there and secure the physical evidence you need, and that's where the whole point lies. If it's in a cloud service and you're doing a search warrant and you're supposed to have login details or something like that, you first have to crack an encryption, and if the suspect has a colleague or similar involved, it can quickly access and delete data. That's why you arrest people and they're not allowed to contact the outside world and stuff like that. But I understand that Mikael Eskilandersson doesn't know about these things. I have another question, Madam President. In the writing of the Swedish Democrats it is stated that the information should be requested if the auditor so requests. But in the majority of companies there is no auditor because the audit obligation is abolished. We want to reintroduce it now. But which auditor should request the information if there is no auditor? In most cases it rhymes very badly. In addition, when it comes to breaches of the Accounting Act, it is an individual who is convicted of not having handed over the books while all those behind what is in the accounts – for even a criminal exchange office has got their money under control; I can promise Mikael Eskilandersson – gets away. You send out one who takes the hit, and then the rest gets away. That is why we need to secure the physical accounts.
i-2Amtohnmd9KVoacsXXb7QD	Madam President, I would like Ola Möller makes it sound as if you know where the accounts are just because they are within the country. But if they are placed in a cloud service together with a server, you certainly do not know at which address that server is located. It can also be moved from day to day, so it is really impossible to find the information on a server in the way that Ola Möller thinks you should do. There is no obligation to have this server at a specific address. If there were, it would have been a little different. In fact, I think that if a study had been set up on this, a proposal for a digital solution could have been made so that companies do not have special servers to copy their accounts. After all, the vast majority of entrepreneurs are serious and not criminal, as Ola Möller wishes to claim. That the majority of all companies would have no accountant, I don't really recognize. Only the really small companies have no accountants. As soon as you get over 3 million you should have an accountant, and the vast majority of companies actually spend quite a lot of money. But, sure, there are in itself quite a few small businesses. On the other hand, there are very many small businesses that are individual firms, and then they have absolutely no accountant, so I do not really follow the reasoning there.
i-EQ2BC4zo32Q4iiRAFgaS3C	Madam President, I would like The business register contains approximately 1.6 million companies. 42 per cent of enterprises are engaged in individual economic activities and 37 per cent as public limited liability companies. Individual business activities are a form of business in which you as a private individual and sole owner run and are responsible for the company. There is no clear line between you as owner and the company. Thus, you are also personally responsible for everything that happens in the company. I think we all agree that it should be easy to start a business. However, choosing a company's form is sometimes a main cause that ends in that not everyone can start a limited company from the start but chooses individual business. Many people get stuck for a very long time in the company form they started with, even though after a few years it is not the optimal for the business they conduct. I believe that we can regard entrepreneurship as a comic book game. As a new entrepreneur, you may start with individual business activities. It's pretty common to do that. However, it should be sought to allow the company to grow as the company grows. The form of the company can then be considered as the next step of entrepreneurship, which is natural to take when the company has grown out of the suit as an individual business activity. Once an individual firm has reached a certain turnover, the entrepreneur should be contacted by an authority that supports the entrepreneur in the transition from individual business activities to limited liability companies. Individual business activities are a form of business in which you as a private individual and sole owner run and are responsible for the company. An individual trader is not a legal person. This means that you are personally responsible for all the company's obligations. Thus, it is the company form that gives you the highest risk if it does not go the way you wanted. At a time when the need for entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs is increasing, we Christian Democrats have doubts as to whether the form of enterprise that poses the greatest risk to the individual is a good form of enterprise. I believe that this is the most vulnerable form of enterprise. If things don't go as you wish, everything will end up on you as an entrepreneur, and you'll probably end up as an entrepreneur after a crash. I believe that it must be easier to start up and run businesses. I'm sure we all agree on that. Bureaucratic hassle must be reduced, we all say – except Ola Möller, who, in the speaker's chair, abused the alliance government's rule reduction in 2006– 2014. It is strange that Ola Möller believes that regulatory reduction is evil given that the government on 22 September 2021 announced that it will reduce the regulatory burden for entrepreneurs. There are five objectives, including strengthening competitiveness and reducing regulatory costs. In the last ten years, the regulatory cost for companies has increased by approximately 1 billion each year, according to the Swedish Agency for Growth. But Ola Möller is standing in the speaker's chair and is evil about the fact that we reduced the regulatory burden. I can't quite understand. I think that Ola Möller needs to explain what kind of regulatory problem is a liberalisation for the entrepreneur that we reduced during the alliance period. I think that the Social Democrats actually think just like the Alliance, that is to say, that the regulatory burden should be reduced. It should also try to make Swedish companies competitive in Europe. But Ola Möller obviously does not take the same view as his own party. It would be interesting to hear why Ola Möller opposes his own Minister of Economic Affairs. With these words, I call for reservation 5.
i-QRmeJvVRkWR1eM9f5aQ4go	Madam President, I would like Larry Söder can be calm – I think the right rules should apply to entrepreneurship. And it is clear that we should promote serious entrepreneurship. Of course we should have a good export industry. But that we have rules that make human exploitation possible, that construction workers sleep in containers on dirty mattresses because of the legislation that Larry Söder's party introduced together with their alliance colleagues, that you can exploit people so that they work 20 hours per day as a busboy in restaurant kitchens at Möllevångstorget in Malmö or pick shit in the sewers – that kind of liberalisation I strongly oppose. Of course, the Swedish export industry will thrive, and it is important that we have the right and good rules. But, Larry Söder, don't tell me that the labour immigration that you have introduced – the one that my party colleague, Leif Nysmed, among others, sees when he is out among his colleagues in the construction industry – would be a good thing! It is the worst of the worst when it comes to the use of labour in Sweden.
i-DJGT5nUdDWk9Gv82RxcCv	Madam President, I would like I would like Ola Möller to take a little trip in Stockholm and look at the business regulations. It can explain quite clearly to Ola Möller how new rules strike companies and knock out companies. This also means that Swedish companies have less competitiveness vis-à-vis other European companies. They expect the charges on Swedish companies to amount to 1 billion a year. When it comes to some things, consider whether they are good or bad. Take human resources, for example, which increases the regulatory burden quite a lot for companies. In some cases it is very good, in the construction industry, for example. But it also wants to go further and introduce this for other types of activities, which may not have the same needs as the construction industry. This is the regulatory framework that weighs on our entrepreneurs. You have to be careful. What are the rules that actually help us to remove the worst without making us blame or impose more costs on those who behave? I mean we should have good Swedish companies. The companies that are doing well should also be able to compete with the other companies in Europe. I cannot see that there is a wave of liberalisation going on, as Ola Möller says in the speaker's chair, or that it is evil to perhaps remove two rules when introducing a new one, in order to reduce the regulatory burden for Swedish companies. Then we have problems in some Swedish companies, and we will help each other with them. But I think Ola Möller is doing himself a disservice if he thinks that all Swedish companies are enemies, instead of taking hold of those who actually do something that we do not want in Sweden.
i-FSkJRrt5pUHcbaCMTcUMw6	Madam President, I would like It is interesting that former alliance representatives always say that it is so difficult for Swedish companies. They do not stand up to competition in Europe. Why is it that we have a trade surplus that the world is looking at, year after year, and we think, and we want it? Such industry, such business, we would like to have. It is quite clear that Swedish industry stands up in international competition when we have the trade surpluses we have. After all, our current account is in parity with Germany's. And then Larry Söder stands here and says: Swedish companies don't make it internationally. That's not true. Explain to me again, Larry Söder: What is good about the liberalisation introduced by Larry Söder's government during the alliance period when it comes to labour immigration, where people are being exploited? And human resources people-- they're being cheated on. People who are not even under the right coordination number go in and work on other people's coordination numbers. This is what Stefan Attefall, Larry Söder's own party colleague, just two weeks ago, I think it was, presented in the Construction Market Commission. They say: Human resources, ID06, are not enough – we must have much tougher rules. So it's not the case, Larry Söder, that you can remove one rule and add another one or remove one rule for it to be good. We shall have the right rules for the right things; there we agree. But do not stand and say that Swedish companies do not stand up in international competition! And explain to me what is so brilliant about the labour immigration legislation introduced by the Alliance Government.
i-51sULmedqqnUzxfQpzdTwX	Madam President, I would like I can say once again that Ola Möller should have a discussion with the Business Council. There are statistics showing that the cost of the new rules decreased during the alliance government. But during your government it has increased by 1 billion a year. Those costs are being spent somewhere. It is the last customer who has to pay all the costs for the product. In the current situation, when e-commerce is so large, it means that Ola Möller and I, as customers, can shop from an e-commerce in Germany instead of in Sweden. This means that we run Swedish companies at the bottom and abroad if we do not try to get them competitive. Let me give you an example that Ola Möller can take with him. The chemical tax introduced by Ola Möller's party obliges Swedish e-commerce companies to either create a warehouse somewhere in the rest of Europe or close down their activities. More than 1 000 jobs have disappeared from Sweden because of the chemical tax, which has not saved the environment one single purpose because we are actually buying the goods from Germany, Italy or England today. I believe that we must look at the whole, but also look to the fact that if we introduce a rule that can be of benefit, we must remove two in order to reduce the regulatory burden on Swedish companies. We must be competitive. The aim must be to reduce the regulatory burden and cost for Swedish companies. Our Swedish government, headed by the Minister for Economic Affairs, said on 22 September exactly the same thing as I did, but Ola Möller obviously disagrees with his own party.
i-S4DcFR8ZR57jMhNoJjiJ8h	Madam President, I would like This is the first time I have the honour of debating here in the Committee on Civil Liberties. One can say that with theatre, bingo and whipped cows in Parliament's chamber it is not bad for a Thursday night! You can also start by saying that the Center Party is the Swedish Entrepreneur Party. It has been, it is, and it will remain. It's nothing weird. Now we sit here late on Thursday night and work. This is the everyday life of Sweden's small businesses. That is the reality, and this is what the Social Democrats may not always fully understand. It should be easy to start a business, and it should be easy to run them. The vast majority who run companies do so with an ambition to offer their customers added value, comply with laws and regulations, give employees the salary they deserve, which should be according to contract, and decent working conditions, of course, and pay their taxes. What the Center Party wants is to do nothing about this. We just want to facilitate and improve the conditions for companies. But there are also those who use the company as a cover for criminal activities. You start a company and you put corporate goaltenders as Chairman of the Board, members and CEO. To do so is punishable and gives prison or fine. This is recognized not least from my hometown of Malmö, unfortunately. Corporate goaltenders lack exorbitable assets and commit themselves to being fronts for those who earn money through crime and fraud. These people are usually unable to pay any fines– that's the very idea of it all. The Swedish Enforcement Authority and the Swedish Financial Crime Authority have developed ways of working to do something about this, but legislative changes are also needed. As with measuring the assets of criminals, it is a question of public authorities opening up their registers for the exchange of information. Protecting personal data and protecting privacy is also important for the Center Party, and it is important to keep your tongue right in the mouth when going forward with this kind of legislation. You can have a little respect that it can take a little time sometimes. But you can't always wait forever. Speaking of bingo, it is not uncommon to get five in a row in delayed deliveries from the government. The Center Party is therefore behind the announcement and wants the government to speed up some of this work. Madam President, I would like Acting now against crime is very important, and to act now for the climate is also important. We want to mention this. There has been a lot of focus on business, which we are happy about, but there are also other things in the world. The companies are a strong driver in climate change efforts. For most Swedish companies, high demands are not seen as a threat, but rather as a challenge. It is seen as a competitive advantage to be resource efficient, to save energy and to choose climate-neutral and renewable alternatives. The Center Party wants to be the driving force in this. However, in addition to high demands, there should also be financial incentives. Reassignment should be profitable. Doing the right thing should be easy. It is nothing new for the Center Party, but unfortunately not all parties have yet realised the value of this. That's why the Center Party wants to make green investments easier and more profitable. Among other things, we want to introduce a similar instrument as in Ireland and the Netherlands, where companies that make environmentally and climate-smart investments are allowed to write off the value of these investments more quickly. I therefore support the Center Party's reservation number 4 and the request to consider a study on shorter depreciation periods for environmentally and climate-smart investments.
i-MynESBtS6As3BgiKj7Xt2B	Madam President, I would like Since 2009, all houses, villas and terraced houses sold in Sweden must have an energy declaration. This is being severely regulated by the European Union today. So it is the European Union that is behind these directives. It is difficult for Sweden to get away with this. This means a cost for each individual household of at least SEK 2,500 and many times much more. The criticism of energy declarations has been harsh from the Swedish National Audit Office, as well as from Swedish researchers and researchers from other European countries. The criticism has been that the effect of energy declarations has been very small. The purpose of them is that Swedish households and property owners should be informed about how they can reduce the energy costs of the property. However, according to Boverket's report, 88 per cent of property owners are already aware of the examples that energy declarations show when it comes to reducing energy consumption in the property. It is therefore very inefficient energy declarations that are presented. However, they still impose an extra burden on all our Swedish property owners. It is also an additional charge for both the municipality and the state and an administrative cost, where resources need to be devoted to maintaining a system developed by the EU. It turns out that the state and the municipality may spend approximately SEK 86 million annually on maintaining this system. Calculations also show that between 2009, when the Act was introduced, Swedish households have spent SEK 1.8 billion on energy declarations until 2016. So we are not talking about small sums of money. In many cases in Sweden today it also turns out that the energy declarations really do not serve any purpose at all, because they are about properties that may be undergoing a major renovation or renovation or perhaps to be demolished. This shows that we would need more exceptions in terms of which property owners will need to produce an energy declaration. This is also exactly what the Swedish Democrats are exercising on this matter – that the government will return with more exceptions for property owners in order to avoid these unnecessary energy declarations. We also believe that the Swedish Government will pursue this issue in the EU to ensure that we can have more exceptions so that fewer Swedish property owners will have to submit an energy declaration when selling in view of the extremely weak effects it generates. But that is not enough, Madam President. The Swedish National Audit Office presented extensive criticism of energy declarations as early as 2009. It turns out now, 2021, when the Swedish National Audit Office has again looked at the energy declarations and how the government has been working on the issue that many of the critical points that were made already in 2009 are still relevant and show weaknesses in the system. This shows even more what a huge waste of resources this government has contributed during the years that energy declarations have been in place in Sweden. If we are to have energy declarations that Swedish households have to pay for, they must also play an important role somewhere, if we are to defend the whole system. Instead, energy declarations have cost Swedish society a large amount of money in the years that the government has failed to address the issues that the Swedish National Audit Office has already presented in 2009. The energy saving effects of energy declarations are quite obvious. It is about what heating system the property has, what insulation, which windows and so on. It is largely self-evident that these declarations are presented as Swedish legislation – coming from the EU – forcing property owners to produce. Therefore, I would like to point out once again the need for us to actually hear the questions raised by the Swedish Democrats in this report on the National Audit Office's report. The government needs to come back with more exceptions in order to remove the unnecessary energy declarations imposed on Swedish households, and the government needs to work to influence in the EU to counteract many of these ineffective energy declarations imposed on Swedish households and entailing large costs both for society and for individual property owners. With this, Madam President, I would like to support the Swedish Democrats' reservation, reservation 1.
i-PSJxY3gHgvaAwqNYueSRdo	Madam President, I would like I have to admit, sometimes when you make decisions, you get caught up in your forehead. We make many decisions in Parliament in one year, and all too often these decisions mean that we impose burdens on the individual, on municipalities or on companies, with more administrative tasks in the form of controls or surveys. Some are well motivated, but some are very hesitant and affect everyone even though they aim to overcome the misbehavior of a few. Some are being imposed by the EU in its bureaucratic system. They're in our laps so we can make decisions about them. I admit that I make some of those decisions with a great deal of agony. It is hoped, after all, that the aim will be achieved with them, because, as a rule, they are actually well-pleased. But today we have on the table a report from the Swedish National Audit Office on energy declarations. It is a burden on the individual property owner who is basically well-lawed but which the report shows does not really work according to its purpose. The purpose of the energy declarations is to promote energy efficiency while ensuring good indoor climate in buildings. More energy efficient buildings are expected to provide a higher price for sales, which will motivate property owners to prioritise energy efficiency. The Swedish National Audit Office writes in its report that the energy declaration has weak conditions to get individual house owners to implement energy-efficient measures. There are also a number of studies showing that the energy declaration system does not work in the way that was intended when it was introduced. The need for reform of this has been highlighted both by the Swedish National Audit Office and by Boverket for quite a long time. Those of us who make decisions should then consider whether we have really made the right decision or whether we can change it in any way, so that the aim can be achieved. I believe that the long-standing shortcomings in the system, combined with the costs involved, should lead to a review and revision. It is extremely important that this should be done. In fact, that should be a priority for the government as well. Among other things, effective instruments to produce more proposals for cost-effective energy saving measures in energy declarations need to be explored. One should still think that the purpose should be achieved in order to be satisfied. And if you're not satisfied, you should be able to take back a case or change it to serve the purpose. I believe that Parliament and the government mean well, but they do not want to impose charges on the individual property owner unnecessarily. Here, however, it is clear that charges have been imposed on the property owner who has no purpose whatsoever. In our reservation, we want this to be reviewed so that the purpose can actually be achieved. There will be cost-effective energy saving measures that actually benefit the environment, and so that even an individual property owner can see that this is necessary and important. With this, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 2.
i-8EZescYuTBY5JyhyWUwjiZ	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the CU14 report. The Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed the system of energy declarations and revealed a lot of shortcomings in the system. The Government also makes the same assessment that there are shortcomings in monitoring and coordination with energy declarations for buildings and municipal energy and climate advice. The energy declarations aim to improve the energy performance of buildings and to be part of the green transition needed for the future. But they should also help the individual to switch to more energy efficient housing. This has clearly proved necessary not only in Sweden but throughout Europe. SVT showed a news story about housing in England – it unfortunately doesn't belong to the EU anymore, but it has been doing so for a long time – where people, especially people with a bad economy, can't afford to heat up their homes. The reason is not just the high energy prices. It is rather that the necessary measures have not been taken to reduce energy consumption, such as additional insulation, switching to more energy-efficient heating modes and so on. In Sweden, we have worked more to build buildings that are energy efficient. Of course, much remains to be done. In this context, energy declarations can and must be a tool and a tool. That's the purpose of them. That's where we have to get back to work. We Social Democrats, like the Swedish National Audit Office and the Government, also see the need to remedy the shortcomings that exist in the system and develop it into a better working tool to increase energy efficiency in, among other things, our homes. We Social Democrats also see the potential of energy-efficient buildings for the future. It not only creates better housing with better climates and lower energy costs. It also creates jobs and jobs, for example, in the construction industry. The green transformation of our society into a more climate-smart society is just smart. Energy-efficient buildings are created that keep energy costs down in the long term. We simply stop burning for the crows. It could be an alternative if we introduce exceptions to climate change, as some other parties propose in different contexts and not just for this product. With the green transition, we want to create both growth and employment in Sweden. We Social Democrats believe in Sweden and are hopeful about the future in this part too. Madam President, I would like The Swedish National Audit Office makes a recommendation to commission Boverket to investigate how energy declarations can be streamlined as instruments. We believe that such a review should be carried out in connection with the other changes that are being prepared as a result of the forthcoming revision of the directive on the energy performance of buildings to be implemented in Swedish law. We had on our table today in the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs a draft of what it might look like when we did a subsidiarity test. We saw a lot of the exciting suggestions that lie there. This is an issue that we will have to debate further in the Committee on Civil Liberties. It is about how we take renovations and efficiency improvements of energy use in our properties forward. We're not backing into the future. That's to say that a Volvo should pull two liters of miles as my old 240 did once in the 80s and think it's good. Somewhere we need to be technology-friendly and believe in the future and make sure that we can become a little more energy-efficient even in our homes and buildings. In such a review, we share the Government's view that it should also be examined whether it is possible to harmonise energy declarations with the development and use of climate declarations for buildings. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to reiterate my support for the committee's proposal in report CU14.
i-Ybzft15PDMrBERUq5uJNMF	Madam President, I would like The system of energy declarations – clear purpose but unclear objective is the telling title of the review we are now dealing with here, which deals with energy declarations. The purpose of them is for them to be a tool in the green transition and a decision support for those who want to be more climate-friendly and use less energy and in the long term contribute to a greener empire. It hasn't really succeeded. All small houses sold and most major buildings in Sweden should have an energy declaration. Anyone who buys or rents a dwelling or a premises should be able to take part in the energy performance of the building. It's smart and good. This could help to ensure that energy consumption is as low as possible. That's the idea. High consumption is supposed to affect the price. This would make it worthwhile, for example, to invest in better insulation, less energy-intensive heating and perhaps cooling of homes and premises. But it doesn't work that way. It does not have the effect that we would like to see. In practice, it is not possible to determine how effective energy declarations have been as a tool in the direction we would have liked. It is well known that there are often quite different factors affecting the price, especially where there is a large housing shortage. I can recognize that from my hometown of Malmö. This is also what the Swedish National Audit Office has come up with. The government has not designed the system to support energy efficiency in small houses. Nor has the government ensured that there are conditions for coordination between energy declarations and advice, although this is what the EU intended when the Energy Performance of Buildings Directive was adopted in 2002. It has had a long time to do the right thing, which is why the Swedish National Audit Office's criticism is justified. The government is not clear enough on what action it intends to take. That is why, among other things, we have reserved ourselves for making better use of the skills of municipal energy advisors. The energy requirements in Boverket's building regulations govern correctly in most cases and have other things that can be good. But they will be difficult to live up to if it is about modular buildings for rent, for example. It is homes, building houses or similar buildings that are used in municipal activities as schools, and that is all too often. It is not enough for them to be up-to-date in accordance with the BBR when such a building is first put into service. It must be done in the case of any new rental or removal of such a building. We are also paying attention to this in our reservation. That is unnecessary hassle, Madam President. We were just talking about better company conditions. This is such a clear example. We also want to see more generous depreciation rules for companies that are energy efficient, for example. The Centre Party sees the potential for further tightening of energy requirements in the EU. Compared to many other countries, Swedish small houses are quite energy efficient. This is of course because we have skilled and dedicated construction companies that want to create homes that are comfortable and have low operating costs. The requirements must be uniform and challenging, but not impossible. We think that balance can be a little better than it is today and the demands a little sharper. We see that there is an opportunity, Madam President, to tighten the energy efficiency target in the EU by 50% by 2030 in order to further strengthen the work for the climate. Climate action is important. We must not forget it. That is why I support the Center Party's reservation 4. We must have strong national requirements based on the objectives set within the European Union. Above all, the systems we have for declaring the energy performance of buildings should be effective and contribute to achieving the objectives. Today we have objectives and declarations. But they're not connected, and they don't do any good. We can do better.
