i-CFHX87rnS4fr3L5r7GdYpi	Madam President, I would like Maria Malmer Stenergard has asked me what number of internal checks carried out by foreigners during 2022 I think would live up to the regulation letter's goal of a sufficient scope for the purpose. Maria Stenergard has also asked me whether I intend to take any initiatives to develop a measurable target for how many internal checks that the Police Authority will carry out in the coming years. The policy authority's work on internal immigration control is an important tool for knowing who resides illegally in the country and is thus an important part of maintaining regulated immigration and countering the shadow society. The Government, through its historic investment in the Police Authority, has given the Agency better opportunities to carry out its mission, including internal immigration controls. The investment means, among other things, that the number of employees will increase by 10,000 during the period 2016 to 2024. Since 2015, the agency's funding has increased by nearly SEK 12.7 billion, an increase of 60 percent. To 2024, the grant is expected to increase by nearly SEK 17.4 billion compared to 2015, corresponding to an increase of 82 percent. The government has taken various steps to further sharpen the work of checks on foreign nationals who are not entitled to reside in the country. Since 2018, the Police Authority has expanded the possibilities to carry out workplace inspections to detect employers who employ foreign citizens who do not have a permit to stay and work in the country. Since July 2021, the Police Authority has also been given increased powers in connection with the implementation of internal checks on aliens. On 29 November last year, the report "Actions in border areas" (SOU 2021:92) was submitted to the government. The investigation was tasked with considering whether the Police Authority has access to sufficiently effective tools in border areas to, among other things, check people's right of residence in Sweden and, if not, propose changes to the regulatory system. The report is currently in the process of being consulted. With regard to the governance of the Police Authority, the Government has over the last few years commissioned the Authority to continue its competence development regarding internal foreign control and to ensure that it is carried out legally and effectively. The Police Authority is continuously working on this mission through training efforts and technical development. In the latest regulation letter, the agency has also been tasked with carrying out internal checks on aliens to the extent that is appropriate to the needs of the business. Quantitative targets for internal checks on aliens are a blunt instrument that would limit the authority's room for manoeuvre. Furthermore, under the Aliens Act, such checks may only be carried out if there is a valid reason to assume at each time of inspection that the person has no right to reside in the country or if there is otherwise a particular reason for checking. It is therefore not appropriate to instruct the Authority in advance to carry out a specific number of internal checks on aliens. The Police Authority now has a unique opportunity, with its funding development and the thousands of new police officers to join it, to further counteract the shadow society and maintain regulated immigration.
i-28udXtbMemwwNWyKLfmJBg	Madam President, I would like It is difficult in these times not to start with words about the terrible thing that the Ukrainian people are now going through as a result of Russia's choosing to start war on Ukraine. Our thoughts are, of course, with the Ukrainian people. Their fate also reminds us of the importance of democracy, and that is why it is important for us who can still exercise our democratic rights to continue to do so. An important part of Swedish democracy is that the Riksdag examines the Government's activities. This can be done, among other things, by interpellation. The interpellation that I have made and which we are debating today is about internal foreign controls. Then what is it? Well, it's checks that the police mainly carry out to detect people who are staying here illegally. Internal immigration controls have decreased by 80 percent in ten years, from 42 500 in 2012 to only 9 400 last year. In addition, the decline has taken place during a period when immigration has increased sharply and the need for internal checks on foreigners should be even greater – certainly not less. Unfortunately, too many people go underground and become part of a shadow society that is only growing and is closely associated with suffering and crime. This should lead to more controls – not less. The shadow community was literally in the Prime Minister's Farstu a few months ago. I am thinking of the woman who was found cleaning the Prime Minister's apartment, although she had no right to stay in the country. Nevertheless, the government does not seem to see the seriousness of the problems. This is reflected in the very vague mandate given by the government to the Police Authority for 2022. This is what it says: our internal control of foreigners must be carried out to a sufficient extent for the purpose and with adequate resources throughout the country. ..................................................... The wording that internal control of foreigners is to be carried out to a sufficient extent is perhaps interpreted as some form of objective, but it is not possible to measure whether the authority meets the objective on the basis of that objective. What is sufficient scope? The government does not even give the explicit mandate that internal foreigner controls should increase in relation to the previous year, which is very serious given that they have decreased over so many years – while shadow society has increased. In my interpellation, I have asked Morgan Johansson to explain what his mission to the agency really means. What number of internal immigration controls carried out in 2022 does the Minister think would live up to the regulation letter's objective of a sufficient scope for this purpose? Will Morgan Johansson develop a measurable and understandable goal for how many internal foreigner controls the police will carry out in the coming years? Unfortunately, I do not hear any concrete answers to my questions in Morgan Johansson's answer. If I look at the statistics so far for 2022, when the requirement for internal checks on aliens to be sufficient applies, I am even more concerned. Until Wednesday, a total of 1,653 internal checks had been carried out this year – in two and a half months. It is considerably fewer than it did in just one month, January, 2014. Does Morgan Johansson really believe that this number meets the demand for a sufficient degree?
i-Mum9cus8FrAWnRGPKq9uNT	Madam President, I would like The whole basis for Maria Malmer Stenergards's interpellation is that she has read in Expressen that internal foreign controls have decreased. It says at the beginning of her interpellation that it says so in Expressen. What if Maria Malmer Stenergard had been able to try to control that task, to check what the police say about these particular figures? What if she had tried to just go into the police's website and see what the police are writing about exactly this statistics and these data? I've done it, of course. This is how the police write about this particular statistics: a number of sources of error are included in the figures and used by the police with great caution, especially the statistics on internal checks and police expulsions. This means that the data are not comparable and it cannot be said about e.g. the number of internal foreigner controls increased or decreased. That's what it says, word for word, on the police website. This is due to the fact that there have been quite a few problems with the collection of these particular statistics. This is true not only now, but also a long time ago. If we go back to the time of the alliance government, we will find figures of up to 35 000 – 40 000. I'm telling you, I'm a joyous man. It is therefore not statistics that can be trusted. And that's exactly what the police say. Perhaps Maria Malmer Stenergard should not only read the Express, but she must also check the quality of the statistics, what it actually looks like. Hereby the whole foundation of her interpellation falls. The police themselves say that this statistical data is so shaky that you cannot say whether it has increased or decreased. That, of course, is a problem. The police are working on it, too. Efforts are being made to ensure and ensure the quality of the figures. Turning from the statistical debate to the issue itself, I would like to say that during our reign we have not focused on the police standing as much on streets and squares or in subways and doing internal checks on foreigners as they did during the alliance period. Instead, we have focused on increasing the number of workplace inspections by the police. Why? Yes, it is in the workplace that exploitation takes place. Criminal entrepreneurs exploit migrants who are allowed to work for SEK 30 per hour and live in a basement. It is in the workplace that you should go in and do the checks. I can see that the number of workplace inspections has increased by three times during our reign. There are now three times as many workplace inspections as during the time of the alliance government. The police have been given both increased resources for it and better opportunities to enter the workplace. I sometimes ask myself why the Moderates hesitated to do so, why they did not want to go into the workplace, why instead they focused on doing internal foreigner controls in the streets and squares or in the subway. I think they were simply afraid to challenge the entrepreneurial world that way. We're not afraid of that. We are prepared to go into the workplace and see who works there and if you have permission to stay in the country. If you do not, you will simply be rejected from the country. We will continue to do this. We will focus on the workplaces. We will ensure that the police increase the pressure in precisely the part, because we have to deal with this kind of problem. Don't just read Expressen next time, Maria Malmer Stenergard! Also read what the Police Authority itself says about these numbers on its website!
i-JU1qobiVxxUKuYznVNnNdc	Madam President, I would like I am, in principle, speechless about this answer. Of course, I have not just read Expressen. I have entered the Polisagentens website where the statistics for the past 10 – 15 years are shown month by month. I have produced the data from there and checked on my own, and I have contacted the Police Authority and asked how many have been implemented this year. Morgan Johansson says that the authority for which he is responsible has such substandard activities that no account can be taken of the statistics presented at all. Isn't that in itself a terrible problem? I would certainly not have been proud in Morgan Johansson's clothes that the statistics did not match. On 29 December last year, the government announced at a press conference that priority would be given to getting more people who are not entitled to stay here to leave the country. The next day the Polisförbund reacted strongly. They said in Ekott that there are no resources at all to look for permitless. This is also shown in the statistics from the Minister's own authority, which the Minister rejects. It is problematic in itself, and it bears witness to the government's priorities or rather a lack of priorities. The results speak for themselves. As I said, the police carried out more internal checks in 2014 than they did in two and a half months this year. I've been looking at the police statistics. In fact, it was only in one month in the whole of 2014 that the number of checks carried out was smaller than those carried out this far this year, and it was the July holiday month. Ultimately, internal immigration controls are about maintaining regulated immigration. A yes should definitely be a yes, but a no should also be a no. There should be no illegal residence in the country. It is also about protecting vulnerable people. Shadow society is associated with enormous vulnerability and often crime and exploitation. And it's about protecting our internal security. In the shadow community, there are pure security threats. We were painfully reminded of this in connection with the terrorist attack on Drottninggatan, which was carried out by a person who was not entitled to stay here. One reason why the government does not want a numerical target is, apart from the fact that the statistics are obviously not reliable, according to Morgan Johansson that such a target would be blunt. Why it's blunt doesn't develop any closer. I'd like the Minister to do that. Another reason against a numerical objective set by the Minister is that it is necessary to have a valid reason to carry out a check. However, given that the number of internal checks on foreigners has fallen by 80 %, there should at least be reason to increase the number of internal checks on foreigners. Such ambition seems even more urgent given that shadow society has grown. Old figures indicate that it includes 50 000 people, but those figures have many years on their necks. Since then we have had high levels of immigration. People say that this is at least double, that is to say 100 000, who are staying here illegally. I would therefore like to have an answer to my question. If the government does not want to set an exact target for the number of internal checks on aliens, why can it not at least be stated that they should be increased? Finally, I cannot help but ask Morgan Johansson another question. He is very proud that the number of workplace inspections has increased since the alliance government. Can he really trust those statistics?
i-UxdDY4ohBBvBHRA5decvDW	Madam President, I would like As a matter of fact, I can. The statistics that the Police Authority says are shaky relate to the internal checks on aliens, not the workplace inspections. These statistics are thought to be much more reliable. It can be that way sometimes. It is interesting to hear Maria Malmer Stenergard say that she herself has checked, had contact with the police and talked to all people about this. However, she has completely missed the fact that the police themselves write on their website that a lot of data is not comparable and it is not possible to say about e.g. the number of internal foreigner controls increased or decreased. That's literally what it says. Yet she goes on in the wool socks and continues to say that it has decreased by 80 percent, that the figure is valid and so on. The whole basis for Maria Malmer Stenergards's interpellation has fallen when she has not checked this. That is a problem for her in the debate. Let's get to the point. We have concentrated on going to the workplaces, on seeing who works there and whether you have the right to stay here or not. There are a lot of reports of people working under completely unworthy conditions. You sleep two meters from the stove you work at during the day. At night a mattress is rolled out, and you sleep there in the kitchen. There's plenty of that. This is the result of the alliance government introducing the world's most generous labour immigration rules, which made the whole exploitation that we now see. Now we are tightening up those rules and making sure to clean up the system as well as the labour immigration rules. We have also made sure to increase inspections at workplaces. I think it is the case that the Moderates simply did not dare to go to the companies. They didn't dare go to work. Then they would have had a conflict with the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, and that does not fix the Moderates. Let's do that. We are not afraid of the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise. We are not afraid of the business world in that part – quite the opposite. We believe that increasing workplace inspections also ensures that competition neutrality between different companies is maintained and maintained. It cannot be that some people can take advantage of the situation and get people to work too far below what is stated in collective agreements, which leads to unhealthy competition. We are totally against that. Maria Malmer Stenergard says that we must set a numbered target for internal foreign controls. There are some problems with that. One problem is that it can lead to quite large legal uncertainties. What if we set a target of 10 000 internal checks on foreigners during this year, and a number are made during the year? However, as it approaches December, you will see that you have only made 7 000 and that you have to make 3 000 more in December to reach the target. Then the risk is quite great that, just to reach the goal, you start taking people even though there is no reason or reason for it. It'll be a legal uncertainty. It used to be called a stick hunt in the police. It was one of the worst things one heard of when it came to police control. With only numerical targets, they tried to chase statistics. It was in danger of going out on the citizens when they were being controlled without any basis for it. It is much more effective and legally secure to focus on workplace inspections in the way we do. But, of course, we will also do internal checks on foreigners where these needs exist. We will make sure to do so when there is a solid reason for it. But controlling the police in the way Maria Malmer Stenergard wants would, I think, lead to a lot of wrong and difficult consequences.
i-GhjQYHAYub9qY5mYMAWjt6	Madam President, I would like Let me be very clear. I, too, am horrified to see illegal labour exploited by unscrupulous employers. I fully support the increase in workplace controls carried out by the government. I think it's great. It is also good that the government is now tightening up the regulations for labour migration. This is done thanks to the release from the January agreement. In it, the Social Democrats had signed up to maintaining the previous framework for labour immigration. Now one is no longer bound by it and can therefore proceed with the necessary changes. I think that's good, too. We have a growing shadow society characterised by crime and exploitation. Every year thousands of people go underground. It has gone so far that shadow society has literally stung into the Prime Minister's Farstu. Inmates say that at least 100,000 people are staying here illegally. A series of measures are needed to combat shadow society with full force. An important part is the internal checks carried out by the police. But they have decreased by 80 percent in ten years. Nevertheless, the government refuses to set a target for increased controls. According to the government, they should only be done to a sufficient extent. I can only conclude that the Social Democrats are completely blind to the problems. I would say, in fact, that they have ruled to a sufficient extent. Now we need a moderate-led government that dares to see the problems and deal with them and that gets Sweden in order.
i-TcCCTtBsNxR7FM7Aheyp64	Madam President, I would like After all, it was the moderate-led government that caused the problems we are now working on. It was the moderate-led government that introduced the world's most generous labour migration. This was opened up to this exploitation. Sweden is the only country that has labour migration even for professions where we have no shortage. We have labour immigration for cleaners and personal assistants. It wasn't a coincidence. It is even the case that the enforcement of the new legislation was then the great contribution of the immigration minister Tobias Billström to Swedish politics. It has made provision for the exploitation that we are now working to try to reduce. We Social Democrats have always been opposed to this. We have stood up for regulated labour immigration and for a regulated asylum policy, while the Moderates have stood for the opposite. I think there is something to it that you were unable to confront companies during your reign in the way we have done. You hesitate to take the conflicts you need to take. In your world, entrepreneurs are often viewed as totally infallible and that they never make mistakes or exploit the systems. But we know, not least from the trade union information that we are constantly getting, that there are a lot of such problems that are emerging as soon as we liberalise as you did. We are now tightening up, as has been said, and this is done both through labour immigration legislation and by the inspections that we are continuing to expand. We are expanding the possibilities for the police and other authorities to inform about what really applies and to check that all laws and regulations are complied with. I cannot help but note that Maria Malmer Stenergard once again says that internal checks on foreigners have fallen by 80%, even though I have now explained the situation. It's black and white on the police website that you can't draw any such conclusions. One cannot know if the number has increased or decreased. Maria Malmer Stenergard now knows this for future discussions. I hope she takes it to heart.
i-Hgsz7PFLmoU1m8KJQtMD9E	Madam President, I would like Magnus Persson has asked me if I intend to work for the government to make proposals regarding extended limitation periods for occupational health and safety crimes. The answer to that question is yes. At the government's initiative, a recent investigation has carried out a full review of the criminal law regulation on limitation. Its aim was to bring about a regulation which, to a greater extent than today, meets the interests of, among other things, the effective prosecution of criminal offences, adapted to forensic and technological developments. The investigation also proposes extending the limitation period for serious offences. This means, among other things, that the limitation period for occupational health and safety offences by gross cause to death is extended from 10 to 15 years. The referral period recently expired, and the proposals are now being prepared in the Government Office. The Government has also provided the Swedish Work Environment Authority with increased resources in recent years to strengthen its supervision work and to carry out more labour inspectorates. During 2022, the Swedish Work Environment Authority will receive an additional SEK 85 million. A study has also been set up to evaluate the role of regional safety representatives in the work environment and how they can be better able to carry out their task. The investigation shall submit its report to the Government by 19 August 2022. Ultimately, however, health and safety at work crimes must be met with criminal intervention. As the interpellier points out, occupational health and safety offences are often complex and difficult to investigate. An important condition for police and prosecutors to be able to perform their duties properly is therefore that the respective authorities have sufficient resources. Here, as you know, the government is carrying out a historic investment in the Police Authority. According to the Police Authority's personnel statistics at the turn of the year, we have now reached more than half way to the goal of increasing the number of employees by 10 000 by the end of 2024. Since 2015, the agency's funding has increased by nearly SEK 12.7 billion. To 2024, the grant is expected to increase by nearly SEK 17.4 billion compared to 2015, corresponding to an increase of 82 percent. The Government has also made efforts to strengthen the Prosecution Authority's ability to meet the increased inflow of serious and difficult to investigate crimes. Since 2014, the Swedish Prosecution Authority's funding has increased by over SEK 700 million, from SEK 1.3 billion to SEK 2 billion. I am convinced that these resource enhancements and the ongoing development work carried out by the authorities will lead to improved conditions for investigating also occupational health and safety crimes. If such a crime is committed in a company's activities, the individual who committed the offence may be sentenced to punishment and the company may be subject to a corporate fine. Here too, we have strengthened the regulatory framework. On 1 January 2020, the maximum amount of the corporate fine was increased from SEK 10 million to SEK 500 million for serious crimes committed by larger companies. One of the aims of that amendment was precisely to give companies clear incentives to organise themselves in such a way as to reduce the risk of crime in the business. In conclusion, the Council is taking measures that contribute to a better and safer working environment and improve the ability of the authorities to investigate occupational safety and health offences. Everyone who works deserves a safe and secure workplace.
i-W8jxxX3XXKAdGa8u5yeFUC	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer, even if it came very late yesterday! But better late than never. I understand that you may not have wanted to respond to this after I have heard the Minister's reply. That is an answer that 95% is not even about the issue. The question was that the standard rate for occupational health and safety offences should increase from today's two years to four years and for serious occupational health and safety offences from five years to ten years. All they say is that the limitation period for gross cause to death is extended from 10 years to 15 years and refers to the government's investigation into the revision of criminal law rules for prescription. It is a review that does not even deal with the Working Environment Act. It is not mentioned with a single syllable in the investigation. Madam President, I would like I'm very worried when we have a Minister of Justice who doesn't know the difference. Occupational crime has its own limitation periods. That's what the interpellation is about. With the current regulations, for example, there can be no more than five years from the occurrence of criminal prosecutions for the cause of death and two years for the cause of bodily injury or illness. It is therefore a completely different subject from the investigation to which the Minister refers. I find it remarkable. The answer also raises investments in the judiciary and the police. They are based on the budget presented by the Moderates, the Swedish Democrats and the Christian Democrats. We invested considerably more money than the government. It is a good thing to refer to it, but it has nothing to do with this issue. After reading the answer, I can conclude that the Government does not intend to extend the limitation periods for occupational health and safety offences, which the whole interpellation is about. That's too bad. If this question had been taken seriously, perhaps Jan Stanko's family would have been restored. He died at his workplace on Svinesund Bridge, something his son witnessed. But he was not called to interrogation when the process of questioning abroad was delayed. When the case was finally brought to an end, the case was closed. It was considered time-barred. This is just one of many cases where companies go free because of the limitation period. That is the spirit of this whole interpellation. Madam President, I would like Occupational crime is a negligent crime. This distinguishes it from other crimes that often originate from a direct action. That's one of the reasons it gets so complicated. It's not about the story, it's about so much else. It is very remarkable that the government does not understand such a relatively straightforward and simple question. Now that we have clarified what the interpellation is about, Madam President, I ask the question again: does the government want to work to extend the limitation periods for occupational health and safety offences? We need to separate the Working Environment Act and other law here. These are two completely different things. Apparently, this has failed here.
i-9YsuE2bWEFnhXa8pe2ttHu	Madam President, I would like No, it's probably Magnus Persson who's got it wrong. The limitation rules are general and apply to all offences depending on the scale of penalties we have for each offence. If we are then grossly responsible for someone else's death, as we are talking about here, the review we have made of the statute of limitations means that they are hitting those crimes. This extends the limitation period from 10 to 15 years. That is the proposal that exists in the case of gross infliction to the death of others. In connection with this interpellation but also the discussion that pre-evarit, we asked the police, the Swedish Work Environment Agency and the prosecutors if there is a problem with the limitation rules in general. They all say that this is not the problem because occupational health and safety crimes are almost always investigated immediately after they have occurred. That's not the problem. We have completely different problems on the work environment that the authorities are working on. There is a need for better supervision, more inspections, more police resources, more prosecution resources and stricter sanctions for companies in general. That's a whole different problem. We're working on all of this. As far as police resources are concerned, we are putting more resources into the police than any other government has. We almost double the grant to the police from SEK 20 billion in 2015 to almost SEK 40 billion in 2025. We're putting in more prosecution resources. We're almost doubling their funding, too. One of the most common sanctions for companies in the field of occupational health and safety offences is corporate fines. There we have increased the maximum amount for corporate fines from SEK 10 million to SEK 500 million. Madam President, I would like I honestly believe that this interpellation has a completely different background on the part of the Swedish Democrats. This is because the Swedish Democrats are so pressured by the rest of the discussion on health and safety at work that you choose to try to highlight this discussion which is not really the big problem. Everyone knows that the Swedish democrats in question have rather stood on the side of the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and the Right when it comes to health and safety at work. You want to remove the Regional Safety Officers. It would be absolutely devastating for the work environment. You voted, together with the other right-wingers here, against an increased right of access for regional safety representatives. You made such a bill here. It shows once again on point that you are an anti-employee and anti-union party. Then you try to raise such a question and claim that it is some kind of main issue and have an interpellation debate on it. I think it's more of a background here. But that's not what we're going to do, and neither is anyone else going on. On the substance of the matter, as I said, we extend the limitation period for occupational health and safety offences by gross causes to the death of others from 10 to 15 years. That is why I can clearly answer yes to the question raised by Magnus Persson.
i-WVBKt7USSBkrM6nEKswZfz	Madam President, I would like It is remarkable when you stand and listen to what Morgan Johansson says here. It's a matter of pure ignorance or knowingly lying. This debate was about the limitation period, but I will clarify it. When it comes to the right of access for safety representatives, if you had looked at the proposal, you would have seen that the proposals of the Swedish Democrats wanted to go far beyond the government proposal. We wanted the regional safety representatives, who are partly paid by the state, to have access to all of Sweden's workplaces regardless of agreements. With the Government's proposal, you put large parts of the workforce outside the work environment. They won't get protection. They have no right to protection. You leave them aside because you are demanding that there should be certain forms of agreement, collective agreement or collective agreement-like conditions in the workplace. But the places that do not have collective agreements are left out. They are not entitled to any health and safety protection at all. We wanted to go far beyond the government. We didn't say no. That proposal exists, and it is only to be retrieved. I go back to the question that Morgan Johansson tried to wriggle away from very much. I have the Social Democrats' election manifesto in my hand, both from 2014 and 2018. I don't know if you've read them or maybe forgotten about them. It clearly states that the choice is to extend the limitation periods for occupational health and safety offences. This is something that I and many others from the construction industry were very happy about when we saw and heard. I have worked as a safety representative and trade union officer for many years, so I am very familiar with the industry. But I understand if Morgan Johansson, who may never have set foot in an ordinary workplace, finds it difficult to see those problems. Nothing happened. In 2016, the Swedish Democrats put proposals on the table in the Riksdag. But the government voted against, even though the Social Democrats pushed the issue in the election movement and the majority was there. In the run-up to the 2018 elections, the Social Democrats again raised the issue of increased limitation periods in the election movement. It was then done with even greater weight, when LO also demanded that the issue be pursued. The question has been on Parliament's table every year since then. Now even the Moderates have supported it. There is a broad consensus on this issue. Yet the proposal is rejected every year. Now it is again on the table of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs. Refusal has been requested at the time of first preparation. But you have a chance to change your mind. I hope that Morgan Johansson will talk to his representatives in the Committee on Employment and that they will support the proposal. Then you'll get through an election promise that doesn't cost much money. It will be a contribution to the fight against labour crime. We often have problems in difficult times with foreign companies that are difficult to access and that leave the country. It's very clear. It is not true that the Swedish Democrats do not invest in the work environment. The Swedish Democrats have continuously invested considerably more than the government in the work environment. We want to increase resources so that more people can become safety representatives. There are 20 000 local safety representatives missing. We want more people to be able to be. However, for Morgan Johansson and the Social Democrats, it is more important to have political power over the workplace instead of working environment work and job protection that applies to all employees. Power is put before job protection. I'm sorry to hear that. But that's how a power party works. This is happening in many other countries in Europe. But it does not belong in a democracy. It is distressing to hear that power takes precedence over protection. We see that workers are responding to this. Today it is one in five members of LO who want to support the Social Democrats. I understand that one panics in the Social Democratic Party when one loses power in the Swedish labour movement that has been taken for granted for many years. But it doesn't look like that anymore. My question goes back: Is Morgan Johansson prepared to work to increase the limitation period for occupational health and safety offences, yes or no?
i-X4rcPBjwfYMwESaAvwYE7q	Madam President, I would like I have answered that question. There is a current proposal to extend the limitation period from 10 to 15 years for occupational health and safety offences by gross causes to the death of others. Then I can tell Magnus Persson that my father was a sheet metal worker throughout his life, including at the shipyard in Helsingborg. I hear we're both from that part of the country. I remember very well when my father once came home and said that one of his workmates had got his finger torn off in a drill. I don't take any lessons from you, Magnus Persson, when it comes to occupational safety. My whole family is part of the working class that the Social Democracy has stood up for over the years and will continue to stand up for. Magnus Persson says that conditions have changed. It's completely wrong. The Social Democrats are the largest party in the workers' ranks and will continue to be so to an even greater extent, I would say. This is particularly true in view of the fact that we are now seeing how the Swedish Democrats are betraying the workers. That is the question I raised here. Now Magnus Persson says that you helped bring down the proposal to extend the access rights of regional safety representatives. You did, didn't you? It was because you thought you didn't go far enough. Nevertheless, the issue was that you helped to bring the proposal to a conclusion. In addition, you wanted to abolish the Regional Safety Officers. That's how it is. You are entirely in favour of the interests of business on these issues. The Swedish Democrats will continue to be so. The Swedish Democrats are basically an anti-employee and anti-union party. I think the vast majority of voters see this as well. As far as the substance is concerned, of course, we are continuing to increase resources to the Swedish Work Environment Authority, to strengthen legislation and to increase sanctions, including the corporate fine. We will also extend the limitation periods in this section. I don't think you have anything to get in the workers' ranks anymore, Magnus Persson.
i-Dwor5qDtSYzzVEBtwNhouE	Madam President, I would like Now this debate took a slightly different path, but that is typical Morgan Johansson when he cannot answer the question and knows that he is wrong. The Work Environment Act is a completely different legislation, and I think Morgan Johansson should study it. It gets a little pathetic when he considers himself to be the workers' representative because his father had a coworker who tore off a finger. I have carried two colleagues who have been killed at work to their grave. So don't take that discussion with me, because you have nothing to gain at all! You don't know anything about how it feels. We're a workers' party. We are the new Labour Party of Sweden; there are no strange things about it. This is where the Swedish Democrats base is – within the LO collective. The Social Democrats know that very well, and that is why they are panicking at the moment. But that is not the issue at all. Morgan Johansson refuses to touch on the issue. He's talking about a lot of other things a little fuzzy, because he just can't answer the question. But the basis for choosing to vote against the proposal is that the Swedish Democrats put it on the table. That is the big problem for the Social Democrats. Nevertheless, it shows that the Social Democrats are merely a power party, where power takes precedence over everything. Instead of giving workers who have been victims of accidents a chance of redress, the Social Democrats choose to vote against the proposal, simply because it comes from the Swedish Democrats. I find that remarkable. To then stand here in the speaker's chair and say that you stand up for Swedish employees and Swedish workers is to come up with a pure lie. If you had really stood up for them, Morgan Johansson, you would have voted in favour of the proposal. It is a proposal on which you yourself go to elections in two elections in a row. It is an election promise that is included in your own election manifesto, and you choose to vote against it simply because the Swedish Democrats are presenting the proposal. That, Madam President, seems shameful to me. This is not a policy for Swedish employees.
i-QnzNxJd9LAgxkUrRLcUqNg	Madam President, I would like It is difficult to go further in this debate. I have explained what proposals are on the table. The limitation rules cover all legislation, and they depend on the scale of penalties for each offence. In the case of occupational health and safety offences by gross causes of death, the proposal is to extend the limitation period from 10 to 15 years. We will continue to do so. I think Magnus Persson is out on a matter where he is trying to say one thing, but where I say that we are actually carrying out an extension of the limitation period. Once again, then, we have this with the Labour Party. Everyone knows that the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats are like smiles and long straws. You can hardly separate the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats anymore; when one ends, the other begins. It's so clear. Trying to deceive Sweden's employees and workers that the Swedish democrats together with the Moderates would conduct some kind of employee-friendly policy, I think, is an impossible task, especially when it turns out black and white what happens when these questions come up and really are put to the fore. This applies, for example, to the Regional Safety Officers, which you want to remove. It becomes clear to people who really stands for the interests of the workers and who actually pretends to do so on these issues. Social democracy will always do so in all weathers. You in the Swedish Democrats will, as soon as you have the opportunity to crawl under the umbrella of the Moderates and thus under the umbrella of the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, fold to them. I'm afraid that's what it looks like.
i-T3mRChgSuZvjfAzSaivRWD	Madam President, I would like Pontus Andersson has asked me what measures I and the government intend to take to curb developments in killings in Sweden. The negative trend that we have seen in the area of firearms violence in recent years is unacceptable and is to be broken. We will ensure that the political authority's growth continues and that the judicial authorities are given more and more effective tools. We shall have effective and powerful legislation and crime prevention that will have an effect. In recent years, the government has made historic efforts on the judiciary, not least on the police. The Agency's funding has increased by nearly SEK 12.7 billion since 2015, an increase of 60 percent. We are working further towards the goal of having 10,000 more police employees in 2024 compared to 2016. According to the Police Authority's personnel statistics h a the people reached more than halfway by the turn of the year. With more resources for the Police Authority, the pressure on other parts of the judiciary also increases. Therefore, the government is carrying out extensive investments in the Prison Service, the Swedish Prosecution Authority, the Swedish Environmental Crime Agency, the Swedish National Board of Forensic Medicine and the Swedish Courts. Work is also continuing in the field of criminal law. The penalties have been tightened up, for example for murder, serious violent crimes, serious weapons offences and for the most serious drug offences. We are also working to limit access to firearms. Arms smuggling has become a crime of its own, with far stricter scales of penalties than for ordinary smuggling crimes. The scale of penalties for the crimes corresponds to the scale of penalties for gun crimes. The Customs Agency has also been given new tools through so-called a postal block, which gives Customs the right to stop and retain suspicious arms consignments during checks on the mail flow. The government is now working on the proposals made by the Gang Crime Investigation at the end of August last year. It proposes, among other things, increased penalties for several crimes common in criminal networks, such as drug sales, gross blackmail, gross illegal threats and robbery. It is also proposed to introduce a new penalty rule designed to have a powerful effect in the event of violent conflicts in the criminal environment. It shall be possible to go beyond the scale of the offence. In addition, it proposes a new criminal classification – the promotion of juvenile delinquency – which means that the involvement of persons under the age of 18 in criminal activities is punishable. In addition to punitive measures, the investigating authorities have been given new tools. The government has improved the ability of the Political Authority to use cameras. The possibility of secret data reading means that information on serious criminal activities, including encrypted information, can be accessed. A key factor in preventing, for example, shootings is that the police have access to information at an early stage. The Government has therefore set up two investigations with the aim of, among other things, extending the possibilities of secret interception. The repressive measures are important, but prevention must also be strengthened. The Government is now moving forward with proposals for a statutory responsibility for municipalities to work crime prevention. Several localities in the country have also decided to work according to the strategy Group Violence Intervention, abbreviated GVI. The strategy has been tested in Malmö under the name Stop shooting since 2018 and showed promising results. The government has assessed that the work is worth trying in more places and has therefore allocated resources to Brå to facilitate this. We also strengthen and develop support for those individuals who choose to quit the gangs. The government has therefore already done a great deal in this area. For us to succeed in reversing developments, individual measures are not enough. The whole of society must contribute, and the efforts must be long-term.
i-3ZKHrKJnaS8ennZTbz4nho	Madam President, I would like During the first month of the year, seven people were shot to death in Sweden. This makes January this year the third deadliest month in terms of gun violence in the last two years. In a comment to Svenska Dagbladet, Inspector Gunnar Appelgren refers to the situation as an emergency and believes that it has been acute for several years. Since the interpellation was submitted, nine more people have been shot to death in Sweden, which means that we two and a half months into the new year are up to 16 kill shots. If this is bad and the trend continues, we can count as many shootings in the first quarter of this year as during Morgan Johansson's first year as Minister of Justice. In this area too, the trend is going in the wrong direction. On this issue, the Social Democrats are not solely responsible for the situation we find ourselves in, but also previous governments should have acted. In 2010, for example, ten people were killed in shootings in Sweden throughout the year. That is a figure that we reached this year at the beginning of February. When the Crime Prevention Council in May presented its report on deadly gunfire in Sweden, they were able to show, in comparison with 22 other countries in Europe, that Sweden has moved from the bottom to the top on deadly gun violence. In 2014, when Morgan Johansson took office as Minister of Justice, Sweden had 19 shootings, which was then the highest figure in modern times. Since then, this record has been broken or tangled six times in the almost eight years that the Social Democrats have been in power. In the last two years, the figure has been 47 shootings a year. With seven shootings in January alone, 2022 risks being the worst year yet. The 147% increase in the number of shootings during Morgan Johansson's time as Minister of Justice seems to be able to make the situation worse than the European peak that Sweden is already in today. In his reply, Morgan Johansson mentions a number of proposals that have been implemented. Several of these are good, but the trend still points in the wrong direction.
i-5gzEumvJ1sqtGEA5rcPo1h	Madam President, I would like Morgan Johansson and I have met in this Chamber for almost four years and debated the development of gang crime in Sweden. When we go down for landing in the election year, I can see that the developments since I entered the Riksdag have unfortunately escalated. This year, to date, according to the statistics available, we have had 72 shootings, 15 dead and 21 injured. Sweden is up to levels of deadly violence, shootings and explosions that we have not seen before, and this crime has stabilised at a very high level. I know that Morgan Johansson will tell us about the proposals he has made over the last four years, perhaps even over the last eight years, when he has been the minister responsible for this area. He will also tell us what proposals he will now make. The problem is not the proposals that have been or will be presented by Morgan Johansson. The problem is that the proposals are not sufficient. When we talk about this, the issue of debt sharing sometimes comes up. When it comes to apportioning debt, Morgan does not tend to be late in pointing to the former alliance government. Let me put it this way: if we are to distribute debt, my party has absolutely part of it. But when it comes to sharing responsibilities, the responsibility is quite clear. It is Morgan Johansson who has been responsible for the last eight years and who has had the opportunity to influence these developments, and the measures taken at that time have not been sufficient. I understand that for tactical reasons the Social Democrats now want to triangulate, lie close to the Moderates on these issues and bury proposals that the Moderates have come up with in various investigations in order to be able to say in the election movement that this is ongoing work that is being looked at. But that's not enough. It is not possible to work like that when Sweden stands out among European countries when it comes to gang crime. Yesterday, the Moderates presented an initiative in committee on the wish list submitted by the police to the government. The police have thus said to the government: This is what we would like to have in order to better resolve the situation in which Sweden finds itself. The Moderates have taken that list, put it before the committee and said: let us join forces on this! Let us act together! Then what are the Social Democrats doing? Well, they're voting against this initiative. This is despite the fact that Magdalena Andersson when she was elected party leader for the Social Democrats and then as Sweden's Prime Minister said that she will turn all the stones around. To vote against a wish list that comes directly from the police can't be to turn all the stones around, can it? The Social Democrats have lost control. To paraphrase the Social Democratic Party, one can say: Let us take back control in this area! Why is the government not prepared to do what the police want in order to take back control?
i-3nfngou3PTZP9oV8udzZC2	Madam President, I would like That's exactly what we're doing. We deliver tools by tools to police and prosecutors. We have been doing it for many years and continue to do so. Only yesterday, the government took no less than twelve proposals to the Riksdag on, among other things, increased penalties for the knife law, the entire Crown Witness package and increased penalties for violations of the law. Yesterday, we were also able to announce a review of the regulations in such a way that we could impose a ban on stays in certain places for gang criminals. We're going to do a special investigation into that. Since I took office as Minister of Justice, we from the Ministry of Justice have presented over 300 bills to the Riksdag. Everyone's been through here. We will continue at the high pace of reform that we have begun, because this is a major social problem. I think everyone realizes that. That is so, to answer Pontus Andersson's question. This is a major social problem. The development that we have seen in recent years and which unfortunately continued in both January and February is a problem that we must continue to work very actively against. At the same time, you have to understand that this is not a sprint race. It's marathon running. These are gang-criminal structures that have grown trapped in Sweden for a very long time – 25 to 30 years. It takes time to pick them up. How do you do that? Yes, repressive measures are being taken and the most active individuals are being caged in. We've done that. We've done over 60 penitentiaries and nuances during my time as Minister of Justice. It has also had an effect. In 2020, Swedish courts sentenced over 11,500 prison years in total. That is an increase of 40% in three years. We have all-time-high in terms of the number of detainees – over 7,000 in custody. We are also expanding prisons and detention centres to accommodate those individuals who previously ran around with guns in the city. They are now in jail or in prison. We have made a big effort on the police that you can now see the effects of. We have all-time-high in terms of the number of cops. In January, nearly 600 police officers were released. A little later this spring, there will be another 800 police officers. The expansion that we are now implementing is, I would say, the strongest expansion of any authority that can be seen at all during the post-war period. We make sure that the police grow by 30 percent from 2016 to 2024. We are pursuing this expansion now. You can also look at the development of grants for the police in 2015 to 2025. In 2015, the police had a little over 20 billion at their disposal. By 2025 they will have almost 40 billion. We're almost doubling the police appropriations over the past ten or eleven years. There is what I know no other business that has received so much resources, so many new tools and so much more to work with that the police have received during these years. And we will continue to do so, because, as I said, this is a major social problem. As far as the current situation is concerned, the shootings have been at a high level. However, it differs across the country. The shootings in Malmö have decreased by two thirds since 2017. That is a good thing, but the problem remains mainly in the Stockholm area. Police have reinforced this area since the turn of the year with 180 police officers from the rest of the country. It has mobilized here to face the violence seen in the Stockholm region. It's extremely important. It also reinforces the possibility of recruiting police officers to the Stockholm region, where they need to be considerably more. Having said that, don't forget that in addition to the repressive elements, you also have to work preventively with school, social services and fritis. Unfortunately, the right-wing is completely empty-handed in its policy.
i-CXuY8pD9nhrtEWG8J3qfrn	Madam President, I would like I note that Morgan Johansson is satisfied. He also says this isn't a sprint race. If it was a sprint race, Morgan Johansson has put the starting blocks in the wrong direction and runs clockwise. I would not have been satisfied, although some efforts have been good. At the same time, he believes that more needs to be done, and I appreciate that. Furthermore, I note that the Government is talking about preventive measures. These are undoubtedly needed. No one has anything against preventive measures, but I believe that the most important measure to prevent crime is longer punishment. It is that dangerous people are kept locked up for a long time and if possible away from Sweden. In this area, the government has not done enough. Morgan Johansson is happy to talk in interviews and debates about overcrowded prisons and detention. It is true that we have a shortage of space. But this is also due to the fact that the current and previous governments have not done enough. The fact that prisons are full is something of an understatement of the preventive work, for which the Social Democratic Government is also largely responsible, in order to prevent crime from occurring at all. Morgan Johansson is right in one thing: Longer punishments and more crimes lead to lack of space. But above all, during the reign of the State Council, the population has increased by hundreds of thousands of people. That this affects how many people need to be in prison is quite obvious. There the government has been too slow. In the last parliamentary term alone, the government has said no to a number of our proposals which really would have made a difference. The government has opposed the criminalisation of gang participation, which would have allowed a great deal more people to judge and lock up than today. The government chose to include only certain crimes for legal offenders when the youth discount changed. There are examples of 17-year-olds who have been convicted of murder but only received juvenile care for a number of years. This will continue to be the case if the Social Democrats remain in power. The government continues to say no to anonymous witnesses despite the fact that it is a measure that both the police and the prosecutor have been in favour of and that would definitely make more people dare to testify. There are more examples. The problem with the government's policy to reduce shootings is that the government is changing the margin. There is a need for serious penalties and new measures to remedy the situation that has arisen, and the government is not doing enough here. Does Morgan Johansson not also think that harder and longer punishment is a good preventive measure?
i-EXHjMEb1ePQ4Qrt8y1cXG3	Madam President, I would like Sweden stands out. We have heard that Morgan Johansson has presented an incredible number of packages and reforms such as punitive measures, but it is from a low level. I believe that the Social Democrats are thinking about why developments, even though Morgan Johansson is putting forward measures and reform on reform, continue to go the wrong way. I believe that the Social Democrats at the Government Office are thinking about this. Then let me tell you what the problem is. Sweden is a society built on trust between people, where society and its institutions will function by signing on their honour. When we get in people who via exclusion areas because of a poor school and unemployment and because they do not know the Swedish language instead seek to other, parallel structures in society, the institutions and the trust that Sweden is based on are challenged. That is why the punitive measures put forward by Morgan Johansson are not enough. They are based on a level that is not enough from the outset to meet the problems we see. The view on how to combat this structure, organised crime by gang criminals, must change. It is in the light of this change work that the Moderates are proposing to criminalise gang participation and the reversal of the burden of proof in the confiscation of gang criminals. And if that's what's gonna happen, there's gonna be a scream. But it is about that we in Swedish politics and in Sweden are not equipped to deal with the problems we need to tackle. But this is what the Moderates are doing right now. Does Morgan Johansson want to be part of that work or not?
i-JZfzd9kemr5GSKkTHxPP1j	Madam President, I would like I'm not just in-- I'm in charge of that work. I am the one who makes these proposals, one by one. It is also I who make sure to finance them, one by one. One problem that the Moderates have is that you never finance all the punitive measures that you want through the Committee on Justice and the Parliament, but we must do so afterwards. You take a run bill every time you make an announcement about penalties, and we're supposed to finance it. But we do. As I said, we have made sure to increase the resources of both the Prison Service, the prosecutors and the police more than any other government has done. We have also put forward proposals on penalties and developed the tools more than any other government has done. But let's still be a little nuanced. It is very easy to do as Pontus Andersson and Louise Meijer do here – just blackwash the situation. What has happened in recent years is that we have had a rise in deadly violence through shootings. But the total lethal violence in Sweden has decreased over time. The truth is that the risk of being killed in Sweden was greater 30 years ago than it is today. When I graduated from school in 1989/ 90, the risk of being killed in Sweden was higher than it is today. Mortal violence has declined overall, but we have seen a change precisely in the area of gang-related deadly violence and in the area of shootings. Then we will have to put in place measures specifically against this. Other types of crime, for example, are at their lowest level since 1975. Youth violence in general has also decreased over the last ten years, partly as a result of a reduction in intoxication drinking. All of this must also be taken into account when discussing criminal policy developments. The problem is the gang structures that have taken root in Sweden – gangs that also have access to weapons and are very close to violence. That is where we need to impose penalties, as we have done. Pontus Andersson asks me if I think longer sentences are a preventive measure. Yes, of course I do. You lock up the individuals who commit the most crimes. They also work with them in the Prison Service, and at best they come out rehabilitated in such a way that they can adapt in society again. Of course it is. But what the right is constantly missing is that this is not the only preventive measure. When I talk to policemen in the affected areas, they almost always say three things. They say: Yes, we need to be more cops. That's what we deliver. Then they say: Yes, we need better tools. It's about more cameras, higher penalties, better arrest possibilities – all of this. That's what we're delivering. But they also always say one more thing: Keep in mind that it's not just about us, about the police. For this to work, schools must also function, leisure activities and labour market opportunities must be good and social services must be strong. This I never hear of the right at all. I also know that as soon as you have the opportunity to make a budget together, you are cutting back on such measures. Every time you get the opportunity to make a budget, you cancel out the special resources for school, social services and leisure activities, both in the municipalities and here in Parliament. You have now written a list to the Committee on Justice; that is good. You're breaking open doors because we're already working on this. It is good to see that you are in the main on the initiatives that we are taking. But the next time you write a list, also look at what the police say about the preventive measures. They don't just want harsher punishment. They also want major investments in social services, schools and leisure activities. Make some impressions of the police as well as those parts next time.
i-KfbHN623gcG8aGBAARd6Hn	Madam President, I would like Not surprisingly, I do not share Morgan Johansson's view. He thinks I'm blacking out the situation, but during his time as Minister of Justice, the shootings have increased by 147%. Before the Minister of Justice's time in power, the number of shootings was about 10 a year. But from 2014 they have increased from 19, which was then the highest figure in modern times, to 47 in 2021. Madam President, I would like Only since 2019 have more than 100 people been shot to death in Sweden. For me, and certainly for many others who are watching this debate, it is strange to see how the Minister of Justice actually seems to be quite pleased with what he is doing and about the efforts that the government has made. But statistics speak clearly. There were 147 percent more shootings in 2021 than in Morgan Johansson's first year in power. When does the Minister see his responsibility in this? The government says no to the criminalisation of participation in criminal gangs, to anonymous witnesses, to completely abolish the youth discount, to greatly increased penalties and so on. As long as the government and the Government do not realise that it is not doing enough, I am sure that this situation will not be resolved. If the shootings continue at the same rate as for the rest of the year, the number of deaths in shootings in Sweden will exceed the number of gloomy in 2020 and 2021. The government cannot be satisfied with what it looks like.
i-LDE6WZM7qPht6zQadZbh46	Madam President, I would like Pontus Andersson tries to paste on me the label that I would be satisfied. No, I didn't say I was. Of course I'm not happy. You cannot do that until you see that the measures you are taking also have an effect. That, of course, is the case. But I also point out that this is not a sprinter race but a marathon race. This is about a structure that has been stuck in Sweden for a very long time. Then we also make up for a lot that has not been done in previous terms of office. Let's do that now. Police development is one such thing, where we are now expanding very strongly. Anstaltes and jails are another such thing. That's where we rearrange and build new ones. Then there are further measures ahead of us that we will go to Parliament with. Yesterday there were no fewer than twelve proposals on the government's table, and they will now go to Parliament. Among other things, it is a question of increased penalties for violations of the knife law, of crown witnesses, of increased penalties for abuse of justice and of increased penalties for perjury. We also announced a special investigation into a ban on the stay of gang criminals in specific places, a legislation that sometimes exists elsewhere in Denmark and which seems to work well. We presented this yesterday. A little later in the spring, the results of the major gang investigation will be further tightened up for gang-related crimes, increased possibilities for arrest, punitive measures for drug transfers and recruitment of young people. A little later this year, there will also be the special package dealing with spending money, i.e. increased chances of forfeiting criminal profits. These are the three big things, and then many more smaller parts will also go to the Riksdag. We are working on this and ensuring that the authorities are able to combat this type of crime.
i-APjwhqqQz8rT5VAE58vSEi	Madam President, I would like Katja Nyberg has asked me if I agree that threats and harassment against the country's police officers are greatly hindering effective law enforcement and if so, whether I intend to take any further steps to remedy this. She has also asked me whether I will work to ensure that the health of employees is not adversely affected by threats and harassment and whether I intend to take steps to ensure that the recruitment of police officers is not made more difficult by job insecurity. Finally, she has asked me whether I intend to work towards the introduction of certain constitutional changes, such as increased criminalisation of attacks and increased confidentiality of personal data, which, in her opinion, is necessary to prevent violence, threats and harassment against police officers and other civil servants. Let me begin by stating that it is totally unacceptable for police and other civil servants to be subjected to violence, threats and harassment. These actions can have a significant impact on the victim and are, by extension, also an attack on the public sector. It is very serious if an official is prevented from doing his job and, in the longer term, if the existence of harassment, for example, leads to a decrease in interest in seeking or remaining in socially important occupations. A strong and effective protection of police and other civil servants is therefore an important issue for the government, which has, among other things, taken a series of constitutional measures to improve the situation of officials. Criminal protection has been reinforced by the introduction of the new offence of sabotage against bluelight activities and by the strengthening of the scale of penalties for serious violence or threats to officials. Police officers have also been given better opportunities to carry out protective searches in interrogation situations in the light of the increased threat. Moreover, civil servants are no longer required to disclose their personal identity numbers or full names on their service cards. As late as February this year, a Council of Law referral was also decided with proposals to extend the right to compensation for violations of police and other professions with special preparedness. Many measures are also taken at the level of the authorities. On behalf of the Government, the Police Authority has intensified its work environment management. After consultation with the workers' organisations, it has implemented physical protection measures including bulletproof glass in receptions, body-borne cameras, reinforced lighting and fences in personnel parking. The period 2018 – 2020 provided the Police Authority with SEK 50 million per year for these measures. The Head of the Swedish Police has also commissioned the Office's security department to strengthen the protection of employees. Another measure at the level of the authorities is the development of the draft constitutional changes mentioned by Katja Nyberg in the interpellation. The proposals were submitted by a project within the Swedish Police Authority that ended in April 2019. As the proposals relate to constitutional changes, the project proposed that the Police Authority should submit a request to the Government for an investigation to review the issues. After further work, the Police Authority has subsequently, in June 2021, submitted a request to the Government and requested constitutional changes that, among other things, reduce the exposure of police employees' names in various documents, strengthen the confidentiality of their private contact details and increase the criminalisation of acts that violate the employees' personal peace. The government is continuing to work on these proposals. Finally, I must object to Katja Nyberg's claim that in response to a previous question on the criminalisation of abusive language against police officers, I would have spoken out on the criminalisation of subtle threats. Neither her question nor my answer was about such threats, as anyone who goes back and reads the documents will see.
i-W9FChVGegw8eA1oCSNGk7h	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Morgan Johansson, for your answer! The penal provisions mentioned by Morgan Johansson are already in place and relate to the obstruction of police officers in the performance of their duties. Take, for example, sabotage of blue light operations. It is based on police entering a vulnerable area and being exposed to stoning or similar. When that happens, of course, it is good that we have this legislation in place. But that is not what my question is about. My question is about the need to criminalise threats, often subtle threats, and harassment aimed at the personal sphere of police workers. The purpose of these threats is to influence the police not to perform their duties in a certain way. When criminals travel by car outside the home of individual police officers or say, what a nice dress your daughter wore in kindergarten yesterday, and this is not covered by threats to officials or blue light sabotage, the legislation needs to be tightened up. This is not a marginal problem. Sixty-eight percent of the police and nearly 100 percent of the police in vulnerable areas say that during a 12-month period they have been subjected to an impact crime. This ultimately leads to self-censorship, which means that police officers do not dare to carry out their duties because of fear that they or someone in their families will be subjected to reprisals. This type of self-censorship has increased significantly among police officers in external service between 2018 and 2021. In the case of serious violence against officials, the minimum sentence has been raised to prison for one year and the minimum sentence for aggravated assault has been raised to one and a half years. I wonder how it is that the penalty for gross violence against civil servants is lower than that for aggravated assault. At least the minimum penalty should be on the same level, right? Morgan Johansson mentions the violation compensation. It is true that police officers will have an extended right to compensation for violations. However, the foundation is still that police officers should be able to withstand more. The police are a profession that is trained and prepared for situations where they can meet with violence. But there is no part in police training where you are trained to tolerate offensive treatment. When self-protection is not sufficient, for example when a policeman receives a spittoon or a scratch on the face, the right to compensation for violations is treated as equivalent to the right of other citizens to compensation for violations. The compensation is, of course, for situations where the guard is not enough, and it will cover the pain that has arisen, just like any other citizen. Does Morgan Johansson think it should be allowed to call a cop who does his job for example a cop pussy or a cop whore? Today, such things are not viewed as a violation, but are usually explained in terms of the heat of the moment and the one against which they intervened. The police authorities have conducted in-depth interviews with police officers there have revealed that those who are regularly the subject of violations are becoming more and more sensitive to, for example, threats and other offensive behaviours. The threshold for being able to cope with violence and threats and be treated abusively day after day is worn down. For every violation you become more intolerant, simply. This is a crucial reason why many police officers are unable to continue working in external service, but instead go to internal service, where violations are less frequent. I find it difficult to understand the reasoning that a police officer is not considered to be seriously violated because it should count on offensive acts in its work. There will be consequences of such reasoning: if respect for police officers is reduced, it will be even more common for offensive attacks to be directed at police officers, and the less room for police officers to receive compensation for violations. This does not make the employer look like someone you want to apply to. Nor does it contribute to keeping police officers and so on. Therefore, I wonder about this amendment of the law, which is relatively simple. Would Morgan Johansson consider changing the principles of damages law by removing the part that makes a difference between police officers and other citizens?
i-51coUbKJB3J25CCAnbDuGg	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to point out that, in recent years, we have implemented a large number of measures to ensure that the risks of violations, violence and threats to officials are reduced. This is, of course, totally unacceptable – it should not happen. The state must have a firm opinion on this, and we must have the right criminal law to get to grips with it. We have introduced a new violation of the law, which Katja Nyberg mentions, blue light abotage. We did that a few years ago. We tightened the penalty for gross violence and threats to officials. So did we a few years ago. We have introduced this with the fact that you no longer need to have full names and social security numbers on your service cards. We are on our way when it comes to increasing the right to compensation for violations of police force. That investigation is out for a referral. We will see where we end up, as it were, on that issue. However, we raised this issue precisely because we wanted to extend the possibilities of compensation for violations of police officers. Then we work with the request that the Police Authority has given to the government, which includes exposure of police employees' names in various documents. It's about the confidentiality of private contact information. It is also a question of criminalising acts which, as it were, violate the personal peace of employees. The police department has come in with such a request. That's what we're working on. We will have to come back to that. I feel that we need to do more on these issues, and I hope to be able to tell you shortly what direction we are going to take in that work. That's where we keep working. With all that said, it must be admitted, however, that although we are screwing a little more into some legislation and in criminal law, it is, in essence, often quite different things that are crucial for this. I think the most important thing-- that's what a lot of cops themselves bring up-- is that there's got to be more cops. When you are out confronting the criminal gangs, you simply have to be so many that you can handle that task without being put at a disadvantage. It's just about more cops, more cops on the outside. As a result of the government's efforts to expand police training – we started two new training courses, one in Borås and one in Malmö – we are now seeing how the number of police officers is increasing. We are now on the all-time high with regard to the number of police officers. Just a few months ago, barely 600 policemen went into business. In a few months, just before the summer, there will be an additional 800 police officers. We will increase not only the number of police officers, but also the number of police per inhabitant in Sweden. This year it will be at the highest level at least for at least 15 years. So it is not only the number of policemen that is increasing, but also the number of police per inhabitant that is now increasing again. I think that's very important. I also think it is important to expand this with surveillance cameras, so that we can see what has happened. It's about the fixed cameras, but maybe above all about the body-carrying cameras. All officers on the outside shall have body-borne cameras. I think it helps to reduce the risk of being attacked in sharp positions because you know that everything is recorded. There will be evidence in the end when one should then prosecute a person for this. We also make a very big technology effort on, among other things, body cameras. Then I am pleased that the number of people who want to become police officers continues to increase and that staff turnover, the number who leaves the police, actually continues to decrease – it is now at a lower level than before.
i-YPXrp9uZLqou7GxNZ4UjMD	Madam President, I would like Now Morgan Johansson isn't talking about what I'm talking about. I'm talking about the personal subtle verbal threats that go through the uniform and are directed at the police. I'm not talking about violence or threats to officials and so on. It's already criminalized. Then one might ask oneself about gross violence and threats to officials why they raised that part and not the normal level, but we can take that another time. In any case, this applies to the personal subtle threats. The police department did a survey. It shows that the tendency of police officers to report crimes of influence to which they have been subjected is remarkably low. Sixty-six per cent replied that they never report any impact crimes to which they are exposed, and only 15 per cent reported any impact crimes. The reasons given were, inter alia, that the notification is not expected to lead anywhere. The fact that police officers do not perceive the current legislation as adequate protection is remarkable. This is evident in the survey carried out by the Police Authority. Self-censorship is another problem. There is a large increase between 2018 and 2021. It can be seen that among those working as external officers, it has increased from 11 to 25 percent. Among those working in intervention operations, it has increased from 14 to 24 percent, and among district police officers it has increased from 18 to 24 percent. This was due to concerns about the exposure to violence or threats, understaffing in intervention situations and the risk of escalation of intervention. Morgan Johansson mentions that there must be enough police when you work. Yeah, and that's the problem. This is ultimately counterproductive. If police officers do not dare intervene, it signals that you cannot apply to the police because it is a dangerous working environment. Then there aren't enough cops either. It is therefore extremely important to get to grips with this problem. It is about being able to recruit new police officers and ensuring that police officers have a safe working environment. If there is a normalisation of threats and harassment, it is worrying both with regard to the working environment and from a prosecution perspective. As it is now, it is an alarming level. You have to start looking at this in order to make a difference. This is very worrying, because in the long term it may also risk becoming a systemic threat to the rule of law. The police exist for the citizens and must uphold the rule of law. Special treatment signals to police officers, criminals and the public that it is acceptable to offend police officers and that the conditions of employment of police officers entail an obligation to accept offensive acts. That must not be the case. Morgan Johansson mentions that we've never had so many cops before. Yes, it is very possible that this is the case with the numerary, but it is not enough. Then the working environment is an important thing. Policemen are afraid to perform certain tasks, and they end up in self-censorship. The question is again: could Morgan Johansson consider making the simple change that I mentioned earlier in order to make it equivalent to what applies to the other citizens?
i-HfdbctroUgKXbgwTYPfw3c	Madam President, I would like The review of the violation compensation is on the table, so to speak, so we're working on it. Once the referrals have arrived, we will see where we land. However, the basic proposal provides for an increased possibility of obtaining compensation for violations as a police officer. Then I said in the interpellation answer that the police have also made a request about some other issues that you want the government to look at. This applies, inter alia, to the exposure of names in public documents. It is about the confidentiality of private data, how it is processed. But it's also about the criminalisation of acts that violate the personal peace of employees – that's how you put it. We are working on that request, and we will come back to how to proceed in that part. But I also see that there may be a need to do more, but we are not quite done with that work yet. Then I would like to point out something. Sometimes you try to give a picture of people running from the police, that people don't want to work as cops or that people don't want to go to the police. But it's a completely wrong picture. Rather, it is exactly the opposite. The police have a very low staff turnover. I would say that it is probably the lowest in the state sector or among the lowest in the state sector. The staff turnover is 3% with the police. In the central government sector as a whole, it is 10 per cent. If you count retirements off, the staff turnover in the police force is 11⁄2 percent. So it cannot be said that policemen leave the profession because they do not want to remain as police officers. It's the other way around. It's a very low turnover when it comes to police officers. I can't interpret it as anything but that whoever's trained as a police officer wants to be a police officer and work as a police officer. Of course, we are very happy about that. It may also be that the issue of wages has been recorded. Police salaries have increased quite sharply in recent years. This is about nearly SEK 6 000 a month since 2015. Police officers in external service have had a major impact, and that, of course, may also have played a role. We also see that more and more people are joining the police profession. We have record numbers when it comes to applications – 10 000 – 15 000 each time we announce a new training course to the perhaps 1 000 places available at that time. So there are many, many more who want to be police now than before. I am also very pleased that more and more people are actually returning to the police. Police officers who have previously left the force and may have been out in the private sector now see that things are happening in the police. There are much more resources and tools, there is much more pressure, not least from policy and also much more support from policy than in the past. Then you feel that you want to participate and develop this further. If you're a cop at the bottom, you want to work as a cop, and then you go back to the police profession. 25% of those who have left the police since 2015 have been reinstated to the police, and that is a very good result. We will continue with this work, because our goal is to expand the number of police officers in a way that I would say no other government authority has been subject to, at least in the post-war period. We are well on our way to this.
i-5hHqL6WBNmshU1UroqJsrM	Madam President, I would like Now Morgan Johansson says once again that we have never had so many police officers and that so many police officers are looking for them. Then I would like to fall back a little on this and say that in fact 54% of the police say that the main reason to remain in the profession is salary, while 36% of the police say that they are actively doing something to stop. So it's not as good as Morgan Johansson trying to make it sound. In addition, I would like to return to the problem of self-censorship and that police officers do not report impact crimes. Sixty-six per cent responds that they never report an impact breach, because they believe that it does not lead to anything. Self-censorship has increased, and police officers avoid performing certain tasks. They may not enter vulnerable areas or do not intervene because they are understaffed or afraid of reprisals, subtle threats, and so on. Morgan Johansson says there's going to be an extension of the violation compensation, and that's great. But I think it should be equivalent to the other citizens, and it is not. It is still believed that police officers should tolerate a little more. This is what is dangerous, because it is about their working environment. What kind of signals does it send out? Yes, it sends the signal to policemen, criminals and the public that it is okay to violate police officers. This is dangerous because it attacks not only the individual police but also the rule of law. I therefore once again wonder whether Morgan Johansson can answer my question about the relatively simple amendment of the law. Would it be possible to change the principles of damages law by removing the part that makes a difference between police officers and other citizens?
i-JuVwnJVxLjwpccJKhoWGPU	Madam President, I would like With regard to the question of compensation for violations, we have tabled a Council of Law referral, which extends the possibility of obtaining compensation for violations in line with the proposal that the investigation made. I think that's good. A little later in the spring we will present a proposal. As far as the number of police officers and the situation are concerned, everyone knows that we have all-time-high now in terms of the number of police officers, and more will gradually enter the police force in the coming years. The average salary for a policeman is now 38,500 kroner a month. This is an increase of 6,000 SEK per month since 2015. The basic agreement between the Police Association and the Police Authority signed in 2018 was, I believe, one of the very best in the labour market. This has not only meant that the average wage has increased, but also that police officers in external service and those working on awkward working hours have been given an even greater boost. I think that has been necessary. There is also special work going on to look at salary issues in relation to the Stockholm police. We have had problems recruiting police officers to Stockholm, and we need to do that now that we see that the shootings have increased and there are problems with the violence here. As I said, the request from the Police Authority, which is about reducing vulnerability and to a certain extent also increasing criminalisation, we are working with, and we will shortly be returning with information on how to proceed. For me, it is an important issue to continue working on ensuring and securing the police's working environment.
i-E5W5DXzqH5fX3PGVEJrsAE	Madam President, I would like Kjell Jansson has asked me, on the one hand, whether I intend to make any adjustments to the energy tax or the VAT on electricity in order to reduce electricity prices and, on the other hand, whether I intend to take any other measures to reduce the electricity price in the longer term. Electricity prices have risen recently, and I share the concerns expressed by Kjell Jansson. The high electricity prices have been caused by several factors, particularly the very high energy prices on the continent. Continental Europe's energy prices have risen sharply since Russia limited its supply of natural gas. Price increases affect Sweden, as we are part of the EU's internal market. Of course, this affects many Swedish households and companies. Therefore, the government is actively working with many aspects of the Swedish energy supply. Several measures have been presented, both in the form of temporary support to respond to the strong price increases and measures to create long-term conditions both for stable prices and for a strengthened energy supply. On 24 February, Parliament approved the supplementary amending budget proposed by the Council, which allocates more than SEK 7 billion to electricity price compensation for households with high electricity consumption. On Monday 14 March, I presented the government's package of measures to meet the high prices of electricity and fuel that we are now seeing as a result of the war in Ukraine. Part of the package is a proposal for electricity price compensation to be extended for another month to apply also in March in southern and central Sweden. In addition, it is proposed, among other things, that the housing allowance for families with children be temporarily increased. On 3 February, the Government decided on a national electrification strategy and through this electrification strategy takes a holistic approach to the conditions in the energy sector. Furthermore, the Government takes several measures to enable Swedish companies to have reasonable electricity prices and the best possible conditions to operate in a competitive market. Among other things, investments in the transmission network are increasing, and the annual rate of expansion planned by the Swedish power network over the next 20 years is the highest in 40 years. The Government has also made proposals to shorten lead times and make it easier to expand the Swedish electricity network. In addition, the Government has commissioned Swedish power networks to share more closely and in more detail information on how trade capacity can be increased in the near future between bidding zones and to expand the offshore transmission network to facilitate investments in offshore energy production. The government is following developments closely. Sweden's economy is strong. At the same time, we are in a situation where it is important that any measures do not in themselves push prices up further.
i-GhDM8QLpLBNNCCxZFU1rdC	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Finance, for your answer. We are in an energy crisis right now, but in the past we had the world's safest nuclear power. Asea Atom, headed by the great industrial leader Nicolin Nicolin, built up the world's safest and most reliable nuclear power. We were proud of that in Sweden. This was done by the Social Democrats, together with the Moderates, to ensure that the basic industry and our large export industry were properly energized. Now the government has decommissioned six nuclear power plants – all in southern Sweden. It has created the energy crisis, and the government blames Putin. The crisis is affecting, but he is not the crucial problem. The basic problem is that there is too little nuclear power that gives energy all this year's hours, not just 60% of this year's hours. Karlshamnsverket now runs full of 140 cubic metres of oil per hour, that is, 140 000 litres of oil per hour. How many trucks are there going to be? If I count right, there'll be 12 trucks an hour with oil. In addition, we buy lignite from both Germany and Poland. Madam President, I would like This is the government's environmental policy. The government's talking about green transition. I'd like to say it's brown conversion. This has caused us to have a shortage of electricity at times, especially in winter. And it has driven up energy prices radically. In southern Sweden there have been price levels of 8.50 SEK per kilowatt hour, which is extremely high considering that the price last winter was around 40 or 50 öre. Many households are hard hit by this, especially families with children. Then we should know that 60% of the total electricity price is energy tax and VAT. The electricity is double-taxed. It is both tax and VAT on tax. It is also remarkable. The tax is now so high that the government wants to provide subsidies to households in order to afford to pay the tax. Do you understand? It's an element 22 we're living with. I understand that this is, of course, an emergency measure, but it is quite remarkable. In addition, network charges, which were introduced a few years ago, are constantly rising. The energy companies refer network charges to the lack of maintenance on the networks. That is quite correct. But what has been done before? For example, state Vattenfall has invested in coal power in Germany instead of renovating the electricity grids and maintaining maintenance. Some have also been buried. As soon as it blows more than 20 seconds, there will be power outages in the countryside. Many household homes have electricity bills of 6 000 – 7 000 SEK a month. They had earlier bills of about 2,000. It's a huge increase, and it's hard on the family's finances. I might think that consideration should be given to removing the energy tax and keeping the VAT on the price of electricity. VAT is less harmful. Companies pull it off, and even agriculture lifts it away. So that would mean a radical reduction in the price of electricity – perhaps a halving.
i-X9TEP3qrZJ3UeNiRNiqVRM	Madam President, I would like I live in southern Sweden, and I represent a constituency that shows much of what is fantastic about Sweden. We have a lovely coastline, beautiful landscapes and a little higher temperature than in the rest of the country. In southern Skåne there are also many who do the right thing. They get up in the morning, leave the children in preschool, take the car to work, work, work, work, go home, shop, clean – and do this every working day. My question to the Minister is: What is the Social Democratic Government doing for the scenes? Sweden is not equipped to face crises. There is a high level of unemployment in Sweden, low self-sufficiency, under-funded defence, runaway electricity prices and runaway fuel prices. This is to be solved in one of the countries where you pay the highest tax in the world. It will be resolved by introducing even more taxes to finance things that are central government's core business. The Social Democrats claim that it is the Ukraine War, Russia's invasion of Ukraine, which has led to the situation we find ourselves in, where ordinary people who work can barely afford to take the car to work, can hardly afford to drive their children to school or can barely afford to pay the electricity bill when it comes. But the fact is that even before the war in Ukraine, Sweden had the world's highest fuel prices, and the price of electricity ran wild. Researchers have calculated this and have shown that the price of electricity could have been 40% lower in southern Sweden if it were not because Ringhals 1 and 2 were closed. So it is the government that is responsible for the fact that the situation is as bad as it is. Of course, it has become worse due to Russia's invasion, but that's not only why shows have stomach pain when they're going up in the morning, drive to work, drive children to preschool and pay their electricity bills. I have another question for Mikael Damberg. In addition to ensuring that the actors can pay their taxes through subsidies, I wonder what is really the long-term plan and the long-term measures to reduce the price of electricity for the shows.
i-Gd1fPenzw2NsK84VKw5Gcc	Madam President, I would like It is absolutely true that we have high energy prices in Sweden today. They've grown dramatically over the past year. Last year Sweden had among Europe's lowest energy prices. And that's what we've gotten used to. Sweden has a stable energy system over time, and we have both nuclear power, hydropower, an increasing share of renewable energy, not least wind power, which has been added in recent years. Sweden has become an increasingly large exporter of electricity to neighbouring countries because Sweden has such a strong energy system. When Russia started to reduce gas supplies to Europe last winter, natural gas prices rose in Europe, and it also infected itself with price developments in Sweden. We saw that last winter. At that time, the government came forward with a comprehensive electricity price compensation. Finally, the Riksdag chose to support the compensation for the increased costs as it was the most effective way to get money for households in a short time. I am pleased that Parliament still let through the compensation and did not get caught up in a strange discussion about alternatives that could not be implemented. When it comes to nuclear energy, I still have to correct Kjell Jansson. The government has not decided to shut down nuclear power plants. Nuclear power is an important part of Swedish energy production and will be so for a long time to come. However, the government has decided that we should not subsidise nuclear power. It was part of the energy agreement that the Social Democrats concluded with, among other things, the Moderates not long ago. After that energy agreement, the Moderates beat their chests to sharing images online and said they had saved nuclear power in Sweden. On the other hand, there are energy companies that have considered that it is not profitable to continue to renovate nuclear energy because it costs a lot of money to meet safety requirements. The older the nuclear power plants, the higher the cost of maintenance. Then it won't be profitable anymore. These decisions are made on a market-based basis. Let's switch to the future. That is by far the most important question. How do we ensure that Sweden continues to have competitive electricity prices and that the high levels are lowered? A great deal of effort is needed here and now, not least on the investment side. This is why Swedish power networks triple the investments in the transmission network in order to transfer energy more efficiently, not least to southern Sweden. There are still much lower prices in northern Sweden where much of the energy production in Sweden takes place. The big question is that we need to add more energy to the system. We need to build more power generation in Sweden. Then I would like to say that, given the prices that exist, we need to build more not least wind power in the short term, because that is what can put pressure on the price. This applies not least to offshore wind power, Kjell Jansson. If the Stockholm region does not also assume its responsibility for building more offshore wind power, prices will increase and the industry will not be able to invest. This is also the answer not least in southern Sweden: We need much more self-production in southern Sweden, and the most efficient and quickest way to create it is to expand wind power – not least at sea.
i-17ZNrNKdVTjkYPoVSu7S5Y	Madam President, I would like We fully agree that we need to expand energy production – absolutely. But it's not sea-wind power we need. First of all, there are no transmission lines out there. That cost is completely darkened, but it will have to be spent on some 5,000 more per household on network charges to build these lines. What we need is a new work in Forsmark. It is planned for five nuclear power plants in Forsmark, and three are built. There is room for two more, and one more would be enough to arrange the electricity supply to the Stockholm region and Mälardalen. It would power all the hours of the year. Wind power gives power 60 percent of this year's hours. If it blows too much – I think the limit goes at 18 seconds – you have to turn them off, and if it blows too little it gives nothing. In the last two weeks there have been almost no wind out in the archipelago. It's barely blown anything. So wind power is dysfunctional. It is toy energy based solely on subsidies. It is never possible to build wind power and achieve profitability; it has never made any sense. The government has pumped 80 billion into this, but it's completely dysfunctional. It is said that nuclear power does not go together, but it is, of course, distorted competition. It's crazy, this. Spend money building nuclear power instead of high-speed trains! Because that's the worst thing you can do. One should spend 600 billion on building high-speed trains to make it 20 minutes faster to travel from Stockholm to Gothenburg. Anyone can figure out it's stupid. Madam President, I would like The government has thus given instructions to the Swedish Energy Agency to build offshore wind power on the coast. It will have a powerful impact on the archipelago environment, because it is not that these works will not be visible, as it is said – they are as high as the Eiffel Tower, that is, 330 metres. Of course they will be seen a long way, because so round is not the earth even if you can believe it. This is done instead of giving directives to expand nuclear power with a work in Forsmark and to upgrade Ringhals 1 and 2, so that there will be reasonable electricity prices down in southern Sweden. In Täby, Ica has long planned to build a new Ica Maxi. For five years this has had to wait, because Vattenfall says that it is not possible to guarantee electricity supply. We cannot guarantee electricity supply, they say – in the 2020s. I think it is quite serious that electricity supply cannot be guaranteed in Sweden today, because you are not able to invest. It does not have the ability and the power of political action to do so. The increase in network charges for the financing of new wind power will make the costs run out for households. There is no funding for this. It takes three rough cables to bring the ocean wind to shore. It's gonna get messy. There's going to be groundbreaking and stuff, which I know there's going to be resistance to. There is great resistance to this in the archipelago, I can say. How's the municipal veto going? It's also under investigation. The government says it wants to review this. Should the power of municipalities to decide on land use be removed, or should it be transferred to the county administrative boards? That's my question.
i-JPKLvqQA9X4yDfgNWGzpgm	Madam President, I would like The Social Democrats are welcome to explain to me how to construct a situation where you need to pay subsidies to the Swedish people so that the Swedish people in turn can pay the tax. The Social Democrats are welcome to tell me how to make it as difficult as possible for people who work by raising the taxes that are already the world's highest. However, the Social Democrats do not have to tell me as moderate what market foundations mean. Surely it can't be market foundations when the Social Democrats have actively subsidised wind power with several billion SEK while saying that in 2040 there should be no nuclear power left in Sweden. Surely that cannot be said to be a market situation and a situation in which nuclear power plays on the same terms as wind power. I think we should remove all political slogans and catchy lines and have an honest debate on energy policy. If you drive energy policy towards having a system that only contains renewable power in 2040, it will lead to rationing because you cannot store electricity. Wind power does not produce electricity when it does not blow, and the sun does not produce electricity when the sun does not shine. This means that the electricity that will be available will need to be distributed in different ways to consumers, which will lead to rationing. I think we should have an honest debate about this with the Swedish people: do you want a full and constant energy supply, as at present, with nuclear power as a base power – or do you want electricity rationing because you would rather have only renewable electricity in the energy system? That question should be answered by Mikael Damberg.
i-Co3VbZYfiXjxU3NLWNYUZZ	Madam President, I would like We can have an honest debate. We had an energy agreement with the Moderates where we fully agreed on the terms of wind power and nuclear power and on providing long-term ground rules. Why did you in the Moderates agree to the Energy Agreement, Louise Meijer and Kjell Jansson? It was this energy agreement that made investments in new production of energy explode in Sweden. It was only a few years ago. Then you didn't say there was a lot of subsidies to wind power. Then you said you'd saved Swedish nuclear power. I'm in favour of Swedish nuclear power. I don't have a problem with it. There is no stopping date for Swedish nuclear power, and you can build new nuclear power plants in Sweden. There are even sites where it is perfectly possible to build nuclear power and where the permits are. The problem is that it is not very profitable. Should we wait 15, 20 or 25 years for new energy in Sweden, Kjell Jansson? We need energy now. We need more energy to push prices. We need more energy so that the Ica dealer does not have to wait 15 to 20 years to build his store. Maybe Anna Jerlmyr König is a familiar person. She is a bourgeois council in Stockholm and leads the City of Stockholm for the Moderates. When I ask her, she says: I support offshore wind power, because Stockholm needs it. We need more sun, we need nuclear power and we also need offshore wind. It is the future, and we must affirm it. We can't back down into the future. This may be some form of internally moderate seminar, but we cannot turn down the kind of extra investment in more energy that we need in Sweden. In fact, only the applications for southern Sweden could duplicate electricity production in Sweden. Everything will not be approved – I understand that too – but there are a huge number of applications. However, it is based on the fact that we in Sweden are also able to say that we need more energy production in the country. Otherwise prices will increase and industry will turn down new investments. I sat with some of the biggest industrial companies the other week. They say that we need to expand wind power both on land and at sea, because that's what they see they need to cope with their green transition that they're in the middle of. So this will be an interesting discussion. If anyone wants to build nuclear power in Sweden, I have no problem with that. Do it! But the problem is that it will take 15 to 20 years, and by then we have had high electricity prices for many years. I do not think the Swedish people should accept that.
i-Tpq4bS4WqLt57BxmupCShj	Madam President, I would like The claim that it takes 15 to 20 years to build nuclear power can be intimidated, the Minister for Finance, but it does not take long. It won't take long if you've finished your land. If you want to start with the environmental code, it will probably take 25 years with the regulations we have in Sweden, but in Forsmark it is ready to build two more works. The industry wants to build this. Wallenberg has been out saying that he is interested, and last time we heard Rune Andersson at Mellby Gård. There is interest in this. You can listen to what the former director of Holmen, Magnus Hall, says. He's totally judging the wind power. I don't mind companies building wind power, as long as they don't get subsidies for it. The rules of the game should be the same, so as not to distort competition. That's what's happening now. In their zeal, and influenced by environmental parties, the wind power has been run. We're supposed to have 60% of this year's hours, and then there's gonna be electric rationing. When it's cold in winter, wind power gives zero. It's still windy when there's cold snaps. There must be sense and balance and robust electricity supply. Many Social Democratic local politicians I know agree with me completely; I don't know what these in Parliament think. A review of the energy tax system should be carried out. Only the state benefits from high electricity prices; everyone else is a loser. It is also important to start immediately to renovate Ringhals 1 and 2 and to plan for a new work in Forsmark.
i-SxdsvuW45ZirgxwBbhRimC	Madam President, I would like Kjell Jansson's party The Moderates adjusted the government's draft budget. Then you could have reduced VAT and energy taxes, but they did not. That was just a comment. I have nothing against nuclear power. They are happy to build nuclear power in Sweden. It is included; it is perfectly possible to do this. The problem is that it is quite expensive and takes a long time. The applications currently available are also very much on wind power. This is part of the mix that we have for the future. If you wait to make these investments and, as Kjell Jansson's Moderates do in Stockholm County, say no to additional wind farms in the Stockholm region, prices will increase over time. Then we'll have a shortage. Then we might even get rationing, which Kjell Jansson is trying to scare with. In fact, we in Sweden may have the most robust energy system in Europe. We have the most sustainable energy system in Europe. However, this is based on the fact that we continue to invest and do not get local moderates saying no to new energy production, because it will drive up electricity prices and make it more expensive for consumers over time.
i-Udex9o7oyKx1a2Zo8LPiB5	Madam President, I would like Edward Riedl has asked me whether I would like to reduce taxes on petrol and diesel in the light of the increase in oil prices resulting from Russia's invasion of Ukraine. Niklas Wykman has asked me whether I am going to reduce the tax on fuel, whether I am going to take measures to reduce the consumer price of petrol and diesel in the short term and, if so, how, and whether I am going to take measures to reduce the consumer price of petrol and diesel in the long term and, if so, how. Fuel prices have risen sharply in recent times. I share the concerns expressed by Members of Parliament. The situation in the outside world is very serious, and high fuel prices are one of the consequences. The high fuel prices risk hitting hard on low-income households that depend on the car. It is unclear, however, what Niklas Wykman means by the government having increased the tax on petrol and diesel over the last seven years. According to 9th chapter. Section 1 of the form of government is the parliament that decides on taxes. The last decision taken by the Riksdag to change fuel taxes was when the so-called bnp indexation was paused for 2021 and 2022. This led to a lower energy tax. On Monday 14 March, I presented the government's package of measures to meet the high prices of electricity and fuel that we are now seeing as a result of the war in Ukraine. Part of the package is a proposal for a temporary reduction in taxes on petrol and diesel. The proposal means that the price at the pump is reduced by approximately SEK 1 and 30 øre and refers to the period between 1 June and 31 October 2022. The Government has also submitted a proposal to Parliament for a reduction in the energy tax on petrol and diesel, which means that the pump price will be reduced by 50 øre per litre from 1 May 2022. In addition to these tax reductions, the Government intends to propose specific fuel compensation. The compensation is for private individuals who own a passenger car. The aid will be SEK 1 000 per car owner. Those who live in certain sparsely populated and rural areas and own a passenger car receive an additional 500 SEK compensation. The Government also intends to propose that the reduction obligation be paused at 2022 reduction levels.
i-3LmT9N9Fjv8eh6mQTnkQca	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. I grew up in the country. We had seven kilometers of gravel road before we arrived at the asphalt road. There were two buses a day – one in each direction, in practice. Often, when the school bus was not delivered home, the regular bus was taken. I've gone that way. I've cycled it many times. When I was a kid, I had a dream about having an engine on my bike. When you got a moped, it was amazing. When you got a driver's license and could start driving, it was even better. You could transport yourself. You got free and you could move. That is the life of quite a lot of people around this country. The moped, the car, the epan or whatever it may be allows you to start transporting yourself. From the beginning, it's just a huge sense of freedom. Then it becomes important. That means you can get to and from work. You can drive your children to and from school and to activities. You can go home to your old mother to help. The car is indispensable in a country like Sweden. When the cost of using the car becomes unreasonably high, it hits Swedish households in a way that is terrible. When prices flash as they have now, Madam President, as a result of the war, it becomes even worse – even for those companies that will try to survive in this environment. It was against this background that we in the Moderates, when we saw where this was going, made a proposal to quickly reduce the price at the pump by 5 crowns. Anyone who listens should remember this: When this government tries to paint the picture of Putin prices, it is actually Dambergstyrt at the thought when to pay for your petrol. Those are Magdalena prizes. Sweden had before the war the world's highest prices for diesel. Not in any other country in the world is it so expensive to refuel diesel as in Sweden – a country with great distances where people are completely dependent on the car. We are totally dependent on transport, Madam President. Not in any other country in the world is it more expensive than in Sweden. Putin prizes were placed at the top of Dambergdyrt and Magdalena prizes. Against this background, the Moderates have gathered five of the eight parties of the Riksdag behind this proposal. It is the Moderates, the Christian Democrats, the Swedish Democrats, the Liberals and the Left Party. This means that there is an overwhelming majority in this Parliament to bring down the prize in various ways. Together with the fuel companies, we have developed parts of the package that we will now hand over to the government to bring down prices as much as possible. Elisabeth Svantesson will hopefully be the country's next finance minister, but we will have to come back to that after the elections, Madam President. I would particularly like to thank the Fuel Rebellion; some of you are here today. Above all, I would like to thank Peder Blohm Bokenhielm, who is leading the gas uprising. I want to say that you make a difference. All your work and commitment will make a difference. Instead of putting energy into telling television that it is difficult to implement this proposal, I think, Madam President, that the Minister for Finance should do everything he can to help bring down fuel prices. My question to the Minister for Finance is why he does not put his energy into bringing down fuel prices rather than telling us how difficult it is.
i-8j1NQM2BiZXxJFJxFSYXXb	I remind everyone in the gallery that public opinion from the gallery is not allowed. If opinions from the gallery continue, the House will need to be adjourned.
i-BHTHCxtydvFupb1TQkrkDC	Madam President, I would like Now that it has become Dambergsdyrtt to refuel, many questions are raised about how Sweden works. The former Social Democratic party leader Håkan Juholt talked about the klägget, or Stockholmsklägget, which he thought was some kind of symbiosis between an elite of Social Democratic politicians in Stockholm and others who perhaps lived without much understanding of how the conditions in the rest of the country really were. I thought about it today when I read Expressen's call to Mikael Damberg. "Treasure the shit out of us," they wrote. But Mikael Damberg already does, so it is of course not so difficult to fulfil it for him as Minister of Finance. It is already horribly expensive to refuel in Sweden, and very much of the price is tax. Then you can always explain it with world market prices and such things. But the fact remains: Sweden has very high taxes on petrol and diesel. In addition, a reduction obligation that exceeds the EU requirements has been added to this. In addition, its environmental benefits can be seriously questioned. To drive up the price of felling forests and boiling oil on it is not necessarily a brilliant environmental measure. A little mixing with reasonable proportions can surely stimulate new industry, new production methods and so on. But at the right time is best, we sometimes say in Sweden, and it can be something to take in, Mikael Damberg. Maybe it's about fuel prices and stuff, too. It is a bit difficult to put together the logic of how the Social Democrats and Mikael Damberg reason on these issues. For most of us, it is still good that it pays to work. Anyone who drives their children to and from leisure activities, goes to their mother at the retirement home, goes to visit relatives or, for that matter, takes the car and shops – that person makes the society work. If we stop doing these things, society will stop working. Then we stop having some kind of quality of life and have good conditions. If we stop taking the car to work, if we stop visiting Mom at the nursing home, if we stop driving our children to and from recreational activities-- what kind of country and people do we become? How much fun will it be to live here? How good will Sweden work at all? But it has been an elaborate policy on the part of Mikael Damberg and the government to push up prices so much that they simply cannot afford to do so. Then someone thinks: But politicians can't be like that, can they? As a matter of fact, I do. That's exactly what it is. If people can still afford to do these things, then the tax increases do not matter to what they want to do. What Mikael Damberg wants to achieve is that one should not be able to afford to do this. It should be too expensive to take the car to work. You shouldn't be able to afford to take the car and visit your mother at the nursing home. One should not be able to afford to pick up the children after the leisure activity. If you still have the money, then the tax increase does not matter at all, because then you continue to do the same. Madam President, I would like So the very idea is that people shouldn't be able to afford to do these things that make society work. Then someone thinks: But that can't happen anyway! Yes, and that is exactly what has happened. In recent days, the newspapers have been full of testimony from people who quit their jobs because it is no longer profitable to go there and parents whose children can no longer participate in their leisure activities because they cannot afford to drive them. In large parts of Sweden there is no subway, Mikael Damberg. You're totally dependent on the car. This has led Sweden into a situation where households are under extreme pressure and where the economy as a whole is losing a lot. I'll get back to that.
i-TWXy74zgZU3PEWK8B9JKoN	Madam President, I would like We are currently facing unreasonable prices of petrol and diesel. We see it every day. Today, the diesel price increased by over SEK 1 at the pump. A few days ago it decreased by some crown. All these up and down fluctuations – most of them unfortunately – have to do with the price of crude oil rising internationally and in Europe. It now drives our fuel prices in Sweden to such a level that we must take action. That is why I have presented a package of measures – not just with one measure, but with eight different measures. The package is strong in the short term but also in the longer term. In the short term, we are lowering the tax on diesel and petrol down to the EU minimum level of diesel taxation. The reduction is SEK 1.30 plus the 50 cents that are going on, i.e. a total of 1, 80. Then we make a special fuel compensation for individuals who own a car. That's $1,000 in your wallet. For those living in assisted areas in rural and sparsely populated areas – they need the car even more – there will be SEK 1 500 in the wallet. We provide additional compensation for people who can afford to change and buy electric cars. In the future, we will have to switch to electric cars, so that we reduce the dependence on fossil fuels in the system. Yesterday we also presented a reform of the travel allowance, the largest since the introduction of the travel allowance. It is a major effort, a billion-dollar investment, to improve levels. Most people know it's roughly 18.50 today. We raise to 25 crowns so that people can afford to take the car to and from work throughout the country. We are also changing the travel deduction system so that it gets even more of a rural parameter than has been the case in the past. This is in line with what all parliamentary parties have said: that we should introduce a distance-based travel deduction in Sweden. We also pause the reduction obligation, advance the evaluation of the reduction obligation and pause the bnp indexation for the turn of the year. This is a whole package of measures. Why are they needed? Because we have an unreasonable situation today. The problem, I think, is that the Moderates are now putting forward a proposal which they know will not be possible to implement. It's a little hard. It deceives the Swedish people that it is possible to implement a tax reduction that violates the EU directive on minimum taxation. What do you say to those people who now think it will be 5 kroner cheaper by pump if it is not possible to do? A Swedish government and a Swedish parliament cannot violate EU rules. If we do, the oil companies will have to pay a fine at a pump. Then it becomes even more expensive for people to refuel. We can't have that. I think it may be unwise to put all the eggs in a basket and expect 27 EU Member States to think that it is now time to amend the Energy Taxation Directive, which has been negotiated in the EU since 2014 and has not been agreed. It may be a little high risk to say that it will happen in a week or a month. We need to make efforts here and now for households. The package I have presented provides more money in the wallet for households than the Moderates' package with a three-month reduction in taxes on petrol and diesel.
i-Kd7ERccxt6cQmQFyrFoM7M	Madam President, I would like The government has spoken, but has not delivered any proposals to the Riksdag. There are no other proposals on Parliament's table than what the Moderates have produced. That sounds like a lot from the government. You have press conferences and talk about one thing and the other you're supposed to do. We have said from the Moderates that when the government gets this in place and comes up with something for the Riksdag, we will look at it. But so far the government has not succeeded in this. It's important. Madam President, I would like The Minister of Finance says that this cannot be done. Let me then tell you how the first of the four points of the Moderates' proposal has turned out, namely to reduce the tax here and now down to the minimum level of the Energy Taxation Directive. It was not possible to do so until 1 June, Madam President, we were told. It was the fastest possible. Yesterday, I and our lawyer from the Moderates at the Ministry of Finance talked to the Secretary of State of the Minister for Finance. Suddenly it was possible to do so a month earlier when we explained how. It is possible to do things if you want to, Madam President and hearers, rather than stand by and complain and rather say that it is difficult to do things than put your mind to it and do your job. Madam President, I would like Germany's Minister of Finance went out this morning and announced that it wants to reduce the price by 4 crowns at the pump because it has become far too expensive, infinitely expensive. Now my German is not good, but he said something like that. Germany already has almost 5 SEK cheaper diesel at pump than Sweden has. Where you want to discuss solutions to bring down the price at the pump. In Austria, Madam President, all parties in this House have gathered for a proposal similar to that of the Moderates. Other countries in Europe are equally plagued by the high fuel prices, although they are often 5 – 8 SEK lower in their initial position. If, instead of spending time and energy on explaining how difficult it is to go down and do the job with the others in Europe who are also plagued by the high prices, it could be possible to find friends who want to do the same. I would like the Minister of Finance to do this rather than stand here and tell us that things are impossible. We show time and again that it is actually possible when you really want to. Yesterday we did so at the Ministry of Finance together with the Minister of Finance's own Secretary of State. Then it was possible to do a month earlier. I can tell you that two crowns at the pump a month earlier will make a big difference for many households. But we would like to get many things in place much earlier. Madam President, I would like It is very difficult to put forward realistic and feasible proposals in this area. It's for the Minister of Finance. The popular debate is sometimes simplified, and we are locked between various EU directives such as energy tax directives and VAT directives. We have also given fuel companies unreasonable conditions in terms of interference. This has together become a toxic mix that has given very high prices for households and companies. The Moderates have gathered five of the eight parties in the Riksdag, and instead of debating how difficult it is, I would like us to sit together and implement the Moderates' proposals so that we get the price down as quickly as possible by 5 crowns at the pump. Other countries and other finance ministers in Europe are on their way. It should also be possible in Sweden – if you really want to.
i-2WBeWVuGi93tbf6BbqTk4h	Madam President, I would like I think it's good when people take the car and go to work. I think it's good when people take the car and drive and pick up their children for leisure activities. I think it's good when you take the car and visit your parents at the retirement home, and I think it's good when you take the car and go shopping – simply when you live your life, do right by yourself and contribute to others. That is why I have been pushing for a long time to reduce fuel taxes in Sweden. They have very little positive effect on the environment at the high levels where they are, but they have a very large and painful impact on people's everyday lives and the household economy. Since I have been pushing this issue for a long time against Mikael Damberg and other social democrats, I cannot help but note the almost comical defences for why we do not want to reduce the tax on fuels. At first it sounded something like this: I don't want to. Okay, that was clear. The Social Democrats do not want to lower taxes, because it does not belong to the Party's idea of how society should be managed. Then, when it was discovered that quite a few wanted to lower the tax because they wanted some money left in their wallet after they refueled, Mikael Damberg's next line of defense appeared: I can't. Why couldn't he? Well, it was all the Green Party's fault. The Green Party was in the government, and everyone knew that the Green Party did not want to reduce fuel taxes. The Social Democrats may have wanted to reduce tax but could not because of it. Then the Green Party resigned from the government or was fired or whatever. Then that reason wasn't there, so neither I nor I can't last any longer. Now we hear instead from Mikael Damberg : I can not. So it has gone from I don't want to until I can't until I can't. This can only be summed up as one great unwillingness to take action in this area, which is well in line with the information we have received from social democratic governments for quite a long time. We regret nothing, have been a principle of the Social Democratic Government. We didn't see it coming, have also been a slogan from the government. But many of us actually saw the high fuel prices coming and the impact it would have on Swedish households. It's not just Damberg dynasty to refuel. I have respect for the fact that you can have different kinds of interest in the economy and that you can be involved in something else. Mikael Damberg, for example, has been very involved in the decommissioning of Swedish nuclear power. I believe that Mikael Damberg is the only one who has described Swedish nuclear decommissioning as a victory for democracy. Mikael Damberg shakes his head, but everyone can google the press release from Mikael Damberg where he describes it as a victory for democracy to phase out nuclear power. Instead, however, it was a victory for those who want to replenish Putin's war fund, for example. There were also many who saw the coming. The high fuel costs not only affect the price at the pump, Mikael Damberg. There are so many other things that also become Damberdyrt once you have destroyed the energy and fuel market. This hits those in society who have the smallest margins or live with the greatest distances. When transport is very expensive, what about pensioners in sparsely populated municipalities with an Ica or Konsum store? Of course, shopping will be expensive. High fuel costs are a huge problem for the people who need the car every day, but it is also a major competition problem for the whole country. This makes it expensive and difficult to live in our elongated country, and the worst affects the people who have the least margin in their economy. Let us now put an end to this Damberg-expensive Sweden.
i-2ApjY3qdq5UeV3EbN9MQMt	Madam President, I would like I would like to comment most on Edward Riedl's speech because of his somewhat more constructive tone of discussion in the debate. The issue of taxation, law and EU rules is really complex, and therefore I cannot put forward proposals that I cannot put forward. I have to follow laws and rules. The Swedish Tax Agency will not implement anything that is contrary to EU directives. The general principle of the authorities is not to violate EU rules. Then it is a good thing that we agree to temporarily reduce the tax on diesel and petrol to the minimum level of the European Union. It would be good to discuss whether the Riksdag can speed up its processes. We have put forward a proposal based on the divisions that usually exist in the Riksdag. However, if Parliament can cancel free weeks or get all parties to buy a shorter period of division, the government has no problem with that. But the government cannot decide how the Riksdag deals with its proposals; it must decide for itself. We have wanted to get these changes in place as quickly as possible. I have presented a package of measures so that we do not end up in a situation where households do not get money in their wallets for the costs incurred. For this reason, we have supplemented the tax reduction with fuel compensation and put forward proposals to change the travel allowance. I share the view that this is an international issue and that many countries are now looking at ways forward. However, I met with the German Minister of Finance a few days ago, and then he had no plans to violate the EU rules in the Energy Taxation Directive. He also looked at ways of supporting households, just as we did with fuel compensation. He may have a different design, but he does not propose to circumvent the EU's tax directives – at least he did not do so a few days ago when I spoke to him. Niklas Wykman points out that those most affected by this are those who need the car and have low incomes. Those with the highest incomes always manage, because they can afford to spend more money on diesel and gasoline. So it is not the most pity for them, even if they are affected by it. It is therefore important that we improve in this package for the group that has not had any improvements for a long time, and that is the poorest families with children. I therefore hope that Parliament will support this, because it is the group we have not improved financially for in recent years and which can be very dependent on the car in its everyday life. We will also put forward a proposal to improve for the poorest pensioners. It has sounded to the Moderates like you want to oppose it and stop the proposal. I certainly hope not, because with rising petrol and diesel prices and rising food prices, it is even more important that we improve for the most deprived pensioners as quickly as possible. We will be presenting a proposal that will bring about a substantial improvement for the poorest pensioners from August onwards. I very much hope that Parliament will be able to gather a majority for this, because it would be very unfortunate if those who have the most difficulty in coping with this situation were not to receive this compensation now.
i-XcDFRi5vhr5hq4vWV2jM48	Madam President, I would like As I said in my last post, it is really complicated. That is why we must do what the government says, Madam President, namely turn every stone around and put Sweden's interests first. But unlike the government and its rhetoric, Elisabeth Svantesson and the Moderates have done this, that is, turned over every stone, sat down together with Peder and the Fuel Rebellion and listened to them, sat down with the fuel companies and also talked with the authorities, lawyers and experts to get a proposal that should quickly be able to bring down the price by pump. It is a proposal similar to those in other parts of Europe at the moment. Part of what the Moderates have proposed will also be proposed by other countries. That is to say: Turn over every stone, and put Sweden's interests first! When it comes to a short period of time, Madam President, it is not Parliament that is the primary problem, but that the government wants a very long time to get the proposal out. It is now shortened, and among other things, a consultation period has been reduced from three to two weeks. Now the Minister for Finance is shaking his head, Madam President, but that is actually what has happened. When the government shortens the period of referral, it will be possible for the Riksdag to handle it so that we can get it in place on 1 May. I would like to say that pensioners who have worked a whole life in Sweden will always earn more with Moderate politics than with the Social Democrats, because the great improvements are happening for people who have not worked very much. These are the great improvements compared to the Social Democrats' proposals. I would also like to say a big thank-you to Mr Peder and many others from the Fuel Rebellion who have come here. I know you've come a very long way. You're having a big impact on what's going on in here. Don't make a different picture of what it actually looks like! The government has accused you of being empty accounts, but you have shown that this is far from the case. Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Finance for the debate.
i-EFzF98Xq3CujULM4yBS2bz	Madam President, I would like I'm an economist, and sometimes you can like to mess things up unnecessarily. But you can also make things very simple. I'm thinking about how it might sound if a child of a Social Democratic minister or a minister is going to negotiate the allowance at home. Then perhaps the child will be told that you will receive SEK 200 more a month, and at the same time I will provide your room with SEK 300 in rent. The child goes and thinks for a while and comes to the conclusion: ah, but then I have lost 100 kroner. Of course, the Socialist Government does not think so, which probably sees a great profit in acting in this way. It is very difficult to get together or understand the logic of how you can be satisfied with a situation where you have raised taxes so much that you have to think about whether you have to increase the contributions in order for people to have the money to pay the taxes. Could there possibly be some kind of inefficiencies or problems when the state should first raise more money than people can afford to pay in order to pay back in the next step through subsidies to the population, which will then pay it back through taxes that are higher than they can actually afford to pay and then receive additional subsidies to be able to afford to pay and so should it continue so? Does anyone think that it may not be so effective when doing so, that it may be unnecessarily lost to bureaucrats and authorities somewhere along the way? After all, the easiest way to get households not to suffer from very high fuel taxes is simply to lower them. I have worked for several years at the Ministry of Finance and really do not understand what Mikael Damberg means at all. Why should it be included in the EU law that Sweden should have the most expensive fuel in Europe? Because it's not.
i-4ii1Qqhj9dWzHyxKfrToZ5	Madam President, I would like Those who listen to this debate may have an almost schizophrenic impression of the Moderates. One moderate says it's a bit complicated and difficult, while the other moderate says it's cake and no problem. These are two completely different images of reality, but unfortunately I think Edward Riedl is much more right than Niklas Wykman in the description of what reality looks like. I have presented a large programme of measures, in the short term SEK 13 billion for various efforts to support the Swedish people now that there are large increases in the price of petrol, diesel and electricity. It is a question of reducing diesel tax to the lowest level in the EU. That's where we seem to agree. What I have said a little harder about is when you describe it as being able to lower the tax more. That is not true, and this debate has shown a little bit how the Moderates are backing around it. One might wonder whether we can compensate households in other ways, and that is exactly what we have proposed by means of specific fuel compensation to households that own a car. If you compare with the Moderates' temporary tax cut of three months, you can see that our package actually gives more money to an average household than the Moderate packages do. I therefore think that we should be a little flexible in this situation and see the way forward that gives households more money in their wallets to deal with this situation. Then, in the long term, we must also make ourselves less dependent on Russian oil and gas in Europe. This is important. The war has shown that prices will go away if we continue to depend on the way we are. That is why we have unique assets in Sweden, also in the form of Swedish forests, that enable us to produce our own biofuels and make ourselves independent of Russia. This creates jobs and growth throughout the country, and it is very important.
i-4dUMqGk1jNupB7auqrfgDX	Madam President, I would like Boriana Åberg has asked the Minister for Rural Affairs whether the Swedish Government considers that Sweden has over-implemented the EU's Species Protection Directive and what measures the Government is prepared to take in order not to prevent Swedish forest owners from carrying out rational forestry, and whether the Government is prepared to take measures, and in that case what, to defend constitutionally protected property rights. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. I would like to start by saying that this is a problematic situation which has arisen, particularly because it creates concern and uncertainty about what is sufficient consideration in relation to forestry. The background is not any changes in Swedish lawmaking, but new legal cases concerning EU rules on species protection that have long been in force in Sweden and the EU as a whole. Sweden is a forest country, and the forest is a backbone of much in our society, both for the economy and for climate change. There shall be no confusion as to whether or not forest owners may harvest their forests. It is therefore important that we act to reduce the uncertainty that has now arisen. The problem we are discussing is not new, but has been highlighted by the authorities and courts for some time and was included as a point in the January agreement. In accordance with the January agreement, the Government appointed an investigation in May 2020. This summer, the Species Protection Investigation submitted its report to the Government. The study contains analyses and proposals on the issues under discussion regarding species protection at the moment. The government is now actively working on what needs to be done both on the basis of the judgment of the European Court of Justice last spring and the proposals in the Swedish Species Protection Investigation. This is a work that the government gives high priority. It is the government's starting point that it should be possible to achieve both the objectives of forestry policy and the Parliament's environmental objectives on forests and an abundance of plant and animal life and, at the same time, to meet our EU and international obligations. In this context, the protection of species and the conservation of biodiversity is also an important public interest. In the light of what I have just said, the government intends to initiate a number of measures aimed at reducing uncertainty and dealing with the problematic situation that has arisen.
i-KhLwsbLqb5YAMxyYkUCKVq	Madam President, I would like I put my interpellation to the Minister for Rural Affairs Anna-Caren Sätherberg because I believe that forestry is an industry of great importance to rural areas. I still think that the Minister for Rural Development should have answered my questions. These are issues that concern many forest owners who are prevented from carrying out rational forestry. Worse still, the government repeatedly resorts to constitutional property rights. Putting the responsibility on the landowner to find out which species are in the forest and taking into account each bird at individual level is an effective way to deprive the forest owners of the right to farm their own forest. But I thank the Minister for the Environment for his answer. It is not every day that an answer is given in which a representative of the government directly acknowledges that the policy being pursued against forest owners is completely wrong and that cure and improvement are underway. I want the Minister for the Environment to pay tribute to that. However, whatever the Minister for the Environment says, all forest owners have been informed by the Swedish Forest Board, and this statement is clear. The Director General of the Forestry Board says: There have been many uncertainties as to how the Species Protection Regulation is to be applied, but with the guiding judgments it is clear what applies. But it is also clear that this has unreasonable consequences. The Director General of the Forest Board thus tells Sweden's forest owners that this has unreasonable consequences. This can be seen as a cry for help, because the Director-General also says that the policy is the solution. The Minister for the Environment says that the government is actively working on what needs to be done. This means that the problem is not solved. This also means that forest owners will pause all forest management except clearing and planting pending a clearer message. No forest owner wants to risk being charged with environmental crime. So what happens when forest owners refrain from felling? The industry needs continuous access to wood. Sawmills, biorefineries and other companies dependent on forestry products are forced to stop their activities. This may lead to a shortage of hygiene products, such as toilet paper. Especially now that the production of forest raw materials in Europe has fallen significantly due to Russia's war against Ukraine, the shortage of wood and hygiene products can become quite acute. The consequences can be even greater than that. In the absence of products from the forest, Sweden's trade balance can turn to deficit, which has a negative impact on Sweden's economy. With an ongoing refugee crisis, huge needs for armament of the defence and extreme electricity prices and fuel prices, Sweden's economy does not need any further setbacks.
i-QbDyUhk8VwUDc6tbzjJQUe	Madam President, I would like I thank Boriana Åberg for a very relevant interpellation. However, I would like to start by emphasising that the issue of species protection and the species protection regulation is on the table of the Minister for Climate and the Environment. That's why I'm answering the interpellation. The government's not going after the forest owners here. It is not the government that has changed anything, which I was also clear about in my reply. What has happened is that there have been a number of European judgments at European level which the Authority is then, of course, obliged to interpret in order to see how this is to be incorporated into the Swedish way of interpreting the directive. It was this clarity that came from the Swedish Forest Board and that the government has also acted on. I have been very clear that we see that this is a deeply problematic situation that has arisen with concern and uncertainty for our 320 000 forest owners. That is why I have also made sure to act as quickly as a government can ever do in such a case. That is something we are working intensively on. The government has now said that we are going to amend the Species Protection Regulation, because that is what is going by far the fastest, primarily so that the provisions on species protection in the Birds Directive and the Species and Habitats Directive are transposed separately as they are expressed in the respective EU directives. This will clarify the situation for Sweden's forest owners. They have also expressed their appreciation for the government's swift action. I will also give the relevant authorities the task of developing guidance and strategies on how those working in the forest can take practical account of individual species and at the same time get economics in their activities. During the spring, as I have been out and talked about, I will invite to a broader meeting with both the forestry industry and representatives from the non-profit sector in order to openly and jointly discuss how we can combine nature conservation with sustainable Swedish forestry in the long term. These are important issues, and I think that a broad consensus between the forestry industry and representatives of the non-profit sector on the way forward would certainly be desirable. One measure that the government will now also take and which is in the slightly longer term is to review the Environmental Code and the Species Protection Regulation in the parts that the Species Protection Investigation, which I told you about in my reply, and the consultation outcome gives rise to. So the government acts quickly. This will mean that Swedish forest owners will be able to feel confident about how they can harvest the forest. And this is a clear message. As I also said at the beginning, the Swedish forest is extremely valuable to Sweden as a country, both from an environmental perspective of course and as an asset for the whole of Sweden and for the Swedish economy.
i-4SzmLzhJ7F9y6Q6EocoQfu	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for the Environment for this. She says forest owners have expressed their appreciation. That is not the view I have received. The forest owners with whom I am in contact are deeply distrustful of the government's ability to act. They feel identified, including from the Swedish Forest Agency, as some major's potential environmental villains. All forest owners with whom I have had contact agree that biodiversity is important. It is precisely the forest owners who are most concerned about its preservation. As an owner, you care about what you've created. Often the forest is inherited from one generation to another and is associated with the history of a family or family. But the forest also provides livelihoods and jobs. This must be respected. The focus must be on the conservation of endangered species. The aim should be to minimise the damage. But forestry must also be possible. There is no need for birds in the Swedish forests. Today, in fact, there are nearly 15 million more birds than 20 years ago. I would like to recommend the Minister for the Environment to look at the Swedish Forest Board's website. It still states, despite everything the Minister just said, that if the forest owner is not fully aware of everything, the Forest Board can request further investigations and investigations. This risks hitting the smaller forest owners – the smaller the area, the higher the costs per hectare. Smaller players cannot afford to hire their own investigators or ecologists. Nor can they afford to buy a survey for a couple of hundred thousand kronor from an environmental consultant. And if someone could possibly afford it, the cost of the investigation would probably exceed net revenue, since normal logging in private forestry covers about two hectares. Half of Swedish forest land is owned by small owners, and 60 per cent of the timber from Swedish forest comes from private, family-owned forest. I do not understand: the Minister for the Environment is here telling us about the good intentions, but they are actually targeting small entrepreneurs. And why is the government taking such an anti-rural policy at all? People and businesses in rural areas are already suffering from high fuel prices and electricity prices. They do not need additional regulation and administrative burdens. Paradoxically, the Swedish Forest Board's regulations mean that the large forest companies – for example the state-owned Sveaskog, which has large internal resources and historically also the habit of felling a hundred hectares on a board – can continue felling. Is that really the government's intention?
i-DXc8geWeNbdE9EdoMLy7eQ	Madam President, I would like I'd really like Boriana Åberg to listen to what I'm saying. Both in the media and now during this interpellation debate, I have set out the background to the interpretation that the responsible authority has had to make in relation to the existing EU judgments. Of course, it is also not my role, or even possible for me as Minister and Minister of State in the Swedish Government, to go in and direct what individual authorities write on their websites. That's not exactly how it works. As far as I am concerned, it is, of course, a question of having arm's length away from the independent authorities, but of using the tools I have to remove any uncertainty or uncertainty that the new EU judgments have now given rise to. This is done by the government in the fastest possible way right now, with respect for the laws and regulations that apply in Sweden. Let's go inside and change the species protection regulation. The matter will be clear before the summer. We commission the relevant authorities to develop guidance and strategies on how those who work in and with the forest can practically take into account individual species and at the same time get economics in their operations. I also said just now that I will be inviting to a broader meeting with forestry and non-profit actors, precisely because I and the Social Democrats see the importance of long-term rules for Sweden's important forestry industry – of course combined with the so important protection of species and the EU's conservation directive, which aims to halt the loss of biodiversity. The protection of species and the preservation of biodiversity is also an incredibly important public interest, and these two elements must be balanced. This is what the whole of Swedish forestry policy is about: both the so-called production objective, that we can use our forest, and the environmental objective, which includes biodiversity. These are equal goals in Swedish forestry policy. Then, of course, the obligation for those involved in forestry to acquire the knowledge needed to protect the environment against damage is important. Many landowners today have good knowledge of their forest, we know that. However, it also needs to be made clearer what knowledge is required in various forestry measures. I also mentioned there that in the short term we will ensure that such guides and strategies come forward and are there to support those who use our forest. In conclusion: We protect the Swedish forest. We defend its incredibly important environmental task but also the enormous asset that Swedish forests are for Sweden as a country. Not least is it incredibly important for us to cope with the climate change. As far as fuel prices are concerned, I believe that Swedes living in rural areas are valiant politicians who do not put forward populist proposals that are unworkable, as the Moderates have done.
i-Mb9gJHwKson46398gGrK3h	Madam President, I would like We have a vicious circle here. The Authority blames politics, and the Minister refers to the fact that we have independent authorities, which is true. But it should not be minimized that the problem was already highlighted in 2016 by both the Swedish Forest Agency and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. Nothing happened, though. The basic problem is that Sweden has over-implemented EU directives. In theory, we have a government that claims to want it to work as smoothly as possible for forest owners. Changes are also said to be underway. But in practice we still have a major threat to Swedish forestry. The requirements of the Forest Board, which are still in force, pose huge problems for forest owners with high costs and high administrative burdens without benefiting either species or biodiversity. The Swedish Species Protection Regulation mixes provisions on threatened species with protection for birds, and this goes far beyond what EU legislation requires. There has been a so-called gold plating of the directive. But the result is neither gold nor green forests. I would like to put one final question to the Minister, because my speaking time is coming to an end: will the government introduce the literal wording of the EU Birds Directive so that mistakes made so far can be avoided?
i-AScmHGnpTXyW3TTGwEjQ81	Madam President, I would like I will sum up again what I have said in several speeches. The background to the problems that have arisen is not a change in Swedish legislation, but new legal cases concerning EU rules on species protection, which have long been in force in Sweden and throughout the EU. Sweden is a forest country. Forests are a backbone of our society, both economic and climate change. It is therefore important that we act, as the government has said it intends to do. We have done this very quickly. We intend to amend the Species Protection Regulation, primarily so that the provisions on species protection in the Birds Directive and the Species and Habitats Directive are transposed separately. This will mean removing the uncertainty that many forest owners have now experienced. We will also develop guidelines and strategies to support Sweden's forest owners and those who use and work in our forest. I will invite you to a broader meeting with the forestry industry and representatives of the non-profit sector in order to openly and jointly discuss how we can combine nature conservation in the long term with sustainable Swedish forestry. That is the Social Democratic position, and that is the attitude of the government. I have now stressed this several times. We can't be populists and run over our government. As politicians, we must act within the framework we have and with the tools at our disposal – for example, as Boriana Åberg mentioned earlier, in relation to the fuel prices that are now running. Yesterday, the Moderates put forward a proposal that is completely impracticable and deceives the Swedish people to believe that it will be possible to reduce the price at pump by SEK 5. The only possibility that it would work is if we were to violate the EU's energy directives, which we cannot do as a government. To do that, I think it would be populism.
i-Ff5K6qTkSyDCDFtEFaDtRy	Madam President, I would like Louise Meijer has asked me what initiatives I have taken and intend to take in relation to Danish dumping outside the Falsterbo Peninsula and what my assessment is of whether dumping will cease. The work to protect the Öresund marine ecosystem is a high priority of the government. It is of great importance that we work with our neighbours on things that can have a significant impact on our common environment. The government, through my predecessor, has previously clearly expressed its views on deficiencies in the documentation concerning Lynetteholmen and objected to the choice of dumping site for dredging masses. Despite this, the people approved the construction of Lynetteholmen, and the physical work has begun. Sweden is actively participating in the ongoing consultation on the project's cross-border environmental impact. Swedish authorities are now monitoring, based on their expertise and responsibilities, including the environmental monitoring of the ongoing dumping of dredging masses. The first period of dumping is scheduled to end on 31 March this year in order to resume in the autumn. The stay is planned for ecological reasons. For the forthcoming period of dumping, the environmental monitoring programme for dumping shall be evaluated and, if necessary, adjusted. However, the environmental impact of dumping and the environmental control programme are also being discussed during the current dumping period. In these discussions, the Swedish authorities are present, but it is the Danish Miljøstyrelsen that is the regulator of dumping and related monitoring. The Miljøstyrelsen has approved the current monitoring programme, which specifies, inter alia, the conditions under which dumping may take place. It is also Miljøstyrelsen that will approve any changes to the programme. Our Swedish authorities continuously inform the Government Office of the situation, and I plan to talk to my Danish Ministerial College or about the project in the near future.
i-LrFJFE4XRqdoW1stz5YMNk	Madam President, I would like I note that we have an audience here today, and to make the debate a little more understandable and perhaps fun to listen to, I will tell you what this is all about. I live in the southern part of Skåne, and it is very close to Copenhagen. Copenhagen is planning to build an artificial peninsula. To build it, you have to pick up a lot of sludge and sediment, as it is called, from the seabed. Then the question for the Danes is where to make of this sludge and sediment. Where do you put it? Then they have got the brilliant idea that the sediment, i.e. sludge and impurities that you now mudge from the bottom, should be dumped two kilometres from Sweden's border down in southern Skåne outside something called Falsterbo. Swedish authorities have said that this dumping of Danish sludge will have negative effects on the marine environment in Öresund. The Moderates in Skåne have regionally, and also nationally here in the Riksdag, pushed the government to stop Danish dumping so that it does not destroy our fine marine environment. That is what I am asking Minister for the Environment Annika Strandhäll about today. What initiative has she taken to talk about this problem with her Danish counterpart and to ensure that this is stopped? What has she done before? What's she gonna do now? I have not received an answer to those questions, but the answer I have received is: I plan to contact my Danish counterpart in the near future. But I wonder when it will happen, because this is an acute problem for us scenes. The first period of dumping has already taken place. I think that if Finland had said that they would start building an artificial island and dump their ski two kilometres from the Stockholm archipelago with the risk of spreading into the archipelago and to the Stockholms, the government would surely have made sure that there was life in the hatch, contacted their counterparts in Finland and said that this had to be stopped. But unfortunately it is not Stockholm this applies without Skåne. And then Stockholm has a tendency to look the other way. As far as I know, the Minister for the Environment has not contacted his Danish counterpart. What I'm wondering is when this is going to happen because she says that she is going to do this in the near future. When is the Swedish Minister for the Environment from the Social Democrats going to contact the Danish counterpart to stop the Danish shit that is currently being dumped two kilometres from our Scanian, fine coasts?
i-8LEcj2L4nnMs63CB59g8Fz	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Louise Meijer, for an urgent interpellation! To those who listen, I shall say that the reality is that the position of the Swedish Government and, in this case, that of the opposition in the form of the opinion and viewpoint of the Moderates do not differ at all. It was easy to get a picture when you listened to Louise Meijer that there are very big differences in the view of whether it is appropriate to build Lynetteholmen where you now do it. Even before this began, my predecessor, Per Bolund, expressed our views both in writing and orally to not just one but two Danish ministers responsible for this, because we felt that this was inappropriate, that the environmental impact that our authorities are still maintaining is a reality and that this project should not happen. At the same time, Denmark is a sovereign country with Danish citizens, its own parliament and its own government, allowing Denmark to make sovereign decisions over its own territory. What Sweden then has to do is to use the tools that we have to be able to influence Denmark, which the government has also done. Among other things, we have expressed clear views from Sweden through our then Minister for the Environment and Climate Change in the Danish Parliament, which is called Denmark. We highlighted the views of the Swedish authorities, and Minister Bolund stated that Denmark should not decide to allow the operation until the Swedish comments had been taken into account. The handling of the dredging masses in the project needed to be resolved, we thought, in other ways than by dumping in Køge Bugt. This was presented on 3 June 2021 in a bilateral meeting between Per Bolund and Denmark's Environment Minister Lea Wermelin and Transport Minister Benny Engelbrecht. On 4 June 2021, the Danish parliament, for example, decided on the construction of Lynetteholmen. It has also been authorised by the Danish Environmental Agency. They have also approved the environmental monitoring programme. So the dumping of the masses began. What we have done is that we have had the consultation that we as a nation have the right to make, in accordance with the Espoo Convention. It means that it is an obligation for countries to consult on projects that may have a significant cross-border impact. Since then, Sweden has consulted through our authorities and experts, both in writing and orally. The next meeting is scheduled for 5 April 2022. This is going on all the time. We expect that the first dumping will be completed by the end of March. I have also taken the initiative for a meeting in the near future with the two Danish ministers who have this responsibility. A letter has also gone away today.
i-YFezqFcdMxjBv3Qteq2x2n	Madam President, I would like The Minister for the Environment says that there is no difference between our two parties in terms of the view of dumping in Öresund. Be that as it may! But the difference is that it is the Social Democrats who sit in the government and have the opportunity to contact their Danish counterpart. The Moderates don't. We wish we had. And we would be happy to do so if the present government does not feel fit for the task. We'd be happy to take over. But it is the responsibility of the government and the Social Democrats to contact their counterparts on the other side. These tools have not been used by the Social Democrats. Reference is made to the government in which the Green Party was involved, and it was the Minister for the Environment who contacted the Danish counterpart. Since the entry into force of the one-party government of the Social Democrats, one minister, Tomas Eneroth, has said that Sweden's ministers should certainly not take the Danish government in the ear. That's not what we're asking for either. We are asking, however, that the Social Democrats begin to see the rest of the country. In Skåne we have a very nice marine environment. We have some of Sweden's finest coasts. Why do the Social Democrats not care about the Scanian coastal landscape? I wonder. Why do you not contact your Danish counterpart and stop Danish dumping, which risks leading to impurities for bathers and residents down in Falsterbo during the summer months that are coming? I think it is simply because it has been accepted that Danish dumping can take place. It is so far from Stockholm that you don't have to care. Unfortunately, this is also true in many other matters. You do not see the country and the problems that exist in other parts of Sweden, but you just look at the mutual discussions you have at the government meetings and miss the large part of Sweden's population. It is clear that the Social Democrats do not care about the Scanian marine environment. It is very upsetting and boring for me who live in Skåne and who swim on the coasts of Skåne and in Öresund. I must therefore once again ask the sharp question which has only one answer. Either you're going to make contact, and then you know when you're going to do it, or you don't have plans like that. I ask the Minister for the Environment one more time: when will she contact her Danish counterpart to put an end to dumping in Öresund?
i-Ae3vCqjkgr8oWRiPTVfNJQ	Madam President, I would like Louise Meijer! One can only be amazed at the development of the Moderates. I now stand in the second of two interpellation debates where the interpeller from the Moderates is not factual at all or listens to what the government is saying in the form of facts about contacts that have been made and about the government's views on the matter. Instead, the interpellant stands in the pulpit of the Riksdag and says that the Swedish government does not care about the rest of the country and that the Swedish government does not care about people living in southern Sweden. Does Louise Meijer not think that the Social Democrats have some voters in southern Sweden, that we have some representatives coming from southern Sweden or that we have some party work in southern Sweden? That is an amazing statement in a debate on a very serious issue. Louise Meijer has used the interpellational debate tool, which is designed to call the government to account for a question, and I am trying to answer. I have been very clear that, long before the project began, we from Sweden have clearly stated the Swedish position on shortcomings in the basis of the Lynetteholmen project. We have also objected to the choice of place of dumping. We have made use of all the ways a government has in terms of contacts on such a complex matter. But Denmark is a sovereign state and of course has its own land area. Swedish authorities have repeatedly, as I have explained, since we received the notification in October 2019 to Denmark, in accordance with the Espoo Convention, which we have been involved in negotiating. We responded through the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency to the notification we received. We confirmed that Sweden wanted to participate in further processes. Since then, as I said in my previous speech, consultations under the Espoo Convention are taking place in both written and oral form. From the Swedish side, the commitment is still huge, including from the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management, from SMHI, from the State Geotechnical Institute and from the County Administrative Board Skåne. The Swedish Government has also been involved in several ways during the process in contacts with the Danish Government. I just stood and told the interpeller that a letter has gone to the Danish Government on the matter, that I am planning a meeting with the Danish ministers in the near future and that such contact has been made with the Danish Government. Otherwise, I would not be standing in Parliament's pulpit to talk about this.
i-AyFJs9sH3WQJXFbLZ4gr2G	Madam President, I would like When it comes to objectivity, I do not think it is on that very theme that the Minister for the Environment should lecture a Member. I think the minister's gonna have to clean up her own door before she grabs that hold. The minister is very upset. It cannot be interpreted in any other way than as a defence mechanism instead of answering the question. If an initiative has now been taken in the form of a letter to the Danish Government and if a contact is planned in the near future, why does she not answer when that contact should take place? When will the government call a sharp meeting with the Danish counterpart to stop dumping in Öresund? It's not something you need to be upset about. First, the Minister begins the speech with a lack of factuality. Then she becomes incredibly offensive and finally does not answer the question. Let us have a respectful tone even if we disagree. It is very clear that I and the Minister for the Environment disagree. I do not think, for example, that the Social Democrats are pursuing a good policy for the citizens of Skåne and for the voters whom I represent. It cannot come as such a great shock to the Minister for the Environment that it also makes her incredibly upset. It can't be like that. She has been involved in politics for a long time and knows that there are differences in politics and in the view of how the Social Democratic Government rules the country. So I'm not buying that. I would like to ask once again: when does the Minister intend to hold a meeting with his Danish counterpart in order to put an end to Danish dumping in the vicinity of our Scanian coasts?
i-DfwYEqhCnT1kAhs3eptd42	Madam President, I would like Louise Meijer will have to interpret exactly what emotions she wants. But the fact is that Louise Meijer was standing right now in the speaker's chair and again repeated a question to which I have replied – I do not know how many contributions I have had. Is this my fourth post now? – and has been very clear that ongoing contacts are taking place with the Danish authorities. I have explained in detail what contacts with our Danish counterparts have been like since 2019, what contacts have been made at government level and how the government has acted actively on the issue of Lynetteholmen. I think it is inappropriate when you say from the speaker's chair that the Swedish Government does not care at all about people living outside Stockholm. That's about what you said in your first post. I don't think it's serious. I'm trying to answer your question, and I'm going to do it again. I have said that a letter has been sent from the Swedish Government to the Danish Government and also that we are in contact with the Danish Government to book a meeting in the near future.
i-Age8v5pdqTBhDk5sWuMYBh	Madam President, I would like Daniel Riazat has asked me when I will come to the vote and present a legislative proposal at Parliament's table. The issue is the supervision of the provisions of the Non-Discrimination Act in the field of school law. Let me begin by stating that no student should have to be subjected to some form of abuse or discrimination in school. Promoting equal treatment and combating all forms of abusive treatment is an important part of school's work for safety and education. All schools have an obligation under the Education Act and the Discrimination Act to actively combat all forms of abuse in school. As Daniel Riazat points out, in August 2018 the government already appointed the inquiry into certain issues in the Discrimination Act, with the Additional Directive 2019 and 2020, to analyse how the supervision of the provisions of the Discrimination Act regarding the school law-regulated area as a whole can be moved to the Swedish School Inspectorate. The study has submitted an interim report on the school law-regulated area which proposes that the supervisory responsibility for the school law-regulated area of the Discrimination Act be transferred from the Discrimination Ombudsman to the School Inspectorate. The report was referred in spring 2021 and is currently being prepared within the Government Office. I would like to stress that i.e. discrimination should have no place in Sweden and should therefore be combated with society's full power and in all areas of society. The government is constantly considering the need for further efforts to combat discrimination.
i-FPwS4sNkCvwuMzL6ymQ1MR	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for the answer to my interpellation! Since I could not quite see a clear answer, I choose to turn the question around. Madam President, I would like The Swedish school system is unique. In no other country can anyone start a school business with tax funding without equal responsibility for the pupils and at the same time be able to make profits in connection with the fiscal year or in connection with sales. It is a system rather than an exception to have fewer qualified teachers, false grades, segregation mechanisms and market logic. To that we can now add control of girls' and women's clothes. Let me be clear, Madam President. Sexism and patriarchal structures certainly do not apply only to private actors. But when school turns into a market, students also turn into customers and education and knowledge into a commodity. Goods must be marketed, and in that marketing we know that some schools use, among other things, medieval dress rules that mainly affect girls and women. Let me give you an example. Swedish media have recently published a series of publications on widespread problems with sexual harassment and absurd dress regulations at the various schools of the International English School. They have put in systems to control the dress of young girls and female employees. In one of Aftonbladet's publications, the Vice-Chancellor of the International English School in Täby tells us that teachers and employees control the length of girls' dresses and skirts with a special arm test. We have a rule of thumb that says that if the student stands with his arms hanging straight down and with his fist tied, the skirt should not be shorter than the bottom edge of his fist. If the skirt is shorter, we'll have the student touch a couple of leggings. We have black leggings that the students can keep. The rules also apply to staff. There is a ban on T-shirts and blue jeans in the workplace. Shorts, skirt and dress must cover at least half the thigh. The principal felt that there had been no protests from either students or parents. Shortly thereafter, the Express could reveal that there have been protests. Students testified that they have experienced sexualization by the school. The staff said you shouldn't be sexy in school. That's what students tell Expressen. In a report that Swedish Radio has made, former teachers at the International English School tell us the following: a female teacher would like to wear high heels and definitely Finnish shoes. If you were wearing ankle shoes, you had to have a doctor's certificate that you needed it. ..................................................... These medieval and sexist dress rules may only not be allowed in the Swedish school. Both I and the Minister for Education and, I believe, everyone listening to the debate knows that if these revelations and reports had come from some other schools, the consequences and reactions would have been quite different. That's why I asked my question. What does the government intend to do? I also have a specific question which I will come back to in my next speech. But how does the government view the kind of rules that are set up in certain schools? And what concrete measures do we intend to take?
i-JbqqH8ggFG79AzAGmZ8nmV	Madam President, I would like I think it's clear. I want a Swedish school with a focus, namely students' learning. Therefore, I am appalled when I read stories about how students, for example, get very high grades but then testify that they do not have the right knowledge of these grades. I am also appalled when I hear that you control students' clothes so that they will somehow live up to the school's profile or brand. In a school where profit is the goal, the focus is more on how the children appear than they have learned and how they feel. This isn't how we're supposed to be. A student's choice of clothing is a way for that student to express his or her thoughts, opinions and feelings. Measuring the skirt lengths of students does not belong in Swedish school. I want all students to feel free to express who they are, safe in learning what to do. There should be no doubt about this in Sweden. That's why I'm thinking that if we're going to have a school with one focus, we need to remove all the other focus that removes focus from the really important. Both students and guardians should be sure that all resources and focus from politics down to principals, principals and teachers should be on one thing, namely that students should get the right knowledge so that when they become young adults they can step into a market, get a job and start their lives. A stress, press and exclusion school in a market world does not belong here. I think we all realize that we made a big mistake when we put the focus other than the students in school. I'll get back to the discussion about skirt length. It must be the dumbest claim of the century to believe that a 14-year-old with a short skirt when she has taken her master from Handels and will begin her first working day at the bank comes in the same short skirt. Students and young people aren't stupid. But they need to be students and young people.
i-Ct4djCEA9SRBmp3qvpQ7cC	Madam President, I would like Thank you to the Government. I am very pleased that the Government is taking this issue seriously. We share the intention that we might want to change the system. We want to get away from the market logic that has taken over the Swedish school to create a coherent school for all children. We also share the view that this type of dress rules, sexualisation and sexism towards students and staff simply does not belong in the Swedish school. I read among other things at RFSU where they compared how the dress codes rhyme with sex education in the Swedish school. In sex education in the Swedish school, we will teach mainly guys not to carry up the patriarchal structures later in life and not to check for example their future partner. At the same time, we have schools that teach students that we should definitely control women's and girls' clothes. There's something that doesn't make sense here. I believe that measures are needed to get away from this in some way. Today, the Discrimination Ombudsman is responsible for the supervision of discrimination and violations on grounds of discrimination, while the Swedish School Inspectorate is responsible for supervision and measures for other violations in schools. As a result, students are treated differently depending on the basis of the violation. Several previous investigations, as stated in my interpellation and as the Government mentioned earlier from the pulpit, have concluded that there is a need for a change when it comes to the supervision of the grounds of discrimination. The last time it was a SOU with the name More effective supervision of the Non-Discrimination Act – active measures and the school law regulated area. Post-investigation investigation has concluded that the current regime is not working. We know that the School Inspectorate has more muscles and resources to take action than the Discrimination Ombudsman. Nevertheless, the government has not reached a decision on this issue. If I'm not completely wrong, it's next week that it's a bill stop. The government can't put forward any more proposals after that. We are now seeing the abuses in the International English School that have been highlighted and that we know that it is probably not the only one. A change in legislation is once again very topical. We share the idea of what kind of problem it is, and we share the view that it will change. The government has set up investigations that have concluded that the regulatory framework should be changed. I therefore wonder why the government is not putting forward a legislative proposal on which we can decide. I do not think there can be any party in the Swedish Parliament that would like to have a system of medieval dress rules. If that's the case, we'll have to call their cards, too. But I would still think that a majority of the parliamentary parties think that this type of rule is wrong. My question is simply: will the government come forward with a proposal, and when will the government come forward with a proposal?
i-DxXU9UJR63ZctpvKXWB8Sg	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Daniel Riazat once again for highlighting this important issue. As I pointed out before, the case is being prepared right now. It is very important that we look at the answers that have come from the consultation bodies and weigh the pros and cons of any changes. We agree that the Non-Discrimination Act should continue to apply. There are no changes in it. It is now a question of which authority should apply the laws. Then the question is: is it going to pass, or are we going to give clarification to the authority that is now responsible for increasing cooperation and so on? I do not think that young people who go to school should be different depending on the authority involved. We must be neutral here. The law must be applied regardless of whether or not it is under the School Inspectorate. If it doesn't work now, let's look at it so it does. I want to be very clear about that. I believe that we share the view on the basic problem and that it should work. There will soon be a decision on the matter. If it works badly, we will make a change in order for it to be good in this area. An exact date Daniel Riazat won't get from me today. I would like to point out that I believe that the Ministry of Education has broken a record in the number of proposals we have put forward regarding changes. We are now in a position with a very important focus on the reception of young people coming from Ukraine and other countries, so we may have to pull this out. In any case, the law shall apply.
i-8Px2tWhbpXx2rJ2vafGDMw	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Of course, we are in a special situation when it comes to the invasion of Ukraine. I know that the school authorities will have to spend a great deal of time and energy on getting a dignified reception of those students who are on their way to Sweden or who are already in Sweden. We will of course support this work from the entire Riksdag and the Government. At the same time, there are some issues that do not stop because of the situation we find ourselves in. This is such a question. We know from the past that, for example, the organisation Friends, Save the Children and several others have looked at discrimination in school. They have concluded that in recent years, for example, racism has been the main reason why children have been discriminated against in school. At the same time, we have a lot of reports since the whole metoo movement was formed and also later that there are major problems with sexism and sexualization in school. It's just getting more and more. Now, through these good reports, we learned what happened at the International English School. I understand that the Government cannot give me an answer with an exact date. But I would like to remind everyone who listens to this that the referral has now existed for a year. It's nothing new. This is something that the government could have taken decisions on in the past. If the government wants it to go faster, I think in any case the Left Party is open to talk about it and how we can move on with it. Something needs to be done. These medieval methods must not occur in the Swedish school.
i-UhBLNmZUG35CPL8KqNv9DW	Madam President, I would like This is a very important question, and I would like to thank Daniel Riazat very much once again for waking it up. The Discrimination Act is, as I said, Swedish law, and it must be applied regardless of which authority it applies. It may need to be made more known so that it can also be applied to schools where discrimination occurs at all. I would like to take this opportunity to say that I take matters of this kind very seriously. I think students' rights to express themselves are very important. I remember when I was in high school myself. I had the luxury – I can now say – that no one knew if I was a boy or a girl, but I lived in a middle world. If any teacher had come up to me and said that you must not dress like that, I would not be standing here today. We should remember that young people's stress, pressure and exclusion in school plus this that you should be a young person with very little experience of life and be able to be out there and feel safe is very difficult. We're going to take away everything that's stressful, pushing and creating exclusion. And we absolutely should not have an assessment of appearance or other personal expressions in Swedish school.
