i-P3wzv4zjdcjS5c8PL85NSU	Madam President, I would like In SVT, a girl told me that she was locked in and beaten with the hog during the night, when the father discovered that she has a boyfriend: Then he hit me on the head and said he'd kill me with the kitchen knife. ..................................................... Another girl... she doesn't want to get married... she says, "Oh, my mom said, instead of ruining my life, you'd rather die." She put me in the shower with ice-cold water. Then she hit me with a metal sleigh on the shin. And with a cell phone cord over my back like I was a slave. ..................................................... This is happening in Sweden. Legislation exists but does not protect the victims. Strong fire speech on Fadimes's Memorial Day is not enough and does not reduce vulnerability. We must confront oppression. We can do better and we have all the conditions. Liberals want and can take responsibility. That is why we have asked for this debate.
i-8ctgc8SecpG9WJhqVGCJBL	Madam President, I would like We often say that our children are a gift, and they are in a way, but we do not own them. We don't own our children. They are not just some kind of appendage to the family, but they are individuals of their own and they have their own rights. This has been a starting point for Swedish children's and young people's politics for decades, ever since Sweden broke up 50 years ago from the old conservative approach that meant that the family should be governed by a male family head who could control and set up a little as he wanted. The old conservative values had to give way to a progressive family policy based on individual rights. This led to enormous liberation for women, of course, but also for children and young people. It was the Social Democracy that was at the forefront of that development. The rights of children and young people are indivisible and should be respected. It doesn't matter what origin you have, what language you speak or what religion you believe in. You have the right to choose your own way in life, to choose your own love and life partner, and to choose who to marry when that time comes. We as a society have a duty to uphold your rights. Despite this, honor-related violence and oppression is something that affects very many girls and boys in Sweden and that restricts them, destroys their childhood and often notices them for life. It is a particularly atrocious crime because the perpetrators are the ones who really have the task of protecting you, supporting you and helping you out in life. Instead, they commit these crimes against you. It could be your parents. They could be your brothers. They could be your cousins. We, as a society, cannot put our fingers in the middle of this. The law does not halt before the threshold of the home. T worth it! Society has a special responsibility to combat these crimes too and to defend the rights of these children and young people. We have taken a series of measures in recent years to tighten up the legislation and intensify the efforts of the judiciary against honour-related crimes. We have introduced a special penalty base, so that crimes with honorary motives will be punished more severely. It is now used by the courts. An increasingly stringent practice is emerging. We have imposed an exit ban on children and young people who are at risk of being taken abroad for genital mutilation or marriage. It started to be applied already the first week it was introduced. There has been a great need here. We have tightened up the child marriage crime, so that it is enough for a guardian to allow such a marriage to be carried out to be judged. There could be up to four years in prison for that. We have ensured that foreign children's marriages can no longer be approved in Sweden, and we have stopped the possibility of obtaining an exemption to marry if you are under 18 years of age. We have ensured that the police have been able to recruit 350 investigators with a special focus on vulnerable victims, where honour crimes are a part of them. We've made sure the prosecutors have given priority to these crimes. 66 prosecutors with special expertise for these crimes have now been appointed. We have permanently and significantly increased the support to Sweden's girls' and women's shelters. We have increased the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' efforts to bring home children and young people who have been taken abroad to be married away, and we have gone in by almost half a billion SEK to subsidise the municipal care of children and young people who are in distress. These are just a few samples of everything we've done. The next step is to set up a special honorary crime with its own scale of penalties in order to be able to bring further penalties for those crimes. It is similar to what we Social Democrats did 20 years ago when we pushed through the law on the freedom of women to bring up the penalties for violence against women. It was very successful, and now we want to do the same for the crimes of honour. I can assure you that we will continue to push through reforms to combat and prevent honour crimes. Honorary oppression has no place in Swedish society.
i-W4voSACZFdHcuPAvr3WAZB	Madam President, I would like Honour-related violence and oppression take place every day in our country. It does not affect all people and it is not everywhere, but the scale has increased. The problems are greater than before, and there is also a large number of darkness. In Sweden, freedom should apply to all people, women as men, young and old. Decisions about your own life and your own body should be made by the individual, not by self-proclaimed moral policemen who spread a doctrine that is both outdated and oppressive, especially against women, although even boys may be affected. No man, regardless of gender or origin, shall have his freedom curtailed by almost medieval standards. There is talk of family honor being established by forcing others to live in a certain way and by these outdated standards. But in reality there is no honor whatsoever in the culture of honor. There's nothing but shame. Honour culture does not belong in Sweden. It is obsolete, it is offensive to women and it must be fought by all available means. Here the judiciary must step forward and prosecute those involved in this. For one thing should be quite clear: Anyone who is engaged in upholding the oppression of honour should know that in Moderate Sweden they are committing a very serious crime and that it will have tangible consequences. We Moderates have put forward a large number of proposals in this area. There's a need for your own crime rubrication for honor crimes. Today, there is no such specific crime in the Criminal Code, although some crimes committed in the name of honour are criminalised. More recently, attention has been paid to the existence of so - called moral police. Women living in suburbs say that they are forced to comply with informal rules maintained by men, and even to some extent by women, living in the area. It can be about a woman's freedom of movement, her choice of clothes and who she hangs out with. There are reports of women who are not allowed to go shopping in stores. Yes, they are not even allowed to take part in general elections and to exercise their democratic right to vote. The Moderates, therefore, want to criminalise by means of a special crime, unlawful restriction of liberty, that someone by coercion or undue pressure is impelling someone to comply with rules and regulations aimed at upholding the honour of a particular person or group. The crime should be able to lead to prison for three years. We also want to identify the existence of self-proclaimed so-called moral police officers, who maintain informal rules through unwelcome pressure. There should also be an opportunity to ban moral police officers in public places by prohibiting access. Freedom, Madam President, applies to all the people of our country. The culture of honor is despicable. It has no place whatsoever in Sweden. It is time to move from words to deeds.
i-3weyWcKVzjdZ3Douu7GFvW	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking the Liberals, not for their policy of government during the Reinfeldt years, which contributed to the creation of the widespread culture of honour that we see in Sweden today, but for asking for this debate that allows me to highlight the responsibility of the other parties for the repression of honour in our country. We have a situation in Sweden today where the National Board of Health and Welfare estimates that tens of thousands of girls may have been subjected to genital mutilation. Already in 2009 it was estimated that 70 000 people between 16 and 25 years of age were not allowed to choose who to marry. And we've all been able to follow the news reports of far too many murders committed in the name of honor. It is not that the current situation could not be predicted and that it was completely impossible for ruling politicians to grasp the consequences of their policies. For decades Sweden has been affected by the mass immigration that the other parties have known about, accepted and actively worked for. Mass immigration from countries alienated from Sweden based on a variety of factors, including the view of gender equality, women's right to their own body, childhood, child marriage, honorary culture and much more, has unsurprisingly affected Sweden extremely negatively. However, this totally irresponsible immigration, which from day one has been burdened and for all the foreseeable future will burden Sweden economically, culturally and socially, does not constitute the full description of the background to today's problem picture. Immigration has been complemented by an unconditional integration policy. Migrants have been called upon to maintain their cultural characteristics rather than to comply with our standards and values. This has made possible the oppression of honour that we are seeing today. The consequence is that this has spread out in the country. From the beginning, we were the only one to understand that the theory of multicultural society is in conflict with all the values we otherwise hold sacred in Sweden. Today, more people have understood and perhaps experienced the backsides of mass immigration and undemanded integration policies. Madam President, I would like After this introduction, I hope to hear the rest of the parties acknowledge their guilt for the pressure of honour that has been allowed to put their claws in Sweden. I will come back to you in the next speech with our proposals for solutions.
i-8hu6ie5NsoYBhexzvekEkw	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking the Liberals for initiating this debate on one of the most important issues of our time. It is a disaster, an affront, a betrayal – to which Sweden contributes – that thousands and thousands of young women are exposed to this. Young boys and men are also exposed, but in my speech I will refer to women. As long as I've worked here, we've had problems with children who disappear from school. It's become a part of our everyday lives. The words came from the Vice-Chancellor at a school outside Norrköping last autumn. Six students, six children living in Sweden, were gone without the school or anyone else knowing why. Students who don't show up after summer holidays are nothing new. It happens in large and small municipalities around Sweden, and then the school must be equipped to act. SVT reported before Christmas about frightening information about the true face of honour violence. It was testimony that I can barely reproduce about outright abuse, torture and violations. Today's LVU legislation is in place to protect children and young people from violence, threats and harmful environments. It is not there to move children from a threatening environment to another. SVT reported that young people who have been subjected to violence in the name of honour were placed on several occasions on locked Sis-hem – Statens institutionstyrelsen. Sis homes also have addicts and young criminals. Is this appropriate protection for a young woman, a victim of violence? No, we can do better, Sweden. Madam President, I would like A society that allows for a parallel system of values and norms where children and young people are at risk of being abducted on breeding trips, to be maimed or to be married off is not a good society. Adults close to children must be moved early to stand up for their children's rights in accordance with Swedish law, a law on which the Convention on the Rights of the Child is the basis. Honorary oppression is not like any other practice of violence. While other victims of crime can turn to their family or friends for support, it is in the name of honour that network that constitutes the threat, not the support. Not just the family, but the whole circle of acquaintances pose a threat. If society is not there as support, there is no one at all. The young girls are alone. Political leadership is required which is not afraid to strike down on the patriarchal structures, which are the basis for this oppression of women. We need to equip and use civil society. It is at football practice, at the coffee break at work and in the choir that the signs that freedom is limited can appear. Then everyone must know which questions to ask and who to use. However, the responsibility for combating violence in close relations and honour violence lies fully with the public, as is the responsibility for ensuring that victims receive the support to which they are entitled. And that support is not best given in a Sis home.
i-XB736noFM3JKo5uQQqJocc	Madam President, I would like The Left Party takes honour-related violence and oppression very seriously. I and several party colleagues have come close to women who have been exposed and have acted to create protection and support. For me as Umebo, the murder of Sara in 1996 also contributed to this. The Left Party's ambition is that the honour-related violence should be combated as effectively as possible. Legislation must be smart to prevent controlling behaviour. We want to build on the recent proposal of the Svea Court of Appeal in its referral on an alternative criminal code: gross self-determination. So we focus on the meaning of the crimes to the victim. The core must be the violations of imposed restrictions, not the view of the offender. So were the thoughts behind the groundbreaking women's peace crimes. Our proposal is also in line with the Istanbul Convention. There the legal expertise refrained from formulating a crime based on honorary motives. They firmly felt that this was not possible in a legally secure way. The Left Party wants to build on the Court of Appeal's proposal to criminalise acts that impose a certain cultural or religious way of life. And we want to reinforce it by also including acts that impose another similar normative way of life. This includes violence in the name of honour but also other normative coercion in, for example, religious communities, sects or other groups that live under strong normative notions. Too many people are not allowed to live their lives in freedom now. We must never forget Fadimes's words here in Parliament, where she marks what should be self-evident: No matter the culture and cultural background, it should be self-evident for every woman to choose the life she wants. Those words shall apply to all. This is how the Left Party wants to build a serious understanding of violence based on the victims' experiences of violence and repression and to mark the responsibilities of the perpetrator. This is how we want to combat and combat violence and oppression.
i-FKJn4FLf526zsaBNWdGENE	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking the Liberals very much, who have initiated this important debate. I just have to say that the knowledge and drive that Juno Blom has brought into politics after all the years of working against honour repression at the county administrative board in Östergötland is invaluable. So it's been 20 years since Fadime S ahindal was murdered by his own father in a terrible murder of honor. Just a few months before she died, she gave a speech in the Riksdag with which she concluded: But unfortunately, it's not a matter of course for a lot of girls. And I hope that you do not turn your back on them, that you do not turn a blind eye to them. ..................................................... I think we would all like to stand here today and tell them how, 20 years later, we have not turned our backs on them, not closed our eyes, but instead managed to reduce the problem of honour in Sweden with strength and courage and many measures. But we can't say. We have not reversed developments, Madam President. If we had reversed the trend, the National Board of Health and Welfare would not have only published a brochure entitled Information for those who are married to a child a few years ago. We had not heard desperate teachers tell us that when the school starts in the fall several students are missing. We had not had honorary standards at twelve out of thirteen studied preschools in Malmö. 20 years have passed, and the culture of honor continues to oppress both young women and men in Sweden. The Youth Board conducted a survey in 2009 which showed that 70 000 Swedes are not allowed to choose who to marry. In 2014, the police made a survey showing that over 100,000 Swedes live under honorary oppression. In 2017, researchers at Stockholm University estimated that 240,000 people live under the pressure of honor in Sweden. Madam President, I would like Although there has been a step-by-step sobering and several important political proposals have been made, it is too slow. It is for many who have relativised, legitimised and excused the repression of honour, strangely enough often the same people who so strongly defend women's rights in developing countries, such as their right to contraception and safe abortions, but who completely ignore the fact that women are oppressed here too by the same cultural standards. Celebrations in foreign declarations on the one hand – closed eyes to parallel societies on the other. But don't think for a second that people don't exist just because we don't see them.
i-JokeDqm3sEzJZQk6Dzz7EW	Madam President, I would like Honour-related violence and oppression are a serious problem in our country, and to solve it we must understand. When we understand the reality of the vulnerable, we take in what they are actually to be protected from. Our laws and views on children's and women's rights differ considerably from countries from which we have had a large stream of migrants. Still, there is a lack of conversation about the requirements and expectations of you as a parent in a new country. Honorary oppression begins at pre-school age. A report from Malmö describes parents' demands for gender segregation and how small children's bodies are sexualized. They refuse to let their daughters sit on the knees of preschool staff if it's a man. These are demands for brothers to control sisters, indications that cousin marriages are already planned, concerns that genital mutilation has taken place and children being beaten. The staff have no supervision. They navigate between policy documents that say, on the one hand, that preschool should strengthen children in their culture and origin and, on the other hand, that preschool should establish democratic standards and values. On one side of the street, we push for gender-conscious preschools. On the other side, little girls are forced to wear a veil. This is how parallel societies arise. The requirement for segregated teaching at school is then solved with adaptation to the standard system of honorary culture. We stand up for the rights of children, women and LGBT people as long as nobody opposes these rights. But when we face opposition, we falter and adapt. The Convention on the Rights of the Child becomes law. We decide that children of increasing age will have more space to make decisions as their life. At the same time, we accept that teenage girls are forbidden to have relationships and friends. Genital mutilation is serious crime, but we close our eyes to the fact that sexually grafted girls suffer in their loneliness, have difficulty peeing and carry traumas. We are legislating on the possibility of issuing an exit ban. Still, chairs gap empty in the classrooms when children are taken out of the country. We own the right to our sexuality. Yet we watch brothers being forced to control their sisters in order to guarantee their innocence. We have legislation against forced marriage and child marriage. Yet, children and young people are forced into marriage, in some cases with a cousin. We can't judge the perpetrators. They're free. On the contrary, girls seeking help to gain access to their freedom are locked up in the state's frozen accommodations. For others, the efforts are almost non-existent, and the violence of honour can continue. In some cases, the vulnerable receive support and protection, but the interventions to the vulnerable are similar to an empty lottery. The government and the responsible minister look at it and let it happen.
i-DLJ8U5WqN4eoNiESeAfQXr	Madam President, I would like The words that we in the Green Party wrote in our first report on action against honour-related violence and repression ten years ago are equally topical and important today. The Green Party believes that human rights are not compromiseable. The freedom to freely shape one's life is a human right. That freedom includes the right to self-determination and the opportunity to express one's love, sexual orientation and gender identity without fear of discrimination or punishment. This is fundamental to the policy of the Green Party. ..................................................... We cannot accept setbacks for equality. Children's rights apply to all children, and in order to strengthen children's rights in Sweden, we in the Environmental Party have made the Convention on the Rights of the Child a law. Honor-related violence and repression run counter to human rights, women's rights, LGBTI rights and children's rights. The sexualisation of children in preschool and school stands in stark contrast to and is incompatible with the curriculum's wordings on gender equality and counteracting traditional gender patterns. The individual's freedom to develop fully must be at the centre. Twenty years ago, Fadime Sahindal was murdered by his father. Honor killing is the ultimate oppression in the name of honor — the ultimate expression. But long before a parent kills his child, there are social authorities who have seen and heard. Fadime himself, here in Parliament, testified about his situation. We politicians have a responsibility to equip every person who meets children, from preschool, school, social services and the police – every authority – to have that competence. We need to work tirelessly against the basis of oppression and change standards. You can do that. We have seen it before in the struggle for equality and against patriarchal structures in our society, and we in the Green Party will not give up until every child has his or her right to choose his or her own life.
i-GTaHsXrBnsodKpsZDtR8Ci	Madam President, I would like Thank you for an interesting opening round of the debate. First of all, I cannot help reacting to the meagre hypocrisy of the interventions of the Swedish democrats. The truth is that if the Swedish Democrats had had the power to decide, you would have thrown out all the girls and boys who are oppressed. If the Swedish Democrats had been allowed to decide, Fadime would never have been allowed to stay in Sweden. You should have thrown her out. I say again that it is not the crimes of honour that the Swedish Democrats are against, but the immigrants. It is because children and young people have been able to come to a country, Sweden, characterised by social democratic progressive values, marked by freedom and equality, that they have had a chance at all to break free from oppression. If they had been thrown back into their homelands, they would never have had that opportunity. Fadime was such a girl. I remember very well the murder 20 years ago. I was a Member of the House, and I sat on the Committee on Justice with, among others, Nalin Nalin, a Socialist Member. She was Fadimes's friend and support for many years. If you have not read Nalin Nalin's article in Expressen last week, please do so. That's where she draws the background to the murder. Fadime was a Social Democratic – SSU. The labor movement gave her the strength she needed to break free. She is an example, and there are thousands of others who have been able to break away from the honor structures with the support and help of others, not least from associations. This is based on the fact that they can be in Sweden at all. If the Swedish Democrats had the power to decide, they would have gone after the victims. Then the girls and boys wouldn't have a chance to break free. I also welcome the commitment of the alliance parties, and there are a lot of good proposals. However, I cannot help but note that what has happened in this area has happened under this government. During the eight years of the alliance parties at the government, nothing happened. I cannot come up with a single reform that the alliance parties pushed through in terms of honour crimes. Now there are the grounds for a fine, and there are 350 new investigators. Now there is a child marriage crime and the exit ban. In a few weeks, a bill will be presented for a special honorary crime. I look forward to continuing the reform work. I would like to send a question to the forthcoming debate on the problem of religious free schools. The right has backed them up and has been involved in pushing them forward. We Social Democrats are against this development because we believe that they are locking the girls and boys in old conservative structures. What are you going to do with the religious free schools?
i-2kJ2BL3knPLGbZWjasGJJ2	Madam President, I would like I think the Minister of Justice should think about his own act in the meantime in opposition. It was not the case that the Social Democrats in general or Morgan Johansson in particular were particularly proactive in these matters. Unfortunately, it was rather a move in the opposite direction, that is to say, to try to stigmatise those who raised the problems. That's what it looked like. Late, the sinner will wake up. Let us now talk about the future. We know that there are problems with self-proclaimed moral policemen who simply work systematically to force people into the culture of honor and uphold the almost medieval standards. We, on the part of the Moderates, have proposed simply introducing a new crime in this area, which could give three years' imprisonment, and also identifying the extent of the moral police. I wonder why the Social Democrats have voted against the proposal.
i-N4b8ukkKNdBw4edqDNTKRv	Madam President, I would like It is a lie to claim that we did not push the questions into opposition. I was chairman of the Committee on Justice in 2010– 2014, and we went to elections on the grounds of punishment. And that is the basis for the penalty that we have now implemented. I remember very well the discussions that took place at that time. I mentioned earlier the Socialist Member, Mr Nalin. She pushed these questions hard for many years. Another person who ran questions about honour crimes and the grounds for enforcement is Arhe Hamednaca, who was appointed for the Social Democrats in the Committee on Justice. He had a background in Fryshuset and had worked a lot with girls and boys who had been subjected to honor-related crimes. Don't stand here, Johan Forssell, claiming that we Social Democrats didn't push the question when we were in opposition. The problem was that nothing happened in the government office where Johan Forssell himself sat. I cannot mention a single reform that the Moderates managed to push through in their alliance years. The second question I will come back to in the next line.
i-TqeNmq4dVaAqCWGY1HSi42	Madam President, I would like There was no answer to the question, but there was another long history of how good the Social Democrats are and how bad everyone else has been. It might say something about government policy. I'll read a quote for Morgan Johansson: We can never accept that there are moral policemen in certain districts who have views on how women and girls dress and what decisions they make about their lives. The Social Democrats have not taken this seriously enough. ..................................................... Those are not my words, but Magdalena Andersson's words. I would like to repeat the question. If the moral police are such a big problem, why, Morgan Johansson, have you voted against proposals to map the scope and ban them? Why?
i-8qAMT4kYafvnsTAf4WnBEA	Madam President, I would like The moral police question is to be seen in context. It is a question of oppression that is not only about honour but also about the general repression of women. The 40-point programme on men's violence against women reviews the criminalisation of psychological violence and controlling behaviour. It's part of the 40-point program. The fact that we have voted against this particular part of the proposal here is that we have a more far-reaching proposal in the 40-point programme. It's not just about honor, it's also about how men, and others, at all, try to control dress, who you meet and the social context you're part of. Johan Forssell should read on there. I thought he knew that this issue was part of our 40-point program. Name one reform, Johan Forssell, that the Moderates have pushed for in the case of honour crimes.
i-69TdrbueZHSE7sckcVQ9Sc	Madam President, I would like That oppression of honour is a widespread problem, we know that. Exactly how many are affected, in what way and to what extent, on the other hand, we have little control. A few years ago, researcher Astrid Schlytter estimated that approximately 250 000 young people in Sweden are suffering from honourary oppression. The number of darkness is also considered to be large. Moreover, the figure of a quarter of a million victims affects only young people. Madam President, I would like There seems to be a political consensus to act against the oppression of honour. There are some different approaches and proposals, but basically we all seem to want to combat it. At least all parties express it. However, to do this in the best possible way requires a good knowledge base. Will Morgan Johansson take measures to strengthen the knowledge base, for example by commissioning relevant authorities to annually map how many are affected?
i-TK6QPSWMBcX6smSzQ3h9RN	Madam President, I would like There is a wide range of tasks for different authorities to identify, but of course also to act. We know the problem exists. My question to Tobias Andersson, now that I have him here, is why you want to throw out the victims. That is, after all, the line of the Swedish democrats. You have never wanted neither the boys nor the girls who are oppressed to be in Sweden. Why do you want to throw out victims, Tobias Andersson?
i-L1oqQVHYEtuqYDTNoSWWdT	Madam President, I would like We don't want that. On the other hand, we want to throw out the perpetrators. Morgan Johansson can answer why he wants to keep them. The question was why you haven't mapped this better. I'm afraid we don't have that basis. We don't have that knowledge base. The Social Democrats have failed to produce this kind of basis. Individual researchers and organisations have tried to identify the problem of honor, but the government has failed. At the same time, we know that the Social Democrats have touched upon the monopoly of voters in the immigrant suburbs, who are affected by the oppression of honour. The Social Democrats have never wanted immigrants to adapt to Sweden and become part of our society. Then there would be a risk that they would abandon the dependency on subsidies that the Social Democrats wish to keep them in. It is easy to believe, if you are conspiratorial, that the Social Democrats' desire to maintain the monopoly on the electorate has led to the fact that they have not made the demands necessary for it to emerge from the oppression of honour.
i-3te5M167LRKgDnxRVjbupB	Madam President, I would like That's a completely twisted argument, isn't it? But it is also Sweden's old common combination of class hatred and immigrant hatred. It is not that someone wants to keep someone else in some dependency for the sake, not in any way. On the other hand, it must be ensured that people can be helped out of their dependency in different ways and that they can get support and help in order to break free. That is precisely why we Social Democrats have so much support in the vulnerable neighbourhoods. There are almost no other parties there. It is we who are in the vulnerable areas because those who live there know that it is we who can actually make sure to hold Sweden together and help integrate people into Sweden. That is why we have this support. Of course, we will never give up our values when it comes to oppression of honour or anything else. On the contrary, as I said and as Fadime was an example of, we will help to break people out of this oppression. We do this concretely in everyday life in a way that no other parties do.
i-EewmBbrK2qBzZgFguc8xP7	Madam President, I would like As a point within the framework of the January Agreement, the Center Party and other parties decided that no public funds should be paid to associations or religious communities carrying out child marriages or sanctioning other honour-related crime. This is an extremely important point in the fight against honour-related violence. To be honest, you don't have to look very long on the websites of different associations or organisations to discover very tricky formulations that don't always rhyme very well with established Swedish politics. As far as I can tell, the government has worked on these issues with no less than three different investigations and referrals. My question is what is happening on this issue. When will the necessary changes and possible legislative changes be in place?
i-YJAXKwiKKUNUTxCfNQ7XH9	Madam President, I would like There is a specific proposal that came last year. It's the Department of Culture that prepares it. The proposal is to set up a specific centre of excellence at CVE, i.e. the Centre against Violent Extremism, to be able to look at what organisations are seeking public funding. I think there is quite a lot that needs to be done there. It turned out not least when they made impact in Gothenburg that there was a lot to pull in and question when it comes to which organisations get this money. That investigation exists. It should be sent out for a referral. It's the Department of Culture that handles it. When the consultation period ends, I look forward to the government being able to go to Parliament with proposals on this. I think that CVE, the Centre against violent extremism, is the natural institution to take care of this, but we will see what the referral bodies say.
i-J3ozPRa5xtSzD4Nq22M8P9	Madam President, I would like Good information! But I would also like to refer to the General Heritage Fund. We were reached earlier by a report that the National Heritage Fund had reviewed an association in Borlänge after a brave young girl protested against women's oppression and clan thinking in the association. It was after a seemingly difficult investigation of a case that the National Heritage Fund basically told the association how to write its rejection of the individual event – it was about her washing the toilets because she was a woman – without the young woman even being contacted by either the association or the National Heritage Fund. Now, if I understand correctly, the General Heritage Fund will perhaps be given the important task of ensuring that there is a democratic condition for the Fund to pay out grants. How does the government ensure that the review carried out by the General Heritage Fund is carried out in a correct and qualitative manner, both now and after a democratic condition for the provision of grants is introduced?
i-Dmob1W2oWTSBPmtwc4K2AF	Madam President, I would like Yes, it would be good if those rules could be tightened up somewhat so that we also introduce a democracy condition. It's not my business-- I don't own that issue as a minister-- but I can see that there is a need. If this is to be done, an ongoing dialogue with the relevant authority will normally be conducted to see how this is followed up. When it comes to reviewing organisations as such– then it is a lot about municipal grants– I think that the structure we will set up on CVE and the skills we will build up there could also handle the General Heritage Fund's grant. But it will have to take place in the further process. Our ambition is simply to tighten the rules.
i-FaCq4dXvSSMubkH74oJdo	Madam President, I would like In July 2020, a ban on the exit of persons threatened by forced marriages was made possible, as the Government said in its speech. It is an important measure, but it is not enough. The Christian Democrats have long worked to introduce a special unit against forced marriage in the police after the British Forced M inheritance U rit model. Such a unit may issue an order in the UK that if the police suspect that a person is being taken away, the person must be returned and presented to the police within 48 hours – otherwise the parents will be punished. It has had a strong preventive effect in the UK, where nearly 900 such orders have been issued. I wonder, Madam President, why the Government does not think this is a model worth trying here in Sweden too.
i-F75yBL3skQYvzUy1QmKWfb	Madam President, I would like The order we have is similar; it is only that it is the Ocial Board that decides on this. Then the police pull in the passport for this child so that you do not have the opportunity to travel abroad. This was used from the first week when we introduced the legislation. Then came the first decisions. I think we are now up to between 35 and 40 such decisions since this was introduced, which is a good thing. But in the Swedish model and the Swedish system it is the ocial board that decides on this. I do not see any advantage in placing the right of decision on the police. It is the ocial board that knows the conditions behind and that makes these investigations. I think that's a good model. Of course, we are also in the process of evaluating the exit ban to see if it can be extended to other situations. Then perhaps you can look at efficiency as such.
i-2oTr3NFoA95TwGAaCKMM9c	Madam President, I would like I thank Morgan Johansson for his answer. I would say that it is not quite the same and that it is not just another authority. Norway has introduced a similar model with close collaboration with identified embassies and collaboration between the police and the embassies in order to prevent young girls from being married off against their will. I think, once again, that it is worth doing the same. We Christian Democrats also want to introduce a similar system to combat genital mutilation, which is serious crime. With the help of a health certificate or, if you wish, a protection letter, when travelling to your home country, you should be able to show clearly that genital mutilation is prohibited by Swedish law and show that the parents are responsible and will be judged according to Swedish law even if genital mutilation takes place in a country other than Sweden. This is a model that has been effective in France. When the government is now running and is going to turn stones, one should not forget examples from other countries but dare to try them out. It can't go on like this.
i-KXJTzMJmZWStk7LCQHxY7V	Madam President, I would like As I said, we have an ongoing evaluation of the exit ban in order to possibly extend it further. I suppose this is a question that you can look at within the framework of it. It should be remembered that it was a major reform with the grounds of punishment, the ban on exit, the child marriage crime and everything else we did during the last term of office. We will certainly have to come back to this in the coming years to see how the legislation works and whether we need to strengthen it further in order to better tackle these crimes. As I was in my opening speech, we have also spent special money on the Ministry for Foreign Affairs in order for them, in cooperation with their embassies, to be much more active than before in helping to get those who are well taken out of the country. There was no such activity under previous governments, but we have it now.
i-FXwq3Jn83RBiZJNLVfrt1J	Madam President, I would like I agree with the Government's view of how important it is for all children, all girls and all young people when they come to Sweden to have access to their fundamental rights and freedoms and the right to break free. Morgan Johansson took Fadime as an example. What happened there was the other way around. She wanted to break free but did not get the support required of society. She went to the media to try to get protection, and then she was murdered. I have to say that I think many of the laws we have made are great. You must be really frustrated, Morgan Johansson, that it then doesn't turn out the way it was supposed to be. The Social Insurance Agency's report mentions the absence of 10,000 children. It was linked to welfare money. I think, of course, that this too is wrong, but I wonder how the government is now moving on to find out where these children are. It is something that I ponder very much about and have a deep concern about.
i-3t9rjivsELSE5yCtNR8sCK	Madam President, I would like Frustration can always be felt. There are two emotions. You can be proud of what you have done, not least of what we have done together. That is the case – many of the reforms that have been made in recent years are things that we have worked together on and things that I believe have been effective. Children's marriage crime and the grounds for aggravation are used by Swedish courts; they spend time on sentences when there is an honorary motive. The exit ban is being used concretely, and there are also further reforms. In a few weeks' time, there will also be a separate report for the crimes of honour. So I feel pride, but of course there is always frustration – there is always more to do. I have also reacted to this with missing children. Here, a better system for registering and how the school reacts when these things happen must be established. There must then be reports of concern to the Social Welfare Board as soon as possible. I am sure that system needs to be reviewed further.
i-2zrVko2nudfJbVS4pp3u6F	Madam President, I would like I do not share the view that I received an answer. If I had sat as a minister or in a government and found out that we didn't know where 10,000 were, I would have turned on every alarm bell in the world. The legislation is good, but it is not that this legislation provides protection for children and young people that it is intended to provide. What this is all about is that you have to have an overall picture. I think you've come up with good laws, Morgan Johansson, but I can see that your government collegues are sleeping pretty well on these issues. This means that the whole thing is missing. I really hope you move on with that part. I'd like to ask you a direct question linked to cousin marriage. You brought up Fadime. We know that many children and young people are being promised away early. There are difficulties; you want to control that your son really marries a virgin. Here, conditions are improving and opportunities are increasing. This is one of the great freedom situations of our time. Is the government prepared to go forward with investigating a ban on cousin marriage?
i-X6BH4bFyjsQXRjrGeP4mxm	Madam President, I would like Of course, when it comes to not knowing where children have gone, social authorities must be involved. This can only be done by, for example, the school or fritis making complaints. There may be a lot of legitimate reasons – which have nothing to do with honour at all – that someone is no longer in Sweden, but then it still needs to be checked. This can be done locally by the municipality in charge of it. I am happy to push this issue forward with my colleagues to make sure that we get sharper there. We've been thinking about the question of cousin marriage. Banning adults to marry someone is a pretty big step to take. As far as I know, this ban is barely in any other EU country; I believe that some one country does. But we have no plans to go there.
i-Trb1y1YGFL6hScdSTSGDcC	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by recalling that the Alliance Government did indeed include honour-related violence and repression as a category of its own in the action plan that was presented on men's violence against women. It was in 2007 that the Alliance Government did this. I agree with Magdalena Andersson that the Social Democrats have not taken these problems seriously enough. This is true in general, and perhaps in particular, of those self-proclaimed moral policemen who restrict people's freedom – in particular, the freedom of many women – and maintain informal rules through these unwelcome pressures. We have been putting forward proposals for this in Parliament for several years. It has been about developing sharper legislation to criminalise this and see what it is: a serious crime. There is nothing that belongs in Sweden; there is no discussion about this. There's nothing extenuating about this. Anyone who does this should know that there will be a very clear consequence and severe punishment. It has also been about identifying how big the problems really are. Unfortunately, we have not received a majority for this – among other things, the Social Democrats, Morgan Johansson's party, have voted against it. We hope there will be a change in the future. This is not the only thing that needs to happen, Madam President. We need improved opportunities to protect the victims and investigate the crimes. The work of social services in this area must be strengthened and confidentiality reduced. In addition, measures against forced marriage and marriage trips need to be further strengthened. There are countries that have gone further than Sweden in this and that have the opportunity to act more proactively in relation to relatives. This already exists in the UK, for example, and it also needs to be implemented in Sweden. We also need even more stringent legislation on virginity checks to make it clear that this is a very serious crime. Both the person carrying out the check and the person who takes the initiative for it – it could be a parent or a relative – should be able to be convicted of crime. Freedom should apply to everyone. It is time for us to move from words to deeds.
i-2VFzvLVTiJbVv4nFBjgjrf	Madam President, I would like Last time the Moderates had the government power they worked under the slogan of the work line. The work line was about everyone working except women with small children. At that time, they agreed to the Christian Democrats' custody allowance, which they have now named as childcare allowance. It worked so that women with young children were paid with a little money that was not pensionable and that you couldn't live on without being dependent on a man. Women with immigrant backgrounds who were far from the labour market received the child care allowance to a greater extent. You could have it to be with your children for years. This goes against all the knowledge we have about how to prevent honor-related violence. The mothers have to go to work. Will the Moderates repeat this policy if they decide again?
i-Fuh7uvcE6k5ZWYRHpgwEh6	Madam President, I would like This debate is about honour-related violence and oppression. It is about how freedom is taken away from a great many people in our country and how they are subjected to terrible things and medieval values. Then the Green Party chooses to talk about custody allowance. To me, Madam President, this illustrates that the Green Party unfortunately still does not understand the problems and their scale or where we are. This is, with all due respect, a very peripheral question. We Moderates believe in freedom of choice. We believe that families look different and think that there should be an opportunity to decide for themselves – the concept that so many politicians on the left have so much difficulty with, because they are not allowed to decide over everyone but you make that kind of decision yourself. We will continue to stand up for that policy. However, in this particular case, the honour-related violence and repression, we will be crystal clear in a completely different way from what this government has managed to be.
i-LibWgVn2BjLznbz6fH3sKE	Madam President, I would like It is obvious that neither Johan Forssell nor his party The Moderates understand the connection between patriarchal structures and honor-related violence and oppression. There is research – I will make sure that Johan Forssell can take part of it and read it – which shows that if we get the mothers to work, the honour-related oppression of the children will be reduced. We need to take this seriously. There are many serious consequences of us subsidising women as housewives and becoming dependent on their husbands. One of them is about the honour-related violence and repression. I ask again: will the Moderates enforce the Christian Democrats' childcare allowance to subsidise more housewives in the group where the honour-related violence occurs?
i-5JJNvdDnXePmF9i1iuAfiw	Madam President, I would like It is quite clear that the Green Party does not understand the problems at all. That is also what we have been able to see in the Green Party and the government's policy a great deal over these years. Perhaps this very tone of voice from the Green Party explains why the government has not acted any more. The problem is not that families can choose for themselves, but that there are moral police officers who uphold norms and values from the 1300s in our country. There should the Green Party have something to say, right? But apparently it is precisely freedom of choice that frightens the Green Party. As I said in my previous line: We Moderates will continue to stand for the opportunity to make different decisions themselves. We are also representatives of the work line. After all, we put forward – and continue to present – tax incentives so that the very mothers that the Green Party is calling in here would have easier access to work. The Green Party has voted against this. Time and again they have said no to just those things. It is easy to say that people should get into work, but when it comes to practical and concrete action, the Green Party has voted against it time and again.
i-9GBVJ1eJF41VpMtvGzxbcS	Madam President, I would like I have listened to the Moderates and hear that they focus very much on repressive measures, which I think is common in their policies. Now the Moderates, above all, highlight moral policemen and at the same time mark freedom to families. But where do these moral policemen come from? Possibly it is an effect of what has been allowed in different families that makes the moral police exist. Then my questions are: should we not at all try to think about how we prevent this? What is our responsibility in Sweden as a recipient country for conveying the view we have on gender power and the desired gender equality?
i-85byG2gWicx8f1cuSZCJLB	Madam President, I would like It is true that we Moderates are tough on those who commit this kind of crime. We are based on our philosophical conviction: if freedom is to be great in a country, there must be a very clear framework. This is about choosing to take freedom from someone else. That's how it works. More freedom for a person to decide means less freedom for someone else. In that part, it's a zero-sum game. Then it must have a clear consequence. Otherwise we get a society where it is always the strong one's right that goes first in front of young guys' rights, young girls' rights etcetera. It is a society which, unfortunately, has already largely been given to us. Then the world looks different. Standards that are fully legitimate in other parts of the world are not so in Sweden. For example, we have pointed out that when people come to Sweden they should provide clear information much earlier than today about what applies here and what laws and rules exist, for example linked to citizenship.
i-M1RcDkTivsXdcbEz52VLxm	Madam President, I would like I suppose we agree that the person who commits a crime should be able to take responsibility. But that is not what my question was about, but about us trying to act as wisely as possible to prevent crime. Then it's about broad stakes. We've had a panorama of problem images here before. It's about social services, preschool and school. But it is also about the introduction when people come to Sweden. I am generally concerned that we are putting a great deal of responsibility on those who come and think that almost everyone is prepared to commit crimes. I personally know many who have chosen Sweden and hoped to come to Sweden and stay here for the sake of gender equality. The children have had to bear the fruits of it and grow up with an equal life. But that should apply to all who come.
i-QDk5WU74ks8PXEHSqWa1Kj	Madam President, I would like There Gudrun Nordborg and I are in complete agreement. The Swedish gender equality and the freedom it entails are fantastic. We'll take care of it. That is precisely why this is so extremely serious. For many people in our country, it is not freedom that applies, but norms and values that belong more in the Middle Ages than in Sweden in 2022. It is in itself crime prevention if people experience and understand that it is a consequence of committing a crime. However, as I also said earlier, we have, for example, pointed to citizenship and the possibility of making demands for people to understand and acknowledge what applies. As far as asylum seekers are concerned, we already pointed out in the agreement we made in 2015, I would like to remember that it was, that there should be mandatory public information when you come and apply for asylum in Sweden. It is a work that has taken a very long time. Of course, it is possible to do both, and that is precisely the combination that is needed if we are to be successful in the long term.
i-W7DyceWHMz5uTfQNn67ZKi	Madam President, I would like As I explained in my previous speech, the Swedish Democrats lack the guilt for the developments that have taken place. Nevertheless, we have a number of proposals on how to reverse this trend. At first, an annual survey of honour-related violence and oppression is needed. There is a lack of comprehensive data. We need an intensified information campaign on honour repression, not least in order for those suffering from repression to know for themselves where to turn, but also to make close relatives, school staff and others better aware of warning signs before it is too late. The transfer of knowledge would also aim to reach both active and passive perpetrators by Swedish law and Swedish norms and values. There should be no doubt as to what applies. We need a zero tolerance against the discrimination of pupils based on cultural or religious beliefs, a ban on minors wearing veils in public activities and a ban on Muslim free schools. These measures do not conjure away the oppression of honour in the home, but in symbiosis with a boost in knowledge and improved cooperation between schools, social services, police and others, more people at risk of oppression of honour would be noticed and measures could be taken. The Swedish Democrats supported the initiative for the new child marriage crime and the exit ban for them at risk, and we continue to make political proposals that could have bearings and improve in this area.
i-MntDgBixdHTfJdgngbsUqS	Madam President, I would like I thank Tobias Andersson for his speech. One proposal that the Center Party has pushed in parliament but for which we have not received the majority is to criminalise what we call controlling behaviour, that is, systematic violations for control purposes that may not be considered criminal in themselves but which, taken together over time, shift the limit of what is reasonable in a healthy relationship. It is valuable to capture situations like this before it goes too far, for it gives the condemned one the opportunity to participate in relapse prevention programs and the victim a better opportunity to start a new life. That the then government parties said no to this can be understood, and perhaps you do not want any more announcements. But my question to the Swedish Democrats, who often make a number of them tough on crime and who never hesitate to come forward with repressive proposals – although I actually heard many preventive proposals – is: Why do you say no to criminalising controlling behaviour?
i-3cosSnquNetG24MXAuNJ6p	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats want to criminalise the repression of honour. We have been behind the initiative for a special criminal classification for this, and we look forward to the government returning with a bill despite the criticism of the Law Council. Against this background, we consider that we already have policies covering the problems that the Center Party and others wanted to tackle with this particular proposal. Moreover, it is my view that the way the proposal was drafted in the committee's report would have been difficult for the courts to convict anyone. I judge from what I have explained that, as I said, we have and have long had more than enough policy to tackle the current problem.
i-Hse4JvSh8RAVyq3nEtViRk	Madam President, I would like Of course, I do not share that assessment. I believe that a criminalisation of controlling behaviour could be much more preventive. There is such a law in Britain, and for two years 9 000 people were prosecuted, although not as many were convicted. I mean, a team provides a good incentive to work pre-emptively. The Swedish Democrats' budget motion, which also represents this year's budget, removes the Delegation against segregation. This may seem strange because the agency is tasked with working against honour-related violence in vulnerable areas. How does this make sense for the Swedish Democrats in view of today's discussion and debate?
i-X4wv4nHxuBnePRkrmWLqJn	Madam President, I would like The honourable Member is not given the opportunity to explain how the proposal on controlling behaviour is not covered by the proposal for a special classification for honour crimes. I believe that the latter is exhaustive in this respect. As far as Delmos is concerned, our view is that the Authority did not fulfil the intended function. There was a small task that touched on just that, but in general quite different things were touched upon. In the run-up to this debate, I was on the website and found that millions were allocated but only published two debates. I had as many articles published on a day last week, so I am not impressed by Delmos's work. The very individual project that could have been positive, the government could easily have moved to the county administrative boards, but they chose instead to try to pick political points at the expense of honour.
i-DEv8tHMLLNoG8FzAbVBEgk	Madam President, I would like For the sake of history: I have devoted my entire working life to combating honour-related violence and oppression, or, as I myself say, to giving every child the right to a life free from all forms of violence and oppression. The reason why I chose to get involved in the Liberals before the last election was Nyamko Sabunis's fantastic work. At a time of extreme headwind, she put the question on the map, highlighted this work, and made incredible efforts. So it is not true that nothing happened. Nyamko Sabuni has now developed a suburban lift to make people feel that they both belong to and contribute through demands as well as expectations. What is the Swedish Democrats' idea of how children, young people and adults should become part of society in line with the suburban lift we have developed?
i-fyTwg8xr3NPghNm8LgcaZ	Madam President, I would like Although I do not have much left for the Liberals in my day-to-day life, I believe that the Liberals have a good policy in this area. The criticism that I announced earlier in the speaker's chair concerned primarily the alliance government, and both me and Morgan Johansson believe that it was done too little at the time. I think you can be self-critical here, although the Liberals may have been the party that did the most. Today, however, we agree on many proposals in this area. When it comes to a suburban lift, the most important thing for Sweden's democrats is that from day one demands those who have come and come to Sweden to adapt to Swedish values and norms and that it is possible for them to be included in Swedish society so that we can all share values and norms and thus live together in a better way than today.
i-XWDYjWsyPfqf1wDbSrsfAv	Madam President, I would like I usually say that it is important that everyone is entitled to their origins but that we must be super clear when acts are criminal. It is never possible to defend human rights violations with either culture, tradition or religion. However, I believe that a country is developing because we are very different. Let me ask you the same question as Minister Morgan Johansson. The Social Insurance Agency identifies 10,000 children as missing. I share the Government's view that not all of these are victims of honour violence. But I'm deeply amazed that you don't want to know where every child is – for me it's my whole mission. How do you see that there are 10,000 children who should be here, going to school and getting access to our society but who are not here? What work do the Swedish Democrats think needs to be done to get them back here?
i-Q94FfJHqrAXoxEBQHvSQ3e	Madam President, I would like I agree that it is reprehensible and that Swedish politicians in government have done far too little to combat honour repression in general. Perhaps this is the ultimate example of how this can affect individuals. The Swedish democrats are behind the exit ban for those who are at risk, and we have strong proposals on how to punish those who are part of not only the repression but also in relation to, for example, virginity checks and potential exits. We believe that these types of crimes should be a reason for expulsion from Sweden. In this case, the government has broken. Far too little has been done to get to the bottom of the issue of honour and also for these children. I share this criticism with the Liberals, but it should primarily be addressed to Morgan Johansson and colleagues.
i-VggUaqgc3ZeJkSHsjFGMiT	Madam President, I would like As we have heard, several pieces of legislation have come into place as the Center Party and the other parties concluded the January Agreement. I would like to mention that social services can now prevent children from being taken abroad if there is a suspicion of genital mutilation or forced marriage. It's a very good change of law. But let us ask the question: Are parents who plan to take their children abroad for this purpose really suitable parents? It is an issue that I think needs to be raised in a forthcoming evaluation of the law, which I think needs to be done relatively soon. The knowledge of those who meet with honor must be found throughout the country. Not least, the right skills need to be available continuously in all seven police regions of the country. The same applies to prosecutors. There must be prosecutors with specialist expertise in all prosecutor's chambers. In order to tackle the fundamental mechanism of honour-related violence and repression, as I said, we want controlling behaviour to be criminalised. But above all, it is about school, where all children and young people are located, and which is the place where the oppression of honour often becomes visible. In addition to broad knowledge efforts for school staff, not just teachers, where a reinforced six- and cohabitation education that addresses honorary oppression, pornography and violence in close relationship is the foundation, there needs to be action plans against honorary oppression in primary and secondary schools. All staff at school must have the knowledge to see and capture the oppression of honour. The Center Party believes that a national absence register is necessary. We need to be able to see the reasons for the absence. If it does not work with today's legislation, we must change it. We can't turn our eyes off the empty benches after summer vacation. Honour-related violence and violence against women require the same attention, the same agitation and the same commitment as gang crime and killings. Above all, we need to move from words to deeds, together.
i-WRL2TH8R9zyoZqJyeoKyZe	Madam President, I would like As early as 2003, it was noted that ten Muslim free schools had very large abuses as part of their education. Over the years, examples have come to see how to exclude girls with menstruation from parts of the education, how sports education takes place gender-separated and how to treat young girls and boys differently within the framework of the school in different ways. This is something that the Swedish Democrats have been problematizing for a long time, and we are proposing a ban on Muslim free schools. In the light of what we know and in the light of the problems in terms of funding, how the school is run and various types of abuse, which can not least be part of a broader culture of honour and a repression of honour that goes all the way into school: Will the Center Party act?
i-77oGYAizsjdHDPNPdbCdq7	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to make it clear that the examples mentioned by the Swedish Democrats are quite appalling. It's terrible that schools behave like that. We recently had two examples in a nearby municipality, Örebro, where two free schools have been closed. I am pleased that these opportunities exist, and I am very pleased that we are discussing whether it will even be easier to close free schools. I think there are reasons and arguments enough. The authorities that carry out inspections should also have greater muscles to review the economy when you see that the hourly plan is not to the fullest of Swedish legislation. But no, we are not yet prepared to impose a ban on religious free schools.
i-QUvJcPBCocXPbZuREaNp1N	Madam President, I would like I thank Helena Vilhelmsson for her reply. I understand from the debate that this is not the opinion of the Center Party, but it is my view that one cannot be for Muslim free schools on the one hand and, on the other hand, be fully opposed to the repression of honour on the other. I think there is a contradiction in this. I haven't seen many good examples. On the contrary, it seems to be more the rule than the exception that Muslim free schools engage in mismanagement and to be allowed to be a part of honorary repression against young girls and girls. We have heard of examples where parents have called preschools and asked how their children behave, whether they dress as they are expected, and so on, and where some schools have actively assisted parents in exercising oppression even during school hours. Why does the Center Party not want to review shutdown or at least ban the start-up of Muslim free schools?
i-TfwLgmDMH2PzS9zfoKp5MW	Madam President, I would like Once again, I would like to emphasise that the examples raised by the Swedish Democrats are totally unacceptable. Today, we have the freedom to start schools, and it should be linked to an enormous amount of responsibility and a huge opportunity for control by the public, because it is public money that is being used. I do not really have the same picture, that it is a certain category of schools that generally do not meet the requirements. It's not like that. Of course, there are Muslim free schools that do their job well. But if it doesn't work, we have to take the next step. We can certainly discuss how to approach new applications in the future, but the important thing is that there is continuous and strong control from the public sector.
i-6jSuRZGx1nPTotMgwdfqqD	Madam President, I would like I very much share Mrs Vilhelmsson's view of the importance of the school. I also think it is incredibly important that we have a sex and cohabitation education where one sees the special conditions that children in an honorary culture have. On the other hand, I believe that the big dilemma for teachers, social workers, police officers and government officials around is that knowledge is too low. It is one thing to understand what honor-related violence is, but it is something else to understand the context in which children and young people live and to see how this affects the individual. For this reason, the Liberals believe that it is important to develop a national knowledge boost, but primarily to target national authorities, for they are the ones who will produce guidance material. I know from my own experience that the knowledge is lacking there. So we want to give taxpayers' money to the authorities to produce material, but they themselves do not master the issue. How does Mr Vilhelmsson view this?
i-DPzQc7UcZPsE8xa8W4vVhz	Madam President, I would like If I understood the question correctly, there is a gap. We can impose things on schools, which, of course, we do. We have included in our motions that there should be a boost in knowledge for those who come into contact with honorary. The question that arises is how do you do it? How will teachers cope with this too? One step is to make an action plan so that at least you have done it and know who to contact. If the Liberals' question concerns further support in this, I believe that the national authorities – we do not control SKR – should of course be able to provide support, and we can oblige them to support and produce educational material. I'm not sure if that was the answer to the question.
i-FTeLZ6Pv4yqrNiEUyjQ3Jz	Madam President, I would like No, it wasn't really. I may have expressed myself unclearly. We'll take it educationally. In order for the teacher out there to have the best opportunities to do his job, the teacher must be supported in the job. I have experience of what it looks like today by being in charge of the support phone. There were many educators who really wanted to do something and who pushed on who called there. They had been criticized for what they had done. Unless principals, managers and national authorities understand, teachers do not get sufficient skills and support in their work, and it does not matter how much we impose on them. Moreover, we are not using taxpayers' money correctly when we give assignments to national authorities to develop a job that they themselves do not really master and understand. Then we believe that a national knowledge boost is needed for them to be able to do a better job and provide support so that children have greater rights.
i-GgXaZ5UUa3LJ6xBKdRo78N	Madam President, I would like My brief answer is that I think the Liberals are quite right on this issue. To the extent that we would not find in future proposals the current wording that we can go forward with such a proposal, we will of course change it. It is quite right that if it is the case that dedicated teachers see and can define the problems and seek help and support about what to do and do not get it, there is something that is lacking very much. Then we have to make sure that their bosses and decision-making authorities do what they're supposed to do. There we must find the right way forward, and I am convinced that we can do so together.
i-HXzv63sJJRSk8fw8zbCgq	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin my speech by saying that I think that already during this debate things have emerged that we from the Left Party have been underlining for a long time. It is about a lack of competence in terms of violence in general but also a lack of competence in terms of violence in the name of honour. These things are, of course, interrelated. It is also about the need to provide information to new arrivals who come to Sweden. As I mentioned earlier, we should not assume that everyone carries these strong patriarchal values. There are those who come here with joy and hope to see an equal country in Sweden. Then it's about how to handle matters in the best way. There's a lot of roads. I would like to highlight preventive work as the most important. But we must also have legislation that responds to needs and reactions. I usually say that law is frozen politics. In this House, we can decide on the content of the legislation. But we shouldn't have completely free hands. We should think twice so that a wise policy leads to good legislation. It must, of course, respect fundamental needs of the rule of law and human rights. There we want to question a little bit the thoughts that exist about a specific crime, which is aimed solely at honour. Like the Center Party, we have exercised that controlling behaviour should be regulated as a crime of our own. I mentioned in my first speech how we in the Left Party think that we should get a sharper wording of the intended criminalisation.
i-DdBhVYcLSdqyYSpfzFcAEb	Madam President, I would like The Left Party and Nooshi Dadgostar personally chose to during the week, when it was 20 years ago that Fadime S ahindal was honor-buttered, express frustration and hatred against honour oppression. There were many of us who did. However, what caused a little bit in me and others was that the Left Party's play on the 20th anniversary of Sweden's most acclaimed honour killings did not match the way the Left Party acted after this murder. Within a week of the murder, Young Left demanded the resignation of the then Minister of Integration Mona Sahlin, who felt that she had expressed a fundamentally racist view when she had very correctly stated that the murder took place in an honorary cultural context. Does the Left Party consider that they have been guilty that this issue has not been debated sufficiently, early enough?
i-U8NDgZ5XiH2Y9utBxKqKZf	Madam President, I would like I find it difficult to comment on what Young Left did much earlier. But I think that we in the Left Party have stood up and tried to act against all forms of violence and oppression, including honour-related violence and repression. Then it is in different ways, if you focus on only honor-related violence and oppression or if you see that we are also not free in Swedish society from both values and actions characterized by a patriarchal way of thinking and men's power over women and children. However, there is still much to be done there, and I can see nuances in the debates that we need to tighten up.
i-RaX8cwAARTCjnqzvo2aoNG	Madam President, I would like I still think you can blame Young Left for how they acted after the honor killing on Fadime. I also think that a link can be made from Young Left's actions to the Left Party, because Nooshi Dadgostar himself soon after became vice-chairman of the same youth association and in that role, among other things, participated in interviews with the chairman of the Young Muslims of Sweden, an Islamic organisation that is definitely part of this. I therefore believe that the Left Party has repeatedly chosen to equate criticism of honour repression with racism. Together with other forces, we have actively put a wet blanket over the debate by using the words of expediency about those who dared to point out the obvious. Can the Left in this debate acknowledge its guilt that we did not take the necessary measures in the past to curb the development that has now been allowed to take place?
i-2Yz5k8KU1VDzLnADSWqJFL	Madam President, I would like On the Left side, I cannot see that it is racism. On the other hand, it can be seen that it is sometimes a question of identifying ethnic groups. I do not call these questions racist. But I think that the Swedish Democrats are very good at just marking against Muslim society and against Muslim thinking, which is not at all the same as acting or thinking about honor-related violence and oppression. Honour-related violence and oppression are found in a variety of religions, cultures and ethnic groups. It does not belong, as you would say, to the Muslim. There are no similarities. Then I might think that the Left Party, like everyone else, could have taken further responsibility for dealing with issues of violence and oppression that are going on in various arenas in our society.
i-3Asn9zpRguWGM54fd2D2zS	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Mr Nordborg on genital mutilation. We both agree that genital mutilation is an extremely serious crime and an extreme abuse of every individual who is subjected to it. Now we have found that we in Sweden have many children and also adults who have come here sexually grafted and who do not get the right to care and who in silence suffer in their loneliness. They can't pee and have problems with their menstruation. It's about trauma-like experiences. Nevertheless, we have done very little. But we have also identified children who were born in Sweden and who have applied for care. When medical care has carried out studies on them of some other kind, it has been shown that they are sexually grafted. From the Liberals' side, we see that the action plan drawn up by the government is far from complete. I have a question for the Left Party and Gudrun Nordberg about how you view the work against genital mutilation in Sweden.
i-X5qeBSSMohHpE6LsoQkZ1n	Madam President, I would like I fully agree with Mr Bloms's statement regarding the seriousness of genital mutilation and that it is an extremely destructive act for the victim. I know that there is too little effort in health care to understand the problem once it has happened and how to help women and young people who have been exposed to it. But, again, I believe that we are both calling for and wishing that this is prevented in different ways. After all, it is important to indicate that it must not occur and to provide the best possible support and treatment to those who are already victims of crime. I also believe that there are very few cases where parents have been held to account; if I remember correctly, it is a single case. It also highlights the problem.
i-DH4He6yV6ofvWe31u7BVrJ	Madam President, I would like I think there are two judgments that are ready and one that are being prepared, and then there is an investigation going on right now. We agree that prevention is important in these matters. We want to ensure that no one is subjected to genital mutilation, and we want to ensure that the children who have genital mutilation receive care. We want to prevent child marriage, and we want to give children and young people the freedom to shape and influence their own lives. But if we are to tackle the problem of people who come here – or people who have lived here for a long time – not having access to this, I think it is important that we call a shovel a shovel. I understand that the honourable Member, although I may have misunderstood it, thinks it important to talk about all the violence and all the patriarchal structures. I am convinced that we must dare to direct the information so that it becomes understandable to anyone who meets it. My experience is that there are many people in their home countries who have fought for the rights they cannot enjoy here, and that they would be critical of this, I find it hard to believe.
i-NWBgzywN1xLCt9rbrAQLEg	Madam President, I would like I also want a shovel to be called a shovel. We have a scale of various forms of violence and oppression in our country and in the world, and one form is honor-related violence and oppression. This is partly the same as what we experience in ethnic Swedish environments, if you can say so, but it is also partly different. In particular, we need to be vigilant about the peer pressure and the increased risk involved. We must be extremely careful to provide protection for those who dare to tell us about their situation. We must act quickly and help in a competent way. We do not have sufficient knowledge there. I have recently read the Gender Equality Agency's review of custody sentences, and it turns out that it is not taken seriously enough when children talk about violence, including honour-related violence. Sometimes it's totally ignored. It's terrible.
i-TqwKuwirxh9ynoad7qdeiB	Madam President, I would like I find it difficult to understand why the Left Party is against the particular honour crime that we in the Green Party have agreed with the Social Democrats to introduce. The special offence of honour will have the same construction as the crimes of gross feminism and gross violation of peace. It is a matter of seeing that many of the less serious acts carried out in an oppressive context are incredibly serious crimes. There is a difference between once hearing a violation and being systematically limited and oppressed in one's home or in one's family. This is not captured by today's legislation, not even by violations of peace, because violations of peace must take place in a close relationship.
i-MFztZPJXni1gr4JytpD6iw	Madam President, I would like I fully agree with you when it comes to the description of the effects of repeated exposure, Annika Hirvonen – absolutely. The Left Party also agrees on the idea that we must move forward, for as the violations of peace now appear, they are about loved ones. We must dare to take another step to include honour-related violence and oppression. However, we see points in the criticism that has come in the consultation process, including from Svea Court of Appeal, Göta Court of Appeal and several courts of appeal and also from organisations that meet the vulnerable. We should be able to broaden this and see that there may be further gains if we broaden the concept and do not focus solely on honor, which may be difficult to define as a prop.
i-Lw4XZmcRisEbEfGbyfFV3w	Madam President, I would like I am pleased to see now that the Left Party also supports the extension of the legislation which is intended to deal with systematic repression and repression by people who are not parents or people with whom they share housing, but people who are a few steps away – relatives or others who are in the context of honour. I hope that the proposal that comes out is one that can win approval in this House, because it would be incredibly important to have a special offence of honour in place that will enable us to punish the systematic repression, which is actually more serious than an individual act.
i-LMArDFSkLVeWSKN1YNvhzs	Madam President, I would like Here is the Left and the Green Party's agreement on the basic issue: we must broaden the circle that can be struck by criminalisation. However, we also see some legal certainty problems with the proposal now on the table. We want to ensure that there is good legislation that can really be applied skilfully. That is why we have tried to follow this, and we think that there was a great deal in the proposal made by the Svea Court of Appeal, which I developed in my first speech. We want to reinforce that proposal by not making it as complicated as the current legislative proposal, which talks about other groups without seeing what is included in it. We therefore believe that the legislative proposal can be developed and that it will be a very good protection.
i-DKkoKX9JqiYPrKARwGq4Gn	Madam President, I would like On behalf of the City of Malmö, researcher Hanna Cinthio has written a report that, strangely enough, seems to be the first of its kind. It shows that there is a widespread problem of honor in preschool – out of 13 studied municipal preschools there were honorary standards on all but one. The report is certainly not a flattering reading for Swedish gender equality and integration policy. Preschool teachers are inconvenient when parents demand that their young children do not show their legs during water play or rest and when a brother has been assigned to control his sister. Children must be allowed to be children, Madam President. They shall not be limited in play, curiosity and exploration in preschool or primary school. Yet parts of the culture of honor are practiced here. For example, young children must wear a veil and wear clothing that covers the rest of the body, which is in direct conflict with the school's values, with equality between girls and boys and with children's rights. The Christian Democrats want to introduce a ban on veils for children in preschool and primary schools. We want every preschool and school to have guidelines on how to act when they suspect that the oppression of honour is taking place. Sweden should continue to be a country where freedom and equality are obvious values and apply to everyone. I would like to finish by reading from the excellent and thoughtful book All inclusive – Welcome to the new country by journalist Lars Åberg : If we as a society still have some ideas and some gunpowder left to put somewhere, our children should now be at the centre. It is difficult to understand that we have so smooth combed and docilely allowed their growing environments to deteriorate and be segregated. How children manage to check into the future will be crucial to how we will all view each other and what we have in common.
i-UsD5yqBYqqnCG4t1F2Q2CF	Madam President, I would like What are we gonna do now? There is one thing that I missed when the Alliance no longer ruled, and that was that there was a government national action plan in the past. This made it much easier when one was responsible for some of the government's mission to be able to see and understand the context and also to cooperate better. I have discussed earlier today how important it is for the national authorities to gain more competence. I think it is quite wrong for us to pour money into agencies that then produce materials that do not provide the support that the authorities who work in the first line need. I also see a need to get structured support for professionals who go in and make difficult and crucial decisions, who feel threatened and who are threatened and vulnerable and who work with issues that are often sensitive. There too, the government and all of us in this House bear a great responsibility. In the case of children who are taken out of the country, there is also a lack of central work. It makes no sense to me that we have not come any further. Liberals see the need for a centre for missing children. We also see a lack of long-term support. There is, in some cases, support in the context of a trial or in the emergency situation, but to deal with the violence suffered and access to a new life is lacking a structure for our country. I think you should look at Norway. They have come much further there. This is something that makes it possible to regain one's life. Finally, it is also the case that the Liberals maintain that we want to investigate a ban on cousin marriage. The Johansson Government said that people with freedom should not be taken away from it, but when it comes to upholding this, I would say that those who are fria do not want to marry their cousin, and those who are forced to do so.
i-8W3UNQp7rompCGAsUv3if3	Madam President, I would like We and the Liberals share many points of view on this issue. For example, we both support banning cousin marriages in order to break its function in the fields of honour and clandom. In my speech, I also mentioned other proposals. One proposal that I did not have time to mention, and which I do not really know how the Liberals view themselves, is the question of how to get to child marriages that were concluded before the legislation came into place. None of us advocate retroactive criminal law, which means that those children who have become adults in some cases and who have been forced into child marriage in the past will not receive any protection if they were married away before the legislation against child marriage was in place. But they're still forced to do it. They're still in these marriages. We therefore advocate that child marriages and other forced marriages be made perjury crimes, which means that the crime is ongoing until it is over.
i-PoNAxSFz83DLGSautmJTDc	Madam President, I would like Liberals see that retroactive legislation is very difficult to achieve. On the other hand, there are other measures that can be taken through increased knowledge and understanding, which I have dealt with several times. When we get an understanding of what it means to live in this as an individual, the information can also reach and talk. We believe that every woman and every man who is today in a marriage that they do not want to be in should receive support. As with cousin marriage, the right to divorce exists, but the possibility of enjoying one's right may not exist. There, knowledge must be increased in order for you to feel that you have society on your side. But as long as we cannot give full support either, which I think is perhaps the most important factor, it will be difficult to dare to make decisions. When the victim feels that others nearby have been helped, it becomes easier. Divorce is one thing, but then getting this very long-term support, as I mentioned earlier, is crucial to having the courage to make decisions.
i-BSfJRy7J5a2TRsa1e1XojU	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Juno Blom! One can certainly look at what it looks like in civil matters, and one could even go as far as having a child marriage automatically to end as a consequence of having a child marriage or a cousin marriage. Then the marriage has been interrupted. On our part, however, we consider that the penalty for a child's marriage has not been imposed. So there is no penalty for the one who has chosen to marry a child. We find that problematic, why we want to make the child marriage crime perjury. It will not be retroactive criminal law, but rather it will be the case that the crime is deemed to be ongoing until the coercion ends, which is when the marriage ends. That is what the question was about, that is, whether the Liberals are looking at such a proposal where we can not only potentially inform and manage to get someone to divorce, but where we can also punish the perpetrators who have entered into child marriage.
i-FKWFPv5ZJtBUKoULrC1JE6	Madam President, I would like I must make it clear here that from the Liberal side we believe that anyone who is in a marriage and does not want to be in it should have the full support of society in order to get out of it, but the state should not decide it retroactively. We believe that this is important, although I very much wish that society's opportunities and conditions to really provide information directly upon arrival were better. If we look at how they have worked in Norway, we see that they have much better information there early on about what opportunities there are. I do not believe, however, that it is possible to punish anyone for something which, in my opinion, is a terrible crime against another person, if the person is not even aware that it is considered a crime. What I am assuming on many occasions is that our task in this House is to make laws, and that is important, but the most important thing is all the work that does not get the headlines of the media, namely to carry out what it has actually already been decided on. For this reason, I believe that we need better information, clearer support and opportunities to break away from what we do not want.
i-MnVfd1CLJWDJ2NbtRiGE2J	Madam President, I would like In government, the Green Party has acted forcefully to ensure that we now have a wide range of laws in place against honour-related violence and oppression. However, in order to overcome these problems, we also have a long list of measures. Together with the Social Democrats, we agree to introduce a new honorary crime, and on the Green Party list you can read about further efforts to prevent children from being taken out of the country for genital mutilation and child marriage. The list also includes efforts to increase the skills of social services, schools and others who meet vulnerable people and to ban so-called virginity checks. But, Madam President, the basic prerequisites for changing the standards that lie at the bottom here are equality and integration rather than segregation. When conservative parties oppose gender equality, they fatten the same patriarchal structures that are the basis for the oppression of honour. When they lay down the authority that has developed a unique knowledge base that all decision-makers working on measures against segregation could have benefited from, they pull the carpet away for systematic work towards segregation and inclusion and integration. Madam President, I would like Much more needs to be done, but the non-equality policies and efforts of the conservative parties for more housewives rather than more mothers going to work risk exacerbating the problem we are seeing today. As far as the Green Party is concerned, we do not think that it is a problem when people are protected in Sweden.
i-SDKRW3rU6gdwgGh9Ao2gVR	Madam President, I would like Member Annika Hirvonen is right that we have produced important legislation, and it is still the spine. But when the Green Party was responsible for the work on gender equality and I took note of the basis that would form the basis for decisions, I saw that there was an eagerness to include everything. Such things can make it very difficult to understand what to counteract. Again the ambition is high, but the result is many times snow mosh. I'm thinking the same thing about Delmos. When I heard Minister Anders Ygeman say that the whole honorary work is now standing I felt that he either did not understand or wanted to engage in political games. During the time when I was working on this, you got zero hits when you went into Delmos's website and searched for honor-related violence and oppression. Activity one was therefore not very high.
i-UfgEEyQSGSmQEgBrjeWuh1	Madam President, I would like I fully agree with Juno Blom that a lot of what we have done in this area – also together with the Liberals – has been important and that much more needs to be done. The implementation of the activities is important to ensure that everyone who meets vulnerable people has the skills for how to act so that they do not exacerbate the problems. It can otherwise be done in social services, for example, by contacting parents who are thus warned and more quickly taken out of the country. This is a concrete measure where we still have a lot to do. Delmos received a specific assignment on honor-related violence and oppression. But what I want to emphasise is that the systematic work towards segregation is an incredibly important prerequisite if we are to remedy the underlying structural problems that make honorary standards take hold and are difficult to uproot.
i-BbyDUwFrt57yy8VfPJYNdy	Madam President, I would like Let me come back to what I mentioned earlier. An authority may be assigned to counter segregation. But we know that for girls and women who are forced to live isolated and controlled, it is the family that demands segregation. It is not the state or our country that makes it impossible for them; it is the family's control system that does so. An authority that has been assigned to work against segregation should therefore from day one have actively seen all these girls and boys. It is impossible for such a mission to have to be written down. Or perhaps this shows just that as long as we do not clearly write that the work against honour violence should be included in an authority's mission, it disappears when you paint with broader features and focus on the problems of the majority society, and when it comes to violence, it falls primarily on men's violence against women.
i-5ukbmgRYjdWZ9QBWvnRYJo	Madam President, I would like I share Juno Bloms's view that things must be called. Unfortunately, it has been proven time and again in the work for gender equality, not least, that unless it is explicitly stated that police education, social education, one or legal education should teach about men's violence against women, we know that it will not be equal. Many go out without adequate skills. I think the same applies to honour-related violence and oppression. That's why I worked for us in the curriculum on sexuality, consent and relationships to name honor-related violence and oppression as something that needs to be addressed in teaching. It's really a problem, and it's sad that it's like this. However, those of us who want to work for rights must overcome the problem by simply naming it.
i-KGtZETtMkTAmqecK4kVw2i	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for an interesting debate. Nevertheless, I cannot help but be struck by the hypocrisy of the right-wing parties here. The Swedish Democrats have in the debate pretended that they care about these victims and about the repression of honour. In fact, we know that if the Swedish Democrats had been able to decide, these girls and guys would never have been allowed to be in Sweden. They had been thrown out a long time ago. I asked Johan Forssell if he could mention a single reform that the Moderates had made in the field of honor crimes. Then I got the answer that the Alliance government entered the word honor crimes into a document in 2007. That's all he could account for. The truth is that almost everything that has happened in this area has happened during our reign. We will continue to push forward reforms. The next step will be the special offence against honour crimes that we will be able to join the Riksdag in a few weeks' time. This will further strengthen the work, and I look forward to continued good cooperation with the Riksdag.
i-Bo4EvAY8gs3TahYFx3zt8m	Mr President, I would like to Tobias Andersson has asked whether I and the government intend to take any steps to improve the situation regarding Sweden's compliance with the Women's Convention and that Sweden should escape criticism from the UN Women's Committee in the future. Men's violence against women must stop. Violence must be prevented, and men who commit crimes against women must be punished. Women who are victims of crime should be given the help they need. For a feminist government, the issue of preventing and combating men's violence against women will always be a high priority. That is why the government has intensified its work. The government is working on the basis of a ten-year national strategy to prevent and combat men's violence against women. Much has been done, but more should be done. In December last year, the Council presented a comprehensive action programme containing 99 measures to prevent and combat violence against women by men. The measures include both measures to prevent violence and to provide support and protection to the vulnerable. The programme also includes efforts to strengthen legislation. On 1 July 2018, the Swedish Sex Crime Act was reformed. The new legislation is based on voluntary approach. It is no longer necessary for the offender to have used violence or threats, or to take advantage of the victim's particularly vulnerable situation, in order to be convicted of rape, for example. According to Brå, the number of rape charges since the adoption of consent legislation has increased by 80 per cent and the number of convictions by 75 per cent. The Committee, which reviewed Sweden's compliance with the Convention, welcomes Sweden's national strategy against violence against women and commends Sweden for the introduction of consent legislation. An important part of the government's policy is to strengthen law enforcement capabilities. The expansion of the Police Authority has meant that the agency has been able to strengthen the resource that works with violence against women, among other things. The police authority has recruits for approximately 350 new investigators who are particularly focused on both other crimes in close relationship and sexual crimes. The Swedish Prosecution Authority has also received increased resources to develop its operations. The Government has instructed the authorities to report how they ensure sufficient resources and expertise in dealing with crimes in relationship, crimes against children, rape against adults and the purchase of sexual services to continue to strengthen investigative capacity in these areas. In the fight against men's violence against women, the UN Convention on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women is an important tool. In international reviews of S verige's compliance with human rights and our international commitments, dialogue with and knowledge from civil society is valuable.
i-EWAqFe2zVjjtKpxoKt2ugq	Mr President, I would like to On October 27, last year, Expressen reported that the UN Women's Committee strongly criticised Sweden's compliance with the Women's Convention. In its opinion, the government must do more to combat men's violence against women and impunity for sexual crimes. I submitted an interpellation on the issue as soon as the criticism came. However, in the light of the resignation of the Prime Minister, the debate was suspended, which is why I now come back to the matter. Since I first submitted the interpellation, Morgan Johansson has both resigned and joined as Minister of Justice. In the meantime, other less flattering statistics have also come. First of all, the Swedish Women's Lobby, together with the Cedaw Network, has reviewed how Sweden lives up to the Women's Convention and finds that girls' exposure to sexual harassment and abuse is increasing. Morgan Johansson and others responsible for the Sweden we see today, characterized by serious violent and sexual crimes on a daily basis, usually repudiate such criticism by referring to an alleged increased notification propensity. However, this recurring argument finds no support in the report prepared by the Swedish Women's Lobby together with the Cedaw Network to review how Sweden lives up to the Women's Convention. Their shadow report Women in Sweden 2021 – E n review of how Sweden lives up to the Kv Inno Convention shows, among other things, that in recent years only 5 percent of reported rapes have led to conviction. The low proportion of convictions in sex offences affects the tendency to report crimes. According to the women's shelters, confidence in the justice system among young girls is low and only a fraction of women are able to cope with the process of reporting. This is particularly true among girls who live with mental illness, which is often the case. ..................................................... Mr President, I would like to It is under all criticism that young girls have such low confidence in the judiciary that Morgan Johansson is responsible for only a fraction of being able to even report. The criticism from the UN Women's Committee and the Swedish Women's Lobby regarding how the government complies with the Women's Convention may be considered justified. The shortcomings highlighted, not least regarding the impunity of sexual offences, have long been the subject of criticism from the Swedish Democratic Party. We have denounced these developments and criticised the government for lack of and lack of action. Mr President, I would like to Having said that, my question to Morgan Johansson in this speech is whether he agrees with the report's view that young girls have little confidence in the judiciary for which he is responsible and that it in turn affects the propensity to report and what he intends to do to counter this.
i-Wkdr1tMUqq8RCuD7wG9mqb	Mr President, I would like to In Helsingborg, the number of rapes has doubled in two years. Between 2017 and 2019 the number was around 70 reported cases a year. Last year, 2021, the figure was up to 144. In the autumn and winter alone, several of these cases have been highlighted in the media. One of the cases is about a woman who was raped by two men who filmed the abuse and then spread it in social media. There, one was sentenced to a mere two years in prison and the other to a closed juvenile care facility for only eight months. This means that a woman who has not only been raped, but also further humiliated by the perpetrators filming and spreading this, six months later risks meeting her perpetrators on the streets of Helsingborg again. Mr President, I would like to The trend for sexual crimes in Sweden is going in the wrong direction. In fact, the number of rape cases reported during Morgan Johansson's time as Minister of Justice has increased by 40 percent. As far as these figures are concerned, Mr President, Morgan Johansson cannot blame an increase in the propensity to report. According to the Swedish Crime Prevention Council, the number of victims of sexual offences in the same year has increased from 2 per cent to 4.6 per cent. This is an increase which, in percentage terms, is significantly greater than the figures for the number of cases notified. The propensity to register is simply going in the wrong direction. Perhaps the deteriorating propensity to report is simply a question of the courts' inability to judge rapists. In 2019 8 581 rapes were reported, but only 333 resulted in a conviction. It is true that the number of judgments is higher than in previous years. But at the same time, this means that in 2019 there were more reported rapes than ever that were never solved. Not even 4 per cent of all reported rapes led to conviction in 2019. Mr President, I would like to When Minister Morgan Johansson took office in Stefan Lövven's government almost eight years ago, it was called the world's first feminist government. Since then, the number of reported rapes has increased by 40 percent, and over half of all young women say that they have refrained from going out alone because of fear. I cannot name it in any other way than a major failure by a government that considers itself feminist. During the last eight years, Morgan Johansson in his role as Minister of Justice in a feminist government has been responsible for ensuring that fewer rapes are committed in Sweden, that more people dare to report and not least to increase the security of the country's women. Mr President, I would like to The fact that Sweden is now receiving criticism from the UN Women's Committee is a result of Morgan Johansson's not doing enough in his role as Minister of Justice. Therefore, I ask Morgan Johansson: During your time as Minister of Justice, the number of reported rapes has increased by 40%, and more than half of all young women say that they have not dared to go out alone for fear. Is the Government satisfied with the development of crime under its leadership?
i-3tvznYsRMtv6CmXX4L3sAy	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to mention equality policy as such. Sweden is one of the world's most equal countries. It's just like that. It is not only I who say this, but it is said in almost all international assessments and ranking lists. I think it was last time the European Institute for Gender Equality ranked all the countries of the European Union, and there Sweden came to the top. Sweden was in this context the country that came out best in that part. The World Economic Forum also makes gender equality indices that show that Sweden is once again one of the countries around the world that comes out best when it comes to the assessment of gender equality. These are no coincidences. We Social Democrats have worked on gender equality issues for many years. For the last 100 years, Sweden has been governed by Social Democrats for 75 years. Sweden is one of the world's most equal countries. It's not a coincidence. This is because we have expanded childcare facilities in the way we have done and parental insurance. The female employment rate is much higher than in most other countries. These are groundbreaking reforms that we Social Democrats have pushed forward. This also applies in this area to men's violence against women. These are groundbreaking reforms that we Social Democrats have pushed forward. This applies, for example, to the Sex Purchase Act 20 years ago and the Women's Peace Act, which also came 20 years ago. Marriage rape was criminalized in 1965. It is now a long time ago, but there are still plenty of countries where this is not criminalised. Since 2018, we have, I say, one of the world's most stringent laws in relation to sexual offences through the consent law that I was involved in pushing forward. Then there is the children's peace crime from 2020, which has further tightened the legislation in this area. All of this is known by the UN Women's Committee. They write about it, and they praise and praise Sweden for this. That is the case, but that is not what the Swedish Democrats say a single word about. You do not mention that we receive all this praise from almost everyone who assesses how Sweden works with gender equality in different ways. You do not want to feel that, because your whole picture and everything you talk about here is about blacking out Sweden and trying to highlight what you mean is criticism. But mainly Sweden actually comes out very well in almost all evaluations. Every country in the world has problems with sexual violence, but not all countries are taking hold of it. Not all countries dare to see the problems in the way we do either. We have systematically worked for many years to lift up sexual violence so that more people will dare to report, so that more cases will lead to prosecution and so that more people will get redress. This is precisely the effect of the assent legislation that we pushed forward. Since we pushed it forward in 2018, the number of rape charges has increased by 80 percent. The number of convictions has increased by 75%. It should also be said that the basis of the UN Committee on Women's Rights was pre-consent legislation. So what has happened since its introduction has not been able to take into account their assessment. In addition, we have devoted increased resources to the police and prosecution side. This involves 350 specially appointed investigators for the particularly vulnerable victims of crime, where violence in close relationships but also sexual crimes is generally a part of it. It is part of the expansion of the police as we do. And we will continue. I will come to Parliament in just a few weeks' time with further tightening up on sexual crimes. This is one of our top priorities.
i-FzcxDSXhiHXyAUWzDaCCYh	Mr President, I would like to The Minister chooses to focus a lot on consent legislation, as if there is any contradiction between me and Pontus Andersson and the Government on the matter. We are in favour of this legislation. Morgan Johansson also chooses to praise Sweden for the fact that we are often ranked as one of the world's most equal countries. That, of course, is something that we are both proud of. But there are other lists, where Sweden also often belongs to the top layer, which is perhaps less flattering. This applies, for example, to deadly gun violence and sexual crime, the subject we are here to debate today. Sweden has tended to end up far too high on that list. To be as equal as you want to give the impression that Sweden is happening far too many serious sexual crimes here. Member Pontus Andersson gave credit for the statistics on sexual offences, both in terms of number and to the fact that the propensity to register can hardly be claimed to be the cause of the avalanche increase we have seen. The number of reported rapes has increased by 40 percent during Morgan Johansson's time in power, and every other young girl fears going out. This is absolutely terrible data, which any Minister of Justice should feel a great deal of agony about having made possible and failed to counteract. If you ask me, Mr President, I find it absolutely remarkable that Morgan Johansson never seems to have examined himself and the government he represents. If he had, he should have come to the conclusion that he and the government have failed, that the development of both violence and sexual crime has completely failed under his rule, and that he has failed miserably to stifle development. Either Morgan Johansson has searched himself and the government and landed in this correct statement of reality but yet felt that the purpose, the power, sanctifies all means and chose to remain. He has tried in different ways, one more desperate than the other, to make up the pig that is the result of his and previous governments' policy. Either this is the case, or Morgan Johansson has examined himself and landed that everything is fine and that the government is exceptional. Alternatively, he has never even been able to examine himself. In fact, I do not know, Mr President, which is worse: a politician who understands his failures but refrains from recognising them and repudiates them or a politician who is incapable of even acknowledging the slightest weakness. Can Morgan Johansson dare to admit, at least one day, that he and the government have failed in this area?
i-N7BCEbPcA6GXDT6Ba1cB8B	Mr President, I would like to In my ears, it sounds like Morgan Johansson is satisfied with the efforts he has made as Minister of Justice, despite the fact that during his time the number of reported rapes has increased by 40% and that half of all young women have refrained from going out alone. It is one thing, Mr President, that in some areas legislative changes are carried out a little on the margin, certainly in the right direction. But it is another thing that the government has in other ways contributed to the creation of a more precarious society. During Morgan Johansson's reign, over 800 000 people have immigrated to Sweden. A majority of these have come from countries high on the top list of the most dangerous countries to live in as women. Mr President, I would like to I don't think you change values just because you cross a land border. Similarly, it is difficult to educate a destructive culture. The huge increase in the number of rapes during Morgan Johansson's reign is understood by reading Brå's report on the over-representation of crime among foreign born people. This is to be added to a migration to Sweden that during the Social Democrats' almost eight years of government power has been far too large. If it is not possible to educate a destructive culture, it is necessary, on the one hand, for Sweden to have a net minus immigration, and, on the other hand, for expulsion to be the rule in both rape and other sexual crimes. And, above all, there is a need for considerably stricter penalties for sex offenders. It should not be possible for a person who has been raped and humiliated only six months later to risk facing his perpetrators on the streets of Helsingborg again, but that is the case today. Morgan Johansson has had almost eight years to change this, but unfortunately nothing has happened to that.
i-LjCdftBwLF8F7RzAhcC6yb	Mr President, I would like to Again we hear this black painting of Sweden. We also hear attempts to use misleading statistics, I would say. Tobias Andersson says that there are other lists that Sweden tops and areas where we are high among the world's countries, and so he mentions the sexual crimes. I know, because I've been going through those statistics, and I see how difficult it is to compare different countries. Just take this with sex crimes; there are countries that have still not criminalized rape in marriage. It is clear that these countries have lower figures than Sweden, where it has been criminalised since 1965. There are many countries where it is only considered a crime if a person commits 100 rapes against the same woman, for example in marriage. In Sweden we count it as 100 crimes. There are countries that have a completely different sex crime law than Sweden. We have one of the widest sexual crime laws in the world, where acts that in other countries are considered to be sexual exploitation or have another offence in Sweden are considered rape. It is clear that we will then get higher numbers for this. It is an expression of the seriosity with which we have taken on these issues and the reforms that we have made. When Sweden then gets higher numbers as a result of this, it is used as an argument against us, and I find that remarkable. Since the government took office in 2014, we have pushed these issues forward in a way that no other government has done. We pushed forward the groundbreaking consent law, which led to an 80% increase in the number of rape prosecutions and 75% in the number of convictions. It is a tremendous success, in which we covered some of what was not previously convicted. We have made sure to strengthen the police and prosecutors in such a way that we now have 350 new investigators for particularly vulnerable victims, where these crimes are part of them. We also have specific reporting requirements for police and judicial systems. I would like to point out one thing because the debaters are simply throwing out confidence in the judiciary and so on. No, it doesn't. Confidence in the judiciary is increasing. Trust in the police is increasing. Trust in the courts is also high. Don't just throw out these statements of yours without any evidence of them! Of course, we will continue to expand the judicial system in general with police and prosecutors and also focus especially on this. But one must also see the whole picture, and here I will ask Tobias Andersson a question. If the Swedish Democrats were to gain power in Sweden, it would be a huge backlash for all the work on gender equality. One thing that you would push forward is the old so-called custody allowance, i.e. paying women not to work and for their children not to attend preschool. What does this have to do with sexual crimes and violence against women? Well, you create a system where you lock women in families so that they simply can't work, they also don't have financial means to get out of a destructive relationship. Then we will see much more of such oppression. My question to Tobias Andersson – Pontus Andersson can also answer it – is: Do you not see what destructive effects on gender equality, with an increased risk of violence against women, it will have if you push forward the type of conservative reforms that the custody allowance entails?
i-8Ykygrx35YcPiU6BZFzDsp	Mr President, I would like to If it is not the Employment Protection Act, it is the custody allowance that the Social Democrats use to describe the failures that the government has contributed to letting happen. Stefan Löfven chose to blame the Employment Protection Act when he was asked about sexual offences, and now Morgan Johansson is choosing to move the focus to the custody allowance. I would rather have kept the focus on this extremely important issue. I have repeatedly asked the question during this debate whether Morgan Johansson can at least bear a little debt because we have seen the developments we have seen. But when this is brought forward, when statistics are presented, when I quote a report from the Swedish Women's Lobby – this is what Morgan Johansson called for, incidentally, because I only throw myself with expressions; it was a report from the Swedish Women's Lobby that I clearly quoted but which Morgan Johansson seems to have missed – and when I and Pontus Andersson highlight the serious situation we have in Sweden today when it comes to sexual crimes, Morgan Johansson calls it because we black-painted Sweden. He sets a great similarity between himself and Sweden. I love Sweden. I care about Sweden. That is the basic idea behind my political commitment. The very essence of my political commitment is based on a love for Sweden as a nation. But when I criticise the politics that Morgan Johansson and the government have helped to make possible, the shortcomings that exist and the developments that have taken place during his time as a minister, Morgan Johansson calls it to black out Sweden – just like he would personify Sweden as a nation or as a state. I object, Mr President. I think Morgan Johansson can take responsibility for his own failures instead of lifting himself up on a pedestal so high that he equates himself with Sweden as a nation. I am opposed to this.
i-SkVTDMy6bYGrbny4PgvvHE	Mr President, I would like to No, Sweden is not me. On the other hand, Sweden is all of us who live in Sweden and who create our society together. That's it. I am extremely proud of the country that we have built and which has long been characterised by social democratic values. As I mentioned earlier, the Social Democracy has run for about 75 of the 100 years that we have had democracy. This has meant that Sweden today is one of the world's most equal countries and also a country where we do not back down to lift the carpets and see what is underneath. Sweden is a country that focuses on seeing whether there is sexual oppression and violence against women and what it looks like. The law should never halt at the threshold of the home – it is a fundamental progressive social democratic evaluation that we have had over the years. This is the legacy I am proud of: progressive Sweden, the forward-looking Sweden, the Sweden that ensures that the legislation is developed, among other things, when it comes to men's violence against women, which I have had the privilege of being involved in during these years. I asked a question about the custody allowance because I wanted to see how Tobias Andersson would respond. Of course, he did not answer, but tried to ralli and pretend that he did not really understand. The thing is, if you go back to an old conservative order where women are unable to work, they will not be able to break out of their destructive relationships. They will remain in these marriages, often under oppression and violence, both sexually and otherwise. That's my point, but I didn't get an answer. I have to assume that if Tobias Andersson and Pontus Andersson are given the power and the opportunity here in Parliament, they will push for such a custody allowance. I think that would be devastating, both for gender equality in the country as a whole and for the issue of men's violence against women.
i-KPhNZA4SKzxw6bLpyM9Px9	Mr President, I would like to Tobias Andersson has asked me what measures I and the government intend to take to offset the lack of the national defection programme. The government's work against crime and social insecurity takes place on several fronts at the same time. The expansion of the Police Authority continues, and in 2021 there were more police officers in the country than any previous year. The law enforcement authorities have been given, and will have, more, new and effective tools. A wide range of criminal measures have been taken and more are in the pipeline. In order to break the new recruitment to criminal gangs and prevent more children and young people from being involved in crime, society must also carry out a broad and developed preventive work. These are actions whose results cannot always be seen immediately, but which are crucial for long-term development. The government therefore continues to strengthen the prevention of crime in the country. Preventing relapses in crime is an important part of crime prevention. Not least, society needs to provide support to those individuals who want to leave crime behind and need help to implement it. The Police Authority, the Prison Service, the State Department Board and the National Board of Health and Welfare were therefore commissioned, within the framework of the Government's 34-point programme against gang crime, to propose ways to improve support for defectors. The authorities reported the mission on 1 March 2021 and, like the government, note that many of the efforts for defectors are in the municipal toolbox. It can be about housing, work, education or help with addiction and mental ill health. If there is a threat to the individual, the Police Authority also has a central role. Based on the needs described in the report, the Government has given the authorities a concrete mandate to take measures to strengthen and develop the work with support for defectors in the country. In particular, it is a question of improving support to the local level, where most of the support measures take place in practice. In order for the authorities to quickly get started with the mission, an investigator should initially support and coordinate their work. So there is no question of a lack of investment in defectors. On the contrary, the next step is now being taken to enable more individuals to leave criminal gangs and other destructive environments. Any person who leaves crime behind is a profit for society.
i-CFaRC8JQjFHoZScQK4sfp7	Mr President, I would like to In December 2019, the Government decided on a mission to the Prison Service, the Police Authority, the State Department Board and the National Board of Health and Welfare to develop a joint national defector programme. This, as the government put it, would help to strengthen society's support for individuals who want to leave criminal or violent extremist environments and groupings. Despite this clear mission, Morgan Johansson communicated in the autumn, next n two years after the assignment was given, that there will be no national defector program, despite the fact that the proposal was found as item 33 in the government's 34-point programme against gang crime. The 34-point programme has been repeatedly highlighted by government representatives as the solution to the gang-related crime that we are seeing today across the country. Therefore, when the government chose to delete paragraph 33, it came as something of a shock to both the opposition in parliament and the municipalities concerned, who had hoped for greater state responsibility for the defection activities. The municipalities, who had been looking forward to a change, were hardly more positive about the announcement when they heard Morgan Johansson say: There must be a drive of its own from the municipalities and the municipal politicians who govern the municipalities. He also argued that there was a large budget surplus in the country's municipalities that could finance the drop-off activity. Like many other representatives in many different municipalities, the Liberals in Stockholm were also disappointed by the announcement that the government scrapped the plan on a national defector program. The City of Stockholm is one of the municipalities most affected by the gang crime that Morgan Johansson has failed to curb. The Liberals wrote in Svenska Dagbladet on October 28: a growing number of criminals, as the gang conflict has escalated, want to leave the criminal path. In Stockholm, the number of gang criminals who want to drop out has quadrupled in just one year, but the same trend is also found in other cities. Nevertheless, there are no clear directives in the Social Services Act on municipalities' responsibility for drop-outs, but there is also a state responsibility to ensure that more people leave the criminal gangs. How much longer is the government going to postpone responsibility on this issue? ..................................................... The question has not been answered either by those or politicians in other affected municipalities. There are simply many of us who do not share Morgan Johansson's view that a national defector programme is not needed. Mr President, I would like to I would therefore like to ask Morgan Johansson what the problem is with a national defector programme. What counterarguments exist, and why does it not come true?
i-RB2WPjWJCcK44iP5c7tdgR	Mr President, I would like to Tobias Andersson talks in the night cap. He's looking for a conflict that doesn't really exist. We haven't deleted any point in the 34-point program-- what is that statement? I think Tobias Andersson is looking for a conflict based on a deliberate misunderstanding. It is clear that the defectors' activities will develop. It is an important part of our programme against organised crime. In fact, we have never said anything else, whatever Tobias Andersson imagines. That work is now moving on. It's a pioneer job, I'll tell you. There is no government that has done something similar and has taken such a state hold as we are now taking on defection activities. As I said, we gave a mission to four authorities. We have the report from the four authorities at the bottom, and that report was quite revealing. It showed just how different conditions exist across the country. Tobias Andersson mentions Stockholm. The comparison between Malmö and Stockholm in that report was quite striking. In Malmö they had 80 drop-outs during 2020, but in Stockholm they had 30, despite the fact that Stockholm is a much larger criminal environment than Malmö is. They also have much bigger problems with shootings in Stockholm. This suggests the need for increased national support and coordination, not least in order for municipalities such as Stockholm to be able to do it better. Based on the report, we therefore appointed a special coordinator, Stefan Strömberg, who will submit his report to me in May. Then we will see what it will look like in the future, which authority will have the main responsibility, how much money it can cost and how we will proceed with the whole issue. In addition, there is now special provision in the 2022 budget. It is SEK 75 million that is allocated to this work. It is an ongoing work; it is nothing else. There are positive examples. I mentioned Malmö. There the number of people who want to quit in recent years has been raised strongly. This is the result partly of the pressure on the criminals that the Malmö police have been exerting for a number of years, partly, I say, of the way they have chosen to work, i.e. what they call the Stop shooting model. It has proved very successful. Stop shooting means that the police and the municipality regularly take in the most criminal individuals and make a choice: If you continue with the criminal activity, we will hunt you with all the means available to society, but there is another way you can go. We have a defector program that you can join, and then we stand ready to help you. We will help, but it is not undemanding, but most of the work you have to do yourself as individuals. That works. We have significantly increased the number of people who want to drop out, and a lot points out that one of the most important efforts we are now making in terms of defecting is that we roll out the Stop shooting program to more and more municipalities, because then we will have a better and more structured work. Moreover, we see that the shootings in Malmö have decreased by almost two thirds since 2017, and this is a sign that it is actually possible to reverse. The state will do its part. We are going in with a lot of money for the judiciary now, but the municipalities must also do their bit. I will not deviate from that view. The local government sector went in 2020 with a surplus of SEK 50 billion. Stockholm Municipality had a surplus of almost SEK 4 billion. It is clear that one must be prepared to set aside the resources needed for prevention, school, leisure and social services, but also for drop-outs to help in this work.
i-DaYbx86jREGB9DyeydAbB	Mr President, I would like to Morgan Johansson says there would be a misunderstanding here. But what I quote is his own words and words from affected municipal politicians in Stockholm. If there is any misunderstanding between us and I have completely missed what we are debating today, that is a strange thing. Then the misunderstanding is based in Morgan Johansson's own play and the moves that came from affected municipal politicians as expected and longed for the state to step in and get into place a national defector program. This doesn't exist. Morgan Johansson mentions the initiative that will take place this year, but it is thanks to the budget that I, the Swedish Democrats, the Moderates and the Christian Democrats are behind. That is why we are now seeing 75 million directed precisely at defectors. This is an effort that Morgan Johansson can hardly take credit for or use as an argument that my interpellation would not be relevant. What is true is that Morgan Johansson and the government have changed their minds somewhere along the way. It has changed from having been of the opinion that I am of today, that it would be good to have a national defector programme, to not advocating the same. Instead, other tools seek to achieve something similar. However, the proposal contained in the 34-point list has not been strictly pursued. That is the essence of this debate. Then you have to ask yourself what happened. Was it that the government did not want to spend the money but now got them delivered by the Riksdag and can therefore continue to look at the issue? Or was it Morgan Johansson himself who drastically changed his mind? Or did the government consider that the need for the operation disappeared? I am not sure, Mr President. What I do know, however, is how they put it in the mission they gave in autumn 2019, when they asked for what they then did not want. Among other things, it was expressed that a common national defector program... will help to strengthen society's support for individuals who want to leave criminal or violent extremist environments and groupings. It was also possible to read that it is often a long and difficult process where individual needs are numerous and diverse, which requires coordinated and urgent action from several social actors. I agree with what the government thought in autumn or winter 2019, but somewhere along the way they changed, although now, as a consequence of our budget, they get the funds to actually work on the issue anyway. It is my view that the municipalities cannot be loaded as much as Morgan Johansson and the government want to do. Not all municipalities in Sweden have the resources and expertise to work actively with defectors. We cannot have a situation in which an individual who, perhaps somewhat impulsively, wants to leave his criminal life, to make amends and to seek community fellowship does not directly meet with the support and resources needed to complete that incident. We risk failing to do this if the municipalities are forced to pull as much load as Morgan Johansson wishes.
i-hCMBmQsBNumW1fkcNEfrD	Mr President, I would like to When you debate with Tobias Andersson you often think of a quote by Ingemar Stenmark : It is not worth explaining to those who do not understand. If you don't want to understand, it doesn't matter what you say. Then everything you say goes through one ear and then goes out through the other. I have explained, of course, that this point is in no way deleted. It is an ongoing work, which we are also intensifying, to lift the drop-off activity. We have special missions for these four authorities. It is a renewed mission that is about concrete how the work is to be done. We have appointed a special coordinator, Stefan Strömberg, who later will deliver a report to me. There is special provision for this – SEK 75 million. There was originally money set aside in our budget as well. True, it became more when the reservation went through, but it was not that there was no money set aside. Stefan Strömberg will, as I said, bring me a report in May, and after that we can take the next step. Among other things, it is about how this work will be carried out in the future. Which authority should have primary responsibility for this? How much is that gonna cost? What should the work be structured and look like? Do not forget, once again, that this is a pioneer work! There is no government that has done such a thing before. But we believe in this. It is very important to be able to get the most active individuals off the streets, because if there is one thing we know, it is that it is a small group of individuals who commit the many crimes. In Malmö, I think we are talking about a couple of hundred individuals, in a population of several hundred thousand. It is said that we will see an immediate effect in terms of the number of reported crimes only we remove some of these individuals. Södertälje is another example. There was a big effort about ten years ago. They managed to get away with a lot of the most criminally active individuals. Either they dropped out or they went to jail. This had an immediate effect on the entire criminal environment. We therefore believe this very much, and that is why we are actively working on it. It is totally wrong to claim that we have closed the project. What I'm saying is that both the state and the municipality must be involved in contributing. Then Tobias Andersson talks about the affected municipal politicians. Yes, there are many who I have sympathy for and can sympathize with. But local politicians should not sit and feel affected. Municipal politicians should make sure to work with the problems that exist in the municipality, with the resources that they have at their disposal. I used to be a local politician myself. Politicians in the municipalities who do this well will be able to achieve fantastic results. Once again, Malmö is one such example. They did not sit there waiting for the state and for someone else to do something, but they worked very actively themselves in the municipality. Södertälje is another example. Stockholm accounts for almost half of all shootings and is our major problem area right now. Stockholm has a multibillion-dollar surplus in its budget. It's money they've been given by the state. Then there is also a fine economic growth. Now that I see that they have billions of dollars in surplus, I think that we in the state should be able to say: Now go in and invest in prevention, in school, in social services and in leisure activities so that you break the new recruitment to the criminal gangs! Also, help finance defectors! It is good for Stockholm municipality and all other places where this is a problem. If this is to be resolved and if we are to be able to settle the situation and advance the positions, both the state and the municipality must be helped together. It is not good enough for someone to sit and wait for someone else to act, but actually to act with the resources they have. Then we will help as much as we can from the state and increase the support, and so do we.
i-CiQKBVA81EcA2LWkU1T7AK	Mr President, I would like to I will try to explain in a very educational way what the debate is about. I feel that, when I have tried so far, Morgan Johansson has only been caught up in saying various things about me. What I have been talking about, what Morgan Johansson claims would be a misunderstanding, is his own words. And it is words from local politicians that have turned against the actions that Morgan Johansson claims have not taken place. It continues to work with defectors – absolutely. It is thanks to the budget that the Swedish Democrats, the Moderates and the Christian Democrats got through that you can do it in an intensified way. But that doesn't change the fact that Morgan Johansson communicated that there and then they didn't go forward with a national defector program. I appreciate the evaluation of the issue of defection. I am also looking forward to the report, and I hope that the government will act accordingly. But that doesn't change the issue. Mr President, I would like to I have to comment, although we may now drift a little away from the theme of the debate, on the beautification of Malmö that Morgan Johansson is constantly engaged in. Morgan Johansson seems to be of the opinion that Social Democratic Malmö is Sweden's prime example of a fantastic municipality, while Moderate Stockholm is the worst of all. I do not share that view. I certainly do not share the statement made by Morgan Johansson that Malmö did not wait to deal with its problems. Malmö would never have had such problems. Malmö waited far too long. Malmö was known in a European and international context as a city affected by crime. And the surplus that Stockholm has is at least better than the deficit that has existed in Malmö for many years. Stockholm and other municipalities have had to cover for social democratic failures in Malmö.
i-BmbnnMKAcn4fCS8KMB2PsZ	Mr President, I would like to No, I'm not bragging about Malmö. In Skåne we say: We do not brag. Let's just tell them the truth. That's the way it is. I'm not bragging or blacking anything. I can only say that we have had a very positive development in Malmö in terms of shootings and explosions in recent years. We can go back to 2016 and 2017. Malmö was then often highlighted, not least by Swedish democrats, as a warning example. Since then, shootings have been reduced by two thirds. I live in Skåne and know how to work both at the police and in the municipality in Malmö. I know it for many years. That is why I know what efforts have been made. It is a question of repressive action, of ensuring access to the most active individuals, but also of preventive action, of efforts to try to break the new recruitment to the criminal gangs. I also see other positive examples in the country. Södertälje is one such example. They had huge problems just ten years ago. I would like to highlight this in order to point out that we can actually reverse developments. Does that mean that this is done once and for all? No, it may well be that we have a setback in Malmö or in Södertälje or in some other municipality. I don't dare say that. Of course, long-termness and perseverance are required. But I think it is worth pointing out that if you work together, the state and the municipality, in preventing and combating crime, you can actually achieve results. Let's get back to work on the drop-off business. It's a work in progress. We have given special missions to the four authorities. We have appointed a special coordinator, Stefan Strömberg. We have money set aside for this – 75 million. The report submitted to me in May by the investigator will form a basis for how to proceed. We look forward to being able to continue working on this exactly in the way we said, with the focus that was in the 34-point programme.
i-JKvxDrtSo34vHCn9CSC89X	Mr President, I would like to Alexandra Anstrell has asked me whether I intend to initiate any proposals for better security of supply in the near future and whether I intend to take action to take the proposals for strengthening security of supply for health care further and when. Furthermore, Alexandra Anstrell has asked me whether I intend to act to clarify what requirements there are for socially important actors to store fuel and how I intend to work for Sweden to have a better self-sufficiency of food in order for Sweden to be better equipped in the event of a crisis. At the outset, I would like to remind you that the questions raised also relate to the responsibilities of other ministers. Security of supply is a central part of the historical investment in civil defence that is currently being made. As of the end of the current defence period, in 2025, the government spends a total of SEK 4.2 billion per year on civil defence. Strengthening the country's security of supply is a major task and must be done in a resource efficient way based on a thorough analysis. The Government has therefore appointed the National Coordination of Security of Supply, with a broad mandate in this area. Another important measure in the work to strengthen security of supply is that before the summer we will convene a cross-sectoral business council in accordance with what has been announced in the total defence bill. The Government commissioned the Swedish Armed Forces and the Swedish Civil Protection Agency to promote and develop coherent planning for the total defence during the defence period. The interim report "Action Force", presented in 2021, raises supply issues as one of the most important focus areas. The Government intends to implement a series of measures to strengthen the system of supply of healthcare materials and medicines. Among other things, it was recently decided to commission the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare to develop within the Agency a work for a comprehensive state responsibility for the security of supply in the area of medicine and medical devices. In addition, the Swedish Medical Products Agency is given a task to carry out a survey of drug production in Sweden and an additional task to investigate and propose measures to ensure that there is a readiness for the supply of dose-packed medicinal products. As far as fuels are concerned, they are used in social activities in a number of ways, for example for back-up power plants and for the operation of vehicles, etc. Socially important activities need to take into account their mission and their ability to cope with disruptions in energy supply in continuity planning and assess potential storage needs thereafter. Responsible security authorities are working on these issues in accordance with the Government's instructions for civil defence for 2021 – 2025. Competitive agricultural and food companies are the basis for increased Swedish food production, which could contribute to increased food readiness. In order for food security to be effective and properly dimensioned, extensive mapping and analysis work is initially required. The Government has commissioned the Swedish Food Administration, the Swedish Agriculture Agency and the Swedish National Veterinary Institute to begin the construction of food preparedness. A status report is expected at the end of February 2022. Overall, the government has taken and will in the near future take several measures with a view to strengthening Sweden's security of supply.
i-FNVUe1cgwwp4BKd7REoLPb	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The issue of Sweden's security of supply and the establishment of emergency stocks will, of course, be a central challenge in the construction of our civil defence and our civil preparedness. It is clear that there is a need for the recovery of emergency stocks, as demonstrated by the effects of the covidpandemine in particular. If there is better national preparedness, there are also better conditions for international solidarity in the event of serious crises. However, the government's efforts to strengthen civilian detention are rather slow and lack clear responsibilities, clear structure, clear guidelines and objectives, and also have no clear funding for regions and municipalities. There were few concrete proposals in the Government's defence policy proposal regarding food preparedness storage, but the proposal states that in order to ensure food security, a functioning domestic agricultural and food production is required, while the flow of goods in the food chain needs to continue without interruption. ..................................................... That's a good thing, but time passes and the proposals don't work out. Even the Business Council of the Total Defence is not set up even though it has been investigated several times. Now the Minister says it will be established before the summer. I am really looking forward to it, because I believe that cooperation with the business community is a must in order to achieve good, modern and resource-efficient security of supply. Mr President, I would like to We also need good fuel preparedness both to keep back-up power plants going and to drive vehicles. Fuel storage is currently managed by private operators, such as oil companies, who are supposed to keep emergency stocks that are primarily intended for disturbances in peacetime. In many cases, these stocks are not even available in Sweden. In Stockholm and the Mälardal region we have a good supply in the depot in Nacka, but it is only enough for 2032. What happens after 2032? Time's running pretty fast. Is there any planning after 2032 for Mälardalen? Nor is there any planning that takes height in the event of war, and it is not clear what requirements there are for socially important actors to store fuel. I was visiting a fire station a few months ago. D is they had no contingency plan for fuel. In addition, there was only one car in quite a few municipalities in a large region that can soak up fuel from a gas station at a long-term power outage. How can our firefighters do their job if they have to go to the fires? Mr President, I would like to Food and potatoes are pretty important to our survival. How are we going to manage in Sweden in the event of a crisis or war? Sweden's farmers are affected by greatly increased costs for e.g. electricity, feed, fertilizers and diesel. Animals need heat, light and feed. The crops need to be fattened, and if you are a farmer you need a tractor and other machines. Inge one can get away from this. How can farmers afford to produce the food needed to increase the level of self-sufficiency when the bill of electricity is so high that you do not even want to open the envelope and when the price of fuel is so high that when you stand at the petrol station it is swindling? Mr President, I would like to The report on health care preparedness has presented two interim reports proposing measures, but the list submitted by the government of proposals to come in the next six months is empty. What is our readiness here and now if we quickly enter a new crisis? Hence my question to the Minister whether the Minister intends to initiate any proposals for better security of supply in the near future – not in many years' time.
i-c2qeYjtHdLTsuGkuJjjy4	Mr President, I would like to We are now in a process where we are holding to rebuild civil defence in a way that I do not believe any government has done in the past. We are making a historic effort and, as I said, we are restoring preparedness in a number of areas. You can ask yourself why we should have a civil defence. I usually say that there are at least three answers to that question. The first is that a state has a moral obligation always to protect its civilian population and to make it as effective as it can at all. The second is that it is a question of maintaining the will to defend ourselves. If an attacker succeeds in breaking the civilian population, it will also break the will for the defence, and the war will soon be lost. The third argument is that the preparedness efforts we are building are useful not only in times of increased preparedness and war. We also benefit from them in peacetime if we are affected by other types of crisis, such as a pandemic that we are in right now. There are many other types of crises that you can go through. Civil defence is therefore crucial not only in times of war but also in times of peace. Then we are talking about food and medicine preparedness, fuel, health, energy and telecommunications. In all these areas, there are a large number of missions in the authorities right now. It should be remembered, however, that we come from a situation that is actually quite miserable. I can take drugs as an example. You get almost dull when you read what the alliance government did ten years ago when you liberalised and sold out the pharmacy. That was the whole thing about the neoliberal attitude that you had at the time: everything was to be sold out and privatised. But you forgot that Apoteksbolaget also had a responsibility for preparedness, i.e. a responsibility for storing medicines in times of crisis and war. This completely forgot about the alliance government. That mission disappeared when you privatised and sold out like this. Instead, it was thought – and now I read what the government is writing – that, among market participants in a reregulated pharmacy market, there will be an interest in carrying out, on a commercial basis, tasks in the pharmaceutical supply of the total defense. How extremely naive! It was believed that the market, private operators, without any rules on this matter at all, could resolve the issue. What are we talking about? We are talking about drugs, and if it is something you need in wartime, it is reasonably medicines. All of this went out the window when the Alliance government privatized and sold out the pharmacy. You just forgot about it. The supply of medicines is now one of the areas that we will have to rebuild when we put money and investigations into this. We set off 4.2 billion a year from 2025 and build up gradually. These are things such as health care with just over 1 billion, food and drinking water with about half a billion and the energy sector with a couple of hundred million. We have asked a special investigator, Birgitta Böhlin, to review what a coordination function should look like around preparedness and how it should be financed. The report will come next year, and then we will continue to rebuild Sweden's preparedness on this basis.
i-P6W1Exspmb26AfZR6y9jUx	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for the developed response. It is a lot about what the Alliance Government did or did not do, but the Social Democratic Government – although it has changed a little bit to and from – has still been in control for eight years. Then one might think that it would have done something in terms of civilian preparedness over the eight years. There is a historic effort with a lot of money to go to civil defence, but it would never have happened if the Moderates and some other parties had not actually pushed because the government wanted to lower the level of ambition. Investigations in all honour – they are great – but somewhere you also have to roll up your sleeves and carry out what you have in mind in both the short and long term. There are currently around 15 000 full-time farmers in Sweden. They are the ones who get up early in the morning, in the clocks and showers, and care for animals and agriculture. For them, the situation is now quite acute. The high prices of electricity and fuel represent an unsustainable situation for Sweden's farmers in a country led by the Social Democrats. It is reported that the situation is now worse than during the drought 2018. One farmer says that his total costs have increased by about 1 million against the previous year – only on his farm. While demand for food is increasing – there are more of us living in Sweden – production has decreased. In the early 1990s, Sweden's farmers produced 75 per cent of Sweden's food. Today there are far more Swedes, but we do not produce more food but less. We trust the imports. About every other bite, Mr President, is imported food. The self-sufficiency rate has fallen to 50 per cent compared with our neighbouring country, Finland, where it is around 80 per cent. Sweden is largely self-sufficient in flour, sugar and carrots. And it's good, but not for very long. The harsh truth is that our country no longer has food for all its inhabitants. We do not notice the lack of peacetime, but we would be painfully aware of the lack of crisis and something would happen at our country's borders. Our country can no longer feed its people, and at a crisis the shelves are gaping empty in the shops. It won't take long. According to the League of Civil Defense, the central warehouses are emptied after about ten days. We could see this at the beginning of the pandemic when certain foods quickly ran out. What, then, would it not look like if things were to get even worse at our borders? Then we have not even mentioned the situation of children and adults at the country's schools, nursing homes and hospitals. It is important to talk about these issues. I look forward to the report that the Minister mentioned that the Swedish Food Safety Agency, the Swedish Agriculture Agency and the State Veterinary Institute will return with on the status of their mission to begin the building of food preparedness. I say again: in the list of proposals that the government intends to come back with the next six months, however, there is nothing about security of supply. That is why I wonder what preparedness should exist if we quickly enter a new crisis. There is nothing to say that it takes ten years before there is a new crisis. Mr President, I would like to I'm really worried! Every citizen is expected to take responsibility for their own food supply. But the big question is where the food will come from when it comes to it. We need a more robust society. The fact that Sweden has been too spared from war for over 200 years is no excuse to release control and rely on imports, just in time delivery and other things. The international situation in our world looks uncertain. Mr President, I would like to Everyone needs to realize that this is a problem that we cannot turn a blind eye to. Wouldn't it be better if we could prevent the disaster than just have investigations in hand once they happen?
i-G14Fv2QxphSxeX7Lwij1DF	Mr President, I would like to The agricultural policy may be taken with the Minister of Agriculture by Alexandra Anstrell. In fact, the broader issues are not my responsibility. On the other hand, my responsibility is to continue to build civil defence. There is now more money at our disposal than ever before, and it is not on the initiative of the Moderates. On the contrary, it is on the initiative of the government that has been in office for seven and a half years. We are the ones who have pushed forward the major investment in military defence and the major investment in civil defence. There was a time when Fredrik Reinfeldt said that the defense was a special interest. Those days are over, and now we do not look at the issue that way. We are building both the military defence and the civil defence in a way that Sweden has not seen for many decades. But it takes time to do because there is much to do. I pointed out one point with regard to medicinal products. The Moderates believed in some kind of neo-liberal spirit that the market would resolve this issue in a crisis situation. If there is one thing we have seen that the market cannot solve, that is precisely the kind of situation in crisis. Look at the vaccine issue in recent years. It is not possible to rely on market players, but there must be strong political governance and activity. This was the case: When the Moderates sold out the pharmacies and privatised the area, the emergency regulation that existed before was also abolished. Thus, for many years, we were completely naked in a crisis. We are now addressing these issues in specific evaluations and investigations, and we will make further proposals to strengthen those issues. The total amount of support from the 4.2 billion will be fully mobilised in 2025. But already since last year, and this year, money goes into a stairway where we increase the support gradually. It is about food readiness, pharmaceutical readiness, fuel, health care, energy and telecommunications. Let's take a fire vision in the folks' home and look at where the vulnerabilities lie. What is it that we need to look at in particular if we end up in a crisis? This may, for example, apply to supply chains and the type of products that are particularly vulnerable if it is no longer possible to import into Sweden. It is a major analytical work that needs to be done. We have set aside just over 4 billion. The health care sector will be provided with about 1 billion for this, half a billion in the supply and drinking water part and 200 million in the energy sector. Then there are additional resources within the respective area of government money. On top of this is the special investigation that we have set up with Birgitta Böhlin as investigator, former Director General of the Swedish Defence Materiel Administration. She will go through and review how government governance should look like, if there is a need for a specific coordination function and what it should look like and how this should be financed in the long term. That report will be presented next year. We are not waiting to work, but the money goes out now, the authorities are working as they should with the money they have received and Sweden's preparedness is gradually strengthened in these areas.
i-Nw39tm2roafBDXZgAVk1Vy	Mr President, I would like to The security situation in our surrounding world is changing rapidly. Then we need to be more on our toes because things happen. I believe that the government has not been so on these issues. The Minister blames the Reinfeldt government most, but this government has been ruling for almost eight years and blames itself for privatisation. Wouldn't it be better to hook your arm with the business community? For years, we have been going on about setting up the Enterprise Council of the Total Defence, and the government has investigated and investigated the issue. This summer, the Minister intends to convene the Council. But why has it taken so long? For my part, I think it's good to be able to go to the pharmacy at night when the kids' fever rises and don't have to fit the opening hours between 9 and 18 – as it was before. It feels a bit like the Minister and the Government are happy to hold all these investigations when there is a crisis, but I do not think they are very healthy to eat. They can in themselves provide some heat if you burn them when the electricity goes, but they cannot be used as fuel in either fire trucks or the hospital's spare units. You have to decide things, not just investigate. Then efforts need to be made, and decisions need to be followed up in order to be as planned. I can tell you that the situation is not so good out there in terms of electricity supply, food, fuel or medical supplies. There is also not a good track of the defence equipment so that it is in the right place at the height of preparedness, according to the Swedish National Audit Office's review. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Defence Committee agreed that Sweden needs to build a better food supply readiness to provide both the civilian population and the Swedish Armed Forces with the necessary supplies in the event of increased preparedness and extreme war. Many years have passed. What has it become since then? How much better has our security of supply been during a Social Democratic government? It became a thumbmethott.
i-6j2Tt2V9tpiGhV5iqCLfEH	Mr President, I would like to I would say that our preparedness is considerably better now than it was when we took office because these authorities and the whole public sector have much more money now than they had when we took office. It is not like a tax-sink policy that we have pursued. The Alliance government was marked by it—you would cut down as much as possible to allow for your tax cuts of 140 billion. Among other things, you cut down on the defense, and you did nothing for the civil defense. We are not there now, rather the opposite. We are now prioritising public activities in a way that the right-wing government and the alliance government did not do. You also made this mistake with Apoteket. In fact, you have to take that to heart. You sold out and privatized Apoteket and forgot that Apoteket had a drug preparedness responsibility. That responsibility was given to no one. It just disappeared, and it's a big worry. As I said, if it is something you need when there is war or war danger, it is reasonable medicine. But it was this market thinking, this neo-liberal privatisation drive, that simply obscured the view in that part. Now we're expanding the business. As I said, we set 4.2 billion a year from 2025. We are starting the payments already in these years to the authorities that need it and ensuring that we gradually increase our readiness again so that we are better equipped, constantly, for the crises that may come.
i-4YvrMr1FwdUkatnP8pgAjQ	Mr President, I would like to Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson has asked me when I see that the border with Norway can be reopened, whether the government will ensure that free rapid tests are offered for travellers and otherwise approve their own rapid tests when crossing the smaller crossings and how the government works to ensure that we can close the closed borders as quickly as possible and instead have joint management in the Nordic region around pandemic restrictions. The government attaches great value to our Nordic cooperation and wants to continue working to strengthen the Nordic region as a region. Free movement in the Nordic countries has been the basis for successful integration between our countries. But in recent years we have found ourselves in an extraordinary situation. This situation has required us to take measures that have been stressful for our peoples in the Nordic countries, not least for those living in a border region. The Government is well aware that entry restrictions have negative consequences in many different ways, especially in the border areas with Denmark, Norway and Finland. Sweden was also for a long time one of the countries with the least restrictive entry rules, especially for travellers from our Nordic neighbours. However, in December 2021 the Swedish Public Health Agency considered that the infection situation in combination with the spread of the omikrona variant in other countries was so serious that a requirement for the presentation of a negative test should be in place. The Government therefore decided on the request from the Authority. In January, the Swedish Public Health Agency submitted a new request to the Government to remove the requirement for a negative test for covid-19 for foreign citizens and to change back to the rules in force before 28 December 2021. On 18 January, the Government took a decision on this new request. Foreign passengers can thus once again present the EU's covid proof of entry to the country. The government continues to have a close dialogue with the Swedish Public Health Agency and continuously assesses the need for various anti-contagion measures against covid-19. Measures shall be maintained as long as they are justified but shall not be maintained for longer than necessary. The government is therefore closely following the development of the contamination situation, not least in our Nordic neighbours. We always strive for the most possible dialogue with our Nordic colleagues, and throughout the pandemic, Nordic contacts have been frequent at both ministerial, departmental and government level. Our countries have different conditions and have been affected by the pandemic in different ways, which makes it inevitable that our actions will differ to some extent. We must continue to prevent and reduce the negative effects of border barriers, both pandemic-related and other. I and my colleagues in the government will continue to work to ensure that the vision of the Nordic region as the most integrated region in the world in 2030 will not remain just a vision but become a reality.
i-HQA5Gm9SJFyV2Xb4NPPrsD	Mr President, I would like to I thank Morgan Johansson for the answer, although perhaps it was more fine words than desirable concrete action on the whole. Life at the border has been an absolute misery while the pandemic has been going on. In fact, I would have to use stronger words than that, Mr President. We have really noticed that we do not understand what it is like to live, work and live in a border region. This regardless of the government, regardless of the color of the government and any country. Let's say you live here on Helgeandsholmen. You have your job, your closest friends, your family, your football team, your forest and your boat in Old Town. All of a sudden, physical barriers are set up on the Stall Bridge. There's police or military there. You're completely excluded. You don't even get to go to your job, and you don't get paid. This is some of the things that we Swedes have experienced, which I have criticised the Norwegian Government for many times. Finally, this was finally relieved, to great joy for all. But now it is we who are causing trouble for our neighbors. Let me take an example from home: the journey a mother and a father make to visit their son. It's less than a mile away. I'll try to translate it into a Stockholm perspective. Morgan Johansson lives in Skåne, but it might make more people understand. Let's say it's Morgan Johansson who lives here on Helgeandsholmen and is going to visit his son, who lives at Kornhamnstorg in the Old Town. Then he needs a test with a written certificate, less than 72 hours old. To get it, he has to go to a private carer somewhere. For us or for the Norwegians who live on the other side of the border it would mean a trip from here to Uppsala or Enköping to be tested by a private health care provider and then pay between 1,200 and 2,500 depending on where the test is done. Then he will go back home the same way, wait for the certificate and hope that it will come in time. Once the certificate has arrived, he will be given an additional 50 miles [80 km] to cross a guarded border crossing instead of a few miles [2 km]. Instead, a walk of less than one kilometer is made up of 20 to 250 miles [20 to 250 km] of travel. That's how we treated our neighbors. So the joy was great last week when restrictions were eased. But the joy was advanced. Between Värmland and Norway we have 25 roads on which you can drive. All but two are closed with big, angry red signs, and the two roads are located in southern and central Värmland. In northern Värmland, at Långflon, we have a shopping mall that normally lives well on border trade. There the road across the border to Trysil is still closed with these angry red signs. It was in SVT's news yesterday. This means that if some Norwegians on the other side would like to go over and visit this shopping mall, they must take a 200 - mile [200 km] detour to enter via a guarded border crossing where they may pass. It goes without saying that you don't. Of course, this affects border trade, but it also affects ordinary people. It affects our Norwegian neighbours. The border is still closed, Morgan Johansson. Why is the border closed when we see that the infection is the same on both sides of the border?
i-26dE2osmUQbMW1mTek3BeN	Mr President, I would like to We're still in a pandemic. I think it is important that we continue to try to keep the damage caused by the pandemic as low as possible, and then we cannot get away from having to make some unpopular decisions of this nature from time to time. As Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson knows, I am a border resident myself. I grew up on Skåne's west coast and came to Copenhagen in the cradle, or at least in the stroller – long before I came to Stockholm. I know very well what pressures and problems this entails, not least for those who commute and need to travel between Sweden and Denmark, and what it has been like in these years. However, I would like to point out that Sweden as a country has actually been very moderate in relation to these restrictions. In fact, Sweden is the country in the Nordic region that has had the least travel restrictions. As a matter of fact, that's the way it is. During a period the travel restrictions from Norway and Denmark were extremely strict in relation to the restrictions from Sweden, depending on how they were to the current disease protection. If you look at this whole period, Sweden is actually the country that has had the least restrictive travel restrictions. A few weeks ago we ended up in an extreme situation, when the spread of the new Omikrona variant was very rapid. I think it surprised most of us. We saw a very rapid spread of infection both in Norway and in Denmark. Week 50 Norway had three times as high a spread of infection as Sweden. The newspaper could read that Denmark for a few days had the world's fastest spread of infection; it was extremely fast in Denmark. In such a situation, one must be prepared to take steps to at least do what one can to prevent it from happening so quickly in Sweden. We know how those who work in health care work every day for this. We must find ways to limit this and at least flatten the curve so that we in Sweden are not affected in this way by this rapid development. This was the background to the introduction of test requirements a few weeks ago. We had them for a fairly short period. Now we've removed them. Now these requirements are no longer there; they have been removed. We will continue to follow this closely. We will take the necessary steps to do this. I do not think we can avoid the fact that, in situations like this, we must be prepared to make decisions of this kind. Of course, it is also better the more people vaccinate. The spread of infection may be affected by this, but above all the burden on health care is affected. So we must continue to expand this. As the requirement for PCR testing is now gone for our neighbouring countries, it is enough to have vaccine proof to be able to enter. This brings us back to the regulatory framework we had before Christmas.
i-YPRMfe1pgJG6tg9jJJCUn9	Mr President, I would like to Morgan Johansson and I agree on vaccines; there is no doubt about that. We also agree that Sweden has been moderate in terms of restrictions. But it is not Sweden now – now it is we in Sweden that are causing trouble for our neighbours. The infection is the same on both sides of the border. The latest research shows that border closures only help if there is extremely high infection in the border region on one side but not on the other. Then they can play a role. However, this has not been the case during the pandemic, but the large spreads of infection have been elsewhere in our countries. Morgan Johansson says that we now only need covid evidence and that we no longer need PCR tests. That is quite right, but regardless of this, the vast majority of border crossings are closed. Only two border crossings in Värmland are open. According to SVT, only 12 out of 68 transfers between Norway and Sweden are currently open. Does Morgan Johansson believe that this promotes mobility and is a step in the right direction for the Nordic region to be the world's most sustainable and integrated region by 2030? These are very fine words in the Council of Ministers' vision, but when will there be action? Earlier during the pandemic, both in this House and in the Nordic Council, I have pointed out everything that has happened to us Swedes in Norway. This bullying is absolutely nothing that Morgan Johansson should be burdened with, but it is about that Swedes have been allowed to put on orange watch vests when they have been at work to show that they are Swedes. They have not been allowed to eat with their colleagues because they are Swedes. They have been tested extremely much more because they are Swedes, even if they work in a Norwegian municipality where the spread of infection is higher. They have had to wear more protective equipment because they are Swedes, even though the spread of infection has been higher in the municipality in Norway in which they work. As a result, people have stopped– they have not been able to continue. Would the Minister, both from history and from the point of view of the situation we are in today, urge job seekers living in a border region to look for work across the border, regardless of the nation? What are the arguments today for taking work across the border? Could the minister give some of those? We have a great deal of investment along the border, which is largely based on the proximity to Norway. One of these is the mall in Långflon that I mentioned. There are four people who are permanently living there, unless I'm completely wrong out there. This is a large shopping centre, and it is therefore entirely based on the Norwegian trade. Now I know my own municipality of residence Årjäng better than Torsby municipality and Långflon, but also in Årjäng municipality we have large shopping centres that are largely based on our proximity to Norway. They have led a fading existence now. If everything were to implode, it would mean somewhere between 500 and 600 unemployed. To translate this into the Stockholm standard, it would mean 120 000 unemployed. Although this is something far away from the Government Office, it is something that affects people very much. It is therefore very important that the Nordic Council of Ministers' vision ceases to be a vision and becomes a reality. When do we get there? Although we no longer have the test requirement, our borders are largely closed. I continue to ask the question: when will Morgan Johansson decide that we should open our borders?
i-EcUzVrraVbDXx2a7itHe38	Mr President, I would like to We will do this when we can do it without the risk that the spread of the disease will go amok so that we can no longer manage the health care system. We cannot yet make such an assessment; we are in the midst of this pandemic. At Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson it sounds like Sweden has extremely restrictive rules in relation to Norway, but it is exactly the opposite. It is Norway that has much stricter rules for entry than Sweden has. The restriction that exists when travelling from Norway to Sweden is that you must be able to present a vaccine certificate. However, if you are travelling from Sweden to Norway you must register before arrival, take a covid test and on top of this present a vaccination certificate, a recovery certificate or a negative test result from a test carried out within 24 hours before arrival. Norway – not Sweden – thus has the strictest rules right now. I want that said, because it is actually essential. If we are to have control of these journeys at all, we must, of course, limit the number of cross-border crossings – otherwise there is no way to maintain the restrictions. It must be understood that we must keep these closed roads during this period in order to be able to control it. The answer to Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson's question about when we think about lightening this and when we intend to open the borders is that we do so when we can do so without endangering Swedish public health and when we can do so in such a way that we do not have the development that we otherwise fear we will get. I don't think it should be forgotten that this is still an infection that affects not only Swedish society but the world's society in a way that no infection has done in decades – perhaps in 100 years. We are in the middle of it, and then everyone must try to do their part. This will go out on our daily way of carrying our lives; that's just the way it is. This will affect us, and we will have to be prepared for it. Ultimately, it is a matter of simply acting in such a way that our healthcare professional can continue to deal with the situation in such a fantastic way as they have done so far. If we mishandle this, we risk putting the whole health care system in very serious trouble.
i-7U2MeWvRcNYePs2EQHCW89	Mr President, I would like to Morgan Johansson is right in a way, though not. It's true that you register for Entry Norway. It's done in a minute on the phone. It takes a covid proof and a test. If there is no control at the border crossing that you cross, you take your own test. It should be taken within 24 hours, and so you trust it. If the test is positive, act. So you can use any transitions from Sweden into Norway. But from Norway into Sweden only the guarded border crossings still apply. This means that we have a stricter regime than Norway has, because for quite a few people it requires long detours compared to where one could drive. The Norwegians thus rely more on the population than we Swedes do, and that makes a mess of it. Morgan Johansson says we should open up when we see that we can do it. But how do we see it? Do we see it on our numbers of how many people are in the hospital? Do we see that on our tests? I looked online and saw that we test about 300 000 a week in Sweden. Yesterday Denmark tested 233,419 people in one day. If you test that many every day, that means 1.6 million tests a week. Then you really know what the situation looks like. What should we build our decisions on how and when to open up our borders, Morgan Johansson? I have said it many times, and I say it again: I would have liked Stockholm to have been closer to Finland. Then we would have seen much more action, because then it would have hit so many more. I look forward to Morgan Johansson taking hold of this and opening up our borders, as soon as possible. I would like to know once again when he thinks that this can happen.
i-9ZzbVwb3uURNUCg8o91XAN	Mr President, I would like to With all due respect, Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson – did not come with that Stockholm angle, because it does not bite me. I have lived my whole life in southern Sweden, on the west coast of Skåne. I grew up at the border. I know exactly what the problem is when you set up border barriers like this. But these problems must be weighed against the effect of not doing so and how we are affected by it. Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson asks us how to measure this. Is that by the number of tests? No, I think the most important thing for me and the government is to look at the state of health care. How many people are in ICU anyway? How many are taken care of in health care? What about the deaths? These are the very concrete measuring points we have. When it comes to the latest variant, omichron, it has been very difficult to assess how serious it is. Does it break through for those who are vaccinated? How sick are those who are vaccinated? How heavy is the burden on health care? A few weeks ago, there was a three-fold spread of infection in Norway as in Sweden and a much faster spread of infection in Denmark. To sit on your hands and say that we are not going to do anything in that situation would have been completely irresponsible. We took these measures to limit travel and make these demands for tests. We did it on the advice of the Public Health Agency. After a while we were able to remove them, even then on the advice of the Public Health Agency, when you have the opportunity to analyze the situation. We are therefore acting pragmatically day by day and week to deal with the situation. Do not put a picture of the fact that we generally have very restrictive rules! As I said, we are the country that has had the least extensive travel restrictions throughout the Nordic region. Norway has more extensive restrictions than we do. Thank you for the debate.
i-BK8U6rEW8G4tWS9yJQrcda	Mr President, I would like to Helena Bouveng has asked me whether I intend to review the chemical tax so that it does not discourage the re-use and sale of second-hand electronics. Initially, I would like to emphasise that promoting recycling is an important part of the government's work on the transition to a circular economy. As with other excise duties, there are different types of taxable persons for the chemical tax. The starting point is that sales themselves are not taxable; the tax liability arises when the goods are manufactured or imported. In order for this to change, the seller must actively apply to the Swedish Tax Agency to become a so-called approved warehouse keeper. A seller who has not done this can thus sell used electronics without taxing the sale. If the seller of second-hand electronics has chosen to apply to become a storekeeper and approved by the Swedish Tax Agency, the sale will generally be taxable. However, there is an exception for goods for which tax liability has previously taken place. Products such as Helena Bouveng in the matter have already been taxed initially, therefore, should not be taxed again if they are sold as second-hand. There are thus several ways in the law for companies to ensure that second-hand electronics are not taxed. That said, the government is following developments in this area.
i-N3AtMFF1NnAJehdaLugYFQ	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for his reply. On 1 April 2017, the Act on Taxes on Chemicals in Certain Electronics entered into force. The aim of the tax is to reduce the presence of hazardous chemicals in people's home environment and to influence the use of more environmentally and health-friendly alternatives. That sounds great, Mr President, doesn't it? However, we did not agree entirely in the Committee on Taxation on the excellence of the tax, partly because of the risk that imports of electronics from other countries, where the tax does not exist, would distort competition for our Swedish operators, partly because of how it would hit the circular economy, i.e. the re-use of electronics. The tax is so designed that it is paid again every time electronics are sold. The electronics can both be double-taxed and triple-taxed if the reuse becomes large. Reuse is good, but the possibility for it to occur will not be very great if taxation makes the cost too high for it to pay off. I will come back to this later. Mr President, I would like to Even the parties that approved the implementation of the chemical tax in the Tax Committee had their duplicates and were not entirely satisfied with the design of the tax. The finance minister's party colleague, Jörgen Hellman, and chairman of the committee, also saw that there is a problem. That is why the committee called for an evaluation of the chemical tax. The Swedish Parliament simply demanded that the government monitor developments in this area and that an evaluation be made of the socio-economic and other effects of the chemical tax. The Swedish Tax Agency and the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate, who received the assignment, have written two reports. The first was published in 2020. It notes that their evaluation of the tax on chemicals in certain electronics was not able to establish that the presence of chlorine, bromine and phosphorus in flame retardants has been reduced in the human home environment, as a result of the chemical tax. It also states that the substitution of dangerous substances carried out with the tax as a driving force has thus been limited and involved high initial social costs. In addition, the report states that the tax is not cost-effective, for example because it is the weight of the goods and not the chemical substances that are taxed. When it is said that the electronic tax is not cost-effectively designed, I take it for granted that it refers to the government wanting to reduce the presence of chemical hazardous substances in people's home environment. That is what I read in the report, Mr President. My question is: does the Minister of Finance have any other interpretation of the reporters' conclusion?
i-N9zfMr6Mo43VEZBQvX6JLg	Mr President, I would like to I thank Helena Bouveng for an interpellation debate on an issue that has been discussed several times. I believe that there is broad agreement on the need to comply with this tax, and that is why the government has initiated an evaluation and obtained this result. My interpretation is that there are some challenges with the tax system in this area. However, the report is also clear that since the tax has been in place for such a short period of time, it is difficult to evaluate the effect of it. It is nevertheless noted that the tax may have contributed to the substitution of hazardous chemicals but that it is difficult to prove it. Now we got a basis, and we look at the issue properly, in nte least because the tax is quite complex and it can be administratively complicated to work on the issue. It is reasonable to evaluate new taxes, see what is good and what is not good and how to simplify the system over time. It's important, and I'm looking forward to coming back to it.
i-DvNNdy7dz2Zb2s1khzbWCU	Mr President, I would like to It has been over four and a half years, so one should be able to do some sort of evaluation. The report's been around for a while. In the government budget, on the government's website, on the Social Democrats' website and in the Minister's reply, the word is used frequently. The Government's budget also stresses the importance of the transition to a circular economy. Yeah, who's not for it? The ambition is probably nothing wrong, but I can only say that the government itself effectively stops the transition. The design of the chemical tax is precisely such an obstacle. We consume more electronics than ever, and the more electronics products are manufactured, the higher the carbon dioxide emissions. Generally speaking, more than 80 per cent of climate impacts arise from electronic production. In addition, electronic waste increases and is now the world's most rapidly growing waste stream. In other words, it is rather urgent. This is precisely why increased product life through the re-use of electronics, such as computers and mobile phones, is important for our climate work. The exception for used electronics does not work in practice. The system is too complicated. In order for an exemption to be granted, you must be able to prove that the goods have already been taxed – something that the industry says is almost impossible. Instead, the exemption has led to double taxation of second-hand computers, telephones and other electronic products. Let me take a price example. A used computer screen with a value of SEK 500 is currently charged with SEK 451 excluding VAT in chemical tax. I do not know what the President thinks about it, but to me it sounds like that computer screen is basically unsaleable in relation to a new computer screen. For my part, I had probably chosen to buy a new computer screen, and I think I am unfortunately not alone in this choice – a choice that leads to both waste of resources and increased electronic waste. What choice would the Minister of Finance make? In his reply, the Minister says that it is following developments in this area. If that were the case, in view of the total failure to re-use our electronics, would the circular economy really have been created? When will there be action from the government?
i-9GZ7yiLbZd4ndYVkpnJjha	Mr President, I would like to This is a misunderstanding that needs to be corrected. It is only for those who have applied to be storekeepers that this is at all relevant. If you haven't applied to become a storekeeper, you can easily sell used electronics as many times as you like. And if you are a storekeeper, there is an exception, and that exception does not mean that you should prove that the goods have been taxed. It is enough for the tax liability to have taken effect. What does that mean? For example, there is a receipt of the product. That's the deal. I know that there are some uncertainties and rumours about this, so it is important to make it clear that this is not what the legislation looks like or is intended to work. This is an important issue to clarify so that the legislation is complied with according to the intention of the law and what is stated in the law.
i-J4beVt8Cy5o6YK5Q7111vP	Mr President, I would like to What an interesting answer from the Minister for Finance! He has probably not listened to the Delegation for the Circular Economy, which has actually been commissioned by the government to identify obstacles and instruments and to advise and propose measures. The delegation has pointed out on several occasions the problem of the chemical tax. By February 2020, the delegation pointed out in a separate letter to the Government that the construction of the current tax would be counterproductive to the overall aim of promoting circularity. Therefore, the tax should be removed on second-hand products when they are returned to the market. ..................................................... An IVL report published in 2020 concluded that re-use of a laptop can save 280 kilos of CO2 compared to buying a new one and that 95% of the savings come from the non-production of a new computer. On the Government's website, I read:... Designing instruments that contribute to increased supply and demand for circular products, services, recycling and recycled materials. ..................................................... That sounds good, like so many times when you listen to the Social Democratic Government. And yet it's going to be so wrong. At best, nothing happens. In the worst case, it becomes purely harmful, as with the design of the chemical tax. The tax is now out for consultation. Why not take the opportunity to redo and do the right thing and listen to the Delegation for the Circular Economy, which the government itself has set up, which has been given the task of identifying obstacles and instruments? We Moderates believe that reuse is more than important in our green transition. What about the S ocial democrats is more difficult to find out.
i-GND6mZjY56L7jfxoJCYj3F	Mr President, I would like to It is good that the debate makes it clear that we both think it is good to use used goods and that the tax liability for second-hand goods usually does not come into effect if you are not a storekeeper, and then there is an exception which means that you can then show that tax liability has taken place through, for example, a receipt of the product. In the debate, the Moderates suggest that the system should be changed to prove that the product is used. Is it easier? How is it documented? I just wonder because it is presented as an alternative proposal that simplifies this. It is easier to say that something has been produced abroad and is taxable on importation or that there is a receipt and that someone else has the tax liability and it is therefore not taxable. I am prepared to look at simplifications, and that is why we have a proposal for consultation. But to be honest, the basis may not be easy in all parts, but cause a little trouble and possibly make it more difficult for all the parties involved. Let's see if we can find simpler systems, because I think it's important to have simple systems. We should not tax one thing several times; that is not the point of this. But I also know that there are quite a few people who do not really know what the legislation looks like.
i-PrwkxES4CNkz5apyAFiwcc	Mr President, I would like to Helena Bouveng has asked me what concrete measures I intend to take to increase women's income level and strengthen their economic freedom. Sweden has a feminist government that gives high priority to gender equality work. Sweden has made great progress historically in terms of economic equality, but significant differences between women and men remain, especially for women born outside Europe. Based on this, I share Helena Bouveng's view that there are gender differences in income that require continued focus and efforts. Women and men must have the same opportunities and conditions in terms of paid work that give economic independence for the rest of their lives. The single most important reason for the pay gap is that women and men work in different occupations and that these occupations have different pay rates. The fact that women work part-time more than men and that they also take a greater share of parental leave contributes to the differences. Women are also more sick and have lower capital income. In order to strengthen women's finances in particular, the government has, during this term of office, introduced, among other things, an income pension supplement, strengthened basic protection for pensioners and increased maintenance support. It has contributed to an increase in disposable income that is relatively higher among women than among men. The Government's investment in individual welfare services in health care, culture, leisure, education and social protection has contributed financial resources to welfare services that together are more used by women than by men. Overall, the government's reforms of taxes and transfers and investments in welfare services have contributed to increased economic equality. In addition, the government has set up a commission for equal living income. It shall propose measures to help promote equal pay, equal income from life, an equal distribution of public support measures to women and men and equal workplaces. The Commission's final report will be published in February 2022.
i-VNG9WskVSykxr9onkucYr7	Madam President, I would like The now ill-red government has appointed itself a feminist government and claims to have an equal perspective in everything you do. That's a good ambition. The fact that we now have a woman in the prime minister's office, I can only agree that it is a glass roof that has been broken, although the party colour may not be the desired one. Unfortunately, however, this is not enough to achieve equality, because in the end it is very much about what policies are being run, what signals the policy sends and what conditions are given for men and women to be regarded as having the same opportunities. Madam President, I would like As the Minister points out, Sweden has come a long way in terms of equality between women and men, but there are still major problems. Women earn less than men. Women work part-time more than men. Women own on average only half of what men own in Sweden. Women and men also work extensively in different sectors and occupations. Much of the care work that in many countries is done unpaid by women is also done in Sweden by women but as paid employment. During the alliance government, it was possible to start and run companies in the welfare sector, a welfare where women dominate in the care work. More than half of the entrepreneurs in welfare are women. This compares with the construction sector, where it is 5%. It is also in welfare that women work to a large extent. It is women who, like men, want to be able to change employers, make careers and get their salaries up. The Social Democratic Party wants to break up the labour market by proposing a ban on profit in welfare. Correct me if I am wrong, Minister of Finance, but the Social Democratic Government simply does not like entrepreneurship in women-dominated industries, especially if the ambition is for the company to go well, develop, expand and employ more. Is it quite clear, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that equality between women and men is good, but that it does not apply when it comes to more women being able to run businesses? Are women and men really given the same opportunities and conditions in terms of paid work and economic independence in Sweden of the Social Democrats?
i-JrLC8jy9YWne621TBS6MRY	Madam President, I would like When it comes to equality between men and women, there are interesting comparisons to make. We had a moderate-led government before we got a Social Democratic-led government, and one can look at output data – how wage differences have developed and how budgets have looked at the distribution of bets between women and men. No matter how you twist and reverse the comparisons, it turns out that we have had a more ambitious gender equality policy than the previous government. Just look at the pay gap between women and men! It has declined twice as fast in our years as it did during the previous government. If you look at the outcome of the budget, you will see that the overall outturn from our budgets has always compensated and directed more towards women than against men. The Moderates did not succeed with much equalization at all, and the women who received something were above all the women who were relatively well off. It is also a distribution aspect that matters. I believe that what became very specific and where Sweden has been a driving force is that when we took office as a government we started to budget gender equality directly, that is, that all new reforms are examined from a gender perspective so that at least you have all the conditions to make the right balance and see if the budget work goes in the right direction or not. I do not know how it will be in the future, but when the Moderates come into government, it is often the case that they give priority above all to major tax cuts. When you look at the results of these major cuts, it is those who have higher incomes who benefit, and those who have high incomes in society are men. In addition, the result of tax cuts is poorer or less welfare services, which we know women use to a greater extent than men do. I therefore look forward to presenting, within a not too long time, new proposals aimed at the most deprived pensioners in Sweden. We know who they are. It's women to a greater extent than men. The Swedish political system has not delivered enough for a long time. I also look forward to a political discussion in the near future on how the parties approach the issue of improving the conditions for the most deprived pensioners, many of whom are women.
i-CnhYFpU1dAvMdTin8uqM2V	Madam President, I would like I can agree with the Minister for Finance that distribution policy plays a major role. I can also note that the job tax deductions that have been made and that we want to do above all meet those with low income and middle income, which also benefits women. Madam President, I would like I do not know how many debates I have had with Mikael Damberg's predecessors at the Ministry of Finance regarding the deduction of expenses. Many of the contributions from the then finance minister Magdalena Andersson were in line with taking care of his own shit, that the Djursholm villas should not be kept clean at the taxpayers' expense, that we do not want such a society – yes, Mikael Damberg understands. The fact that many actors are now doing their utmost to smooth the deal or move responsibility away from Prime Minister Magdalena Andersson's own use of home services is clear. A leading social democrat, none other than Marita Ulvskog, believes that it is the fault of the box pull and says: I had a mother who was a cleaning lady for a period of time, that was enough for me. Something that is a bit in line with this I could see in our debates – that not all jobs were good enough, no respect for honest work and no hat of for anyone who goes to work every day, whether you sweep the sidewalk or clean at the restaurant or at someone's home. Not a word was said about the fact that black jobs turned white with secure jobs for women, that many foreign-born women got their first job in their new country or that half of those who run businesses in the grid industry are actually women. The fact that Magdalena Andersson has now made use of the grid service is gratifying and quite understandable. I'll give her all the help and relief she can get. The fact that she herself has not met the demands that she places on others is more than regrettable, but that is not what the debate is about today. That the Social Democrats have now realised that the grid reform is here to stay should be clear as the Prime Minister himself, despite strong resistance initially, is now using it. The fact that women's share of entrepreneurship has increased over time can be explained by the fact that the proportion of manufacturing enterprises is decreasing in relation to the service and service sectors, as well as to health and long-term care enterprises, where women are highly active. The development, regardless of what the Minister for Finance says, has benefited from bourgeois reforms that have contributed to a growing home care sector and opened up the healthcare and care industries to entrepreneurship.
i-YEUici2Wz4BKnCoGjPCbyQ	Madam President, I would like As former Minister of Enterprise, I am passionate about entrepreneurship. I think it's hugely important. Women and men who have a dream and a vision of starting a business and who may have an innovation are important to Sweden. I note that in this area too there are major problems with gender equality, how venture capital works and how to value female or male ideas. In particular, our state actors have a much greater follow-up responsibility to ensure that they also stimulate the type of entrepreneurship of groups that traditional venture capital may not value. On the other hand, this becomes a little strange. Do the Moderates seriously mean that the grid reform is the great gender equality drive in Swedish economic policy? Is this where we are trying out how women's and men's living incomes are going, how are pension system developments and how are part-time jobs or full-time jobs going? I'm surprised. To be honest, recent events show that we have not got away from black jobs in this sector either, although the grid system has certainly contributed to more of these jobs being white today than before? But it has also turned out that there are very few of those who have immigrated to Sweden who have got the jobs in this sector. Rather, the Moderates' system of the world's most liberal labour migration has led people to come to Sweden to work in the cleaning sector instead of people who live here and who may have fled here can get their first job in the cleaning sector. I thought that was the point of the system, not the other way around. So there are some things to develop here. Above all, it is a good thing that a Social Democratic government is now undertaking to reform the whole system of labour immigration, so that we actually get things right. This is what has driven a very black economy and a shadow society that is visible especially in our vulnerable areas around Sweden. In addition, we now have an investigation looking at the abolition of EBO legislation. We have already limited the EBO legislation to ensure that these residential areas are not affected. These are structural issues affecting both women and men. But in this case it is also about people not being exploited in the Swedish labour market. When you look at the Moderates' budget motion, which thankfully did not go through, I can see that it was no to stronger health insurance and no to the insurance pension. It was above all the women who had toiled an entire working life that would suffer if Moderate politics went through. It is indeed the women who have worked their whole lives and been worn out and may not be able to look forward to a pension with decent compensation. Our proposals are a real policy for equal opportunities for women and men. And I look forward to having a continued debate on the poorest pensioners because we will continue our work, not just on strengthening health insurance. If we had introduced a security pension, it would have meant that those who are not actually able to work all the way up to retirement age would not have to take their pension early and thus become poor at the end of the day. These are hugely important reforms aimed not least at women in the welfare professions and in LO professions who would otherwise suffer from an even lower pension.
i-LtdQqmhfniFu3FFMisXqoy	Madam President, I would like I note that the Minister of Finance sneezes and rumbles over a woman-dominated sector. I wonder how the construction sector would have reacted if he had rallied in the same way over it, a construction sector that certainly has little problem with both black jobs and illegal workers. But that is not what I intended to use my speaking time for. The fact that women work is good not only for gender equality but also for Sweden's economy. Estimates from the parliamentary investigation service show that Sweden's bnp would increase by over SEK 400 billion annually if women worked to the same extent as men. The reverse of women working less than men is that women gain lower income and thus less power over their own lives and an economically vulnerable situation. Many women also testify that they cannot even afford to divorce. We Moderates want to look at a new and comprehensive grid reform, where the needs of older people for home help are increased. We Moderates protect freedom of choice in welfare that benefits women's entrepreneurship and opportunities for alternative employers. We want to secure stable rules of play with the possibility of long-term planning for entrepreneurship. The fact that entrepreneurship among women is not promoted when the welfare sector is called into question is nothing new. Now LO, for its support of SEK 50 million to the Social Democrats' election fund, is calling for a stop to running companies within the welfare sector. Is the Minister of Finance prepared to meet them and thus prevent women's entrepreneurship? Can you call yourself a feminist party if you choose to go down that road?
i-Nvf5BrxRwnGxt2VLhqqB4C	Madam President, I would like We have a feminist government and have had a Social Democratic government for many years in Sweden. One of the results of what we are most proud of is that so many women actually work in the Swedish labour market. If you compare Sweden with the other European countries, it is like night and day. People who have come to Sweden in recent years must also work. Therefore, we need to make demands on language skills, social studies and activity in order for them to enter Swedish society. But Sweden is one of the top tiers in Europe when it comes to the proportion of women who work and thus get their own livelihood. This was being threatened a little bit by a conservative reform – the custody allowance – which consistently went to women with immigrant backgrounds, to twice as much as to women with Swedish backgrounds. The overwhelming majority of women and not men at home further contributed to reducing their labour supply, reducing their pensions and weakening their position on the labour market. The worst part was perhaps that children who might even more than others need to attend preschool, to get a language development to manage schooling in a good way in Sweden, did not. It is good that we have phased it out. It is a little exciting that the Moderates still devote their thought power to a reform of the grid system. I have no problem with you doing that. But perhaps we should spend a little more time on the reform of the home service so that all people, not just those who can take part in tax deductions and can afford it, can get a good home service – which means that there are good staff there with good conditions after the Corona Commission's evaluation that showed shared tours and bad employment conditions. All of this costs money, and then one must also prioritise and invest in a home care service and an elderly care that is of high quality for all. And I look forward to having a debate with the Moderates on this in the election campaign.
i-RrqEasQN3kc9mJEEu6Z3Ws	Madam President, I would like Kjell Jansson has asked me what concrete measures I will take to equip Customs and Border Protection in the coming years, and whether I intend to strengthen Customs with considerably more staff to ensure that control is strengthened at our borders to stop thefts and serious smuggling. This government has a clear priority to turn every stone around in order to reduce segregation and combat the ruthless crime that today threatens the whole community. The Customs Authority has the task of setting and levying duties, taxes and charges so that proper recovery can be ensured. The authority shall also monitor and control traffic to and from Sweden in order to comply with rules on the entry and exit of goods. In addition, the Finnish Customs must prevent and combat crime in connection with the entry and exit of goods. Organized theft leagues are a serious social problem, and the issue of stopping theft leagues is important to increase security in society. One of the government's most important measures against theft gangs is to continue to strengthen the Police Authority. This year there are more police officers than ever before in Sweden. The government's goal is to increase the number of police employees by 10,000 by 2024, compared with 2016. By the end of June last year, the number of employees had increased by 7,000 compared to 2016. So the police authorities are well on their way to the goal. Foreign crime networks should notice that Sweden does not accept that they come here to commit crimes. The Customs Agency also has a responsibility in law enforcement, which mainly aims to stop weapons, drugs and explosives from entering the country. The fact that the Swedish Customs and the Swedish Police Authority would be given the same tasks or exchange information with each other would be an inefficient way to deal with the problem of theft leagues, and I think Kjell Jansson agrees with me. On 1 August, amendments were introduced to the Smuggling Act, which allows customs officials in connection with customs controls to also act upon detection of suspected crime outside the Customs Administration's regular criminal catalogue. For example, there may be a suspicion that stolen goods are about to be taken out of the country, a suspicion of smuggling or money laundering. As a general rule, however, the police must first approve the intervention. In November, a report on measures in border areas was submitted to the government. In order to improve the possibilities for combating cross-border crime, the investigation proposes that the Police Authority, in particular, should be given specific powers in certain border areas. These include increased opportunities to conduct camera surveillance and to intervene in crime prevention. The proposal on camera surveillance also covers the Customs Agency. The report has been referred and the period for referral expires in March. During last year, the Government has also set up an investigation aimed at creating a transparent, efficient and uniform regulation of the Customs Agency's powers so that the Customs Authority is better placed to carry out its mission effectively. The investigation shall also consider whether the Authority should be given additional powers and, if so, propose such powers. The report shall be submitted by 16 May 2022 at the latest. In recent years, Customs' resources have been considerably strengthened. The Agency's funding has increased by 30 per cent between 2017 and 2021, which has meant that the number of employees has increased by approximately 350 people during the same period. The previous government proposed in the budget proposal for 2022 that the Swedish Customs Agency's funding should be increased by SEK 75 million and by an additional SEK 15 million in 2023, in order to finally increase permanently by SEK 105 million from 2024. With these increases in funding, the Customs Agency would be well equipped in the coming years. With the Riksdag's budget decision, the Swedish Customs Agency's funding is increased even more, namely by 175 million for 2022 and with further increases for the next two years.
i-V25T87abEeZywaozttseoX	Madam President, I would like Thank you for a good answer, Minister of Finance! There are three reasons why I refer this to a debate in this House. The first reason is that there is a lot of theft in my municipality, as the Minister of Finance knows. Some are hit hard. I'll get back to that. The second reason is the visit to the bridge fort in Trelleborg that we made at the end of November. We met with customs and the South region, and I was extremely impressed by their work, as well as their commitment to doing a good job. The third reason is that I think we need to have more control at our borders. It's a different world today than when I was young-- a little has happened over these 40 years-- and that's why I think it's worth having a debate with the Minister of Finance. The Minister of Finance answers that he intends to strengthen the Customs Agency with more staff. It's great and praiseworthy, and we support it. That is a good thing, but the question remains whether staff are given greater powers to intervene. To some extent, the Minister of Finance has replied to this, but I would like them to go further and did not have to contact the police at first stage. They should be able to call in the police once they have already made the interventions and seen the degree of this, I think. I understand that the police cannot be at all border controls every day, but I hope that we will be able to have customs officers at each border inspection every day. I have previously asked Morgan Johansson about this and had a debate with him, in 2019, and he felt that there were no major problems at the time. During the autumn I asked Mikael Damberg, who was then Minister of the Interior, and from him I had some agreement that this is a problem. I then felt that the Minister for Finance took this seriously and agreed that it is a problem, and I believe fundamentally that the Minister for Finance and I agree on this. Then there are degrees in everything, and you can discuss how much money you spend and so on. But at least it feels like the government has made a significant turn on this issue. Maybe it's easier now that you don't have the Green Party, but it's just my own faith. It is common knowledge that we have poor control over our borders. If I have counted correctly, we have twelve border crossings in Sweden, and they are partly manned. Often four border controls are manned, as I understand – four controls of twelve. Eight is empty. It is also not often you come to Arlanda and there is no control at all. There's no one there. Arlanda should, of course, be a priority, so that there are always controls there with both customs and police. It is such a huge flow, even though it has gone down during the pandemic. Cars coming to Sweden via ferry to our harbours or via the Öresund Bridge are good to keep track of. When we visited, we saw a sharp intervention; two foreign citizens were taken with four kilos of cannabis in the car. That intervention was done very well and professionally by the police. But it is easy for these gangs and smuggling syndicates to keep track of where there are controls and not, because not all borders are protected every day. Customs is constantly at a disadvantage to the bully, I would say. The only border control that always works is when we have a pandemic border with Norway. Then it is prioritised and always manned.
i-DzcV9uo74vDh4HRGkvgESJ	Madam President, I would like It is good that we are fundamentally doing the same analysis and taking this issue seriously. However, I must disappoint the interpellant a little: it is not that the police are watching the entire border with Norway even in pandemics. We have a lot of transitions to Norway, so it would be completely unreasonable – we would have to set up the entire Swedish police authority there, and that is not possible. It is therefore necessary to have a intelligence-based and risk-based approach. Where are the flows? How do you work more efficiently? That's what Customs is trying to do, isn't it? I fully agree with the interpeller that we need increased staffing, with more staff able to maintain our border control through customs and ensure that we keep track of both entry and exit. Just this year, I think customs is counting on employing about 180 more people, so it is a massive expansion that is now taking place. I made a digital study visit to Gävle harbour, where Customs is now opening a new customs office for the first time in quite a long time because there will now also be new transport flows. Not least in northern Sweden, we see new flows linked to the large investments that are taking place, and customs have to adapt their operations based on where in the country the new flows are located. Then of course there are some hot spots. The bridge to Denmark is of course one, but Arlanda is also a particularly important place for customs to have good staffing and control at. Even there, however, customs are increasingly working on intelligence-based and risk-based flights, that is to say, they know which flights at Arlanda are most likely to be smuggled people or drugs or that other criminal activities will be considered. In the same way they work with our larger ports and with the bridge. So it is a way to use it. We have made a choice in Sweden where we let the police have the main responsibility for law enforcement, but customs in Sweden also have law enforcement tasks. This is not the case in all our neighbouring countries; it is enough to look at our neighbouring countries, where customs do not have this law enforcement mission at all. Instead, all responsibility lies with the police. We in Sweden have gone beyond what several of our neighbours have done in this regard, and I think that is right. On the other hand, I think that what we now have for consultation, that is to say the question of police powers in border areas, is very important. I have been to the Netherlands myself and looked at how their police work with camera surveillance, flows and analysis. They can save the data and see when the small trucks arrive in the evenings – is it related to any ferry transport in the rest of Europe? In this way, they can build a intelligence-based approach that beats much harder against this kind of criminal activity. I therefore believe very much in both staffing up customs and ensuring that our law enforcement authorities have adequate technical equipment. Customs has now purchased new X-ray equipment, both mobile and larger fixed installations. All of this plays a role in their ability to do an effective job, but it is also about police opportunities. I therefore think that this is a priority and customs continues to grow. However, one should say that the extra money mentioned is unfortunately not long-term. If you want customs to grow with staff in the long term and if the Riksdag decides on extra funding, it is quite important to consider how the funds can then be used to increase the staff, for example.
i-JkC1pW8hfG4FSkSeyto4eH	Madam President, I would like In principle, there are swing doors at some of our border crossings. It has created a situation in which we do not have control over who is in the country. That is why you need more biometric control, and a new census is also needed. We don't know how many people live in Sweden and where they live. This also allows for a lot of subsidy fraud and fraud of various kinds. Madam President, I would like In conclusion, I can see that border protection is under any criticism and that the government has an easy mind on this issue. The strategic intelligence work must be strengthened, as the Minister for Finance said, with hints between countries. That's exactly right. Customs must also be allowed to develop cooperation with other countries outside the EU. Today, international leagues operate in Sweden. They commit theft of boat engines and finer cars and break into villas and holiday homes. A family back home in Roslagen has had their boat engine stolen three times in four years. A good friend of mine had his boat stolen last May. It was found on an island out in the archipelago some distance minutes from his house. The boat was completely looted, without engine and interior design. The criminals can go home with the stolen goods without any major problems via our ports due to a lack of, not to say zero, check at our ports. Vans with stolen goods leave the country even though there is a suspicion that they may have cargo consisting of boat engines and other stolen goods. We need to stop this. The international leagues should not be allowed to ravage freely in Sweden. They are now. Madam President, I would like Why has the government not listened to us moderates on this matter before? We have both exercised and pointed this out in debates throughout the parliamentary term. Customs resources need to be strengthened both in person and with greater powers in order to strengthen border protection. Some reinforcement of staff will now come, the Minister of Finance informs us, which we welcome. During a visit to the South region in November, Customs presented new technologies. It's about these cameras. You have like a truck with a camera that trucks get to ride through when they get to the ports. There you can x-ray to see if it is the goods specified there. If you see an anomaly, you can go in and look. A camera like this costs $18 million. We have four such cameras in Sweden, and we have 12 border crossings. You need to buy eight more. For example, there is a camera like this in Nynäshamn and Värtan – you share a car and drive between. It's 40 miles, and it'll take a while to move it. My opinion and assessment is that you need to buy one of these cameras into each border crossing in order to strengthen customs powers. They're not fast. You can't drive 100 kilometers an hour, but you have to drive slowly with these cars. There would be a cost of about 200 million in investments. It's small money in this context, I think. If we can afford to spend 60 billion on aid, we can well afford to spend 200 million more on technical equipment for border protection. This comes with the mobile, as I said, and you need to strengthen control.
i-GHQRXgAZBTLpvvqQzeDgLF	Madam President, I would like I do not doubt Kjell Jansson's commitment to this issue and that he would like to have SEK 200 million for customs for technical equipment. The Moderates do not have that in their budget motion, I want to be clear about that. We've reinforced customs. I said in my introduction, I think, or if it was after only the last few years, customs resources have increased by a third. So they have grown by a third, and now growth continues all the time. So it is not something we have done just now, but we have done it in the past. I buy a lot from the analysis of the problem, but I do not buy that we have taken this lightly in any way. I can say that when I was Minister of the Interior, this was one of the issues I worked with most. We're expanding the police in a historic way right now. We have expanded customs by 30% and continue to do so. We have commissioned customs, police and Coast Guards to work together and have had a completely new way of working in collaboration with these authorities to get to grips with this. In addition, we have prioritised the issue within Europol and within the Empact cooperation where Sweden has pushed for this, to combat theft leagues, now in European contexts also to be a priority. We have tightened the penalties vigorously, and then we have just directed it towards a new qualification base on gross theft or gross heel, that is to say, one should be sentenced to longer prison sentences if it is systematic crime, as it is in these theft leagues. In addition, attempts, preparation and conspiracy of heeling have been criminalized. Then we have also introduced that there should be an extra-strengthening punishment for burglary theft for those who break into homes because it is so intrusive. So we've been running the whole penalty side, too. Then we have also worked to prevent these theft leagues and people from entering Sweden at all. If they are convicted or in prison, they must also leave Sweden, because they often do not have their residence in Sweden. All of this we've been working on systematically. Something that also gives effect and that I want to praise is what boat clubs around Sweden do when they work with boat collaboration. There the police have a regional administrator in each region who can help boat clubs work on this. It has a rather dramatic effect when you work preventively and look at risks and so on. You can still suffer, but it reduces the risk quite severely. Overall, boat-related thefts over the past ten years have decreased by about a quarter, 24 percent. That is not good, for it is still the case that we have had far too much of this business. Now we press at all levels – with the penalties, with the police, with customs, with international cooperation and with the cooperation with the boat clubs. This is something that we should not just let pass, but I do not buy the description that we have taken lightly on this issue. This is a great priority as this plagues many, both entrepreneurs and individuals around Sweden, who are affected by this type of crime.
i-Qu7JhHwnbFA7x55uJgKoZH	Madam President, the Minister for Finance. I can admit that things have become much better on the part of the government. That's what I said. I felt earlier that it was a light mind when I got answers from the then Minister of Justice who said that it was not a problem. Australia is a country that is quite similar to Sweden culturally. There is an extremely high level of border protection. There's a TV show showing this. It's called border guards. It's kind of interesting to see how they work. It is perhaps something to take after in Sweden to protect the borders and not get problems here. Control at our borders is too weak. Customs does not have enough staff to be able to have all border crossings guarded on a daily basis. When you come to Arlanda, as I said earlier, a few travelers are being checked. It makes the drugs flow into the country and makes it easier for criminals to move freely into our country. Customs and the border police must have more resources to keep track of our borders. We do not have this in our budget motion, but I believe that we should get things right in the long term, and not just now, customs will have to have about 1 billion more in perhaps a five-year period. It is needed both to cope with the manning of all borders and the purchase of technical equipment costing up to 200 million. That's what it's all about. They also need smaller cameras to X-ray bags and stuff. Such equipment has arrived now, and it works revolutionaryly well. Thank you for the debate, Minister for Finance.
i-QQr9dsrYMhhSaHM1zm2MLo	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Kjell Jansson, for the interpellation debate! This is an issue that we are both committed to because it plagues people and companies all over Sweden that theft leagues come to Sweden for a single purpose, namely to commit crimes. We have to stop that. We do this through new resources for the police and customs and with cooperation, international cooperation, increased penalties and also preventive work with boating and other things. It must continue and it must be expanded, and it will do so in the coming years. I believe, however, that we should realise that all countries are a little different. Australia is a bit difficult to compare with. It's an island nation. We have long land borders with the whole of Norway, we have land borders with Finland and we have a fixed connection with Denmark – alongside all our ports. Since we are an export-dependent country, we have very many ports and also our airports. They're a big job to deal with this issue. Customs has also done its own, internal development work that is quite impressive where they have more effect from the employees they have so that the control activities can work with both legs to get even more effect from their controls. They have also extended their education to meet these new requirements. Then the technological development, not only with the new X-ray equipment, but also with the issue of working with data, being able to follow flows and be even more accurate. There we also have the whole European work that is now taking place where we are building together a great many of these systems in Europe. It will facilitate and simplify both the collection system and the better control of who enters Europe and what their purpose is. These are important issues and I look forward to continuing to discuss this in the future, but I note that we are making great efforts on this and will continue to do so.
i-MdaEfr3PGv3TzVDjgyfXbX	Madam President, I would like Mr Westroth has asked me whether, in my area of responsibility, I intend to compensate in some other way for the increased cost of travelling to and from work that the new system would entail for those who do not have public transport as an alternative. Many people in Sweden, especially those living in rural and sparsely populated areas, depend on the car as a means of transport. The opinion of the government is that it should be possible to live and live in the whole country, even where public transport is missing or inadequate. The Ministry of Finance has referred a memorandum proposing that the current travel allowance should be replaced by a regionally differentiated tax reduction that is distance-based and transport-neutral. The memo assesses that the proposal will allow more commuters to benefit from a tax relief compared to today. Furthermore, it is estimated that the rules will be easier to apply and thus reduce the large tax error associated with today's travel deduction. The proposal provides for a disaggregation of resources from people living in metropolitan areas to people living in the rest of the country. Tax relief thus goes primarily to those parts of the country where it is most needed. The proposal which has been referred to us is a model of how a new system of tax incentives for work travel can look like, and the proposed tax reduction is at a level which means that the proposal will be financially neutral if the current travel allowance is abolished at the same time. The possibility of adjusting the levels of the model is an issue that may be assessed in the work on future budget proposals. The memorandum's proposals and the responses of the consultation bodies are currently being prepared within the Government Office. The government has not yet taken a position on the final form of the tax relief.
i-XzQZNswH24G6FDPjPsqU9v	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. I am pleased that the Minister for Finance and the Government at least say that they have the view that it should be possible to live and operate throughout the country, even where public transport is lacking or is inadequate. Otherwise, it is rarely something we notice on decisions and proposals presented by the government, which has led to the appearance of prices of electricity, petrol and diesel and increased vehicle taxes. However, the Minister of Finance must have credit for at least saying so in his reply, and there is certainly reason to remind him of this in the future. I have respect for the fact that this is a memo and not a sharp proposal, but it is on the basis of the proposal of the Travel Deduction Committee that the Government has drawn up the relevant proposals in the memo. So in this debate we will have to deal with the memo's proposals, which should nevertheless be a will for the government. Madam President, I would like The year 2019 may be referred to as the last normal year before the pandemic struck. Around 900 000 Swedes used the travel allowance to get back part of the cost of driving to and from work. However, we should be clear that the travel allowance already today does not cover the full cost of car travel to and from work, but rather is a way of mitigating the effect of not living and working in the same place or having the opportunity to take public transport to work. Madam President, I would like In the present memorandum, a change in the travel allowance is mainly achieved by making it transport-neutral and as a tax deduction. It does not therefore matter which means of transport is used to use the new travel allowance. This means that those who have the opportunity to travel collectively to work will have the same opportunity for tax reductions of the same amount and reductions as those who are forced to drive. When the proposal was presented, the then finance market minister Åsa Lindhagen was present. She pointed out that it is unfair that, for example, a nurse who lives in Nynäshamn and works at the Södersjukhus Hospital did not receive it. Madam President, I would like This week I was inside a little fast and looked at SL's schedule. A normal everyday life has a commuter from Nynäshamn to Södersjukhusken no less than 44 departures to choose whether to go by public transport to work. What disqualifies for travel deductions is that the time gain is probably not the two hours needed to get the car to work instead of public transport. On the other hand, it probably saves more time to take public transport instead of being in traffic on the way to work. The proposed system would provide work commuters between Nynäshamn and Stockholm with a tax reduction of approximately SEK 8 500, which would largely finance the entire annual card at SL. If everyone in Sweden had had a public transport service with 44 departures per day to the place of work, I think we could have completely abolished all forms of travel deduction. That is why, Madam President, I would like to put a question to the Government. It should be a privilege to have a well-developed public transport system around the corner which, moreover, is largely already fiscally funded. Therefore, for what reason for e, does the government propose further tax financing for public transport at the expense of already overtaxed car users who do not have public transport as an alternative?
i-2vwQcSyYF7QygNfhRfCobU	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to make it clear that this model should not be seen as a ready-made proposal. It is a model for getting away from the previous model, which has many shortcomings and problems. Today's travel deduction system is, above all, complicated. It is one of the deductions that gives rise to the greatest tax errors in the state budget. It has been discussed for a long time that the system does not really have the effect that has been asked for with it. It is important that tax rules are easy to understand and apply so that they do not go wrong. This is a starting point that a finance minister thinks is important. In addition, other countries around us have changed their tax systems long before us. For example, both Norway and Denmark have established distance-based work travel systems. Germany has done the same. There are therefore several countries in our vicinity that have changed their systems in such a direction. As has been pointed out, today's system does not really benefit those who carpool against those who go alone. There are a lot of small parts that have been discussed for a long time. Above all, today's system may have overcompensated some of those with high incomes who live quite urbanly close, and that may not have been the point of today's travel deduction system. I therefore believe that there is a need to look at a new model. First came a suggestion. We chose in the memo to change this a little in order to bring in greater and clearer differentiation than was originally contained in the proposal. However, I stress that the draft system has now been consulted, and we have received a great many comments. We have received comments not only from those who are consultation bodies, but also very many spontaneous points of view. I see that there is an interest and a genuine willingness to find a system that works well. The memorandum that has been consulted is completely cost-neutral. It is not certain that Parliament's parties think it should be so over time. I think this is a discussion you can have when you look at the proposal, when you can see whether there are changes that need to be made. Is it also prepared to finance these changes? This was my picture of this. The referral points on the system that have now come in will be very important. Now, large parts of the country have a functioning public transport system, and there you need a different regulatory framework than you need in those parts where there is no functioning public transport. There, support should be more generous. I think that is a fundamental requirement. In addition, the system should be more transparent in the long term and it should not be wrong, which is important for all tax systems. We also need to have a distribution aspect of tax relief in this way, which I find interesting. You shouldn't get a higher travel allowance just because you have higher income. It is not certain that it would be the most fair thing to build a modern system for the future. I am happy to come back and have deeper discussions about this when we have read all the referral points and found out how to work to get a better system in place than we have today.
i-8W6QMNW86ktgMXZh7Es4tH	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. As I said at the outset, this is not a ready-made proposal. I understand that today's system has shortcomings and problems and that it can be perceived as complicated. The Swedish Tax Agency itself estimates that the tax error amounts to up to one third. So there are things to do. Another argument for making the change is that it is mostly used in big cities and that high income earners benefit most. However, we see that it is actually in Halland, the county that I represent here, that the highest proportion of the population makes use of the travel allowance. It is certainly true that many individuals in the metropolitan regions and mainly in Stockholm use the travel allowance and that the deduction amount is high. But this is because many people live in Stockholm and they earn relatively more here. But if you look at the proportion of the population using the travel allowance, it is the lowest in Stockholm. There is, of course, reason to question whether all the conditions are met in order to use the current travel allowance if you live in metropolitan regions. The requirement to save two hours a day to use the car instead of public transport must be met. The Swedish Tax Agency estimates that about one third of the tax loss from the travel allowance is incorrect. One might wonder whether the Swedish Tax Agency has been given the right conditions to make a good review of the declarations in order to better ensure that the deduction is correct. In 2019 the Swedish Tax Agency examined less than 1 per cent of the declarations that had travel deductions. Nearly 70 per cent of the audited declarations were amended. Here it should be relatively easy for the Swedish Tax Agency to use automated systems to better check that all the conditions are met to use the travel allowance. Even the Riksdag administration has now introduced a travel bill system for us MPs where we only specify the starting address and target address, and the system itself calculates the route that we have travelled. As the government mentions in the memo, the travel allowance is the part of the declaration that is usually wrong. Then one might wonder what efforts and resources the government has given the Swedish Tax Agency to control and curb cheating, instead of punishing anyone who does the right thing and who does not have public transport as an alternative for their work trips. The claim that it is primarily high income earners who benefit from the current travel allowance is a truth with modification. It is true that a person who pays a higher tax will also receive a higher tax discount on his deduction. But it is the structure of the tax system with progressive taxes that has this effect. It is the same with a taxable benefit that you get from your employer. There you pay different taxes on the benefit depending on the income you have.
i-FBmaoak265c3gjdfLSZswx	Madam President, I would like I will honestly say that during my time as Minister of Finance, I have not taken any such initiatives. We have just started the work of looking at a more simple and transparent system that is easy to apply. When building tax systems and thinking of control, it is important that the system at its core is verifiablely fair. If I understood the comparison with Parliament's system, it was what you found out about the distance of the trip. It would have been very me r complex if the system had figured out if you could have made a time gain on taking a bus, a subway or in any other way get you back and forth. Today's system is based on time savings. The IRS should not only keep track of where you live and where you work. It should also be able to schedule the buses to sort out if you have a time gain or not in today's system. It's quite complex. That is why I think there is still a point in discussing whether to have a distance-based system. It will be much easier to control. I think there is also a feeling in the rural areas of Sweden that a distance-based system would be fairer. In metropolitan areas, distances are shorter in some sense. It will then be a redistributive effect that it will be more the long distances that are more compensated. I understand that it is a discussion that is also taking place in rural areas that it is reasonable to work more with a distance-based system. Then there are comments on the distances. Are the limits presented in the memorandum correct or not? However, I think it may be a way of moving forward also in the tax error discussion to move to a distance-based system to enable controls. This is a different way of reducing the tax rate proposed by the memo. Isn't that a pretty smart way to get a tax reduction that becomes more similar between people? This means that they are not overcompensated with the highest income. I think it is an appetising system to introduce in principle. You get a tax reduction, but you do not get the marginal impact discussion that we have with today's system. It may still be interesting with the memorandum and something that would enable a way forward. I would like to ask Eric Westroth: are you in principle opposed to a new system, or is it the effect of the result of the memorandum that is the problem? Or would the Swedish democrats prefer to remain in the old travel deduction system? I have not been following this question for so long. Of course I should know. But I am quite new on the mission, and I really do not know how the Swedish Democrats stand on this issue.
i-QZqGqD9wrBFpr4Ec8pjLZQ	Madam President, I would like Thank you again, Minister of Finance, for your answer. In our own budget, we have driven us to maintain the current system of travel deductions. We have also proposed to raise the level from the 18.50 people have previously had per mile by 5 SEK to 23.50 to compensate for the increased costs that car driving has had in recent years. If we look at the new system of travel deductions, one might object a little bit to a situation where you have the opportunity to go public transport to work and perhaps have up to the maximum limit of 80 kilometres to work. The effect may be that you get more tax credit than the tickets cost. So you get paid net to get to work. We object a little bit to that. An attempt should be made to correct the errors in the new system. At the same time, remember that the car is by far the most common means of transport to get to and from work. Sweden is a large and sparsely populated country. The Minister of Finance mentioned a number of countries. Sweden is the third largest country in Europe, and it is the second most sparsely populated country. All Swedes will never be able to go public transport to work. The car's important. If we reduce the travel allowance, we also reduce the opportunities for companies to recruit the skills that happen to live a bit away. As the Minister of Finance says, there have been some referrals to the memo. I printed them all out, and it turned out to be a real lunta. There were many who rejected the proposal and, unlike the government, felt that it was too one-sided and seemed to favour big cities with their public transport. In fact, I would just like to call on the Minister for Finance to put the proposal in the wastebasket and instead to deal with the problems that exist. Finally, I would like to thank the Minister for Finance for the debate.
i-CtaByiSynm1ydSjZQhJTNH	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking Mr Westroth for the debate. That is an important issue. It has been discussed for a long time. Today we have a system which has a number of shortcomings and which may not have the outcome that we want. It should be a system that enables people who live and work in rural and sparsely populated areas, for example, and needs their car in order to get to and from work to be able to do so. It should work in a good way throughout the country. It is also important that we have a system that can be checked and that means that we do not have a tax error of one third. I do not think we know of any other tax system in Sweden that has such errors. It undermines respect for the tax system if it does not have systems that work. This debate is giving rise to a new debate. What's fair? Is it reasonable for the whole country to be treated in exactly the same way? Or is it possible that urban areas with public transport are treated differently from the rest of the country? I think so, because there is another possibility of public transport there. It is reasonable to ask whether it is possible to find a system of distance-based compensation which makes it much easier. I also think it would be very clear to the countryside. I understand that people will have views. Since this is a model and it is completely cost-neutral, there are certainly some who will have views on the levels and distances. It is perfectly reasonable that people have it in a consultation session like this. But as the responsible minister for the system, I think it is time for us to reform the system. It has a number of shortcomings that we need to overcome.
i-REKCoJnfFVnPPNjwbtKLV7	Madam President, I would like Roger Haddad has asked me when the government intends to submit a proposal to Parliament with proposals on the future and funding of resource schools. He has also asked me if the government will come back with proposals for specific teaching groups with the aim of making it easier for students to find a place when needs arise. Finally, he has asked me whether the government will review the rules in order to make it easier for school units to provide distance learning for pupils with long-term and problematic absences, so-called home sitters. First of all, I would like to stress the importance of the prevention and health promotion work of the school. All pupils should receive the support they need at an early stage and primarily within regular education. They shall also provide the guidance and incentives they need in their learning and personal development. The aim is for them to be able to develop as far as possible according to the goals of the education. In other words, the school must adapt the learning environment on the basis that students have different conditions and needs. The government sees the challenges that exist with regard to pupils who do not receive the support they need, for example, individually or in a specific teaching group. Those students who need teaching in a smaller group should be able to get it. D more efforts are needed, inter alia to support principals in meeting pupils' needs for special support; Therefore, the government has in its budget proposal for 2022 (prop. 2021/ 22:1) announced initiatives in the field of support and pupil health. At the government's initiative for 2022, SEK 40 million has been allocated for special support, and SEK 40 million has been calculated annually for 2023 and 2024. Based on proposals from the Swedish National Agency for Education, the Government has commissioned the Swedish National Agency for Education, together with the Swedish Agency for Special Education, to produce support material for the investigation of a student's need for special support. The Commission considers that the current rules on the placement of pupils in a special teaching group are adequate and that the majority of the referral bodies share the assessment of the inquiry. The investigation has made a number of other proposals in this area that are now being prepared within the Government Office. In the spring of 2022, we intend to leave the proposals on living health and strengthening education for pupils with intellectual disabilities, as well as on esurs schools and additional funding for special support to the Riksdag. I look forward to coming back with those proposals. Generally speaking, students feel best and learn best when they are in a school and receive so-called local education. Therefore, the main rule in school is close-up education. For various reasons, some students may find it difficult to participate in local education. Distance learning can then be a possible alternative. There must always be an individual test of whether a student needs distance learning. On 1 July 2021, new provisions on both remote and distance learning began to apply. The new rules on distance learning allow such teaching to be used as special support for a limited period of time in primary and secondary school. A prerequisite for this is that the student cannot participate in regular education due to a documented medical, mental or social problem. In upper secondary school, distance learning may in some cases be used for an entire education and not only as special support. Distance education may only be carried out by a principal of the school system who has been approved by the State School Inspection. Approval requires, among other things, that the principal has the ability to perform good quality distance learning and that it can be assumed that there will be a sufficient student base to conduct a stable business. I really want to stress the importance of the principal being able to offer good quality teaching. The school should provide all children with equal opportunities. Therefore, the government will closely monitor developments in this area. If it turns out that there is something in the regulatory framework that poses unjustified obstacles and needs to be changed, the government is prepared to take the initiative to do so.
i-B2LijXT5vJu3rkHq8ZWBAp	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer to the Liberals' interpellation! School is our most important issue. It is extremely serious that thousands of students – 15 to 16 per cent – leave compulsory comprehensive school every spring term without basic prior knowledge and eligibility to upper secondary school, which in turn is important for getting on with life, not least into the labour market, or for further studies in higher education. The target group we particularly want to raise today is the thousands of children and students who do not get the support they need. There are no correct statistics, as there is no national follow-up as regards the invalid or authorised absence. This, Madam President, is also an issue that the Liberals have been pursuing over the last three years. We want there to be a national measurement of absence statistics so that you can quickly and early identify the reasons why students do not show up. Just when it comes to students who have different types of disabilities, not least neuropsychiatric disabilities, autism and adhd, we see that the absence is higher. This also increases the risk of becoming a so-called home sitter. In all the years that I have been working on the important school and education issues, many have been in touch, Madam President, and it is usually mothers. They are absolutely devastated by the lack of support and assistance for their children – mostly boys but sometimes also girls. They are children who are not detected early and who do not receive the support they are entitled to early in comprehensive school. In the Swedish School Inspectorate's reviews and follow-ups, this will come back again. The elements of adapted study or special teaching group become more common later, in the higher ages and further up in comprehensive school – then we talk about upper secondary school – but also in upper secondary school. We also see examples of – and we know that the number of darkness is great – that there are children and students in Swedish schools who have not been in school for over a year. It is extremely tragic and sad every time you hear these stories. At first you don't think it's true: How is it that a student can go home without teaching and without someone actively doing more to get the student to school? When you go down to the individual level and look at the individual cases, Madam President, you can see that these students want nothing but to go to their school, meet their peers, meet their teachers, learn new things and develop. Instead, we see examples where you put in a teacher's assistant. Maybe you'll quickly come up with a plan. There too we see studies that show that even if a plan is drawn up and the student sometimes even gets a place in a special teaching group, the efforts are not adapted, and then it becomes wrong anyway. It will be wrong if individual needs are not taken into account. That's why we from the Liberals have pushed for resource schools to exist. It is extremely important that it is included in the school law, and I welcome the fact that such a proposal is on the way. However, in the case of special educational groups, we know that although the regulations allow, there are high criteria and high standards for a place at all. My question therefore remains: Will it be easier in the forthcoming bill?
i-TVx6iiggGgqYTkkP8hjquv	Madam President, I would like First of all, I share Roger Haddad's picture. It is immensely tragic about the matters that have been received as Vice-Chancellor and Head of School, and there are many efforts at many different levels that must be there to succeed in breaking the alienation that problematic absence has created. I am pleased that Roger Haddad and I share the picture and want to go back to the questions about when the government intends to present a bill and whether the government will return with principles on specific teaching groups. As I said in my answer, there are already opportunities for special teaching groups. It is an educational decision that today principals make. With the proposal for special additions, we clarify what financial opportunities there are for Vice-Chancellors to make decisions on specific teaching groups. As we look at the development of specific teaching groups, we can see that it has not become more difficult to place students in such groups. The percentage of pupils in special education groups is between 1.1 per cent and 1.3 per cent. Here, I think it is important to look at what the profession and indeed all the joint research say, namely that there is a desire for inclusion but that there must be opportunities in cases where there is not enough. This government has therefore clarified this and, above all, financed the school in such a way that today there are better conditions for specific teaching groups. We also present a proposal that deals with resource schools and how the additional funding should be applied in an equivalent way in Sweden. I therefore hope that this question will be answered.
i-LZbLgiCNqK9iZMnyNfJemM	Madam President, I would like I hope that our proposal on national absence statistics can also be included there. It is indirectly part of the solution, one of several, to prevent home sitting and try to find out why we have so many absent, how it can be that so many students, thousands, are not in school. We have no such statistics. I have spoken to several organisations that welcome such an initiative. That is why we in the Education Committee in 2019 made such a request. Although it contributes to increased administrative burden, I believe, Madam President, that the positive effects of the fact that the principals and the state are better aware of why pupils are away from school duty are extremely central. We see in statistics from the Swedish School Inspectorate that 1 700 students had an invalid continuous absence of at least one month but that 18 000 had repeated stray absences, which in itself is a risk factor. A few years ago it was a collective shock for many of us when TV4 in one piece said that over 5,000 students did not go to school but were sitting at home. The problem is that we do not know how widespread this actually is. Therefore, skills must be improved at school level. It is correct that the formal framework does not prevent the provision of a place in a specific teaching group. But we can look at Örebro, Eskilstuna and most recently Sundsvall, which makes substantial savings on the school system. What, Madam President, is being cut back on? Yes, the special support. It is a special teacher, for example, and it is a special teaching group – the opportunity to provide resources, hire an extra special teacher or offer four five students to go further down the corridor to a special room where they get the support they are entitled to at their pace, from their perspective and their needs. The consequence is that you become a home sitter. And it is not only school that is affected but also health. We see in this target group students, Madam President, increased mental ill-health and distressed parents. I will mention it again: this affects the entire home, not only schooling but also social, family. There are parents who call and say that they have to register for sick leave or extend their sick leave because the school does not offer the right support or adapted support, which of course risks destroying the whole family's finances. The Prime Minister said in this House in 2019 that it would be easier to get a place in a special teaching group. That is a duty, Madam President. It must not just be political rhetoric. Those students who do not receive the support they are entitled to today and the parents affected by the problem must have confidence in and trust in the political system.
i-AtaGVy4wPStH6jDh5YQh8P	Madam President, I would like I fully share Roger Haddad's view of the problem, how difficult it is and how difficult it affects families. This is why the government has taken a number of measures to improve the school's work with support measures, including skills development measures such as special pedagogy for learning, training, hiring more special teachers and educators, and state grants for staff enhancements in pupil health. We need staff working on these issues. We are also, as I have already said, presenting proposals on pupil health and strengthening education for pupils with intellectual disabilities, as well as on resource schools and additional funding with special support. In September 2020, the government decided on new graduation goals in teacher education to make school better at meeting children and pupils with neuropsychiatric difficulties, which are often involved in these cases. The new degree goals began to be applied in all pre-school and teacher programmes that started in autumn 2021. The government has also invested in more resources and targeted support for the schools that have the toughest conditions. One example is the contribution to improved equivalence and knowledge development, where the most resources go to the schools that need it most. The grant amounted to 6.2 billion in 2021 and over 6.5 billion in 2022. Work on problematic school attendance is complex. It is also very individual. It is the responsibility of every principal, i.e. the one who has the task of carrying out a school, to follow up and actually remedy the problems. Then it is important that there are guidelines, opportunities and so on. This interpellation did not apply to national statistics to follow up on problematic school attendance. I'd be happy to take that question with Roger Haddad on another occasion. It is a very interesting and important area, I would say, and here we have to work together. Above all, it is about money going to the students who need it. School segregation and difficult working environment in certain vulnerable areas where students cannot choose new schools or that there are other locks in society are also important things to take into account. We need to work together and focused on this area. This is also something that needs to be seen as a whole. There is a danger that we create very many different types of school outside of regular education. What many students are looking for is to be part of the regular school, to be ordinary students. This is what we should balance before we create too many special teaching groups, special schools and so on. Research shows that the pursuit of inclusion is the best, but in cases where it does not work we should have strong and good efforts.
i-UDYSbkuVYJ69Mp1VqC7A1G	Madam President, I would like There are 18,000 students who have repeated stray absences at school. There are thousands of students who never show up at school. For various reasons, many students have been home for over a year from compulsory primary school. There are students who are in fifth grade and sixth grade and do not receive the Swedish and mathematics education to which they are entitled. Some get a custom study that involves cutting a lot of the schedule. Those students will never ever have a fair chance of catching up with their peers and becoming eligible for upper secondary school. Too many people are not detected at all. Then the later years of comprehensive school and not least upper secondary school and adult education will be patched and fixed. It is correct that the Education Act states that it is possible to decide on a place in a special teaching group. But we are asking for flexibility. There is a lack of adaptation. There are shortcomings in mapping and investigation. It is flawed when drawing up plans, and it is not least lacking in competence. It's not enough to let the student go and sit with three classmates in a room, and then you put anyone in – excuse the expression – to take care of them. Of course it should be a special educator or a special teacher who knows these students. And, of course, we hope that all teachers throughout the country, regardless of their school class, can handle the students, but it is a requirement that is almost unreasonable to impose on the country's teachers. That is why we need special educators and teachers, both in resource schools and in a special teaching group, and also need to invest in skills. No student should have to leave comprehensive school without sufficient prior knowledge.
i-6Ki4V8BTAYyghYg6CRpCsG	Madam President, I would like I believe we have very skilled teachers. We have very good principals. I don't recognize the image of us putting anyone in there and so on. I don't share that picture. What I know is that teachers need colleagues, so that they can become a team working around the students. There should be several colleagues who can work with the students who need the most. Then I would like to link once again with the fact that we in the government and parliament are making decisions on state subsidies to go to the schools that need the most, and about as much leak out of the school system. There is something called compulsory school allowances, which we will be discussing in this House. It is about some schools having to accept all students, and today they do not have the resources to do so. The system's leaking. I would also like to remind Roger Haddad that the curriculum that we Social Democrats are now reforming made it very difficult for many teachers to understand what one could do. Above all, it was very difficult, yes almost impossible, for many students with an NPF diagnosis to understand: What am I doing here? What should I learn? It was big and floating notions that these students have very little chance of succeeding. That is what we are doing. We're providing resources. We add the law, the law, and the decisions needed to create good conditions for Swedish teachers and vice-chancellors to make wise decisions that have students in focus.
