i-Bf6qMidtUMmh6YjUyzzUvg	Madam President, I would like Mikael Larsson has asked me If I believe that the food strategy has had an impact on the farm yard, and if not, I intend to take some initiatives to do so. If I believe that the food strategy has been implemented within the government authorities and works and that it is working for its implementation, and if not, what general measures I am prepared to take How I and the government work with monitoring and evaluation of the food strategy. The national food strategy with a view to 2030 has as its overall objective a competitive food chain where total food production increases while at the same time achieving relevant national environmental objectives. The aim is to create growth and jobs and contribute to sustainable development throughout the country. In order to increase competitiveness and strengthen confidence in the future in the Swedish food chain, three food strategy action plans have been decided. The Action Plan Part 1 included investments of more than SEK 1 billion through national funds and earmarked funds in the rural development programme. The Action Plan part 2 included investments of SEK 122 million annually in 2020 – 2025 and an additional strengthening in 2020 of SEK 114 million. The Action Plan part 3 includes additional investments of SEK 74 million annually in 2021 – 2023. The Government estimates that for the years 2024 – 2025, SEK 3 6 million annually and for the years 2026 onwards SEK 11 million per year. The action plans include investments in research and innovation, regulatory simplification and skills provision. In addition, a further strengthening of SEK 10 million was announced annually for 2022 – 2025 in the budget proposal for this year for the boar package, which is an action in the action plans. An important tool to increase the competitiveness of the Swedish food chain is also to increase our global market share and food exports. The government therefore continues its long-term and strategic efforts within the framework of the food strategy for these purposes. The design of the EU's common agricultural policy is another important tool for strengthening Swedish agriculture. A central point of departure when Sweden's strategic plan for the common agricultural policy was designed was to strengthen the profitability of agriculture and facilitate the achievement of the objectives of the food strategy. In total during the period 2023 – 2027 the strategic plan comprises just over SEK 60 billion. In addition to this, it is estimated that approximately SEK 4.3 billion will be added during the same period to national measures meeting the objectives of the common agricultural policy. The budget proposal for 2022 provided funds to strengthen rural infrastructure and services. The Government has commissioned the National Agriculture Agency to continuously monitor and evaluate the development of the food chain over time and to monitor and evaluate the food strategy. The assignments indicate that the National Agriculture Agency, in consultation with the relevant authorities, will carry out an annual monitoring and evaluation with an in-depth analysis every four years. Data are required for a longer period in order to draw certain conclusions on how the food strategy has affected the development of the Swedish food chain. Finally, I would like to emphasise that it is important that the mission to the authorities is clear as to how they should work towards the objectives of the food strategy. Therefore, ever since the Food Strategy was decided in the Riksdag in 2017, the Government has been working on developing the governance of the authorities in charge of the food chain. D a re-reporting requirement has been included in several authorities' regulatory letters, in which it is stated that they will report how they contribute to the goals set by the Riksdag for the food strategy. All in all, I see that the government has created a number of initiatives for the food strategy to have an impact and strengthen the Swedish food chain.
i-9XQ7XPYmiJ46YmSP5TFHag	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Sweden has a fantastic agriculture that contributes to climate change and to the production of world-class food. Food production in Sweden is crucial for our self-sufficiency, which means that we will become more self-sufficient in food. The Federation of Farmers, the LRF, has recently presented some measures to strengthen the food chain in both the short and the long term, and there the food strategy obviously comes in. Within the framework of the January Agreement, which the Center Party was involved in earlier, several investments were made in the rural development programme. This was the Center Party together with the government and contributed to. Based on the answers I have received from the Government, I would like to develop some of my questions and ask supplementary questions. Can it be ensured, in one way or another, that the money contributed by the rural development programme has also benefited the individual farmers and has not stayed at the level of the government? I wonder, therefore, whether it can be seen that they have had an impact on the farm, so that the individual farmer has become more competitive. In its reply, the Government refers to regulatory simplifications. Here, I'd like to stop a little bit. This is something that is important regardless of which industry you work in. I also believe that there is broad political agreement that regulatory simplification should take place as much as possible. Often we talk about that for every new rule we add, some other rule should be removed. Here I would like the Government to develop some of the simplifications that have taken place for farmers in our country. Another issue on which I would also like to add a few words is that regulatory letters and instructions to state authorities and works have given mandates to work on the food strategy. I would like to ask you a little bit about this. As I understand the answer, it is about the authorities and works that are tasked with working on the food strategy and in charge of the food chain. I believe that the food strategy should be based on all the works and authorities in some way. Let me give you an example. Me and the Government have been on the Transport Committee together. The Finnish Transport Agency is, of course, an authority that should also take on board the food strategy when it comes to planning new roads, railways and so on, so that the Finnish Transport Agency is constantly thinking about building in a way that is low-land and does not use too much agricultural land. This could also be an assignment to Swedish power grids when planning for new power lines in Sweden and a reinforced transmission capacity, which we need. Then you should build in a way that is low-land and uses as little agricultural land as possible. I wonder: do these authorities also have the task to bear in mind that we need to protect our agricultural land, because we need to produce more and more sustainable food in Sweden in order to achieve the objectives of the food strategy?
i-XvhWpg5j8RVU3oqA6htSou	Madam President, I would like Just as Mikael Larsson says, the Center Party and the government have done quite a lot in this area. We've done that in common. I agree with Mikael Larsson's view that we have world-class agriculture. It's not just a farm. We know that Swedish farmers are not only producers of the good food. They are also a force in the countryside. They're developing the countryside. Just as Mikael Larsson says, they are climate changers, and they are also green job creators. We should be very proud of our agriculture and the agricultural products that we buy and that also go on export. In the meantime, the number of agencies has increased, just as Mikael Larsson says. With the regulatory letters this year, there are more than they have been before. Now it is the County Administrative Board, Formas, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, the Swedish Maritime and Water Authority, the Swedish Food Administration, the Swedish Agriculture Agency, Vinnova and SLU that have this task. It may be that more authorities are needed, just as Mikael Larsson says. At the same time, however, I believe that it is a good order to see what the Authority can contribute to the fulfilment of the food strategy and, in the meantime, to increase it. Nevertheless, I am pleased that, with this year's letter of regulation, there are actually several who have the task of talking about how they should work towards achieving the objectives of the food strategy. They shall also be able to carry out an evaluation and analysis. As far as regulatory simplification is concerned, in my second week I presented the new common agricultural plan. In it there is quite a lot that makes it easier for Swedish agriculture. Among other things, we have had parallel support schemes. For example, it has been possible to apply for broadband in the rural programme or elsewhere. Now we bring it together, so it's a place, an application. It's a kind of regulatory simplification that's important. We know that it must not be stifling, but it must be supportive. That is why we have this approach in the new common agricultural plan. I also know that the Center Party has contributed there. The parties of Parliament have been very involved. The organisations have been very involved. My predecessors have been very involved. I had to present this huge investment of 64 billion during my second week. There was a great deal of simplification.
i-HXRoC8TNrWaH9nQEX6SvHo	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I think it is very important that you send out signals to Sweden's farmers about precisely regulatory simplifications and that they are constantly working on this. It is an important part that makes us also strengthen our agriculture. In the answer, the Government describes competitiveness and exports as a very important part. There I share the Government's response: that exports are very important. But it is also important that we strengthen our own self-sufficiency within Sweden's borders. As far as measures are concerned, it is a question of, as we have been dealing with, pure money and simplification of the rules. But it is also a question of long-term measures with a view to 2030, to which the food strategy is directed. Monitoring and evaluation are important when adopting a strategy. The Government's response to the evaluation and follow-up report states that the relevant authorities carry out an annual follow-up and evaluation in consultation. I would like to ask the Government how the industry gets into the evaluation and follow-up of the food strategy. I am thinking above all of the Swedish Farmers' Federation, the Lantmännen, the housekeeping societies and all the others who work in the green industries. It's about getting input from those who really are working on this. The strategy states that the strategy will contribute to increased growth, increased employment and development throughout the country. Right now we feel that many farmers are having a tough time. These are higher prices of a lot of inputs. There are high prices of electricity, but there are also high prices of diesel. The government itself understood that agriculture is a form of green job creator throughout the country. If we now see that measures are not coming to save agriculture and to meet the food strategy, I wonder a little about the goal: to increase growth throughout the country, increase employment and create jobs throughout the country. Let us say that we now see that several farmers choose to lay down or set aside their land. I would like the Council of Ministers to develop a little bit more on the possible action plan for this. Today in the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture, the Ministry of Agriculture and Agriculture presented an analysis of agriculture's economy for 2021. I would like to hear a little bit from the Government about how to think about what was presented by the work and the Ministry. How should you look at the agricultural signals for 2021 but also forward for 2022 when we see that there have been so much cost increases? The LRF describes the desire to see short-term and long-term measures. The LRF has presented a package of measures here and now, but also in the long term. I would like the Government to comment on what the LRF has presented. How does the Government view the measures that the LRF wants to see in the short term, here and now, but also in the long term? Is there anything that the Government and Government are prepared to look at to see if this can be done?
i-AohNWqgq1svGUdt3SKsbDH	Madam President, I would like I'm gonna say a few things. We have jointly adopted objectives in this House with regard to the food strategy. We all want to see increased production. We want to see profitability increase at farm level. And we want to see the whole chain. We can see that exports in 2020 and in six months 2021 had increased by 6 per cent. We can see that more people choose Swedish food in the food trade, which is fantastic. But we can also see that we should be more consumers who choose the good Swedish food. I heard LRF say it's like this: Let's say you go into a grocery store and shop for 100 kroner. If you don't think about what you're shopping, the farmer's 9 kroner. But if you actively choose Swedish, SEK 20 goes to the farmer. It would of course also create greater profitability at farm level. The common agricultural plan is not valid until 2023 – 2027. But there are some measures that we have already worked out with the Center Party this year. Thus, you should be able to use the climate bonus also for work tools, and you should be able to start expanding biogas production in the Climate Klivet. This is incredibly important, because if it is something we see now, it is that the dependence that we have on Saudi Arabia's products – instead of actually ensuring that we increase the production of fuel in Sweden – makes the costs difficult to assess. I would like to come back to the last question by the honourable Member, which is a little bit about the analysis given to the Committee on Environment and Agriculture. I have been in a government meeting, so I have not received that analysis yet. I've only seen it in general. I met the Chairman of the Swedish Farmers' Federation, Palle Borgström, already during my second week. He presented the cost development, and I said I also wanted to see the revenue development. If you sit in a government, you can't just lift your finger up in the air. You have to have the whole analysis, and it was presented today. Me or the Ministry of Enterprise or anyone else hasn't made an assessment of it yet. It's the Department of Agriculture's sector analysis. I understood that it looked better in 2021 but that there could be difficulties in the forecast for 2022. But I haven't made that assessment yet. It hasn't been done yet by the Ministry of Enterprise. I would like to say that once we have done so, we will of course come back to these issues. The National Federation of Farmers also wants us to look at the referral to the report on fossil-free agriculture, and they have until tomorrow Friday to reply. The study will be important, because it is about being able to change and actually become fossil-free by 2030, as the industry wants. We will have to come back to that, because the deadline for referral is, as has been said, tomorrow.
i-4UyS3TDTSCGHrnCVjVL7bs	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I sincerely hope and believe that the Government will take the signals from agriculture very seriously and make the overall assessment that needs to be made. I also share the fact that not only can we put up a finger and feel where it blows, but we need to make a full and correct assessment based on the reports we receive. We also need to take into account the views and feelings that exist in the country regarding our agriculture, and so I hope that the Government will also take this very seriously. I also hope that we will find a quick way forward for, among other things, the proposal put forward by the Center Party in the Committee on Finance on emergency billions so that payments can be made via our state aid rules or other means to get the impact on the yard. This is precisely what I think Sweden's farmers are asking for: the impact on the farm yard. I would like to agree with what the Government said earlier and developed now, and that is that without the farmer there will be no food on the table. We need to take the signals very seriously and from the parliament and government do everything possible to complete the food strategy. As Minister Sätherberg said, more authorities and works may need to be commissioned to constantly think about the food strategy, how it affects our operations and how we can ensure that we also strengthen this. If we see a link between the green industries, the public and the consumer, I think we have every opportunity to reach the food strategy and also to have a stronger and competitive Swedish agriculture. Like I said, without the farmer, there'll be no food! Thank you, Minister, for the debate.
i-YFXZycvkQcK3w36bgGAyCN	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mikael Larsson, for your burning commitment! I would just like to say that, for me and for the government, food strategy and increased production are incredibly important, but also that the whole food chain is linked in such a way that the profitability of farms increases, until we see larger exports. Two weeks ago I had to do something very new and fun– I had to inaugurate a protein factory in Bjuv. Why is it so exciting? Well, I'm thinking about Bjuv and what happened when the peas disappeared. Now you not only sell peas, but now you use the peas that are ratted to make this protein. All peas are coming. What else is exciting? Well, it meets a great demand in Sweden, because we actually import a lot of this. It also meets a market abroad, and of course research and innovation have also been a major part of it. Here we have in some way an incredibly positive story about how the food strategy works. With this, I thank Mikael Larsson for the debate.
i-HPVL9jY6RMgWtG9Y3PvH94	Madam President, I would like Ulrik Bergman has asked me If I am going to take the initiative that future regulatory letters and follow-up places greater demands on shorter processing times at Lantmäteriet If I follow up and, for example, in regulatory letters, require processing times at Lantmäteriet to be shortened If I make the assessment that the government will in future have a more pragmatic view of how more municipalities that are competent are granted to become surveying authority in order to relieve Lantmäteriet's unsustainablely long processing times If I and the Government review the assessment criteria for the municipalities that are competent to be granted the land surveying authority in order to relieve Lantmäteriet and thereby shorten the processing times I can see the possibility of amending the legislation so that a municipality that has been decided to become a land surveying authority in a region is also given the opportunity to assist other municipalities in the region with the management of land surveying services in order to achieve shorter processing times. If I take any measures that will enable municipalities that have been approved as land surveying authorities to assist other municipalities in the same region as well. First of all, the government is of course aware that the time for obtaining a property building decision is not satisfactory. I understand that frustration arises. I also understand that the possibility of forming a municipal surveying authority and opening up to collaboration between municipal surveying authorities can be seen as a solution for individual municipalities and regions. The Government's responsibility is to ensure a functioning and equivalent property formation throughout the country. Lantmäteriet is working hard to reduce processing times, which has also produced results that point in a positive direction. However, it is not the government's task to define exactly how long an acceptable processing time is in cases that vary in both complexity and scope. In 2018, the Government appointed a new Board of Directors and Director General of Lantmäteriet and has given the Agency several assignments regarding both governance and follow-up. Lantmäteriet closes approximately 15 000 property formation cases annually. There may be examples of individual cases or areas where processing times are not what they should be. One reason why processing times are in some cases long is the lack of relevant and, above all, experienced competence. There have been extensive changes in working methods and organisation to make maximum use of the expertise available within the agency. The challenge now is to hold on, strengthen and accelerate this development. In order to meet the demand for expertise over time, 2018 funds were brought to Uppsala University to open a new surveyor education. I intend to follow closely the developments in processing times and will continue with the ongoing dialogue with Lantmäteriet.
i-3dqQscvBaLNYQRivnptvPh	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister Danielsson, for your answer! The background to this interpellation is, as we know, that around the country there are major problems with how citizens, municipalities and companies have to wait to realize plans to build new jobs and housing. The basis of our social contract is that there is confidence that the state can hold in basic functions to ensure, in this case, private ownership. There is a central task to have an orderly property formation. It is also important as an enabler and starting point for new ideas to be realised and the country to be built stronger. Nor should it be forgotten that property regulation on forestry issues is also being delayed. The forest is a basic industry in Sweden and therefore also an important issue. The criticism of Lantmäteriet's long processing times is not new but has been repeated. The Government says that progress is being made in a positive direction. Can the Government then answer if there is a concrete, credible action plan to speed up these processing times? There are already legal possibilities for the government to grant municipalities permission to become a surveying authority. The government has already given 39 municipalities such a permit. Many municipalities have a high pressure on property development issues and today have a great deal of expertise. At the same time, we know that 60 weeks of processing time is not unusual at Lantmäteriet. That's more than a year. Further action is needed in this case. What further action does the Government think needs to be taken?
i-C81cAd7Um9XkHVKVCmX9P	Madam President, I would like I thank Mr Bergman for his interest. The honourable Member is asking several questions, both in the interpellation and now in the debate. I will start with the question of whether I intend to make demands, for example, in regulatory letters or in other ways regarding the processing times of Lantmäteriet in order to shorten them. As I said in my first reply, the agency is already working actively to shorten its processing times. It is also well aware that the government sees this as a priority. However, it is of course the case that Lantmäteriet needs to make effective use of its staff and skills, especially since one of the major reasons for the long processing times is a lack of competence. In this context, I would like to mention some things that are being done at the authority. Among other things, it now distributes cases that come to the authority all over the country in order to make use of the production capacity of the various offices. This has resulted in an equalisation of processing times across the country. It has also begun to work on the networking of experienced administrators in order to make better use of their expertise in handling difficult cases to support the activities in general and less experienced administrators in particular. The working method has changed from a system where the surveyor himself carried out the majority of all the work in one case to one where the surveyor's work is concentrated on the tasks that must be carried out by a surveyor while other staff support and handle other tasks. Lantmäteriet also continuously works with, among other things, targeted educational efforts to bring about a cultural change so that all cases should be actively driven towards closure and the handling should never stop during the process. A major development work is currently under way to develop a new supervision support that will provide effective and modern support to the administrators, more information about the activities of the agency management and the opportunity for applicants to easily follow their case in the process. Thanks to skilled surveyors, administrators and officials around the country, developments are now moving in the right direction, and the government is positive about the development. But as I also said in my answer, the work must continue. One priority now is to ensure that the waiting time available before a new case is allocated to a case officer and which is part of the total processing time is minimised. With that waiting period gone, more acceptable processing times may also be achieved. Today we see that Lantmäteriet is beginning to graze the cases that have had very long processing times. We can see that it is, of course, of the utmost importance that this development is maintained and that, as I said, it is not only being held in, but also strengthened and accelerated. I share the interpellier's view that it is important for businesses around Sweden that this process is not unnecessarily long. We will have the help of the Government's review that the Swedish National Audit Office is currently conducting of the property formation system. The review must, among other things, respond to whether the state building is effective. As I said, I intend to closely monitor the development of the processing times and continue the dialogue with Lantmäteriet, and I look forward to the results of the Swedish National Audit Office's review.
i-AvPUcL7pxJ2g654qMgk1rh	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for taking certain measures, such as at the level of the authorities, to speed up or streamline the procedure. It is of course the case that increased technology support, new digitalisation of processes and so on can speed up the process to some extent. That's the way it is. Nevertheless, let me take an example from reality. I am thinking of the municipality of Malung-Sälen, which for several years has seen an increased interest in building housing and premises for the business community. A new airport has been established that further increased interest in start-up and building. Investments of the order of SEK 480 000 per inhabitant have been calculated. It may not sound that much, but in relation to Stockholm's population it will be 480 billion. That's terrible money to handle. But the municipality has extensive development activities with roads and va-systems and all that, so I want to say that there is extensive expertise in how property issues are handled. They have local knowledge of how the municipality looks and works. Malung-Sälen applied to the government to become a surveying authority in December 2015. Almost two years later, in November 2017, the government issued a refusal decision. We can see, Madam President, that it was a fairly long trial period. The municipality of Falu has also applied to become a surveying authority. Even in this case, the government has surprisingly rejected the application. In this context, the municipality of Falu is quite a large municipality. There are other municipalities of equal size that have been considered competent to deal with this. We also see that some steps have been taken to address the problems. For example, funds for educational measures were added to Uppsala University in 2018. It is now 2022, four years later. In practice, a little seems to have happened to remedy the problems. Then we must think again, Madam President. I would urge the Government to listen to the municipalities, which have good ideas on how to continue working. Allowing municipalities to work together on building development within a region could relieve Lantmäteriet and give Lantmäteriet a more reasonable chance of getting into balance and that the municipality does not lose momentum in its development. There is no indication that municipalities would be worse than Lantmäteriet in fulfilling that mission.
i-WcSsDWycEc9MuSSfYWe5Wk	Madam President, I would like First of all, I can reassure Mrs Bergman that, as I said, I share the view that the time for a building decision is not satisfactory. I am also not unaware of the criticism that exists of the times of proceedings, including from the municipalities to which Ulrik Bergman refers, or of the applications that have previously been submitted to form municipal surveying. As a born and raised in Borlänge, I naturally have contact with many of those concerned to whom Ulrik Bergman refers. I will of course continue to have meetings on this with local politicians around the country to understand what challenges you face in property building processes, what proposals and ideas you have and what the government might do to facilitate. But as a minister responsible for these issues, I am also concerned that Sweden has a real estate development business that works equally throughout the country. As my representatives have been involved in similar interpellation debates here in Parliament, there are, of course, municipalities where the establishment of municipal surveying authorities can be both good and useful for the operation. However, given that the overall responsibility for building construction is the responsibility of the state, it is still appropriate that there are requirements that should be met for a municipality to take over that responsibility. For example, the government made the assessment last autumn that Eskilstuna municipality meets the requirements and granted the municipality permission to establish a municipal surveying authority starting in 2023. The assessment was made that the activity in Eskilstuna is of such a scale that it can last over time. Then the law that allows a municipality to apply to form its own land surveying authority was added on the grounds that better coordination between the building and the planning and construction process can be achieved in municipalities with high construction pressure, just as the interpellant is on. As far as Bergman's question of inter-municipal cooperation is concerned, this was, as the interpeller knows, the subject of investigation in the preparatory work on the law. These preparatory work concluded that cooperation is not appropriate and counteracts the purpose of local anchoring. At the moment, there is no review of that legislation in the Government Office. Finally, it is important to bear in mind and emphasise that the lack of competence of surveyors, especially experienced surveyors, is evident for the whole of society, including for several of the municipal surveying authorities. This is also the single most important reason for the long duration of proceedings. Therefore, it is not entirely obvious that more municipal surveying authorities will by definition solve the challenge of the long processing times from a national perspective.
i-8h7haNW5pEJUaqdYJieqFN	Madam President, I would like I would like to return to the idea of cooperating within the municipalities. The benefit of allowing municipalities to work together is that they create a larger critical mass of assignments. This will also make it easier to maintain good quality. There is much to suggest that such interaction could be a way of strengthening regional development too – we must think about it too. Madam President, I would like The Government says that there is an awareness that the time for building is not satisfactory. But what is being done, other than being conscious? What is the focus when it comes to solving this plug in the system? Madam President, I would like I think it is a pity that this issue has been long drawn and that so little has been achieved since 2014. It feels like we have soon had eight lost years in real estate formation in Sweden. Obviously, we need a new government that takes a firm stand on this issue and brings new ideas about solutions so that there is some change here.
i-EpwggciaxMTjsKYE1kB5Hd	Madam President, I would like Although we do not share views on what the government should look like after the elections in September, I think we share the same view on the issue of how we need a functioning property formation throughout Sweden. Long processing times in proceedings are a problem for society as a whole; I think we are very much in agreement on that. The Government has therefore given Lantmäteriet several assignments during its term of office to improve the monitoring of operations and to produce analyses of the performance of the operations. Extensive work has been undertaken to digitise the entire civil engineering process, including the building of buildings. This is expected to lead to a more effective whole. The Swedish National Audit Office is currently also conducting a review of the property formation system. The results of the review will be presented in a report now in March. The review should answer whether the state building is effective. This includes highlighting Lantmäteriet's proceedings, the division of responsibilities between the state and the municipalities, and whether the fees charged are reasonable and predictable. In this context, I would also like to remind you that Statskontoret evaluated the organisation of property formation in 2017. Since then, the Government has appointed a new Board of Directors and a new Director General of Lantmäteriet and has given the Authority several tasks regarding governance and follow-up. In conclusion, I would therefore like to emphasise once again that I intend to closely monitor the progress of the processing times and, as the government did in connection with Statskontoret's 2017 report, will carefully analyse the views presented by the Swedish National Audit Office later this year.
i-5N2ydrJWbeycVgDN9ADHrX	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered today by Minister of Education Anna Ekström, Minister Anna-Caren Sätherberg, Minister of Economic Affairs Karl-Petter-Petter Thorwaldsson and Minister Lina Axelsson Kihlblom. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. Minister for Education Anna Ekström answers both general policy questions and questions within her own area of responsibility.
i-8Yt4BjXfsAnWkmSn3MUaFR	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask the Minister of Education how it is possible that it has taken five years from the Parliament's first decision that centrally corrected digital national tests should be introduced until we are now in a situation where neither the government nor the National Agency for Education has a solution in place. National tests are good for students, for schools and ultimately for Sweden. But the tests are not fully working well at the moment. They are corrected differently, and the result cannot be compared. The link between national tests and grading is not as it should be. The solution is a central correction so that you get an equivalence and an opportunity to compare both students and schools and between municipalities and ultimately how it goes for Sweden as a whole to be able to get a basis for political decisions. How is it even possible that it has taken five years and that the samples are still not in place?
i-Kints4i5PEwpW6Hdzos2iT	Madam President, I would like I'm glad the question is being asked. It is very important for us that we can ensure this. Translating a teacher's judgment through a digital tool is both complicated and difficult. We must understand that this is not an easy task. One thing is to free up resources to create a system that holds for thousands of students. It's gonna take some time. Another thing is that centrally corrected tests also require that there are teachers available who have that quality to perform that task. We're working on it. I'd like to look forward to a test shortly.
i-YHsKLAmkGnfbz2ZSgfabwF	Madam President, I would like In fact, it has been five years since the Riksdag first decided that the centrally corrected digital tests should be introduced. If so, the government has, figuratively speaking, been sitting on its hands. The Swedish National Agency for Education has resisted, and unfortunately no solution is yet in place. I would like to ask the Minister for Education: can she give a clear date here today when the centrally corrected national tests requested by Parliament may be in place?
i-3kB3CeNfvDc5pAHKnHuk7u	Madam President, I would like Today I cannot give a clear date. I know you're working on it, and I'm doing the best you can. I would also like to inform you that we have been through a pandemic that has put everything at an end. We haven't even been able to complete the tests. Today we have a very fuzzy and difficult curriculum that is difficult to follow for both teachers and students. That is why we are carrying out reforms of it. It will also help us digitise national tests so that we can make them equal and so that they show what students can do.
i-PT9QsW33hRCzQL8WewBEYa	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister of Education Anna Ekström. After a motion from the Swedish Democrats, Linköping City Council last week decided to stop the municipal support for the Study Association Ibn Rushd. Previously, large municipalities such as Gothenburg, Eskilstuna and others have already done so. So now the fifth largest municipality in the country has done the same. The fact that more and more municipalities like Linköping choose to do so depends on the association's links to Islamism and especially to the Muslim Brotherhood. What I wonder is how it is that the government allows tens of millions of dollars each year to go through the Folkbildningsrådet to Ibn Rushd after all this. When will the government do as more and more municipalities and ensure that state subsidies for the formation of people do not end up in Islamists' pockets?
i-WEsx2gYKT12B25JabhuWrP	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking. In Sweden we have a public education activity that we should be proud of. Thanks to our study associations, we have study circles and adult education in all the municipalities of the country. The study associations which benefit from state or public support must, of course, act in the interests of democracy and the purpose of democracy. There should be clear democratic criteria. In Sweden it is the Folkbildningsrådet, an independent organisation, that ensures that the funds that go to the study associations are distributed. I intend to monitor closely how the Folkbildningsrådet is doing its work. I will also respect to a very large extent that the education of the people should be free and have an arm's length distance to politics. But that the study associations should follow the principles of democracy, there should be no doubt about it.
i-VxCzeZWmdgQAdbZTYpqW4m	Madam President, I would like The Social Democrats have not carried out reforms during two terms of government that stop all these millions of state contributions to Islamist-linked organisations such as Ibn Rushd. It is a bill under way on new democracy conditions in the provision of grants to civil society. But it will only be dealt with after the election. When the government has not been able to implement proposals and set its foot against contributions to Islamism for two whole terms of office, why should anyone believe that you will succeed in doing so now?
i-UnpQGnHthEZju5tW5xmPsL	Madam President, I would like It is true that, on the initiative of the government, we have had an investigation to review the conditions of democracy. It reflects the government's high ambitions for student associations to live up to the conditions required by a democratic rule of law. The fact that it has taken a little longer to get the proposals ready from the investigation mentioned by the questioner is partly due to the fact that there have been comments from Säpo that can give us even more legal certainty and better application. We will, of course, take this into account.
i-GpLpjq4fyRqubvhTwvwyVB	Madam President, I would like My question goes to the Minister for Rural Development about the cost crisis in agriculture, which is most alarming. Today's report from the Swedish Board of Agriculture broadly agrees with LRF's assessment that this means that for the years 2021 and 2022 income is lost in the order of SEK 2 billion, i.e. 25 per cent loss of income. It's quite dramatic. The main victims are the young, the newly invested, the weaker agricultural areas and the animal production that has long lead times to adjust. The Center Party has been pushing for an emergency billion. But we have also pushed for double reductions in diesel tax to SEK 4 liter. My question to the Minister for Rural Development is: What does the government want to do? The signals that came today at the meeting of the Environment and Agriculture Committee from the Secretary of State were extremely passive.
i-M2MFgwhQhviPgaH94oLp1e	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lars Thomsson, for the question! The Swedish Board of Agriculture presented its sectoral analysis today, and of course we have to go through it. I have not been able to do so in depth yet; I can only say that it looked similar in 2020 and 2021 in the analysis. However, it could be seen that, as the honourable Member says, the increase in costs took place in the autumn and that it looks difficult in 2022. This does not apply to all sectors of agriculture, but several. Now the government, me and the department, must take the opportunity to analyse the report and return very soon with an assessment of what is to be done. What a government can't do is have the analysis ready in advance. A government can't just stick its finger in the air and say: This is what it takes! Now we have received the Swedish Board of Agriculture's sector analysis, so now we can also make the assessment.
i-4nQka8oi5qwn7m4qXD5PCC	Madam President, I would like In addition to this situation, there is also a very uncertain situation around the world, which the Swedish Board of Agriculture's report does not take into account. Whether it escalates or not, the cost crisis will certainly last. Therefore, there is a great need for rapid action from the government. You can't duck now. There is also a great need for long-term measures to strengthen competitiveness if we are to have any agriculture left.
i-2vc4Nia9PCaSwtbeT2WYiA	Madam President and Lars Thomsson! The government, like the Center Party and the entire Swedish parliament, actually wants to see increased food production. We have made that clear together in the food strategy. As I said earlier, the analysis we have been waiting for from the Swedish Board of Agriculture has now arrived – it came today – and LRF's analysis came on Friday. With that, we'll make an assessment. But at present I can say that I am not ruling out any measures.
i-3jjzp48PAYD5K3mMbH5W7Q	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Thorwaldsson. It has not escaped anyone who follows news about energy-related issues or questions at all about fuel prices and electricity how this affects us in Sweden. There are, of course, sectors that are affected differently depending on how agreements on removal and other assignments are designed. But everything will eventually hit us consumers. In the worst case, we lose these companies, which are then replaced by foreign alternatives. It's not good for us for a lot of reasons. These could be transport companies, haulage companies, forestry companies and farmers – yes, anyone who has no alternatives to, for example, vehicles that have to use diesel. These are companies that are disproportionately affected and even at risk of being knocked out by the high diesel prices. Madam President, I would like What can or should the government do to mitigate the consequences for these companies?
i-CaQ6a4a2mAm4JLBw5GGut4	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking, Birger Lahti. I think you are catching a very difficult issue for the Swedish business community right now: that there has been so much fluctuation in pricing. And this applies not only to the price of diesel, but also to intermediate products for companies and other raw materials. This is causing a lot of trouble. Many companies depend on predictability. None of the companies that now have major problems said to the government a year ago, when prices were very low: Now it's time to raise the cost! The impact over time will be roughly the same. But it is a real problem for many companies today that prices have risen so much. Inflation is taking off, and we have seen many other economies where inflation is showing a tendency to rise very quickly. The government is following this closely. Of course, both for companies and for individuals, the prices we are seeing today are very troubling.
i-D5pnv5bS1ZbVN9wHRxw1i1	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. However, I lacked something about the consequences or a statement of what the government intends to do for these companies. The fact that prices were low last year due to the pandemic does little to help. It was a short time when prices were low, and it does little for those companies that cannot make up for this on the price the next morning when they run their missions and do what they live on, simply. I still miss the answer. What will the government do to mitigate the consequences? Otherwise, we have foreign companies taking these jobs.
i-VpZ9hsqqXrPF5v3mNz5Rpr	Madam President, I would like It is very difficult for the government to pair pricing in a market month by month. It must be more persevering than that. I have not heard anyone put forward proposals for companies to receive special reliefs in energy taxes or fuel taxes. But we are following the issue closely, and it is quite right that if this is a persistent trend, there may be great risks for companies in Sweden when it comes to both jobs and development opportunities in the future. It's troubling, yes.
i-Ubcw26A5UvDfeAFkKSjZ5w	Madam President, I would like During the time of the Social Democrats in power, school insecurity has increased. Every other teacher in grades 1 to 6 says that they have been subjected to violence. Every fifth student in grade 9 does not feel safe in school. We therefore need to take command and restore order and security in school. The Social Democrats have had seven years. It has failed completely. A lot of children and families have been betrayed.
i-VASoyvMbTtkhCsYhXmmoGv	Madam President, I would like Christian Carlsson and I share the concern for Sweden's students and teachers. The Government presents a plan in which we give both teachers and principals increased authority. I am pleased that more people in Parliament will vote in favour of this proposal. This is a priority. We have also raised many billions, because teachers need colleagues. We're going to be working on more stakes that have to do with these things. The plan includes measures for systematic follow-up at both national and local level, so that we can detect and fix things at once. Madam President, I would like Finally, it is a question of the powers and rights to intervene and take decisions on measures, such as relocating pupils who disturb others.
i-GpfH2gvYQNWHi2paBZ3oJP	Madam President, I would like More adults are needed in school, more support measures are needed and we need to strengthen both teachers' leadership and parental responsibility. But it is also the case that students who do not treat others with respect but who threaten, violate and use violence need to be relocated for longer than today. However, the government's proposal to change the four-week limit is not included in the plan that it has now been consulted. Is that also the school minister's opinion?
i-WvvTqP5E6j3Zi2P3rSMw3Y	Madam President, I would like The proposal provides for an extension of the possibility of relocating pupils and taking action. We also have a plan about resource schools. Not only can we separate students, but we must give them real opportunities to succeed in school. The plan gives the authority and authority to take action both for teachers and for principals. It is also a matter of ensuring that these students attend school so that they can settle down in society and get a job.
i-FPoiwcVUqyaKLjSXoNLUqt	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Sätherberg. It's about the farmers. We in Sweden are facing major challenges. We have an energy crisis. Real wages are falling. They're all affected. The government is going out with great support to some of the victims. The health care is to receive EUR 11 billion, and you want to provide the pensioners with SEK 1 000 more a month. Rising fuel prices affect commuters in rural areas. The high electricity prices affect most people. The industry has it, as we hear, very tough. Greenhouse growers, who are food producers, are forced to shut down their greenhouses because of high electricity prices. Farmers are extremely hard hit by rising prices of fertiliser, feed and fuel. Many people now run the risk of losing their farms in great agony. It's ours soon, we all hope, and then it will be sauce. My question is: are farmers a priority group?
i-QjVBzihtY51MsfKKWrgxfp	Madam President, I would like It is difficult in agriculture right now. That is why I also met the President of the LRF among the first things I did as a newly appointed minister. He then presented the cost situation. But you cannot just take the cost situation; a minister must also look at the revenue situation. That analysis we received today: what is the sector analysis like? As I tried to explain in a previous speech, agriculture is extremely important for Sweden. A farmer not only ensures that we get good food production; he or she also ensures that we get rural development, creates more jobs, etcetera. As I said earlier, let me now take this sector analysis and make an assessment of it, and I will come back to you.
i-USQTzvJFMX7t2taevGRyb2	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Rural Development for his answer. Then my simple question will be, for all the farmers who sit and wonder and see their prices rise: are farmers, especially young farmers who have taken over in a generational shift and who are currently in danger of having to close their farms, a priority group for the government?
i-JMSBL61buVKuE5jui3WspB	Madam President, I would like Yeah, I'd really like to say that. In my second week as a minister, I presented EUR 64 billion in the Common Agricultural Strategic Plan, where young farmers are identified with greater efforts to see more young farmers but also to see generational shifts. Much is therefore being done in this area. We have a food strategy. We have delivered 64 billion, and all political parties have actually contributed there.
i-RuiEYqhYNwzoYPjHxoN1M5	Madam President, I would like I also have a question for the Minister for Rural Affairs. Climate change is acute, but it must also be fair. Everyone has to join us when we build the green folk house. However, when people who depend on cars are hit by high fuel prices, parties are now competing to lower the price of climate emissions or, even worse, to increase emissions. It is a very dangerous development. We must ensure that people can afford to live, live and transport in the countryside without, for that reason, cutting back on the ambitions of the transition. The Green Party presented five proposals on Monday, aimed directly at rural areas, to facilitate the transition. It was about reduced tax in rural municipalities, increased climate bonus for the purchase of electric cars, introduction of a scrapping premium, new charging poles and home charging. I would like to ask the Minister for Rural Development whether these ideas are something that the government would like to support.
i-8rc4u95HGNjVyGen442vyc	Madam President, I would like It is indeed the case that we have a dependence on products produced in Saudi Arabia instead of having a domestic production of biofuels that allows with more production also to be able to have better prices. It's a difficult situation. The most distressing is perhaps where you have long distances, such as where I live, where it takes a while to get somewhere. But I would also like to say what the government has already done with the Green Party. We have reduced the tax rate as a rural deduction if you live in sparsely populated areas and in assisted areas A. We have a rural deduction on what we all who have a car pay to the Swedish Transport Agency every year. So we have taken action. If we are going to do more action or not, I cannot respond today, but I can say that the situation is difficult.
i-XYm3TQfcgnRA124mWTRfEM	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for your answer. I am pleased that the Minister for Rural Development mentions dependence on far away oil rather than on local production. We are now seeing how the proposals that are being made on reduced quota obligations are hitting those companies that actually want to be part of the transition and strengthen Sweden's resilience. We have done very well so far, but more obviously needs to be done. I would therefore like to ask how the government intends to strengthen rural areas in the future so that it can also be involved in the transition.
i-R9R8aJ6qM3NKaNozMarg7U	Madam President, I would like Already this year, for example, we have an investment in biogas in the Climate Klivet. It increases enormously next year so that we can produce more biogas. Given the situation in agriculture, which we talked about earlier, it is also very important. There will also be elladdposts, light cord poles, in the white spots. In many ways, the government wants to strengthen rural areas. Rural areas also need infrastructure, which is why there is an extra effort on roads, such as rural roads, and much more.
i-KRVL8hy3VLpVhH9MuwXzg1	Madam President, I would like My question is to the minister. I've been visiting a number of schools in the last month. The last question they ask is: What are your tips for the high school elections? This testifies to the fact that there are very many students who think and take into account various factors in the selection of upper secondary school programmes. After all, the government has proposed to reintroduce higher education qualifications in upper secondary school's vocational programme. This was something that was removed in 2011 by the then alliance government. There were very many of us who already warned that this would mean a reduction in social mobility and cemented class divisions, but also that it would lead to fewer applicants. Today's the day. There are fewer applicants. It is perceived as less attractive to take a professional programme.
i-7gw2Xwb3AZwQJ8TJe8hGwZ	Madam President, I would like This proposal is very close to my heart. I think there are many young people out there who want to work with something that makes sense when things become something. The fastest way to become CEO, entrepreneur or entrepreneur may be vocational training. So far, it has been stigmatised as it has sometimes been associated with introduction programmes and simpler education. However, this is something that the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and all trade unions are behind, and it is for me a quality stamp. Above all, student organizations say: Give us back the opportunity! I know that the proposal has been on the table before, but I think we are now seeing it with new eyes.
i-C9gFfm7fwYJxE7TthRTMAz	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. This is a very important issue for very many people. As the Minister for Education says, it is different industries and trade unions, and above all very many people who work in the tourism industry, who highlight this as very important. We need more people who choose these programmes and not less. And we're supposed to be enablers. We're not gonna close doors early for young people. Nevertheless, I would like to ask a supplementary question. Does the Minister of Education intend to strengthen the quality of education in general with this proposal?
i-CVuLhSRv9Ut1wTfMfUYvcw	Madam President, I would like Cooperation with the business community via the Swedish National Agency for Education is an important part of this. The other proposals that lie under Minister Anna Ekström regarding adapting to the needs of the business community for the training that we carry out are also important parts. If we are to succeed in the task of giving all students in Sweden an opportunity to establish themselves in the labour market, I believe that there must be a close dialogue with both business and welfare, which in the future will need all they can get.
i-Qrx3cDNTMyVpGjHQUd3u6u	Madam President, I would like Vattenfall's agreement with Rosatoms Tvel on nuclear fuel supplies has been lifted in this House several times. We who ask questions wonder why there has been no security policy analysis on this agreement, especially in view of the deeply problematic security situation that we are in right now. The Swedish Parliament has decided that state-owned companies should analyse whether they conduct activities that are of importance to Sweden's security. This makes it even more strange that the government cannot present an analysis of how they view the security policy implications of Vattenfall's conclusion of this agreement with Tvel, a company fully controlled by Putin. My question, therefore, is whether the Minister for Economic Affairs intends to take any initiatives to carry out such an examination.
i-88PZW5i8y1aMR4f3czCcrW	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking, Helena Storckenfeldt! This is an issue that Vattenfall naturally decides on in the company portfolio. It's not something the government decides. After it has been media information about this, I have been in contact with Vattenfall to know how they assess it, and they have replied to me that they have long chosen to use several different suppliers to increase the safety of access to fuel for the Swedish nuclear programme. Otherwise, the company said that they follow the Foreign Affairs Department's recommendations regarding the trade in fuel for the nuclear reactors. That is why Vattenfall asked me if the Ministry for Foreign Affairs has made a different assessment, and the Ministry for Foreign Affairs says that they have not done so. Of course, all companies should follow the recommendations of the Ministry for Foreign Affairs. So they have followed the rules that exist around this.
i-8UiATzvGDXsWeebHwrKrzd	Madam President, I would like Of course, this is a matter for Vattenfall's management, and of course they follow all the rules that exist. The question is, rather, whether it is reasonable. Researchers at FOI, among others, consider it a naive attitude to treat Russian companies like other Western companies. It is clear from all stakeholders that this issue requires more attention. Peter Hultqvist stood here last week and said that it is good and important for this issue to be highlighted. I therefore wonder whether the Minister for Economic Affairs shares the same view and whether he intends to highlight the issue with Vattenfall.
i-85pP75Gy9EhqFtDBG5wpke	Madam President, I would like Of course, this is a very important issue for Sweden. As Helena Storckenfeldt knows, the Riksdag has also stated on two occasions that we will conduct security reviews of foreign investments in Sweden and of our business with the rest of the world. But in this particular case that you are asking about now, Vattenfall has followed the rules that apply, and it is a company decision in Vattenfall. I see no reason why I should follow it up more than, of course, to have this debate within the government and together with the Parliament if we are to make a different assessment than we are doing today.
i-HCwz1dds4iqhWaEpmfjZpF	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Anna Ekström. According to the Swedish Public Health Agency, the proportion of young girls experiencing severe mental illness has increased by 80 per cent and the proportion of boys experiencing the same thing has increased by nearly 30 per cent since the Social Democrats took over government power in 2014. The Public Health Agency's report on the impact of covid-19 pandemic on public health shows that it has further worsened mental illness in young people, mainly as a result of increased isolation. The Swedish National Audit Office's review report on the state's suicide prevention work shows that the state's work is not sufficiently effective and that work on suicide prevention and mental illness needs to be improved at all levels. On these issues, the government's work is lacking in several stages. These are long queues to bup, a lack of available and trained staff and, above all, an increase in mental illness. Does Anna Ekström think that during her almost eight years in power, the government has done enough to face mental illness among young students?
i-JYwNpCY9vbegKiy1JXsgMw	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Pontus Andersson, for the question! We will look with concern at the reports that come in about increasing mental ill health among young people. At the same time, we should be aware that this is an area where the measurements we have are not too precise – it is about perceived mental illness. Nevertheless, they are worth taking very seriously. The government has taken a number of measures regarding the mental health of young people. I can only point out the efforts that have been made both human and resource-wise to our pupil health care, and perhaps most importantly, during the pandemic we in Sweden have chosen to have a whole public health perspective. For example, we have not closed schools, as has been done in almost all other countries. I am convinced that it has been very important, not least because one of the reasons why school is so important is that it means a lot to young people's context in the world and to young people's happy upbringing and childhood.
i-PYj9QguYA1ktSbXmwJqaTx	Madam President, I would like An 80% increase in mental illness among young women cannot be blamed when you are in government. Like Denmark, we need to develop national care programmes and a long-term national strategy to get faster and more coherent help but also increased efforts in student health. The government has had almost eight years to reverse this trend, but instead the queues to l bup have increased, and mental ill health among young girls has increased by over 80 percent. Does the government not see its responsibilities in this matter?
i-2VLx6xYptKnxPMTmWNJhfc	Madam President, I would like As has just been pointed out, we have made a great deal of effort in the field of pupil health. I am convinced that well-functioning student health is very important for students' mental health. Another important thing that the government has initiated is in the area of Minister Lina Axelsson Kihlblom, namely to move to subject grades in upper secondary school. It is well established that the course grades in our upper secondary school have contributed to a lot of stress and a chopped-up life situation for both boys and girls.
i-QPXxvj2AznVCWPxA6De5kA	Madam President, I would like Many courses may not continue if you miss certain exams or compulsory parts. This means that students are forced to stop studying until the exam is completed. In most cases it is not a problem, but it is when it comes to the medical programme in Uppsala, for example. There are a limited number of extra places, and several students have not been able to start again. With a bit of bad luck, they can wait for several semesters because it is the lottery ticket that determines who gets to start at these extra places. According to management, the system is a way to ensure that the number of graduates becomes what is agreed with the government. My question to the Minister for Education is whether it is really the Government's will to prevent students from completing their education and whether the Minister has had a dialogue with Uppsala University about this. I'm thinking half-finished doctors aren't what we need.
i-W4QxJi6CujhhdVYiLCq8fv	Madam President, I would like I can assure Ilona Szatmari Waldau that I have had a dialogue with Uppsala University. It was the first university that I visited on a more regular basis since I took up office as responsible for these issues. However, this question was not raised by the university management during the rather long sitting we had. This is a question that, as far as I can judge by the description that the honourable Member has made, lies very much in the hands of the HEI – to decide how to manage your study places. Of course, the government and sometimes the Riksdag also make demands on the number of places to study on certain programmes, but how to ensure that students can continue their studies and move on even after a missed exam, I imagine, Madam President, is in the hands of the higher education institution to decide on. But I will of course look at this issue because I understand that it plays a major role not least for Ilona Szatmari Waldau.
i-AxwaXMEFh3kQqJC1XoVG9y	Madam President, I would like I think it plays a bigger role for those students who are forced to spend longer periods of study than it might do for me. The reason I put the question to the Minister for Education is that the management of the medical programme says that this is a system to ensure that the number of graduates becomes as agreed with the government. That is why I ask what the Minister for Education intends to do. Then we all know that the higher education institutions themselves design their programmes, but here it is specifically referred to an agreement with the government.
i-JTxe2LeZEhRhkaHtjKqqcd	Madam President, I would like Ilona Szatmari Waldau and I have a common concern and concern for the students attending the medical programme. It is important that they can come out and start working in healthcare as soon as possible, both for the sake of society and for their own sake. That's where we're in complete agreement. As I said, Madam President, I will contact Uppsala University to see if it is something that the government has demanded that affects their ability to ensure that students can quickly get through the medical programme. I thank Mrs Waldau for drawing my attention to this important issue.
i-HYFnFFn9KLLqbvKeiC2eE2	Madam President, I would like My question goes to the Minister for Rural Affairs. Yesterday, energy scientists announced that we would have had 30 to 45 percent lower electricity prices in southern Sweden if we had not pre-discontinued the Ringhals reactors. Exciting electricity and diesel prices are now digging deep holes in people's personal economy, but also in their ability to stay where the car is actually a prerequisite. Now my question mainly concerns farmers: Is there a future for running agriculture in Sweden? It should be. We need more of local culture, and we also know that we are self-sufficient for just ten days in the event of crisis and war, and then food runs out in the grocery stores. But several farmers give up. They do not find that there is economic viability. The government has decided a very great responsibility for the situation that has arisen. My question is: why did you vote against joining the EU's reduction obligation and thus allow the diesel price to be reduced by SEK 3 per litre here and now?
i-9h8jLFZoUFrB4vDkTWEZKt	Madam President, I would like The government really wants to see increased food production, for the sake of agriculture. We have jointly supported a food strategy in this House. As early as my second week, I presented EUR 64 billion, which also goes to young farmers and to active agriculture, because we want to see increased food production. Two weeks ago, I experienced something very exciting. Then I opened a new protein factory in Bjuv, where you use all the peas. The peas that are not sold as peas now become protein. Why, then, is this good? Yes, because it belongs to the whole food chain. We have used to import goods like soy and other things. But now Sweden will produce and meet both the market in Sweden and the market abroad. If the question is whether I believe in the future of young farmers and in the future of Sweden's agriculture, the answer is yes.
i-KvqbWa6AnEHLDvBemH2QDv	Madam President, I would like It is good that the Minister believes in agriculture. The problem is that those who are in agriculture must also feel that debit and credit go together, that there is economic profitability. That's why I'm asking the question. It's not about faith in the future. Here and now we can see that diesel prices are running. They're very high. It is clearly a problem of economic viability. In addition, the reduction obligation is quite questionable. The EU has set a target of 14%. Sweden currently has 30.5 per cent. The EU is aiming to get there only in 2030. Why cannot we fall to the EU level and lower the price of diesel?
i-QbnXefzrnUU3BbspmZ3xPe	Madam President, I would like I and the Ministry of Industry, as I have told several people in this House, will make an assessment of the sector analysis that has been carried out in terms of how it looks in agriculture and how difficult it is. But at the same time I want to say that the future looks like this: More people buy Swedish. One invitation to all of us is to go into the grocery store and buy Swedish. Then the farmer gets directly more money and greater profitability at farm level, and that is important for real.
i-VGmUPBQoj5279BZzVLcjfA	Madam President, I would like I would like to draw attention once again to the situation of those pupils with special needs who do not receive adequate support in primary and secondary schools. Recently, we have also seen a sharp increase in the number of pupils in special education. I would like to draw the school minister's attention to this and ask the school minister what measures she intends to take to ensure that pupils are not wrongly enrolled in special school. If you go wrong, as we see every day, you risk not getting the right education, not getting the elements to which you are entitled and not getting a complete education. This risks losing opportunities to move forward in life and, for example, to study at a university or university.
i-HEzSG49j352hVRJPdv8xL5	Madam President, I would like This is a very important issue raised by the Liberals' Roger Haddad. We should remember that special school requires that there is a medical psychiatric assessment and also a psychological assessment. There's an enrolment. Since 2014, we rarely see scandals that have existed in the past. I would say that the legal certainty of enrolment in special school is better than ever. Another point I would like to make is that this government is now making proposals to increase the competence of teachers in the school. Their mission is also to ensure that the diagnoses that exist are constantly reviewed and followed up. The same is followed up on grading and competence provision among teachers as well. So I do not share Roger Haddad's view of the increase in the number of entries. They are about the same percentage as before, about 2%.
i-Mtk34PRjiP9JNHPivSsDCL	Madam President, I would like The share of pupils in special education has increased in recent years. These are facts according to the National Agency for Education, nothing else. But there are too many who have gone through the school system and been wrongly enrolled before. Today, they may be in their 20s, 25s or 30s, and they have not yet been restored by society. The municipalities are starting court proceedings that make them not dare to move forward. For many in this audience, life is ruined. This is, for example, a question of financial protection. Is the Government prepared to set up a government inquiry into these issues?
i-HbN2nkZ9K6Q3jSk7aSypLy	Madam President, I would like This is a new question: what should we do with those who have been wrongly judged to attend special school many years ago? I would like to take that question with me and discuss it more. It is very stigmatising to be enrolled in special school without the right assessment. That is why I am pleased that today there is a clear regulatory framework that the School Inspectorate can follow up. It is also followed up statistically. There are several professions involved in these decisions, and they are constantly being revised.
i-LgEb4i1puqFMiddXr27Ruf	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister AnnaAnna-Caren Sätherberg. The Green Party has for many years been pushing the issue of saving the Baltic Sea. It has been about eutrophication when cod was running out, and now it seems to be moving in the same direction with herring and herring. We have often experienced fighting windmills. When we finally managed to get the Parliament on a committee initiative on the matter, we felt that we had come a bit along the way when it comes to moving out the trawl line. But now the government is required to act on our committee initiative. We cannot wait for action, but it needs to happen immediately. My question is how the Government intends to act on this crucial issue. Does the Minister for Rural Development intend to act on the committee initiative or wait until herring and herring are exhausted?
i-ShxnuFSgE4Y9HQtdeCCbQk	Madam President, I would like No, this government will not wait until herring and herring are exhausted. We take action all the time. The announcements are something we look at and see what we can do. This is important. It was probably a united committee that supported this, which is even stronger. We have commissioned the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management to investigate how fishing rules can be developed to protect precisely coastal spawning stocks of herring in the Baltic Sea. This will be reported back to the Government on 31 March. This is also important for the issue. I'll stay there and maybe get a follow-up question.
i-8uffhmx1S8ggNq9bPFgszb	Madam President, I would like Individual Member States can act alongside the common fisheries policy. It is, of course, about protecting ecosystems and fish stocks when necessary. Now we feel that it is actually such an emergency. We also feel that it is the government's duty to act. Parliament wants to try, so what are we really waiting for?
i-VVnWjfyzkyTUQLFMegCujX	Madam President, I would like I thank Margareta Fransson. What are we waiting for? Let's look at what can be done in the announcement. That is something a government does. If I understand correctly, this came in November, December, and it is 3 February now. So we're looking at it. But we have made a number of decisions to strengthen the marine environment and fisheries. We have commissioned the Maritime and Water Authority to draw up recommendations for twelve new marine protected areas, so things are happening in the meantime.
i-Ebj8nXqPcFzmgD99muoxzC	Madam President, I would like Both I and the Minister for Rural Development know that the light comes from the north. If you look at what is now happening in northern Sweden, and not least in my county of Norrbotten, you can really be dazzled. In Norrbotten and Västerbotten there is an enormous industrial change. The green revolution that has begun will indeed have significance for the whole country. I think this is the right way to go. Here's where we put the lead shirt on. We are creating the jobs of the future, and we are taking responsibility for future generations. It is important that we do everything we can to ensure that the announced investments really become a reality. My question to the Minister for Rural Development is a question of cohesion. Kiruna, Gällivare, Boden and Luleå are relatively large population centres. But how can you ensure that the positive effects of the green transition are clear and also the countryside and sparsely populated areas – in Norrbotten and throughout the country?
i-ExULHRd1hrG35wqAuhTzLg	Madam President, I would like I thank Fredrik Lundh Sammeli. I must admit that the light comes from the north, of course, especially now. It is a fantastic development that we see in Norrbotten and Västerbotten, which also spreads all over Sweden. But it is a very important question: how do we get the sparsely populated areas into this? I'm thinking it's about a lot of things. The government is investing in infrastructure. In these years, we have invested, for example, in rural roads. Rural broadband has been in focus for a very long time. We invest in the business sector in the smaller municipalities in assisted area A. It is 1.7 million that you can use for business in your own municipality. But it is also about what you do as a region. We must not forget the whole thing now. Perhaps more public transport is needed so that you can live in a less developed municipality and commute to another. It takes a whole thing to make you feel that everyone is on the train. But with the development that is taking place in Norrbotten, I think we will see all of Norrbotten join in.
i-UghAYrqpNWGeRXSH7e411C	Madam President, I would like There is huge investment in new technologies. It changes the map. The eyes of the whole world are directed at Sweden, and in this case northern Sweden. This provides both jobs and climate benefits. The Government was concerned about the importance of keeping this together, so that it will be something that is good for the whole of Norrland and the whole country. What do the Government see as important parts of its responsibility when it comes to making the green transition a natural part of everyday life for all people?
i-D8reNLqTFw3n6dp47wLnDk	Madam President, I would like The debate we have had today has been a lot about agriculture. There we see that we are putting more compensatory aid in place. We want agriculture to be able to operate in the north on the same terms. But it is also, of course, about the forest. The forest is located throughout Sweden. Sweden consists of 70 percent of forests. Forests will be an incredibly important part of the climate change we want to see and in the creation of new green jobs.
i-EhFHmYUhXdeLt5F4cebAYp	Madam President, I would like The wolf is becoming one of the biggest city-to-country issues. The predator bill adopted eight years ago stated that a favourable conservation status would be achieved. This would not lead to negative socio-economic aspects. It would not have too much negative impact on domestic animal husbandry. We have achieved favourable conservation status by a good margin. We have between 400 and 500 wolves in Sweden today. IUCN, the world's largest environmental protection organisation, says that the wolf is now administrative. It's no longer under threat. Research has shown that 100 wolves on the Scandinavian Peninsula would be enough to achieve the least viable strain. We now see that the other targets, in addition to favourable conservation status, in the predator bill have not been achieved. If we are to achieve them, we will probably need to reduce the wolf population in Sweden. A simple question: Is the Minister for Rural Development prepared to work to reduce the number of wolves in Sweden?
i-K8D1mpvjWypVjS6KweL4zA	Madam President, I would like Thank you, John Widegren, for the question! Let me begin by emphasising that it should be possible to live, operate and live throughout Sweden and that we need the strong green industries for jobs and sustainable growth in rural areas and throughout the country. But that's what John Widegren says. There is a favourable conservation status that we are committed to. The Government and the entire Swedish Parliament have undertaken to maintain the favourable conservation status. But there are also signs, as John Widegren says, that we are getting it. It also shows the fact that we could increase the license hunt. For example, this year several wolves could be shot in the license hunt. It was simply too much predatory pressure in some areas.
i-UZFjRL5UnL3XTebD3x6Mdx	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Anna Ekström, although I think the question is actually with the Minister for Education, who is also here. It's your choice. The Government recently held a press conference in which she declared that upper secondary school vocational training should be adapted more to market needs than to the students' interest. This is not wrong in itself, but the major problem is the lack of interest in vocational training. The government and previous governments have for a long time been rhetorical and practically rewarding theoretical education. I think the Minister of Education even mentioned the word stigmatisation here earlier. If leading politicians unilaterally invest in theoretical education, interest in practical education will decrease. It is signal politics and more important than higher education qualifications, which are now up to date. Can the Government be self-critical of its own rhetoric and practice here? Does the government intend to place more emphasis on the importance of practical training in the future?
i-9P9JajnK6U6pZVAeWtRjKF	Madam President, I would like Lina Axelsson Kihlblom and I had a short conference here. This is an issue that is a bit divided between us. I am responsible for the adult education, where a very large part of our vocational training is in practice. Lina Axelsson Kihlblom is responsible for upper secondary education. And I'm the one who's putting forward the current bill and the council referral. I would like to say this, Robert Stenkvist: Our vocational training is the backbone of Swedish welfare and Swedish industry. We have a huge need for workers who have completed vocational training in Komvux or in upper secondary school. Young people and the elderly who choose these courses have a labour market that screams for them. We will jointly ensure that more people choose these important training courses for important professions. We can ensure that there are many places to search from the Government and the Riksdag. But for young people to seek the places, the glow must be lit in their hearts. It is lit by employers and unions showing that these are the future professions.
i-NWP43ieFopffMLnYkDwfMX	Madam President, I would like From basically gone to the world leader in the green transition – without a government that had dared to invest in developing the base industry, Reinfeldt might have been right. Now the eyes of the world are directed towards Sweden, and in the northern part of the country we have growing pains. Growing fast has its challenges. The investments that municipalities now need to make in order to grow both rapidly and sustainably will require a sustainable financing model. The county administrative boards must be able to decide on environmental objectives matters legally and without it becoming a brake on the development of municipalities. I am thinking of staff supply and competition between industry and government, municipalities and regions. This is increased with growth. The power supply is not to be forgotten. With the investments made, electricity will need to increase. Sweden and Norrbotten are in a gold position. What does the Minister of Economic Affairs see as the government's priority actions? The industrial life has been important. What's the next step for the government?
i-SoDhc9GcBwgieJMFSEBY6H	Madam President, I would like I think more than I notice the optimism expressed by several Members from northern Sweden in this House, and I am pleased to see you from northern Sweden that I believe that optimism is being transformed into a national optimism about the state of nutrition. Without saying too much, I can reveal that there will be more investments, not only in northern Sweden. So we will try to spread the optimism you have in northern Sweden all over our country. For this, of course, the government must also expand the opportunities for our authorities to act locally and back up, support and review all the developments that are taking place. This is one of the areas identified by the government, and last year we proposed an increase in the budget to the regional authorities of SEK 90 million in order to have more resources. Unfortunately – very difficult to understand – it was deleted in the budget that the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats, supported by the other bourgeois parties, rejected in the Riksdag. I hope that we can come back and extend the money to regional resources.
i-LKJMi18e2AfhbsLvHMvSoH	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Education Anna Ekström. I have met several student organisations recently, which has been very fun. But I also had a great deal of concern about the lack of trained teachers. Even the Minister of Education said earlier in an answer to another question here just that the teachers need more colleagues, but I did not hear a solution on how to do it. If you look at SCB, which makes a forecast for 2035, you can see that there will be 45 000 teachers missing – 45 000 teachers! I know that several attempts have been made to get more people to apply to and read teacher training. However, it has not produced any results. There has been an increase in the number of seats, but there have been no more applicants. Of course, there must be more applicants first, but we must also ensure that the flow is improved. Unfortunately, teacher training is the one with the worst throughput. Only 65% complete teacher training. Unfortunately, many drop out when they come to their assigned teaching but of course also for other reasons. Of course, I and the Moderates agree that the throughput and the degree is the important thing. My question is what solution is the Minister of Education looking at this major problem.
i-SbGgfUyFZxZrDjnSsJnSGs	Madam President, I would like I am opposed to correcting Marie-Louise-Louise Hänel Sandström, but I must point out that not only has the government expanded the number of places on teacher training, but we have also seen an increasing search pressure. We have also seen from the forecasts that we have a teacher shortage, but the forecast teacher shortage has been significantly reduced in recent times. That's not to say we're home. We need to do more to ensure that the education available at our universities and colleges attracts young people and also older people. Therefore, the government expands the large conversion study support and invests in the KPU so that those who are academics in the middle of life or work in industry and welfare and can become professional teachers can also saddle up to become teachers later. We will strengthen the teaching profession by ensuring that there are many places to search throughout our country, that we have a good workplace education that can secure throughput and, last but not least, that the School Minister and all her efforts contribute to people seeing the school as a workplace of the future.
i-DHgmMi1JGSrFquDvskb545	Madam President, I would like I have a question for the Minister for Rural Affairs. Sweden has the world's highest diesel price nowadays. It is a major problem for rural people and for the agricultural industry, which is in a cost crisis. The Swedish Democrats and the Christian Democrats want the reduction obligation to be reduced, i.e. to reduce the binding involvement of biofuels, which are mostly imported. This would make it 3 crowns cheaper per litre to refuel for the citizens and would give agriculture 750 million when most needed. WWF advises against Sweden's high reduction obligation for environmental reasons. The Social Democrats and the government have already said no. In Sweden's Television, the Minister for Energy believes that the high diesel price is an important signal. Does the Minister for Rural Development also believe that the high price of diesel is an important signal to rural people and to agriculture?
i-9NVYkwWr6taSHepzFM7vFK	Madam President, I would like It is just as Staffan Eklöf says: It is a challenging situation in agriculture, which is under my responsibility. The sector analysis that came today describes how the sector went in 2020 and 2021 and what the forecast is for 2022. There are also thoughts, questions and wishes from, for example, the National Association of Farmers, especially when it comes to diesel. As I said earlier: Sectoral analysis and also the analysis presented last Friday by the National Federation of Farmers is something that the Ministry of Industry and the Government now have to make an assessment of and then return as soon as possible.
i-27xmBK4ctDinDKGFYoGhEg	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister of Enterprise Karl-Petter-Petter Thorwaldsson. Sweden has a unique opportunity to continue to have the leadership shirt when it comes to industry and the green transition. As one of the world's most innovative countries, it helps create jobs with good conditions throughout the country. By enabling the transformation of large and small companies, we increase the opportunity to strengthen our competitiveness. However, a green and digital transformation does not happen on its own. My question is: How does the M-KD-SD budget affect the continued green and digital transformation of business and Sweden's competitiveness?
i-SUXdcxxgUDf5iZKs3JjfTj	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking, Monica Haider. This, of course, is a development that we are very concerned about. This is a proposal that came to the government from the parties and that we discussed a lot in the autumn, and it is simply about helping small and medium-sized enterprises to adapt their production to the green ambitions of the big giants. Many of the large companies are now starting to place orders for things that should be climate neutral, and if small and medium-sized enterprises do not keep up, there is a risk that many smaller companies will be shut down. Therefore, we had proposed SEK 90 million in the budget to invest in this sector together with Technology Employers and the partners from IF Metall and some others in industry. Unfortunately, and quite incomprehensiblely, the bourgeois deleted this from the budget last autumn. We intend to come back and hope that the bourgeois will also understand that small and medium-sized enterprises need this transition.
i-AhiNGNjjtzd9KGPVEDYtL6	Madam President, I would like Around Sweden, Telia is dismantling the old copper network for telephony, a network that, despite its age and technical limitations in many places, represents the only possibility of Internet access through so-called ADSL technology. The problem with the decommissioning of the copper network is that it is happening at a higher rate than the expansion of modern fibre. This leaves people and businesses in Sweden's rural areas completely without a functioning internet connection with the obvious negative consequences that follow. My question to Minister Sätherberg is whether she is satisfied with the situation of people and companies in Sweden's rural areas as a result of Telia's rapid decommissioning of the copper network or whether it is a reasonable position that it is not decommissioned until other telecommunications and data infrastructure is in place.
i-A58guzfAVWsAuiwUEzm1Ja	Madam President, I would like Me and the rural minister had a little conference in the bench. I can note that for the government it is a very important and urgent issue that there is a rapid and good expansion of the infrastructure mentioned by the questioner. It is crucial to people's ability to live and operate throughout our elongated country, and the government has made significant investments to speed it up. Here, Madam President, the government has also received a proper contribution with the support available through the European Community. With regard to the current issue, which is about the rate at which the copper network that Telia and the former Televerket have closed down should or should not be abolished, it is a general policy issue that I do not have information on exactly how it should be answered. Out of respect for the importance of the question, I may ask the questioner to return to the responsible minister with a written question or to take the opportunity when the responsible minister is present at Question Time.
i-9sBjvSsh3cR3rydzZoGpK2	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Sätherberg. For me as a Member, it is important that the whole of Sweden should live. I live in the interior of Norrland, in Ragunda Municipality. Just in time for Christmas Eve last year, the village of Kälarne with 500 residents in Bräcke municipality, next to my own municipality, finally got a filling station. Here you're happy to get gas at all. This was, rather crucial, thanks to the hard work of a number of enthusiasts and thanks to the rural programme. Without that support, it would have been impossible. It took most of the cost. I cannot stress enough that access to good service is important for sparsely populated areas and for our rural areas. My question to the Minister is therefore whether the government intends to continue with support for rural areas for fuel stations and in future also charging poles.
i-Y1HFmSjCsAxfVrcQe7p7yT	Madam President, I would like It is certainly amazing what development power there is in the countryside and in Kälarne, where if I understand Anders Frimert correctly used both the rural programme and non-profit efforts to get to a fuel station. Service is really important. Therefore, for many years the government has been investing in, for example, country merchants and fuel stations, and these efforts continue. The farmers were told that they will die; they will disappear. We've seen that they haven't. It's really been stopped. There is money in the budget for both country merchants and power stations, but also for charging poles, as the honourable Member requested, so that the whole country can live.
i-Gq77ybAGp9E1aHo8CPDsQE	Madam President, I would like I would like to put my question to Minister of Education Anna Ekström. False grades, students who do not receive their education, teachers who are forced to lie to authorities and teach subjects they are not eligible for, tax money that is being cheated away – this week we have seen another report on the avarities linked to the marketisation of our school and education system. Now we are talking about a school in adult education in the City of Stockholm, which TV4 has also shown in Cold Facts. Of course, this upsets me and many others. I think this is an example, but it shows what it looks like in the whole area. Unserious companies run schools with the main focus on making money, not giving students the best education. How can we stop cheating and ensure that students receive the education they are entitled to, and how can we take back control from the market?
i-FP3DRhB6u9fx8xK7rQVXqe	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question. If we are to overcome segregation and ensure that the new jobs that are emerging in Sweden receive skilled labour, municipal adult education is crucial. You should also be able to get a job with education later in life. Not least, it is important for foreign born, who can then write the first line of their CV. I'm very upset about the information that comes out. I'm upset on behalf of the taxpayer. The government has invested billions. We have built 160 000 places in the Knowledge Lift. That money should be spent on education and teaching, not on big profits. I'm also very upset on behalf of the students. They take student loans and place themselves in debt for this education, and they have the right to receive the education they need. It is the municipality that is responsible for reviewing the proper management of this activity. It is the municipality that is responsible for carrying out the activities. You can subcontract it, but of course you should keep an eye on the business. But for safety reasons, the government has also just given the School Inspectorate a new assignment to review these principals – even if it is the municipality's responsibility.
i-PDvF7uPePpLFn9Ks5t3dbu	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister for Rural Affairs Anna-Caren Sätherberg. The minister mentioned earlier the forest. In our forests we also have fantastic food resources in the form of berries and game. A game we need to take more is the boar. The distribution of the boar strain creates both challenges and opportunities. There are plenty of wild boars, and they often cause major problems for farmers. But they can also be an asset rather than just a problem — good and climate-smart food on our plates, simply.
i-CYWBwawPjrck2FYQFcxiCs	Madam President, I would like I thank Malin Larsson for the question. That is quite right – more wild boar meat on the plate we want to see, also because we know that wild boars can cause problems, for example, in agriculture and for landowners. This is something the government has been actively working on. A wild boar package came in April 2020 to facilitate this. I can also tell you that today the government has decided to extend the mission that agriculture had to promote the consumption of wild boar meat. Enlargement means that the mission will now include the private sector. We have worked actively and strategically to get wild boar meat out publicly. Many municipalities are good at using this good meat for their students or for them in home care. But we need to make sure that it is used more than that.
