i-87SoQikMhneFw789a4dWis	Mr President, I would like to During autumn 2021, the Constitutional Committee reviewed the administrative work of the Government. Today we are going to debate the conclusions of this review, which is contained in its entirety in the Constitutional Committee's report 2021/22:CU10. According to the 13th chapter of the government form. KU shall review the performance of its duties and the handling of government matters, and KU's observations shall be communicated to the Riksdag at least once a year. The examination carried out by the KU in the autumn is of a more administrative nature and deals with the administrative work of the government and ministers. Individual actions by ministers are not the subject of scrutiny, but rather focus on processes, systems and routines within the Government Office. It is thus different from what we call the Spring Review, where the starting point is the complaints against ministers submitted by individual members of parliament. Mr President, I would like to In the autumn review, various aspects of the exercise of government power have been evaluated. The conclusions resulting from the review can hopefully help, among other things, to create more effective working arrangements within the Government Office and thus also improve government work in the long term. During the review, the committee has had access to material compiled by the KU office and the Government Office, among other things. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Office for its always very good work and to thank the other members of the Committee on Good Cooperation. KU's autumn review has covered a number of different areas of government work. The report covers a total of ten different sections. I will go through the respective sections and briefly describe each of them, some shorter than others. Some conclusions considered particularly important for the continued work of the government will be highlighted. The first case concerns the change of government that took place this summer, in the turn of June-July 2021. The committee explains how this was done but has no comments to make on the handling. The next section concerns the composition of the government and the organisation of government work. The committee has examined the evolution of the number of officials in the Government Office but has no comments to make in this section. The third issue concerns the government's minutes. Here, the committee has reviewed government protocols from January to December 2020. The committee notes that a large proportion of the regulations announced near entry into force were due to the ongoing coronapndemine and the need to limit the spread of the disease. The committee understands that, under certain circumstances, it is not always possible to follow the current timeframes, but would nevertheless stress the importance of maintaining a certain time span between announcement and the entry into force of the Constitution. This is particularly the case in cases where regulations require a change of activities or require far-reaching adjustments by individuals. The KU notes that the government should in future plan the measures so that a certain time span can still be maintained. Mr President, I would like to The Constitutional Committee has also looked at administrative matters. There are a number of mining cases that have been handled within the Ministry of Industry. This is the case in the review that I would like to highlight in particular, where the KU has had several views on the government's handling. The committee's review shows that many of the cases show unjustified lengths of time. In some cases, for long periods, no apparent procedural measures were taken. The KU notes that too long processing times, in addition to of course causing uncertainty for those involved, can also lead to personal and financial losses. We also describe and discuss the requirement for communication with parties and the duty of activity that the government and the Government Office have here. Against this background, the Constitutional Committee requires the Government Office to take the necessary measures to improve the handling of mining cases. Nevertheless, the measures taken must be said to be in the right direction, but further measures are necessary to ensure that the administrative law principle of simple, rapid and cost-effective management, as expressed in the Administrative Act, is fully effective. Mr President, I would like to The fifth section deals with the government's collective decision-making under the coronapndemin. The review shows that the need for additional government meetings in 2020 was greater than usual due to the coronapndemin. A total of 110 government meetings were held in 2020, 59 of which were extraordinary government meetings. The committee's review shows that more ministers were present at the regular meetings than at the extra staff. In view of this, the committee recalls that the government makes decisions collectively in Sweden and stresses the importance of the Minister's participation, as far as possible, in additional government meetings as well. But that said, it must of course be possible for a government to make quick decisions, albeit with fewer ministers in place than usual. The next issue is the control and coordination of the government's norm under the coronapndemin. This review has, among other things, aimed at examining what measures the government has taken to ensure effective coordination of regulations and decisions linked to the Covid-19 Act. The Constitutional Committee notes that the government has taken certain steps to produce a comprehensive picture and achieve coordination, which the committee welcomes. These measures are important in order to get a comprehensive picture of the extent of restrictions on fundamental rights and freedoms, but also in order to keep Parliament informed and updated. Mr President, I would like to The committee has also examined the progress of the consultation system over time in a fairly comprehensive review. Referrals from three departments during six terms of office have been reviewed. Among other things, attention is paid to the number of referrals, the duration of referrals, the number of referrals and the choice of referral bodies. The review shows that the number of referrals has increased over time and that progress has been made towards the authorities having more referrals to respond to. The committee states that lists of referrals must not be drawn up in a procedural manner and that the need to refer them to a panel must be examined in each individual case. The committee stresses the importance of considering the choice of each consultation body. The possibility of limiting referrals in different ways should be used to a greater extent in order to reduce the risk of overloading referrals. Furthermore, the review shows that for many years the periods of referral have been relatively short and that the general rule of at least three months' referral time is often not actually complied with. The committee stresses the importance of the length of the consultation periods so that the consultation bodies have the opportunity to consider and comment on the proposals. The KU believes that there is reason to review the need for common procedures in the Government Office for the preparation of referral lists and misgivings. In other words, there are conclusions in this part that the government, like everything else the KU writes, should consider and take on board. Finally, Mr President, in the last three sections of the report, the KU has examined ordering appropriations, the reasons for regulations and the petitions and decisions of the Ombudsman for Justice. The KU also draws conclusions here, but for time reasons I choose not to go into these matters any further. For those interested in taking note of the committee's conclusions, I commend the entire review report and the summary contained therein. Mr President, I would like to The Constitutional Committee hereby reports to the Riksdag the results of the review presented in this report under Chapter 13. Section 2 the form of government.
i-3cxZMMgkqTS72nvyJgqFPN	Mr President, I would like to We are here today to debate the KU10, the so-called autumn review. In the review, the KU looks more closely at parts of the government's administrative work, where some parts are annual and others return at certain intervals. Some elements are on the agenda, and I note that this round of reviews was also largely marked by the global pandemic and its impact on the work of the government. The Constitutional Committee has examined the government protocols and notes that in some cases there has been a very short period of time between decisions on, for example, regulations and the time when they came into force. In this respect, the committee would point out that it is important for there to be a certain amount of foresight, not least when regulations may require individuals, businesses, authorities and businesses to quickly change or take comprehensive action. At the same time, the pandemic we have seen has hardly been predictable, and the spread of infection has sometimes called for the government to act quickly. Collective decision-making during the pandemic has also been the subject of the autumn review. In this respect, the committee notes that the many additional government meetings following the pandemic have often had fewer ministers present than the ordinary government meetings. The KU points out that it is important for ministers to participate as much as possible in extra government meetings when government decisions are always taken collectively, but we also show great understanding that the government needs to make rapid decisions under these special circumstances, even with fewer ministers in place. Related to covid, the KU has also reviewed the government's control and coordination of regulations during the pandemic. In this respect, the Constitutional Committee notes that the government has taken important steps to ensure a comprehensive picture of the restrictions imposed on rights and freedoms in relation to the pandemic, as the KU has also said. The committee chose this autumn to examine in particular the government's handling of mining matters within the Ministry of Industry. We in the committee understand that this type of matter is of great complexity and may require extensive preparation. Having said that, it is clear that in some cases there has been an unjustified delay in proceedings, which cannot be accepted. Our Swedish model for democratic decision-making has also been reviewed during the autumn. Here the KU notes an increase in the number of referrals over time, which has to some extent become an additional workload for different authorities. The committee recalls the importance of each product to be sent for referral being given its own assessment as to who should be the referral bodies. With this, we can see that another pandemic review has been carried out, and I would like to thank the members and officials of the committee for their good and constructive cooperation again this time.
i-4ZJyB4R2bZiCUeZEnKJbZd	Mr President, I would like to This is the last autumn examination of the parliamentary term and thus the last debate on the subject before the elections. I am sorry to say that I am going to pass some time, but I hope that the President will forgive that. The state of affairs has put a lot to the test, but the Riksdag in general and the KU in particular have in many ways been able to solve their tasks. I will limit my speech to three subjects: mine management, development of consultation, petitions and decisions by the JO. Every year the Constitutional Committee draws attention to some or some groups of administrative matters in its review. This year's review has covered seven processing concessions under the Minerals Act or, more simply, mining cases. KU has examined the cases on the basis of processing time and other aspects of administrative law. The examination has shown that several of the cases have long processing periods, in some cases as long as three, four or up to five years. I cannot help but mention that these are processing times in a government that introduced a few years ago in the new Administrative Act rules for its authorities to limit processing times to six months. Well, the committee notes that this concerns complex cases with many conflicting interests. This, of course, has its accuracy. However, there have been cases that have been pending for several years without any investigative measures being registered. The length of the proceedings therefore appears unjustified in several of the cases examined. It is important, in the Committee's view, that the handling of mining cases should not be delayed unnecessarily. The administrative law principle that matters should be dealt with as easily, quickly and cost-effectively as possible without prejudice to legal certainty shall also be followed by the Government in administrative matters. Basically, it is a matter of legal certainty for the individual. Long processing times not only create uncertainty for those involved, but can also lead to personal and financial losses. The review has also covered other administrative aspects of the processing and preparation of mining cases, such as the right to party transparency, the responsibility for investigating authorities and the requirement for communication with parties. As regards the current case of Kallak, the committee notes that the government has not previously addressed UNESCO in a mining case. Whether it was justified to obtain a UNESCO opinion on the matter is not clear to the committee. However, the committee notes that the government waited over three years to give UNESCO the opportunity to express its views and that the UNESCO opinion has so far only been communicated with the companies. The review further shows that in other cases too, it has been several months before the Ministry of Industry communicated documents with parties. In one of the cases, the Ministry sent documents submitted on two different occasions to the Sami village concerned only after the Sami authorities requested documents. The requirement for an administrative case to be dealt with quickly is for a case to be decided as soon as possible. At the same time, this requirement must be weighed against the responsibility of the Government for investigation. In this part, the committee would like to point out that an important part of this investigative responsibility is the requirement for communication with parties. That requirement imposes an obligation on the Authority to act independently of a request from a party for access to documents received. The committee assumes that the Government Office will take the necessary measures to improve the handling of mining cases. Mr President, I would like to The committee has also examined the progress of the consultation system over time. The referral system is an important part of the constitutional principle that the necessary information and opinions should be obtained from the relevant authorities and municipalities and that associations and individuals should be given the opportunity to express their views to a reasonable extent. A starting point for the review is that the referral is made within the framework of the Government's preparation. The committee and the government agree on the importance of not establishing lists of referrals in a routine manner and of making the issue under consideration comprehensively clear. It should be noted that, for reasons of cost, there are reasons for some degree of diligence and restrictiveness in the selection of referrals. This is particularly true in the selection of authorities over which the government has a right of directive, as they are obliged to respond to referrals. The committee's review shows that the number of referrals has increased over time and that progress has been made towards authorities having more referrals to respond to. It has also become more unusual for referrals to be restricted in order to facilitate the work of the referral bodies. In this context, the committee stresses the need for the number of referrals to be duly justified and for the choice of each referral body to be carefully considered. Especially when the submitted data is comprehensive or the referral is sent to a relatively large number of referral bodies, the possibility of limiting referrals in different ways should be more widely used. The KU has already stated that it is important for the consultation bodies to be given a good opportunity to make their views known and that the periods of referral are so well extended that the consultation bodies are given real opportunities to consider the proposals in the appropriate order. As a general rule, the period of referral should not be set at less than three months. However, the committee notes that, for many years, the period of referral has been relatively short and that the general rule of at least three months' period of referral has only been complied with in every four cases, if Christmas and summer leave are taken into account. Furthermore, the review shows that referrals to municipalities and regions have often had a shorter response time than three months. The committee would like to emphasise the importance of the length of the referrals so much that the consultation bodies are given good opportunities to consider and comment on the proposals. The KU also points out that the requirement for a balanced deadline and the appropriate number of referrals also applies when the Government is required to prepare matters of an urgent nature. In this context, the committee would like to point out the value of being able to ex-post access to the supporting documents referred to and on which the government's decision is based. This is particularly true in the case of regulations and legislative proposals. There are major differences in how detailed the departments have been with information about how the consultation document has been prepared or what the referrals relate to. In the committee's view, the differences in formal arrangements suggest that there may be a need to review the need for common procedures in the Government Office for the preparation of referral lists and misgivings. Finally, Mr President, the office of Ombudsman has existed since the beginning of the 19th century and is an inalienable part of the Swedish rule of law and legal tradition. The JO is carrying out a very important task of ensuring that courts and administrative authorities in their activities comply with the Government's bids for objectivity and impartiality and that the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens are not brought into play in public activities. The Ombudsmen of Justice shall also promote the remedying of shortcomings in legislation. If there is a reason to raise a question about a constitutional amendment or any other measure by the State in the course of supervision, a Ombudsman may make a request on the subject to the Riksdag or the Government. There are also cases in which a judicial ombudsman submits a copy of a decision to a department for information. This is called a petition and is done in accordance with Section 4 of the JO's instruction. This procedure has been examined by the KU. The committee notes that the petitions from the JO to the Government have led to action by the Government in about half of the cases. In the case of decisions submitted for information by the JO, the proportion of cases brought about by the Government is slightly higher. The KU, which stresses that it is for the government to assess each petition or decision separately, wishes to stress that the government should take advantage of the petitions from the JO but also decisions that the JO submits to the Government Office for information as an important element in the work to improve legislation and procedures. This applies, of course, to all departments whose areas are affected. Regarding two petitions made by the JO to the government in the summer of 2019, the committee notes that these were still being prepared when the Ministry of Social Affairs replied to the committee in October 2021. The committee is concerned that, after more than two years, the petitions had still not been the subject of a position. Finally, the committee notes that petitions from the JO under Section 4 are made to the Government. In the committee's view, such requests should therefore be closed by a government decision, or by a government decree with a clear reference to a government decision in which the matter to which the JO's petition relates has been dealt with. The committee assumes that the procedures within the Government Office will be reviewed if necessary to ensure that this will be the case in the future.
i-VCK25QVfZgLDJVgHMx5f3C	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating the KU10, the KU review report, in which the Constitutional Committee reviews the performance of the duties of the Ministers of State and the handling of government affairs on an annual basis. First of all, I intend to dwell on the section of the review relating to mining matters. These are a total of seven cases of processing concession under the Minerals Act, which during the current term of office has either been decided by the government or is still being dealt with within the Ministry of Industry. The examination shows that the majority of cases have long or even very long processing times. Two of the three cases closed are three and four years respectively. More than half, four of the cases, are still being dealt with by the Ministry of Industry, and for three of these, the processing time at the time of the KU's review was up to three to four years. Moreover, this type of case has often been handled for a long time before being referred or appealed to the government. This means that most of the investigated mining cases have very long processing times overall. Of course, such matters are generally extensive and complex. However, in view of the time taken between the various measures taken, the length of proceedings appears unjustified in several cases. The administrative law principle that matters should be dealt with as easily, quickly and cost-effectively as possible without prejudice to legal certainty also applies to the government when dealing with administrative matters. Basically, this is about the legal certainty of the individual. Long processing times not only create uncertainty for those involved, but can also lead to personal and financial losses. Mr President, I would like to The review of mining cases has also meant the right to transparency for different parties, an authority's investigation responsibilities and the requirement for communication with parties. As regards the current case of Kallak, the committee notes that, as far as the government has been aware, it has not previously addressed UNESCO in a mining case, which it has therefore chosen to do here. If it was justified to obtain such an opinion, it is not clear, but it is worth noting that the government waited more than three years to give UNESCO the opportunity to give its opinion. Furthermore, at the time of KU's review, UNESCO's opinion had only been communicated with the companies. It appears from the review that in other cases too, it has been several months before the Ministry of Industry communicated the documents submitted with the relevant party. In one of the cases, the Ministry of Industry sent the documents submitted to an interested Sami village only after the Sami authorities requested documents. As pointed out earlier, mining cases are generally extensive and complex. In addition, the parties to these cases often have conflicting interests. The requirement for a quick handling of an administrative matter is that it should be decided as soon as possible. At the same time, this requirement must be weighed against the responsibility of the Government for investigation. Like the committee, I would like to point out that an important part of this is precisely the call for communication with partners. This means that at an early stage, the Ministry of Economic Affairs has to decide who is eligible for communication. The Constitutional Committee assumes that the Government Office will take the necessary measures to improve the handling of mining cases. While the measures taken so far are moving in the right direction, further steps appear necessary to ensure that the principles set out in the Administrative Act are fully implemented. Mr President, I would like to The referral system is a central and important element in the preparation of government affairs. During the autumn, the KU has carried out a review of the development of the consultation system over time, which several previous speakers have discussed. These include the number of referrals, the length of the referral period and the number of referrals. The review notes that the number of referrals has increased over time. A comparison between 1999 and 2020 shows an increase of approximately 35%. At the same time, the number of limited referrals has decreased significantly over the same period. 23 per cent of referrals were limited in 1999, and 2 per cent of referrals were limited in 2020. Against this background, the KU stresses the need for the number of referrals to be well justified and for the choice of each referral body to be considered. Especially when the submitted data is comprehensive or when the referral is sent to a relatively large number of referral bodies, the possibility of limiting referrals in different ways should be more widely used. This reduces the risk of congesting referrals and allows them to use their time more resource-efficiently. Finally, I would like to say something about the KU's autumn review of the government's pandemic management, in which the KU looked at the control and coordination of the government's norm under the coronapndemin. The review examines, among other things, what measures the government has taken to ensure effective coordination of the regulations and decisions aimed at stopping the spread of infection. The KU notes here that the government has taken some steps to produce a comprehensive picture and achieve coordination, but the pandemic continues. The KU believes that it is important to have a comprehensive picture of the regulations that have been issued and how extensive the interventions in fundamental rights and freedoms are linked to the pandemic, so that the government can take action if necessary if the interventions in fundamental rights and freedoms are deemed to be too far-reaching and so that the government can keep the Riksdag properly informed of current restrictions on freedom and rights. The overall picture is also required to ensure that the regulations issued are accurate and that similar activities with similar conditions are not regulated in different ways. We in the KU assume that the government will monitor developments and continuously make assessments of the regulations that have been issued in order to be able to take action if necessary.
i-V4r6yX5LKHoy8gH7ccuq81	Mr President, I would like to Every year the Constitutional Committee conducts two reviews, one in spring and one in autumn. Today it is time to present the autumn's review, which focuses on the performance of the duties of the ministers and the handling of government affairs. This time the report contains nine dossiers and a report on the change of government this summer. Since then, as the President knows, another shift has taken place. Some cases are annual, such as the composition of the government, while other cases may be linked to current events or simply be something that the committee has chosen to look at. This year, for obvious reasons, there are also several cases linked to the pandemic. As usual, the committee has made a number of observations that can be seen as a contribution to the government for the future. I would like to draw attention to some of these. The first matter I would like to draw attention to is the examination of mining cases – it is perhaps not so unexpected, given my committee colleagues' previous speeches. These are often difficult and complex cases, where there are very many interests that stand against each other. Not to rush through a decision is often wise, but at the same time it is untenable when permit processes drag out unnecessarily. Our review shows that many of the mining cases have long processing times, and some are still in preparation. In these complex cases it may not be very strange, but it needs to be due to the fact that relevant procedural measures are in progress. In several of the cases examined, it has taken years without any apparent action being taken. Sometimes it has taken months for the Ministry of Industry to communicate an incoming document to the interested party. Regardless of outcome, shorter state processes are desirable to avoid uncertainty for those involved. We in the committee therefore assume that the Government Office will take measures to improve the handling of mining cases. Mr President, I would like to Another issue I would particularly like to highlight is that of petitions and decisions by the Ombudsmen of Justice, the JO. Later today, the JO's official report will also be discussed in this House. I know that I speak on behalf of everyone in the committee when I talk about how valuable we consider the work of the JO to be. Through the official report, they inform the Riksdag of their observations. The JO also has the opportunity to petition the government when they see the need for constitutional changes or other measures to correct shortcomings in legislation. The JO can also hand over a copy of its decision to the department concerned for information, and this is done relatively often. As far as the audited petitions submitted by the JO to the Government are concerned, this has led to action in about half of the cases. While it is up to the government to assess each petition, we would nevertheless like to point out from the committee that the government should take advantage of the JO's petitions and also of decisions that are submitted for information. Finally, Mr President, I would like to touch on the matter of the control and coordination of standards under the coronapndemin. Through the Covid-19 Act, the government has received a very far-reaching delegation of norm-making skills. The Government also has an opportunity to sub-delegate the norm to administrative authorities and municipalities. This is not something that can be treated lightly. This law makes it possible to impose major restrictions on our rights and freedoms at different levels. It can therefore be very difficult to take stock of the overall restrictions. We in the committee note that the government has taken certain steps to get a comprehensive picture and achieve coordination. Nevertheless, we would like to stress the importance of ensuring that there is a comprehensive picture of the extent of the interventions in our rights and freedoms, and of being able to take action if they are deemed to be too far-reaching, and of keeping Parliament informed of current restrictions. The committee therefore assumes that the government will monitor developments and make these assessments on an ongoing basis. I would therefore like to thank the members of the committee and our eminent office for their work.
i-2rhv1hvTXnStvE6udVUS6v	Mr President, I would like to Twice a year, the KU announces the results of its review by the government. During the spring, it is due to individual members of parliament's notifications or any initiative that the KU takes to review the ministers. In the autumn, we will work with the duties of the ministers and the administration of government matters, i.e. the administrative side. We are working to achieve completely uniform results, and it is particularly simple when it comes to administration. We see the same things, and the risk of politicisation is very small. Therefore, KU's words weigh very heavily when we have reviewed this throughout the autumn. That is essential. We do the work from 13th chapter. Section 1, the form of government. The KU shall review the performance of its duties and the administration of government matters. Among other things, we have reviewed the government's minutes from 2020, such as the sub-protocols from the Ministry of Justice. In situations that require rapid action by the governments, such as during the current pandemic, it is not always possible, by nature, to establish the timeframes that should normally apply between announcement and entry into force. However, even in such situations, it is desirable, in the Committee's view, for a certain time span between announcement and entry into force to be maintained. We have also reviewed the protocols for certain administrative matters handled by the Ministry of Industry. There we have seen that several of the cases have too long processing times. In some cases, for long periods, no apparent procedural measures were taken. It's unsatisfactory. The committee assumes that the Government Office will take the necessary measures to improve the handling of mining cases. My colleagues have developed this further. We have also reviewed the government's collective decision-making under the coronapndemin. As pointed out in the preparatory work on the form of government, of course, all ministers should preferably take part in government meetings. That's the idea. But under certain circumstances it is not possible, and in the event of hastily convening, we have seen that there are fewer. The committee stresses, however, the need for ministers to participate as much as possible in additional government meetings. According to the KU, it is self-evident that a matter at a government meeting is, to the greatest extent possible, preferred by the normally responsible government. The possibility of replacing the normally responsible minister with another minister exists but should not be used without real reasons. Another review concerns the government's control and coordination of standards under the coronapandemine. It may be difficult to get an overview of the overall intervention in fundamental rights and freedoms and to understand how different regulations and decisions relate to each other. This is why the committee notes that the government has taken certain steps to produce a comprehensive picture and to achieve coordination. However, there could be more. The development of the referral system over time has also been examined by the committee, and the possibility of limiting referrals in different ways should be used to a greater extent in order to reduce the risk of congesting referrals. Furthermore, our review shows that for many years the consultation periods have been relatively short. The general rule of at least three months' period of referral has often not been complied with. We take note of this. Mr President, I would like to This may be a small sample.
i-UC3mYrnKRsTH68m1LbhC5G	Mr President, I would like to Today, we have the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the KU10 Review of the performance of the duties of the Ministers of State and the handling of government matters on the table. The committee has examined certain administrative matters, so-called mining matters. It's who I start with. These cases are dealt with within the Ministry of Enterprise. The review has referred to the duration of proceedings and other aspects of administrative law. It is important to remember that each case is unique and complex. Important interests, such as reindeer nutrition, valuable substances and materials as well as jobs, are met here. The cases also affect many: authorities, regions, municipalities, companies, individuals and the environment. In order for society to find a balance between these interests, there are important legal principles that guide us to a good and democratic process. A case shall be dealt with as simply, quickly and cost-effectively as possible without prejudice to legal certainty. The investigation must be thorough, and legal certainty must not be blurred. The review shows that the processing times in the Government Office and the Ministry have been unwarrantedly long. Sometimes, too, a long time has passed without any apparent procedural measures being taken. According to the Constitutional Committee, this can lead not only to uncertainty for those involved, but also to personal and financial losses. Authorities also have a service obligation to the individual so that they can defend their interests. The right to party transparency and access to documents is fundamental to the rule of law. Everyone should be on equal terms and be equal partners. The committee notes that the parties involved have not always received relevant documents concerning them. This applies, for example, to Sami villages. In the Kallak case, at the time of the review, the UNESCO opinion had only been communicated to the companies involved. The committee stresses that the requirement for communication with parties is an important part of the investigation's responsibility. The requirement imposes an obligation on the Authority to act independently of a request from a party to access the documents received. I believe that the new consultation arrangements for the Sami people, hopefully adopted in this House on 26 January, will help in the future. Notwithstanding this, the examination of mining cases shows how important our principles of administrative law are. Mr President, I would like to I would like to say a few words about the government's control and coordination of standards during the pandemic. There is an important debate going on in Parliament and in society about the interventions in people's rights and freedoms that are being made in line with the development of the pandemic, such as restrictions on freedom of movement. In order for the democratic dialogue and decisions taken by the public to be based on facts, an overall insight and understanding of the limitations is of the utmost importance. The Covid-19 Act allows a far-reaching delegation of norm-making competence to the government. The Government may also delegate this competence to administrative authorities and municipalities. The law therefore allows for extensive restrictions on fundamental rights and freedoms, while at the same time allocating the right to take decisions at several levels. Several bodies can therefore take decisions on issues of great importance to our human rights. This may make the overall exercise of rights difficult to grasp. The committee notes that the government has taken certain steps to obtain a comprehensive picture and to achieve coordination. For example, the Government Office regularly follows up the regulations issued by administrative authorities and municipalities. The committee stresses the importance of these measures so that the government can take action if the interference with fundamental rights and freedoms is deemed to be too far-reaching. The Government shall also keep the Riksdag informed.
i-DYFLdSebN15u2ALmF3MdqU	Mr President, I would like to The role of the individual citizen in society is at the heart of today's debate on the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the report by the Parliamentary Ombudsmen of Justice, which I propose to add to the document, taking into account the considerations put forward. Basically, it is about human rights and rights and how they are handled in the everyday practice of authority. On 287 pages of a hardbound book, or if you like in digital format on the Justice Ombudsman's website, the story is presented. In the KU, we have dealt with the matter both through an open hearing of the Ombudsmen and at an ordinary meeting of the four Ombudsmen on the ground. This is a publication that tells us a lot about how our society works in practice, highlights problems to follow up and that much of this can lead to improvements and measures. For it is true that critical eyes can often be decisive in laying the foundations for good development. In connection with the open hearing organised by the KU, I wrote in my own social forum a few short lines with a picture to tell about our meeting. One of the reactions came from a now retired bank lawyer in my home area in Skåne, who stressed just how the Jo's official report throughout his career has been an annual feature and an important tool in his work. For the Constitutional Committee, as I can see, it is urgent that this is the case and that this will continue to be the case, both for the future and for the newcomers or, for that matter, for many years experienced representatives, officials or other professionals and elected representatives working in society. Emphasising the role and tasks of the JO is important and helps, as I can see, to strengthen confidence and trust in our democracy. Even in a well-functioning society such as the Swedish one, the individual citizen's situation vis-à-vis the authorities needs to be monitored and monitored. Mr President, I would like to There is sometimes talk of the strong society in the debate, about how we need to look after our openness and our democracy on a daily basis. In this context, the JO can be described as one of the guardians of the laws. In many cases, a JO notification is the last instance of redress. In recent years, the number of cases has multiplied and is now at 9 000 – 10 000 notifications in one year. A contributing factor is certainly the digital reality in which we all live. It is easy and easy to formulate a few lines and send away to the JO. However, the increasing number of notifications may also have to do with increased awareness, knowledge and insights among individuals about each one's right. The areas that increased most were labour market, prison and foreign affairs. More than 700 cases were directly related to the coronapandemine, which has affected a number of areas of society and has also involved organisational and practical concerns in the performance of the duties themselves. The increase in the number of cases is barely 2%. It is a slightly smaller rate of growth than in the previous year, but it is an increase. The total number of newly registered inspection cases increased and the number of initiative cases decreased slightly – and so did the number of legislative referrals. But it is complaints that take the bulk of the processing resources at the JO. I can mention a few inspections that have been carried out, such as the Prison Service's prison in Tidaholm and the detention centre in Salberga, Region Östergötland, Rättspsychiatric region clinic Vadstena, children's and youth psychiatry for Region Skåne in Malmö. These are some examples of inspections that have been carried out. In the Prison Service, situations of overcrowding have been raised for several years. Based on this, perhaps the Government's efforts to expand the Prison Service can be seen. Increased resources are provided to police, prosecutors and courts so that more criminal investigations can be carried out and more brought to justice. It also means more focus on detention centres, prisons and the various functions of the rule of law society. I would also like to mention the JO's review of the Swedish Work Environment Authority's actions, which was raised at the hearing. It was about personal protective equipment in connection with the pandemic. It was after a notification from the trade union Kommunal that this was raised. As you know, healthcare professionals were in the front line when the pandemic hit Sweden. It was an emergency. The concept of close-to-patient work was mentioned, but it did not prove to be a sufficiently accepted formulation. According to the Administrative Court, the employer could not be assumed to understand what he had to do to lift the ban imposed. As the JO also writes, the Administrative Court found that it was not possible to identify what work the ban aimed at. This – a technicality in this context – meant that the suspension was lifted by the Administrative Court. The JO points out, however, that the substance of the matter was never examined. Mr President, I would like to The principle of public access is central to the Swedish legal order. At the same time, the committee wishes to emphasise the importance of proper handling of classified information. The JO report points out that unnecessary errors are committed because administrators and even managers lack sufficient knowledge of the rules and the requirements they impose on the authorities. Complaints show that individuals often feel that a confidentiality review of the documents and information requested takes a long time to be carried out. There is also a need for follow-up here. The committee would stress that clear, effective and well-functioning regular supervision is essential for the legitimacy of public activities. It also provides better conditions when the JO in turn performs its extraordinary supervision – the mission the JO has.
i-HHWCXLJLDsb68Ngxix2zVJ	Mr President, I would like to The Ombudsman's report is important in several ways. Perhaps most important is that it shows how it is possible for individuals to have conditions reviewed when regular review opportunities are not sufficient. But it is also important that these ombudsmen, who are formally to be named Parliamentary Ombudsmen, through their work, provide the legislator with important information that can lead to changes and improvements in our legislation. A further desirable consequence of the work of ombudsmen is that negligent authorities and individual officials receive criticism, which is, of course, intended to result in procedures and other handling being reviewed and improved. As for criticism leading to improvement, there is sometimes reason to note that this is not always the case. For example, some authorities, including the Migration Agency, the A-kassas, the Swedish Agency for Growth and some courts, incur recurrent criticism for slow processing. This, of course, is not good, especially if it reflects a lack of respect for the work of the JO. This is probably not the case, but the shortcomings can be attributed as soon as possible to an unexpectedly high workload and a too long-standing shortage of resources. Nevertheless, it may be worth discussing whether the impact of the JO decisions is sufficient. However, since this issue is being dealt with by the 2020 JOA, which is to submit proposals for measures and possible constitutional changes, I will refrain from further comments on this. The question of the extent to which unclear official responsibilities can contribute to recurrent more or less gross omissions is also worth highlighting. This is also the case after the Constitutional Committee proposed in a report a few years ago an announcement to the government of a more modern and clearer civil liability by extending criminal liability for misconduct. Therefore, in May 2020, the Government appointed a special investigator to review whether such an extension should be made. What the investigation says won't be ready for another week. However, we know that the directives show the following: in order for the public to have a high level of confidence in public activities, it is essential that there is an effective and effective system of criminal law enforcement when there are errors in public activities. Mr President, I would like to The current report shows that 10,261 cases were newly registered in the past year. Inflows are increasing every year; ten years ago 6 000 cases were dealt with. A number of cases are linked to the continuing pandemic, but the increase in the number of cases is still on par with the past years. It is important for the number of complaints that occur in different activities if there is a regular supervisory activity in different authorities. In the committee's view, in the absence of such regular supervision, this could lead the Parliamentary Ombudsmen to devote their supervision to matters that would be better dealt with in other contexts. The committee therefore stresses in the report that clear, effective and well-functioning regular supervision is essential for the legitimacy of public activities. It also provides better conditions for the JO to perform its extraordinary oversight. This important aspect of JO's activities is also part of the ongoing JO investigation's mission. The JO reports annually what petitions have been made to the government either to bring about legislative changes or to point out that some activities are not working as they should. In particular, the latter type of petition is dealt with differently in different departments. With more similar procedures, there is a risk that important points will not be followed up and addressed. It is likely that my fellow debaters will address many of the important concrete issues contained in the official report. I myself shall be content with a few more general remarks. One is that the committee wishes to emphasise the importance of public authorities and municipalities fulfilling their public access obligations. Indeed, now that many people are working from home, there is a real risk that there will be more departures and less transparency in the activities of public authorities and civil servants. Another related point is that case management in the public administration is of a good administrative standard. It is about competence and the desirability of joint education within, among other things, the state administration. I think that one is welcome, not least if we are to have a reduction in the matters that the Parliamentary ombudsmen have reason to deal with. With this, Mr President, I would like to add to the record of the Parliamentary Ombudsmen.
i-JuscnZ5HiBXD6TNqd9fiwH	Mr President, I would like to I, too, have made it through the account and will sum up my thoughts on it. The work of the JO is very interesting, and it is important to understand how they reason. In addition, the official report gives a lot of ideas that our legislation is sometimes seen as outdated, which I will mention some examples of. Mr President, I would like to We await with excitement and hope the investigation into a more modern and clearer official responsibility to be presented shortly. In the committee's view, increased criminal liability for misconduct would strengthen the protection of citizens' legal certainty and increase confidence in public activities. It is sometimes said that the JO's criticism is toothless, because the consequences for the official who receives criticism from the JO are rarely anything other than that he receives criticism. It is rarely the Jo chooses to prosecute. We believe that increased criminal liability for misconduct, an official's responsibility, would give the JO's role of controlling the public more weight. The report by the Parliamentary Ombudsman has, of course, also been marked this year by the pandemic and the change that the authorities, as well as society in general, have had to make. In addition, the pandemic continued to affect the case flow, and the JO responded with short deadlines to a number of legislative referrals related to the pandemic. The number of newly registered cases has steadily increased throughout the year, and although the effect of the pandemic will hopefully decline in future, we may fear that the major pressures of current social developments in the public sector will gradually increase. It is good that the JO has taken height for this and streamlined its processes. Among other things, in order to be able to handle the continuously increasing case flow, they have developed their procedures and working methods. In the event that the JO receives a large number of complaints about the same conditions with an authority, it is common that the complaints are not investigated individually. Instead, the facts of a particular case are investigated and the individual complaints are closed with reference to that case. This categorisation and systematicisation of cases and their handling is, of course, good in view of the increased flow of cases. However, it is important that the decisions are communicated correctly, so that the notifier feels involved in the process and knows that he has his case examined individually by the JO. As I said, the pandemic has led to an increase in JO notifications in many areas, but also to the response of the JO to legislative referrals linked to the pandemic, in some cases with very short deadlines. Here I would like to highlight the important role of the JO as guardian of our human rights and freedoms. It is not at all obvious that the situation today is comparable to that during the spring of 2020. Heavy consultation bodies such as the JO and JK have questioned how, for example, the vaccination certificates relate to the Constitution. In the area of justice, we have major capacity shortages and legislation that is not adapted to today's society. In line with the serious development of crime, which is moving further and further down the age line, and the insecure society that results from it, the people are, of course, demanding that politicians overcome the situation and to a greater extent imprison serious criminals. Much of the criticism expressed in the official report can be attributed to this. The lack of prison and detention centres and the presence of young, gross criminal and outward-looking people in our Sis homes and LVM homes naturally cause situations to arise that are unacceptable to anyone. Although the JO's criticism here is important and justified, this can only be resolved by increasing the resources available to our law enforcement authorities. We're going to need to reinforce the whole chain of justice, from more patrolling officers to more places in our detention centres and prisons, or why not rent places abroad, as Denmark is about to do? There is also a great deal to be done in this area with regard to the current law-enforcement legislation. In addition to heavy penalties, the removal of penalty rebates and so on, the law enforcement authorities must be able to cooperate and exchange information in a completely different way from today. A lot of the examples found in the official record relate to violations of this. The powers of the police must also be increased. Many are the matters in the official record concerning infringements, such as searches and searches. It will certainly affect our personal integrity to give the police greater powers, but this is a price we have to pay for the major urban transformation that Sweden has undergone in recent decades. The alternative, i.e. that society does not fight back against organised crime and gang crime, is far worse. As an example, I would like to refer to a case from the official account. It's about a motorcycle club whose premises were under surveillance by the police for suspected drug sales. The decision of the JO reads in brief: The police were looking into a premises used by an MC club. According to the police, the Mc Club was locally known for drug management. A man who, according to the police, was also known in the drug field was seen leaving the premises after having been inside it for only a short while. When he was then stopped by the police, he was under the influence of drugs and held three drug - class tablets. Against this background, a search was decided on the premises for suspicion of drug offences. ..................................................... In the decision, the JO gives a detailed account of certain aspects of the search procedure and notes that there was no such reason in this case and therefore no legal basis for the search decision. The police authority is criticised for the fact that the decision was still taken and for the lack of documentation. Here, the Parliamentary Ombudsmen have, of course, made a correct assessment, but this also points to how archaic and neglected our legislation is. So we have a motorcycle club that locally sells drugs to the area, and the police have put it under surveillance. You can see that dealers go in, shop and come out – and therefore cannot do a search for that reason. There is a lot we need to change; today's legislation is created in another time, in another Sweden. Finally, I was going to bring up a case of a political demonstration imposed by a school headmaster. This case concerns me personally, because I was the one who filed the JO notification. In the present case, a school headmaster in Umeå had ordered students to participate in a demonstration for the climate. Attendance was mandatory. In a letter to the guardians, the school wrote that the principal urged adults to strike for the sake of the climate on Friday, September 27. Furthermore, we will also do this together with the students during the last session. The entire school will gather in the pit for a manifestation at 12.15 p.m., guardians are welcome to participate. ..................................................... There are obvious links between the manifestation at the school and the climate movement Fridays for Future. In addition to the fact that the headmaster is mentioned by name in an e-mail, an e-mail from the school to the politicians says that our manifestation on Friday will be the end of the week's work as well as a clear signal to your politicians to act FOR the climate. The fact that politicians are mentioned in the email indicates that the purpose of the manifestation is to opinion and influence politicians. Children who requested to avoid climate strike were told that there was a mandatory presence. JO writes the following in its assessment:-It is a matter of course that students should be taught about climate and sustainability issues and that the school should work in accordance with the curriculum. I have no objection to teachers and other school staff designing the teaching and choosing accounting methods based on what they assess would suit the students best. Although a school has great freedom in this regard, freedom is not unlimited. A limit is found in Chapter 2. Section 2 RF. ..................................................... No one of the general public must be forced to make known his views in political, religious, cultural or other respects. Nor shall any of the general public be obliged to attend an assembly for the formation of opinions, a demonstration or any other expression of opinion, or to belong to a political association, a religious community or any other association of opinion referred to in the first sentence. In the examination of this case, the JO has focused on whether the design of the activity which ended the theme week was compatible with this provision. JO says: a comprehensive school pupils are usually subject to compulsory schooling. It has become clear only that the activity in question was part of compulsory education. It can therefore be said that the students of the public have been forced to participate in the activity. Decisive as to whether the school has acted in violation of Chapter 2. Paragraph 2 of the RF is therefore whether the activity is to be regarded as a demonstration, an assembly for the formation of opinions or any other expression of meaning within the meaning of the provision. ..................................................... JO writes that the activity of the school has been designated as a manifestation and that it has been carried out on the same day as climate manifestations throughout the country, Fridays for Future. JO also writes that the circumstances together give the impression that the purpose of the activity was to convey messages in a way that is normally associated with demonstrations. This impression is reinforced by e-mail from school staff. The JO believes that the circumstances that have emerged together mean that the activity must be seen as a demonstration. The design of the activity has thus, in the opinion of the JO, meant that the general in breach of Chapter 2. Section 2, the form of government has forced students to participate in a demonstration. JO writes that it is the principal's task to lead and coordinate the educational work at a school. JO further writes that it is clear from the referral that the Vice-Chancellor has been involved in the planning of the activity and that he deserves criticism for the design of the activity and that the design of a school activity must not give the students the impression that they are forced to participate in a meaning. This is a very good example of how important the role of the JO is in monitoring our rights and freedoms. Most of us have neither knowledge, time nor money to pursue the defence of our human rights and freedoms in public courts. It is then that the JO really comes to its own by bringing our case and reminding the authorities of what the law says.
i-9H1m1E1G2qkmFZfMPWcxT3	Mr President, I would like to Behind the official report that is the subject of today's debate is the solid work of our ombudsmen – a rich Swedish institution that we have every reason to be proud of. The audits carried out by the Parliamentary Ombudsmen, on their own initiative or after individual notifications, are carried out for the benefit of all of us. In a democratic Sweden, it is absolutely central, not to say crucial, that we protect the fundamental rights and freedoms of the individual. Here comes the JO in the picture. JO is there to examine officials in the exercise of their public authority against individuals. The Parliamentary Ombudsmen put their finger on maladministration when a public service does not meet the demands that we citizens have the right to make, on misconceptions about how a particular constitution should be interpreted and on mistakes that are made by servants and that affect the individual. In short, the JO is there to protect the rule of law and to combat abuse of power. Mr President, I would like to I took up my duties as a Member of Parliament last autumn, and just before I crossed the threshold of this house, I had suspended my government suit. For nearly 14 years in government service, I have clearly become aware of the existence of the JO. I've seen well-qualified judges who nervously started browsing piles of files when the JO announced an inspection. I've seen government managers sweat before JO decisions relating to their own business and how managers after stinging criticisms for unacceptably long processing times have taken organisational measures to get better order on the croft. This is good. It's healthy. This shows that the Swedish Government has respect for this important institution and that the JO's review can provide incentives for changes in an authority when necessary. JO's official report also gives us members of parliament an up-to-date picture of the state of a number of authorities. It is a full-bodied report that is an important basis for us in that the JO there mentions shortcomings in procedures and in law enforcement in activities that have been reviewed. It is then our task to take the content forward and push for improvements and changes in which the Parliamentary Ombudsmen have drawn our attention to the need for this and to follow up on what is happening in cases where the Parliamentary Ombudsmen have submitted petitions to the Government and pointed out the need for clarification in the legislation. Mr President, I would like to The last ten years have seen clear developments – the number of complaints to the JO has increased each year. The number has almost doubled compared to ten years ago; it has gone from about 6 000 to 10 000 cases. The influx in recent years has been particularly marked from the penitentiary system, and this is far from just a pandemic effect. There is therefore good reason to reflect on the fact that prisoners have no alternative but to turn to the Parliamentary Ombudsmen when they are dissatisfied with the actions of the penitentiary. The issue of creating a criminal justice supervisory authority has been investigated in the past. A report with proposals on this was sent out for consultation in 2015, but nothing has happened since then. We in the Center Party think it is time to set up a special supervisory authority for the prison service. It is a matter of both legal certainty and efficiency. JO's supervision is extraordinary, and the large number of complaints from prisoners in prison – these cases constituted last year every seventh review case at JO– testify that the need for such a special regime is evident. The fact that the number of complaints relating to the prison system will continue to be high is not a wild guess. For some time in prison, there has been a very strained situation of overcrowding in many prisons – sometimes as large as 160 per cent, as can be seen from the JO's inspection at the Kumla prison. The difficult situation in prisons will persist for the foreseeable future as a result of the punitive measures that we have decided in this House. While making such decisions, we must recognise and take responsibility for the consequences of them. Most of the people serving a prison sentence are going back into society after a while. What it has looked like behind the walls – the situation of the inmates – has a major impact on the individual's ability and motivation to re-integrate into a life outside the walls. As the Parliamentary Ombudsmen rightly point out, the task of the prison services is also to work with relapse prevention. It is a mission that is not simply to cope with today, as overcrowding affects everything from the possibility of daily outdoor stay to joint activities. When the tone is high in the criminal policy debate, we need to recall something that the Parliamentary Ombudsmen emphasise: that it is urgent to take into account fundamental demands for humane penitentiary care. Mr President, I would like to Another group that is subject to forced law and who often find it difficult to assert their own rights are those detained in psychiatry. Of the six petitions made by the JO to the government, two relate precisely to psychiatry. Here the JO calls for clear and predictable legislation and, not least, effective supervision. Finally, I would like to mention another area of forced law that has been subject to JO criticism, namely the care of addicts under LVM and the care of young people under LVU. Although the Parliamentary Ombudsmen have criticised the application of the rules in this area in recent years, the Parliamentary Ombudsmen have noted that there are still serious shortcomings. Based on the inspections carried out at special youth centres, the JO considers that the staff there find it difficult to determine the legal implications of various measures and thus to ensure that the requirements of the operation are met. Especially serious is the fact that incapacitated children and young people are exposed to restraints without legal support. This is an urgent matter to follow in the future. With this, I would like to thank Parliament's ombudsmen for the work they have done over the past year. In accordance with the KU's proposal, I request that the JO's official report be added to the file.
i-Piq1FgHmUsFZcbhEbYhbZu	Mr President, I would like to Then we are here again with this year's best book release: JO's official story, which is always very interesting and urgent reading. It is 662 pages, plus 60 pages in annexes, with important statements on how authorities function and act. We have now heard of several different parts. Whatever you are interested in when it comes to how Government Sweden works, you can find things to read in the official story. It is also actually easy to read. That all residents can turn to the JO and complain if the authorities have not dealt with your case in a good and legally secure way is fantastic. It's something to protect and be safe about. Then there must be regular supervisory systems, so that the resources of the JO can be used for extraordinary supervision. This is very important, for example, in the area of penitentiary services, as previous speakers have just highlighted. It is not reasonable for the JO to process so many complaints from there. They could very well be examined within a regular supervisory authority if one existed. It is high time that it was arranged for the correctional services. The police also need to have a special supervisory authority. Some things come back in the official accounts almost every year, such as the issue of slow handling in different places. Unfortunately, it is a problem that exists, but there may be different authorities in which there are shortcomings. This year, of course, you can also see the effects of the coronapndemin in the official report. Complaints at the Public Health Authority and the E-Health Authority have not been received before. Complaints about processing times at Tillväxtverket are also a new phenomenon, while the Migration Agency has often had problems with long processing times. Long processing times at the authorities are a huge problem for those affected. For some people, this means that their whole lives are turned around. It can be economic disaster when you do not get a decision on, for example, financial compensation. Other issues are new or have new consequences due to phenomena in society at large. One such area, to which I have reacted here, concerns the balance between the transparency of authorities and the protection of the integrity of individuals. Authorities have a responsibility to inform about their activities, and transparency is a good thing. But it's not okay that it happens at the price of individual integrity. When the police allow TV teams to follow the work, it is obvious that the privacy of individuals must be protected, just as when activities in an emergency department are portrayed or when the police are active on Facebook. There are no such matters in this official report, but I have reacted to some television spots where it could be quite easy to identify people if you are, for example, a neighbor or a coworker. I hope that more thought will be given to this in the future. It is also an issue on which the Parliamentary Ombudsmen are concerned, as emerged from the open meeting we had with the Ombudsmen. But there is a very clear example where one has really missed out on the privacy of individuals and the right to privacy. This is the case where two police officers gave a lecture in a high school class about police investigation. The police told me about a completed criminal investigation that they had been working on. It is absolutely good to tell you about your work. Among other things, the police gave out names of persons who had been involved in the investigation and were convicted. The sentence had gained legal force, and it was not the confidentiality of the data, but the police still had to take into account the requirement for protection of the individual's private and family life in accordance with the European Convention. Among the things is that the case had local anchoring. I can imagine that the young people who listened found it exciting to hear about the investigation and how it had been done – except for the girl in the class whose mother was one of those who was named and convicted in the case. It is obviously good to be open and informative. But it doesn't make any sense that you don't de-identify the people you're talking about. Even if a judgment has gained legal force and there is no confidentiality of the data, account must be taken of the European Convention, the regulation of personal data, protection against defamation and so on – as well as ordinary honest humanity. The police can't possibly know who is listening and their possible ties to the convicted or victims. This is completely unreasonable. The JO states that guidelines for this type of information activities should be developed by the Police Authority, and we must certainly hope that they will. JO's review of the prosecutor's accounts at the press conference on the Palme investigation concerns the same issues, i.e. the integrity of individuals and the desire of an authority to be informative. The Parliamentary Ombudsmen are very critical of the fact that a person who is deceased, who cannot go to trial and who, according to the prosecutor himself, could not be judged on the information obtained by the police, is nevertheless presented as guilty at the press conference, even though the debt issue has not been examined. There is a fundamental right to be considered innocent until the matter is settled. The prosecutor could well have presented his decision in a different way. In both of these examples, transparency has taken precedence over the protection of privacy of individuals. But in the vast majority of cases, government contacts still work well, and when things go wrong, each of us can turn to the JO. It is an extremely important institution, and the official report is a very interesting reading. I warmly recommend it to anyone who is the least interested in how the authorities work.
i-EtQEUg3XZMuuhPNPvCyjR4	Mr President, I would like to For some employees at our public authorities in Sweden, JO's official report is one of the training courses you can take part in in administrative law. It may also be the only one, because in everyday life you need to prioritise knowledge development on the very subject that you are working on. JO does a valuable job even in letting individuals speak and have their case tested. This is an extremely instructive act, and it provides both depth and breadth. You will see how fundamental issues are handled in other authorities than where you work. For us Members of Parliament, it gives an insight into the errors committed by the general public in different contexts. It is also an important part of being able to correct the conditions, because it is a matter of when things go wrong. Of course, a large part of public activity works well, but this is what we can learn from it. Several cases have been brought up by my colleagues, and the KU also held a public hearing in which the Ombudsmen presented their assessments and the committee had the opportunity to ask questions. Our authorities and everyone who works there have a foundation of value to work on the basis of the Constitution. In the state values it is about democracy, legality, objectivity, freedom of opinion, respect, efficiency and service. It may sound brief but is quite extensive. This means that everyone must respect democratically made decisions, that all decisions they make themselves must comply with the law, that the handling and execution must be objective and impartial, and that they must respect the fundamental rights and freedoms of the Constitution and that they must be enjoyed by themselves as civil servants. Furthermore, you must always show respect for each other in the workplace and everyone you meet in the ministry. As if this were not enough, you should also be effective at work and provide quick and friendly service to those you meet. I am convinced that these values mainly govern our authorities, but we citizens should be able to expect to be treated right in all contexts. Here the JO's official story shows when things don't work out the way they should. It may be that the legislation adopted by Parliament makes it impossible to do a good job or it may fail in the application of the legislation. The Green Party asked a question about long detention periods for children, which is raised in one case. Here is the assessment by the JO that the legislation is sufficient and that the errors committed are that the law has not been properly applied. Even if you are suspected of a serious crime, you should still be treated correctly throughout the process. Children in particular have a high level of protection here, and therefore work needs to be improved. Some other cases point to another problem: belting in the prison system. The Constitution protects us from forced physical intervention, but there is room in law to decide on exceptions to this protection. There is compulsory legislation in psychiatry and the prison system, and belting is one such measure. What is described is that in some prison care activities this happens very rarely, and there can be years between times. These are difficult assessments to make, but every single opportunity must nevertheless be right. With regard to the much-inhibiting belt laying measure, the JO's investigation shows that the legislation is different depending on the activity in which the measure is carried out. In prison, it is not surrounded by the same procedural guarantees as in healthcare. The measure on the basis of this case will then be a different one on the part of the JO. Here the JO makes the assessment that the legislation needs to be clarified, and the JO has therefore made use of the possibility to raise the issue of reviewing the legislation to the government, which receives a copy of the decision. Here, too, development work needs to be done but in a different way than in the previous case. I thank the Parliamentary Ombudsmen for their solid work, as several speakers before me have pointed out is valuable to many around the country to be able to do a good job for the citizens. As mentioned, everyone can follow this, for this is a writing that is more accessible than it looks. It is a public hearing that everyone can watch on television, and today we have debated this report here in Parliament.
i-QpALNfExS3A5n9gZNaXxmf	Mr President, I would like to The government proposes that pandemic laws be extended for four months. The Social Affairs Committee wants them to be extended for two months – this in order for Parliament to be a control post and to assess whether the laws are still needed. We did the same last autumn when the pandemic laws were assessed by the Riksdag after two months before an extension was made. It is a good order which means that the government does not have the laws available for longer than necessary. Are pandemic laws needed now? The Christian Democrats believe that they are needed in order to be able to make accurate anti-infectious measures. Let me give you an example. Ensuring that entry and exit work so that distance can be kept is necessary in large events with many participants, and that you can now section larger premises is good. This allows more arrangements to be implemented with many participants in a safe way. The temporary pandemic laws allow for this kind of accurate measures. The alternative, without temporary pandemic laws, is to use existing laws such as the Order Act, which was also done during the first part of the pandemic. But it was not fortunate because the measures became wider than necessary and more of a hail heat than accurate action. The Order Act and other existing laws are not designed to be used from the point of view of infection safety and therefore do not work well in the event of a pandemic caused by viruses, for example. That is why the temporary laws are still needed for some time, but the Social Affairs Committee believes that there should be a re-assessment after two months – or rather before two months have passed for a possible continuation. The committee's approval of an extension does not mean that the Christian Democrats believe that all measures implemented by the government are right. For example, we find the closure of restaurants at 23 p.m. difficult to justify from the point of view of infection. Mr President, I would like to During the preparation of the Government proposal, the Moderates made a proposal for a committee initiative which was then dealt with together with the report because they were interrelated. In addition to the question of Parliament being a control post after two months, there were more proposals. One of them was about an announcement that meant that the government should include a subordination mechanism for a possible continuation of the laws after two months, which means that the Riksdag is involved in more decisions than today. We are of the opinion that the government should have been given the task of producing one. Furthermore, the Moderates had suggested that the government should develop an exit strategy, that is, a plan for how we act on the way out of the pandemic. We are approaching the time when the Corona virus will become one of several at times severe infections that plague the population but do not require specific laws. Christian Democrats would have liked to see an exit strategy from the government in the next turn. As none of these proposals gained a majority in committee, they are not included in the report today. We regret that. On the other hand, there is an announcement from the committee that testing and detection of infection must work in the best possible way in order for Parliament to assess the need for temporary pandemic laws. During a period last autumn, the Swedish Public Health Agency stopped testing, which meant that we could not assess how the pandemic developed because we did not know how many people were infected – hence the announcement coming from the Christian Democrats' follow-up motion. At the moment we have a situation in which the regions work intensively and every hour of the day with testing, but yet it is not enough when the infection is now moving away. The fact that we are currently being forced to give priority to those who should be able to test themselves is right and proper. The v accin offered to the population is now given to an increasing number also in a third dose. This is very pleasing. The regions' work with both testing and vaccination is impressive. They do this on a large scale even though they have many employees who are on sick leave because of covid-19 infection. Your President! It's the infection that's troublesome. Many are infected, sometimes without symptoms, many with mild symptoms and a small number with severe disease. The vaccine is beneficial because it helps to reduce severe illness and death properly. However, we are not yet fully responsible for the infection, as many still lack the third dose. That is why we need to keep our distance and give ourselves the necessary safety margins. The medical system is having a tough time once again. Sick absence because of the infection affects them. There is an increased influx of patients who are severely ill in covid-19, but there are also many other diseases that make people need hospitalization. The planned care needs to be postponed once again, and this means that patients who have already waited a long time for care will have to wait even longer. Basically, the problem is that we have too few care places, that is to say, too few nurses, specialist nurses and others comedy a se r required to be able to staff care places. It has been seen for quite some time as a sign of medical success that hospitals can reduce the number of care places. It is obvious that it is excellent if day surgery can be used instead of hospitalization. Treatment with medicinal products can sometimes replace insertion, and igital development facilitates some. However, the long-standing attitude that it is a goal in itself to reduce the number of care places has meant that Sweden now has the lowest proportion of care places in Europe. That's the wrong development. The budget complements that were worked out last autumn and became Parliament's decision include extra and special funds to increase the number of care places. Resources are being added, and now clear national management is needed so that we will have more care places in the long term. The Christian Democrats support reservation 4, which concerns the proportionality of laws.
i-DqwtifkcN9s5i7d6mo3PXJ	Mr President, I would like to Today we are taking decisions on the extension of the Pandemic Act. I am convinced that we all wish it had not been necessary, but the situation of exceptional spread of infection in society is essential. Since the outbreak of the pandemic, the government's starting point has been to limit the spread of infection, save lives and at the same time keep society going as far as possible. I would like to point out, Mr President, that just because the law exists does not mean that restrictions should exist as long as the law exists. They should be removed as soon as possible, taking into account the impact of the spread of infection on society. It is also important to know that the committee, through its right of initiative, has the possibility of abolishing the law earlier if necessary. Restrictions and recommendations should only be introduced because of covid-19, nothing else. It is not a matter of imposing restrictions due to common seasonal diseases such as influenza, RS virus or winter shrimp disease, but it is important to understand that healthcare professionals have to work extra hard when they are not only going to care for patients with covid-19 but also patients with these diseases. With the spread of infection at record levels, we also risk the loss of personnel in socially important functions, which makes it even more urgent to take the necessary measures to suppress the infection. As far as testing and detection of infection are concerned, it goes without saying that the committee is following what is happening, but ultimately this is a responsibility for the regions. On 22 December, the Government decided on a mission to the Public Health Agency to support the implementation of the agreement on national testing and contamination detection. Yesterday, we received interesting information from the Public Health Agency, and we therefore believe that no further announcement is needed in relation to the detection of infectious diseases. I would therefore like to ask, Mr President, for the approval of reservation 7. We are all tired of the pandemic, but I really do not think it is time to try to score political points when we are in a serious situation with record spread of infection and increased burden on health care and, in the long run, on the whole of society. I am very grateful that seven of the eight parties in Parliament now agree to extend the law for four months, but in an announcement to the government demand that a new assessment be made after two months. We know that things can change quickly. To completely abolish the law, as proposed by the Liberals at present, I regard it as very irresponsible. That the Liberals seem to know better than the Swedish Public Health Agency what disease control measures are required in the situation that Sweden is in right now, I find surprising. Liberals and Moderates say they want to expand the use of vaccination certificates and thus avoid more extensive mitigation measures. This may sound tasteful, but at the moment, unfortunately, it is not an effective enough anti-infectious measure. The vaccine reduces the risk of becoming seriously ill, but like all other vaccines, it does not provide 100% protection. With the new Omitron variant, we see that even those who have received two doses of vaccine become infected and can spread the infection further. Therefore, the vaccination certificate is not sufficient as a tool at the moment to prevent the spread of infection. And without pandemic law, we would at present have no legal basis for using vaccination certificates at all. Mr President, I would like to I am concerned that the proportion that has not yet been vaccinated is still too high. These people are at risk of more serious illness if they are infected and are more likely to die. I would like once again to call on everyone who has not yet vaccinated themselves to do so, but I want to make it clear that this is everyone's personal responsibility. The model we have in Sweden is voluntary when it comes to vaccinations, I think, works well. To force people in different ways, as we see in other parts of the world, is something that I personally strongly reject. Finally, Mr President, I think it is extremely important that governments and authorities have the means and tools to limit the spread of infection in order to save lives and health. The assessment of the tools to be used should be made in continuous dialogue between the Government and the Riksdag and based on the authorities' assessments. The fact that our decisions are based on the best possible basis is important. I think that, in a difficult situation, it is a strength that, with today's decision, a largely unanimous social committee is extending the law for four months, but is asking for it to be removed after two if possible. Of course, the best thing would have been if the pandemic had been over and the need for an extension had not existed at all, but unfortunately we are not there yet.
i-VE7119TPPdhBqBwxUYRYoW	Mr President, I would like to Kristina Nilsson has many wise points of view that I agree with, not least the importance of vaccine being offered to the population and not being a constraint. I would like to return to the measures taken under the Pandemic Act. The infection is one of the reasons why we need measures, but also the burden of health care. Now it tends to be that we are in danger of having to impose more restrictions than might be necessary because of the infection due to the undersized health care system. How does Kristina Nilsson view the need for more care places?
i-GB1A2ZGTNGTrDuY8nyiNvz	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mr Ankarberg Johansson for the question. I agree with her that there is a need for more care places. But care places are not just places and beds, but of course they are also staff. The most important thing is the staff. That is why I think it is extremely important that we continue to invest in health professionals. We need to ensure that more people want to train, that they have the opportunity to do so and that they may have the opportunity to specialise. But it is also extremely important to ensure that care is of such a nature and has such a working environment that those who are actually in care today want to remain there. We therefore fully agree that more air is needed in the hospital organisation. We'll have to try to reach an agreement on those roads eventually.
i-7MbHUWr3vrTpeY2Mexp5wg	Mr President, I would like to I thank the honourable Member for his reply. I agree that it is the staff that is at stake. I made that clear in my speech. But I also pointed out that I believe that one factor that we need to address – it's not just about a lack of money and a good working environment, but it's a really bad working environment in many parts of the healthcare system today – is the attitude that has existed in many people, both officials and elected representatives, that we measure medical success in how many care places we can remove. I think we need to reverse this mental attitude and see that health care will in some sense always need to expand because we can detect, cure and treat many more diseases. So the hope that we will soon find the time when we almost do not need hospitals because we have a lot of other methods will not exist. I think we agree that we do not believe that it is simply a question of an extended home care system being sufficient, even if it has to be done. So how can we help each other, not least in terms of national governance of this money so that we can get a change of attitude? We need to have more basic staffing in health care so that we can cope with the pressures that are coming. How will the honourable Member contribute to this?
i-Miaj3thw3k1bW4ukckbUAR	Mr President, I would like to I myself have been active in both health care and care for the elderly, and I have been closely following developments over the past 25 years. I am of the opinion that we have made many political mistakes over the years, for example when perhaps we Social Democrats too much-acclaimed new public management and this type of industrial model. Because care is of a completely different nature than repairing cars, for example, such models are not good for health care. Market governance and fragmentation are also things that I think all political parties can think about if it is the best way to take health care forward. At Acko Ankarberg Johansson's question how I intend to contribute to taking this development in a different direction, I can say that we fully agree that it is not just about money, even if, of course, money is also needed. If we are to have a system with more air, it will cost more, and then we must be prepared to inject more resources. But on the whole, I still think that it is the staff that is the important thing. The more we can do together to help the staff, strengthen the staff, improve the working environment, strengthen opportunities for education, further training and competence development, the further we will come.
i-M6mVnghULGs4yg1tD195xV	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 3. We are, of course, in favour of all our reservations, but for time to come, I am in favour of reservation 3. Mr President, I would like to I note that this is not the first time we have dealt with this pandemic law in this House. But I think I speak for the vast majority if I say that I sincerely hope this is the last time. The difference between this debate and the debate we had here on 8 January last year can be summed up in one word: vaccination. The fact that Sweden has such a high level of vaccination means that the health care system today is not primarily burdened by people who are severely ill in covid-19. The vaccine protects against severe illness and death. Take your vaccine – first, second and third doses! Of course, it is especially important to vaccinate if you are still completely unvaccinated. It's taking responsibility for yourself and others. Mr President, I would like to When the pandemic struck, it was quite soon clear that Sweden was a country without legislation for civil crises. Most other democratic countries have this. Nor did Norway. However, the Government of Solberg Erna developed its Crisis Act already in April 2020. It took more time here. We all remember that the first Pandemic Act, the Crisis Act, was never used by the government, and it lasted three months. Then it was abolished. What we now have to deal with is the government's request to extend the Pandemic Act, which came into force on 10 January, for another four months. We Moderates say no to that. We accept a two-month extension for reasons that I shall be going into in a moment. This law provides for the possibility of imposing certain restrictions on certain activities through regulations and decisions in individual cases. These regulations and decisions must not go beyond what is justifiable in view of the danger to human life and health. In this, the Government believes, among other things, that restrictions should not last longer than is strictly necessary. This is important for the position we Moderates have taken. Mr President, I would like to The Moderates are critical of the broad restrictions and restrictions put forward by the government on 11 January 2022. We believe that the government should have chosen to a much greater extent to use vaccine passports, so that restaurants and cultural and sporting events can continue without these participation restrictions. We note that, throughout this pandemic, Parliament's parties have taken a major responsibility. It has been obvious to all of us to do this. Unfortunately, it has not been as obvious to the government either to inform Parliament's parties before they went out last Monday or to inform all the people who are in the industries that, in principle, overnight, saw their conditions change drastically. In fact, we believe that it is under any criticism that the government presented these that we see as rather unbalanced general restrictions and restrictions without any foundation in the parliamentary parties. The Prime Minister, Magdalena Andersson, as you all know, called the party leaders to a meeting that took place only two days after they had a press conference and then more to inform. This is a very arrogant way of dealing with the issue, not least because the government is actually basing the measures on the temporary authorisation given by the Riksdag through the so-called Pandemic Act. In order to be able to use vaccine evidence from February onwards, it is necessary to extend this pandemic law. The Moderates are behind and will therefore vote in favour of the extension of this temporary law. Of course, in the light of the extremely rapid spread of infection, it does not seem reasonable that this tool should not be used after the end of January. The government's act of trustlessness on 11 January meant that we moderates tabled a draft committee initiative for the committee on Thursday. It contained four demands. The first was what we gained a majority for, namely that the extension of the law is limited to two months and not the four required by the government. Our second demand was not to have these more extensive restrictions without less extensive restrictions and instead to make greater use of vaccine passports. The third part concerned the so-called subordination mechanism, which the Moderates pushed up to the first temporary law and which means that when the government considers that it needs to make urgent decisions, it should not be prevented from doing so. However, it must immediately, directly, submit the decision to the Riksdag so that the Riksdag, if it considers that the Government has taken an unjustified decision, can annul it. In the extension of the law that we are now considering, this subordination mechanism does not remain in place, since closure does not exist either. We believe that it should also be linked to restrictions, so that we retain the democratic possibility of restricting the authority and the ability of the government to take decisions in this regard. For us, this is extremely important democratically. The fourth part is about the exit strategy and the reasonableness of the fact that activities and people who see their lives drastically changed also know what the plan for a return to a normal life should be. This debate is also somewhat in the shadow of the debate that has arisen over the last week on the Corona Commission's call for documents to be obtained in order to fulfil its mission. Let me just say that this has further undermined Moderate confidence in the government. We see it as very important that the power of the government in relation to these parts can be limited. It is also important to call for the full participation of the government and to help us get all the cards on the table in this regard. I would also like to mention briefly an industry which has been hit very hard and which is far too rarely highlighted in this House. Many sectors are affected. We have discussed a lot about the restaurant industry, the event industry and so on. But even the cultural industry is currently suffering very badly. You may have obtained a substitute for your regular work because you would participate in a set that was suddenly cancelled. For some, this means that you have no income. Basically, it disappeared overnight. It is important that we remedy this and that we see these people because it is so important for us that they remain. We must not risk that important parts of an entire industry cannot come back. They were here last week to show off, and I just want to say that we see them and hear them. It is important to act in order to improve their conditions. Finally, Madam President, it is important for the Moderates that we in Sweden use all the means we can to avoid broad, general restrictions and restrictions. In order to achieve this, efforts should be stepped up to really achieve a broad vaccination of our population. According to us, the starting point is that if you are vaccinated, you should be able to live as normal and normal a life as possible. I say this in the light of the rapid spread of infection that we are currently seeing. Of course, it affects this. Nevertheless, we believe that a key element in the continued management of the pandemic must be that we should use both less far-reaching restrictions, as few as possible, and vaccine passports whenever possible. I would therefore like to thank you for the debate.
i-WEpxt4WkrABbZWwYoDfkpU	Madam President, I would like As I said in my speech, I am very pleased that seven out of eight parliamentary parties agree to extend the Pandemic Act now. However, I feel that I would like clarification from Mr Grönvall. Surely we agree, Madam President, that, with today's decision, we are extending the law for four months, but are asking the government to come back in two and, if possible, abolish the law. Then my question, after listening to Mr Grönvall's speech: Do the Moderates already know at present that the law will not be needed in two months' time? At the start of the pandemic, there were major problems in getting accurate and effective measures. The government worked hard to get a pandemic team in place. Even the Riksdag worked quite hard, I would say. How do the Moderates think that the government and parliament will act if we now get a more aggressive variant of the virus in a month, two months or three months?
i-YUmWzUKwmssywdadB7HCbo	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, Mr Nilsson, for this question. We are currently in a situation where developments are taking place rapidly. What we know is that today it is not patients who are seriously ill in covid who are in our hospitals. These are other diseases, and this makes the burden on health care difficult – mainly because staff in several socially critical functions are currently largely at home in quarantine, with symptoms or to care for sick children. This is, of course, a difficulty. The positive thing seems to be that the infection is spreading over our population at a tremendous rate. This means that we have good reason to hope that by 31 March we will be out of the absolutely worst part. Our hope – I think I speak for all of us – is that we will be able to avoid the Pandemic Act, which is still a very interventional law in people's lives, after 31 March. Of course, we do not know this. This means that we may need to make a new decision later. But what happened a couple of weeks ago was that the government went out with very far-reaching restrictions without informing Parliament's parties. My questions to Mr Nilsson are: does Mr Nilsson think the government's view was reasonable? Was it reasonable to impose such far - reaching restrictions? Have these restrictions become logical and affect the vulnerable sectors in a reasonable manner?
i-NvWS1AMeyisn2yFeWE7AtF	Madam President, I would like I certainly share Camilla Waltersson Grönvall's hope that we are heading towards the end of the pandemic, but of course none of us can know that. I am opposed to the description absolutly without informing you. In any case, I believe that the Bureau was informed of this. Who else should then be informed in such a situation is up to the government to decide, I think. I don't think I really got the answer to my question. Since the announcement nevertheless says that the law will be abolished in two months' time, I would like to give my interpretation, and it is of course: if possible. However, when I listen to Camilla Waltersson's speech, Madam President, I think she is very clear that it should be abolished then. It would be good if Camilla Waltersson could clearly answer the question: Do the Moderates already know at present that the law is not needed for more than two months? A simple yes or no is enough.
i-8XnV8AmbWkqw61bCzPVuEq	Madam President, I would like I note that there will be no answers to the questions I ask: has foresight been reasonable? Was it reasonable for the people in and behind these industries, hardworking people who had their conditions completely changed overnight, to change with this short advance? I think that perhaps even the Social Democrats do not think this was reasonable. I was very clear when I replied to my previous speech. We do not know where we are on 31 March. But the starting point is, of course, that the law should be abolished as soon as possible. Our appeal to the government was also very clear. Much more use should be made of less stringent restrictions and vaccine passports. There is a difference between being vaccinated and being unvaccinated. It is for the most part the unvaccinated who are now burdening health care. Otherwise, you don't really do that anymore if you don't have an underlying disease or any other such concern. There's a big difference. It is very important that we keep Swedish society open whenever possible as much as possible. I stress this again in the light of the fact that we are currently in a serious situation where the spread of the disease is escalating quite rapidly. This means that, at the moment, decisions must be taken with great balance. We believe that this was too far-reaching on 11 January.
i-oF5Dg5StmguTPGCXhLTm5	Madam President, I would like The Committee on Social Affairs is back in the Chamber to debate the proposal for an extension of the covid-19 law. Few laws have involved the Swedish people like this one, which of course is perfectly understandable. The pandemic has affected us all in one way or another. We have seen how loved ones and loved ones struggled in severe illness, how loved ones have had to give up their dreams that have been booked and saved to and that have also been lost. Many have experienced loneliness, not least at festivals, and we know how our elderly have been isolated for long periods of time. Everyone has taken responsibility in their own way and with their conditions for us to stay healthy and avoid suffering too much from the pandemic's progress. Not least staff in health care, school and other socially important and community-based professions have ensured that life and society have worked after all. Opinions have differed widely, and that is understandable. Everyone has their convictions, and that should be respected. Madam President, I would like We are also many who have heard reports of all kinds of character, some with more truth than others. We see and hear shared views and approaches on many issues related to the pandemic and its management. It's about vaccination, restrictions, a shift in power, and so on. Of all the countless emails that landed in our mailboxes, anger, despair, hope and joy can be seen. As I know I have spoken earlier in this House, I read and take on board what is being said even though I do not have the capacity to always give an answer. Finally, it is extremely important for me to keep a balanced and nuanced tone in the debate, on which I am constantly leaning. It is also important to keep the various issues separate. Finding a balance in crisis situations is important. The Pandemic Act is therefore also important. In fact, we need a law. The law of order that we leaned toward at the beginning was too wide. But the fact is that today's temporary pandemic law needs to be improved and changed. We in Parliament are a control. The decisions made by the Government, and especially those that have a major impact on the individual's rights and freedoms, shall be submitted to the Riksdag. That is my firm conviction and that of the Swedish Democrats, Madam President. It is also the case that we have stated at an early stage that decisions that are of great importance to human rights and freedoms should be sent to Parliament in order not least to have a debate. There the parties are given a chance to make their stand before the Swedish people. There the debate is open and not least transparent. It controls the shift in power that we have given to the government in some sense. Madam President, I would like I would say that last autumn we saw it clearly when the vaccination certificate was introduced. It would have been good for Sweden and the climate for debate that we in this House in the Swedish Parliament had had the opportunity to debate such an issue. The people waited impatiently for the position of the parties and how we should act and react. In fact, there was nothing to consider. We did not have the opportunity to have a debate in this House. We had no way of taking decisions on this issue and getting the chance to debate an issue involving the Swedish people in this House. Instead, it became a wet blanket over the whole question. Madam President, I would like It was bad for Sweden, especially when it was communicated in a rather scarce way with little evidence and reasoning. Had the Swedish Democrats' proposal that decisions be submitted to Parliament, we would have had a debate in this House. The issue had also been thoroughly prepared and dealt with according to all the rules of art. Madam President, I would like As early as the first reading of the Covid-19 Act, we stated that it is also important that decisions taken with powers that are temporarily delegated to the Government and the balances made by the Government in such matters should be subject as soon as possible to the Riksdag's assessment and control power and that political responsibility for decisions taken – or neglected – can be required. ..................................................... Furthermore, we have held the same position when it was given increased powers to the government in spring 2021 to close down and limit opening hours for industries. We argued that Parliament would also then test the far-reaching restrictions on opening hours. This would, for example, be the case for restrictions which significantly restrict the ability of individuals to engage in economic activities. The aim would be to give the Riksdag the opportunity to ensure that the balance is balanced in a proportionate and well-founded way, where the effect of, for example, very limited opening hours in relation to the spread of infection could be refuted. It is important that the benefits outweigh the very far-reaching consequences that affect the restaurant and tourism industry, the labour market and society as a whole. During a considerable period of time, the opening hours at a restaurant have been limited by regulations in a way that in practice made it difficult for many restaurants to carry out their core activities. Several consultation bodies also argued that unchanged restrictions have major and difficult consequences for the restaurant industry and the labour market. In a regular dialogue with the Government, the Swedish Democrats have demanded that the Government more clearly report the proportionality assessment for the restrictions on opening hours that have been decided. We have not yet received any reports or statistics on the profits we have gained by limiting the opening hours of, for example, the restaurant industry. Madam President, I would like Nevertheless, I would like to say that we have always said that we need a pandemic law that gives the government the power to impose restrictions relatively quickly in a situation that is constantly changing. In addition, the government has been given a mandate to give authorities relatively great power, and there the parliament has in some sense been gagged. Parliament's control function should be used. We have stated that no later than seven days after the Government's decision, these must be submitted to the Riksdag and have a customary preparation in this Chamber. Had the other parties been established, we would have had that order in place right from the start. I would say that it would have been a good order, Madam President. The Swedish Democrats have therefore also put forward in this report strong legislative proposals which involve precisely changes in the law in order to be able to have this subjection. However, there continues to be no support for us to have that order, and that is in some sense regrettable. However, what we already had the majority for in committee last autumn was to extend the laws by only two months. However, we agreed in committee to announce to the government, instead of deciding on the shortening of its validity, that it would return with a letter so that today we could raise the question of possible repeal of the law. No one highlighted it, but all parties believed that the law would apply until the end of January. In this report, however, we have agreed to announce to the government that we believe that the law should only apply for two months. This applies not least in the light of the recent restrictions imposed by the government without informing the committee or parliament. We in the Swedish Democrats were doubtful whether the restrictions really had bearings. That is why we issued a KU notification which requires the Constitutional Committee to examine whether measures taken are compatible with the Pandemic Act. It is one of the tools we have to use to control decisions when a large part of the Parliament's mandate has been delegated to the government. Madam President, I would like We are also of the opinion that it is time to sum up the pandemic and try to get a return to normal. As omichron spreads and a comparatively large proportion of the population has mild symptoms, restrictions need to be reviewed, not least when it comes to family quarantine. Today, it has far-reaching effects on absenteeism from the workplace, and it means a large school absence when families isolate themselves in the home with weak symptoms. We think it is time to get Sweden back on track, Madam President. Having said that, however, I would like to make it clear that our position is that we believe that the Covid-19 law should be adopted with our legislative amendments and that we intend to announce to the government that the law will only apply for two months, that is, until the end of March. Madam President, I would like I would like to take this opportunity to support our reservation 2.
i-K8DKFg18WfgxVNrfTnPZMB	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr President, for your speech. I would first like to say briefly on the question of information to the committee that it came from the Ministry just as it should do, the e-mail route a few hours in advance. I do not think it is information that neither Mrs Lindberg nor, as before, Mrs Grönvall is looking for, but rather a discussion of the content. Information a few hours in advance does not mean that you can influence the decisions the government has made. I respond when the honourable Member says that it could have been another, sharp, proposal today. Reasonably, it didn't. On the other hand, we fully agree that we would have to look at a subordination mechanism. What the Swedish Democrats had in their follow-up motion was a sharp amendment which involves a change of legislation. If Parliament is to achieve this, we must make our own preparation, that is to say, produce a basis, send it for referral, put it together from the committee, send it to the Law Council and then present it. The committee had its first meeting on 21 December, when we prepared all these things. It is impossible that we could have achieved it in five weeks – or even less time than it will be – so that it could enter into force on 1 February. It would not have been possible in any real way to implement what the Swedish Democrats are proposing. However, of course you have every right to present the proposal. However, there was a proposal to the committee last week for an announcement that would allow the government to produce such a proposal and thus prepare it properly. The Swedish Democrats chose not to vote for it, which means that we do not have such a majority proposal on the table today. I respect the fact that the Swedish Democrats want a subjugation mechanism; so do the Christian Democrats. But if the Swedish Democrats had voted in favour of this, we would have been able to get it through today. Why did the Swedish Democrats not vote for that part last week?
i-VZ2kfm9V7bTXbSKhmgihoP	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Ankarberg Johansson, for an interesting question! We have actually put forward these legislative proposals from the very beginning, so there has been an opportunity for the committee to express those views. One might have inclined to support a declaration based on our proposal to amend the law. I know that there is a possibility of having fast preparations. The Pandemic Act itself was developed on rather short notice. We have also seen how, with rather fast pucks, we can put in extra meetings of the committee based on committee initiatives. We can also take a position there after a quarter of the adjournment. It is therefore possible to open up for a slightly faster handling. If it had been a request from the majority of the members of the committee, I am quite convinced that we could have reached a consensus on this issue and had achieved a legislative amendment that could have taken effect quite a long time ago. It could have been included initially in the Covid-19 law when we tabled our proposal from the very beginning. If the other parties are really interested in having a subordination mechanism, I can say that this possibility has been in place from the start. I felt that the whole thing was to some extent a panic attack. There was already a proposal which is exactly the same and which in practice could have been introduced directly into the new legislative proposal. Instead, it now wishes to announce to the government that, possibly in a future extension of the law, such a mechanism might exist. And who knows – we may not even need a pandemic law at that time. My question to Acko Ankarberg Johansson is therefore: Have the Christian Democrats been interested in having a subordination mechanism earlier in the preparation, or are you only today?
i-TY2fRyYKhaGSKw8vQcszB2	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr President, for your answer. We have a subjugation mechanism on shutdown until the law expires, on the last January. I think it has been excellent. The possibilities for closure are now being removed, and then the issue of subordination mechanism comes in a new light. We did not think in December, when we were discussing accompanying motions, that there was a reason to go forward with a sharp request for amendment because it simply cannot be carried out. It is possible to table sharp amendments as long as they do not go through. If you get a majority you get a misery, because you can't implement them from the date the law will apply. It would have been directly impossible to make such a constitutional change that concerns where the decision-making power should be by briefly writing something together in committee. It's a little harder than that. We would have had to produce a basis, refer it back – because it is a completely different path – and land it in committee. We are fast; I agree with the honourable Member on that. But then the proposal will also be sent to the Law Council. In practical terms, it would not have worked until 1 February, which is why we did not agree to the proposal in December. But then came a proposal for an announcement, which made it possible to include it in this round. If the Swedish Democrats had voted in favour of it, we would have included it in the decision today. Nevertheless, I would like to say that if the Swedish Democrats were convinced of this, there would have been an opportunity this afternoon if the proposal had received a majority in committee last week. But now it did not, and therefore subordination mechanisms are not included as announcements. Then I agree with the honourable Member: I hope that we do not need to prolong this, but that it can last two months and that the issue is then out of the question. But we don't know that.
i-YVxiEGqTKbrSxMj49DdzrD	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mrs Ankarberg Johansson, for a good debate in this House! That is the case, of course, but we still believe that we have put forward this proposal very strongly so many times and that there should be an interest in the rest of the committee in raising the issue. If so, a debate should be held with us Swedish democrats to the effect that our proposal is a good one and that we could have an agreement. But you choose not to. I think it is better to have a sharp proposal which we can actually get right away, with immediate effect. I also see that there could be time, because there are basically ready-made constitutional proposals in our follow-up motion which clearly tell us and which could form the basis for a rather swift approach. Hence, we also see it as a little fuzzy that we should send such an announcement about a law that may not even be in place in the future. For this reason, we chose not to support the proposal that came very quickly and amusingly at the second preparation occasion.
i-22YS4YPjhsqBVk31kkUVS5	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved. Since the pandemic took hold of the world and Sweden, the Center Party has pushed and been a constructive opposition – all in order for us, together with broad consensus, to meet the pandemic in the best way. We have had, and have had, a pandemic law that has been absolutely crucial and absolutely necessary. The government has had, and has, powers out of the ordinary. These are powers that have enabled us to shut down activities, limit our rights and freedoms, and so on. These are powers that have so far been necessary, but which we must constantly take into account and reconsider. The first Pandemic Act was created largely because the Center Party raised the issue of the need to have pandemic legislation in place in order to be able to effectively manage restrictions, limit the spread of infection, change society and compensate companies and industries severely affected by restrictions imposed. After intensive work on Christmas 2020, which I believe both the government and the Social Affairs Committee remember, perhaps with agony, we were able to legislate on the first Pandemic Act. Madam President, I would like It has been a good thing that decisions have so far been made with broad support in the Riksdag. In times of crisis, it is important to find broad majority and cooperation. Now we are again debating an extension of pandemic legislation. This time too, we have had constructive and good cooperation in the Committee on Social Affairs, where we agreed to extend the legislation by only two months instead of the government's proposal of four. In view of the decision on the extension of the Pandemic Act, we in the Center Party have carefully considered how we should stand. Extending a law that gives the government extraordinary powers to restrict people's rights of demonstration, freedoms and so on is not something we do lightly. Restrictions imposed must be balanced and proportionate at all times. Democratic rights such as the right of demonstration and freedom of movement are values that the Center Party places high on the agenda, values that we keep bearing in our assessments. The centre party's starting point is, and always has been, that the use of restrictions, vaccine certificates and other disease control measures must cease as soon as the situation of spread and strain in the health care system allows it. Unfortunately, we are not there today. As we lack other relevant crisis legislation, we, like all parties except the Liberals, make the assessment that we are so far in a situation of pandemic where we need to keep the legislation in order to continue saving lives and making quick decisions. That's the tricky thing about this virus-- we don't know how it's going to develop. In the summer and autumn there were probably many of us who thought that the situation had stabilized. Many had begun to dare hope: Soon we will be through it. It'll be over soon. But then came the delta and the omitron, and then the playing field was drawn again. Today, then, we are in a situation where we believe it is too early to abolish the Pandemic Act. Madam President, I would like During the pandemic, I feel that we have had a good dialogue with the government. This has been a security for us Members and for us in parties that are outside the government. We have been able to follow the work, and we have been informed in the Social Affairs Committee. The powers given to the government in connection with the pandemic and covid-19 were initially well managed, and the committee in particular was involved – up to a few weeks ago. When the government presented new restrictions at the press conference on 11 January, it suddenly also referred to RS virus and high sick leave in healthcare. Here I and many with me believe that the government exceeded its powers. We cannot restrict people's freedom or business freedom on such grounds. That has never been the idea of pandemic legislation. Powers shall be strictly linked to covid-19 and nothing else. This stretch of powers means that, like the Moderates and the Christian Democrats, I would have liked the new Pandemic Act to have had a clear subservience mechanism that requires the government to discuss with and inform the Riksdag about restrictions to be imposed. I believe that democracy and confidence in pandemic management would have been good for more dialogue and consensus, rather than the government running solo on this issue. Madam President, I would like Vaccinations are the way out of the pandemic. Thankfully, a fairly high proportion of the population has chosen to vaccinate. The Center Party would have liked to have had a clearer idea and a part of the pandemic legislation on an exit from the pandemic. The focus must now be to ensure that more people receive dose 3 as quickly as possible. Only that can alleviate the situation, and it is only when a higher proportion of the population has received dose 3 that we can remove the restrictions. In the first half of 2022, 80 percent of the population is estimated to receive dose 3, which is very positive because it provides good protection against both serious disease and spread. But there are still 1.3 million people who have not taken a single dose of vaccine. Here, instead of pointing the finger and blaming the regions, the government should take greater responsibility for more people wanting to vaccinate themselves, because, as I said, vaccinations are the way out of the pandemic.
i-4PASC3nz2VuzvpLvBLT7wv	Madam President, I would like Now we're about to be in the third year with the covid-19 pandemic. More than 15 500 deceased with covid-19. Each death is an individual, and each individual has relatives. An extinguished Stockholm in March and April 2020, quiet and lonely. At home we could hear how the ambulances drove fast towards St Göran, so many ambulances with death sickness. Now the situation is completely different. It's so good, and it's thanks to the vaccine. Madam President, I would like A public health service that even before the pandemic was like a big savings. An elderly care with too few trained, too few permanent employees and too little medical skills. A medical facility that did not have 100% capacity, but less than 80 before the pandemic. That's still the case. Applause in itself does not provide a good working environment. They do not pay decent wages or reduce working hours for those on call. Thank you to those of you who, despite the fact that your regional politicians do not have decent staffing policies, are working hard and making sick people survive! Madam President, I would like In the midst of the pandemic, we have seen the regions collecting money, surpluses, on high. I think that's very bad. Of course, that money goes into business. And the government hasn't put in enough to boost health care and care. Madam President, I would like 70 - 80 percent of those on iva are now unvaccinated. Those of you who are not vaccinated make up 17% of the population in twelve years and upwards. It is twelve times more common for those of you who are unvaccinated to be placed on iva. Take it to yourselves! We with vaccines can get a breakthrough infection, but the likelihood of us ending up on iva is limited. It's also about those who go to jail. In addition to the unvaccinated, it is the elderly, who still represent a risk group, and those who have underlying diseases. Do we need this law, Madam President? Do we need the Pandemic Act even though 83.7% are vaccinated with two syringes and 35.4% with three doses? It's a little low, I must say. Yes, as long as this is a serious situation, we must be able to have a law. Serious situation is about what happens in inpatient care and how society in general is affected, and now the social impact is enormous. However, we must constantly take into account our constitutionally protected rights. The question of proportionality is the root of the problem. It must be constantly weighed. The government's powers shall be temporary, understandable and transparent. There are three key words that should have been followed. Madam President, I would like We must also take into account the public health aspects, possible shortcomings in legislation affecting children and the risk that those living in economically vulnerable positions will be more severely affected. We definitely wanted a review of the law after two months. We were very clear about that in the first turn before Christmas. In fact, initially only the Left and the Liberals wanted two months of probation. Then the Liberals jumped to something completely different. I am pleased that today it is a united committee that wants a review of the legislation in March 2022. I think that goes without saying. The government's powers are extreme and, of course, they must be tested. The government must also return to the Riksdag with transparent and clear data, data that gives us a picture of different types of restrictions and how they are weighed in based on the contamination situation. The committee must check the viability of the restrictions and whether they are necessary. Throughout the pandemic, the Left Party has protected children's rights and interests. Vaccination certificates are not applicable to children and adolescents under 18 years of age in the Government proposal. That is a good balance, we believe. However, we are not impressed by the fact that there is no current child law analysis in the memorandum of the law. The special situation of children should have been highlighted in the Government memo. Since several parts of the temporary covid-19 law also concern children, there should be a thorough analysis of the consequences for children. We hope that the government will come back and present those analyses. That is why, Madam President, I am in favour of reservation number 5. Madam President, I would like Omicron and the enormous spread of infection we have now, we would not have been able to predict in, say, November or December. Now we're all infecting each other. Whether you are vaccinated or not, you are infected in different ways. We are in favour of vaccination sessions for gatherings of over 100 people. We think that's all right, at the theatre, at the opera and whatever it may be. Then we put our foot down. But Omikrona has completely changed this entire playing field. The vaccine passports are not enough in a situation such as this. It is not functional; it also says all researchers in different reports and so on. Now distance, face mask in tight environments and other tools that can be applied. However, they are unvaccinated at extreme risk. They're also the ones who end up in hospitals. In this situation, unvaccinated should of course not be able to attend the major events. It's about making sure there's no more sick people in that group. If we look internationally, we can see that the vaccine passports can get up the vaccinations, but it looks very different in the European countries when you nail this. But has there been a reduction in the spread of infection? Right now, it doesn't look like it. As far as vaccine passports are concerned, there have been various discussions in the media and so on. The moderates have gone the longest when it comes to vaccination passports. This is what one says in an article: and in the long term it should also be considered whether the limit should be lowered to zero people. We had a very hard time understanding this very thing. This article was written on 10 December and updated on 27 December. I believe that this must go hand in hand with something else, namely vaccinations. In some regions, such as Stockholm, vaccination rates for the third syringe have been extremely low. You're always 10 percent behind. Madam President, I would like The overall objective is to prevent infection, prevent serious illness, protect the elderly and those with underlying diseases and protect health care. But now we are also in a period of social criticism. We must protect the whole of society: preschools, schools, hospitals, care for the elderly, public transport and business. The most important thing is to vaccinate more. The state has gone in with funds, money for vaccinations and structure. It is the regions that are responsible for how to vaccinate. I have to say that in some places it has been rather substandard and slow. There are a lot of differences between the regions. I myself have tested what it was like to try to get a third shot in Stockholm in November and December. I mention Stockholm because it is the largest region. You have a large surplus of almost 7 billion, and I mean that you should have a vaccination that works. Then in November we should not have had to see a long queue of older people being helped into the small bus that looked like a very small hot dog kiosk. The vaccinator had a headlight to see where to insert the syringe. This was Stockholm in November 2021, and Stockholm has almost 7 billion in surplus. Then you should fix to vaccinate. And this must go hand in hand with the view of vaccination passports. Then what's the government gonna do? Now I believe in wider brush strokes and a little action – on a final attempt at mass communication on social media, through advertising on TV, on large boards and so on. Pull on a little bit! The fine print on government websites is not enough to respond to anti-vaxers, dubious, fake news and so on. There is a need for easy to understand, popular information on why it is good to vaccinate, that 70 - 80 of those on iva are unvaccinated, about the side effects and about pregnant women. I've had fun – maybe it's a kind of self-harm behaviour – looking at the pages that the anti-waxer movement has started. These are rather large pages where there is a lot of misleading information about vaccines. It would have been a good time a year ago to deal with this more clearly communicatively at the state level. But there is still an opportunity, and I think it is up to the state to launch a greater effort with information that is understandable. Not everyone reads DN, and not everyone looks at the various press conferences of the Public Health Agency. To the unvaccinated, vaccinate! There's a very big chance that you'll get in trouble right now. And for those of you who don't like vaccine passports, don't compare vaccine passports with the Holocaust! Do not relativize the Holocaust that way! To the regions and specifically to those who have fallen behind in terms of vaccination, I would say: speed up! And don't cut into medical care! To the government: Consider what we do when 85 percent are vaccinated with two syringes and we reach about 70 percent with the third syringe. So what's the scenario? Will it be an extension of the Pandemic Act? When should the patch be removed? Strengthen healthcare and care with a start now! And go ahead to vaccinate the whole world! Only then can we avoid further mutations with Greek names. And please extend the Corona Commission! We cannot have a Commission that is putting its work into the middle of a pandemic.
i-CAJkVu8NSziqQ99pG7XV71	Madam President, I would like Yes, friends, pandemic control is a balancing act, and a rather difficult one. We must keep the infection down and ensure that health care services are able to do so, and at the same time we need to ensure that throughout this time we never mutilate people's constitutionally protected freedoms and rights lightly. In order to combat a deadly virus, in spring 2020 the government gained exceptional power over individuals' everyday lives, in a way that is unique in peacetime. That power the Liberals could swallow to save lives. The pandemic isn't over, but it's different now. The vaccines have dramatically changed the situation. The Corona virus has become more contagious, but fewer become seriously ill. We Liberals have been arguing for months to give the government this power over people's everyday lives for a short time at a time, Madam President. And we have insisted that their freedoms and rights should not be restricted more than strictly necessary. But then the government recently presented new restrictions and referred to diseases other than covid-19 – to other than the pandemic. That's not the law, and it was never meant to be. We need a pandemic law, but its design has been misused. I would like to emphasise that the overload of health care and very heavy conditions are a serious problem. We Liberals fully support the need to strengthen health care. Madam President, long-term government efforts must be made in sufficient care places and in good working conditions, so that people are happy and want to stay. It must also, Madam President, make great efforts to counter the loneliness and vulnerability that both children and adults have suffered during these years, and, of course, to help tackle economic vulnerability. I would also like to make it clear that the Liberals believe that distance is also needed and that there is a need for legislation and a voluntary opportunity for organisers and restaurateurs to ask their guests for vaccination certificates. It takes a lot of hard work to get more people vaccinated. However, we were faced with a situation in which we felt that the government had not handled its powers properly. We decided that the parliament, not the government, should continue to decide on the necessary restrictions. That is why, Madam President, we are calling for this bill to be rejected by Parliament. I therefore support reservation 1. Sweden's rulers absolutely also need to continue to handle the coronavirus with great respect. But the same deep respect we also need to show democracy and people's constitutionally protected rights.
i-Sq29ZDp7m5a5tYvxp8W98v	Madam President, I would like I fully share Mr Nordquists's view that such a law should not be adopted lightly. However, I do not share the view that restrictions have been imposed because of other diseases, which I was very clear about in my speech. It is possible to read it afterwards if the honourable Member did not understand it. After all, we have the order that the government submits a bill to the Riksdag, and then the parties have the opportunity to follow up and express their views on the bill in a motion. The Liberals did. It proposed that the law be extended for two months. That is why, in any case, I was extremely surprised when the Liberal party leader suddenly announced that the Liberals would be calling for a rejection of the Pandemic Act. I was even more surprised when she explained shortly afterwards that we would use covid evidence as much as possible. That is why I would like to ask Mr Nordquist: how do the Liberals think that these two parts should go together – vaccine passports and covid evidence are based on the Pandemic Act? It all feels like something that came up very ad hoc. I would like an explanation of how it can work in practice.
i-5Z7mov3jaJkkrrYHQzhWfo	Madam President, I would like Yes, it came up very abruptly. That's right. However, it was not ad hoc, because it was for a clear reason, namely that our party leader and many of us in the whole country heard the Prime Minister refer to other diseases in a statement. This and others, as we see it, strange ways of approaching the pandemic and strange ways of respecting democracy led us to an election. Either we could go on as we would have liked, with two months, as we had insisted, and allow fewer restrictions but still take the usual path, or we could say no and that we do not have confidence in the government's way of using this law. There's a need for a pandemic law, but this is no longer working. We then chose to say that we do not agree that this law should be extended in its present form.
i-Wj9hSo5D7TSZ3fH5PAEahe	Madam President, I would like We can agree on abstinence, rather than ad hoc. It's okay. I understand, of course, that it would be very positive for nightclubs, restaurants, event organisers, culture, sport and so on if we could use vaccination certificates to a greater extent. That would allow for more activity for these. The only problem is that this is not enough at present, because the spread of infection is as it is with the new virus variant. I am still thinking about how we should have obtained these covid evidence in place on time when the current pandemic law expires. After all, we do not have a legal basis for even introducing them. I still don't quite understand how the Liberals think. Are you saying that the Liberals have a better understanding than the Public Health Agency of what measures are appropriate to protect life and health? I find this difficult. I find it difficult to reconcile these two proposals, and I would like a clearer explanation: what legal basis would the increased use of vaccination passports rest on, and how could we get it in place before the end of February?
i-G8ksZydbxEzCQEtXoVNMCF	Madam President, I would like Such fast handling is not the usual way. It is certainly not the easy way, but we felt that we could not continue as we had done so far. We have never proposed abolishing the advice and recommendations of the expert authorities. What we have said is that it is now time to take back the delegation of power that Parliament has given to the government and ensure that a future pandemic law is based on Parliament's clearly stated directives. We believe that the government has abused the law that has existed.
i-LpnH87zcqMuRHYwXnfonzv	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr President, for your speech. Of course, as a party, you can decide that you think it is time to abolish the law. I'm sure there'll be more of us who'll be there in a couple of weeks or maybe in a few months. But there is a problem when you say in the same breath that you will make a new law that will take effect on 1 February. Just as I asked Mrs Linda Lindberg earlier, I would like to hear from Lina Nordquist: How is it possible for Parliament to make a whole new law at this time? You should have time to prepare it, produce documentation, send it for a referral to the Swedish Law Council and present it to 1 February. Or is it the Liberals' view that we should stand without law for five or six weeks and then let the law come back? How does the honourable Member view this? This is still a crucial issue. You can think about things and go out mediatedly and say that you think it should be in a certain way. But you cannot pretend to the voters that we could do all this – abolish the law and get a whole new law with a subjugation mechanism, a little like what the Swedish Democrats are proposing – and get it in place by 1 February. That's not true, because it's not working. It won't work. I wonder how the Liberals really want it. I look forward to the honourable Member telling me this so that I can keep up with it better.
i-SMnFM47ecgShEikDmQvoV8	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by attesting that everything I say in this speaker's chair and in other contexts is for real. I would also like to make it clear that we did not want that. We don't want medical care because we want people to get sick. We don't want a strong defense because we want war. We also did not want to take power back to Parliament because we think it would be a simpler way, certainly not. It was not because it was fun but because we felt that the power and powers had been exceeded and that the law had been used incorrectly. At that time we were faced with either a very difficult road or the simpler road, which we felt had not worked. It clearly did not work because the government did not use its powers as intended and as the law was written. It is certainly a very tight time frame, but we made the assessment that it is possible.
i-3wT15rGbxyBLS25hhZNf6a	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr President, for your answer. Today is 19 January. There are few days left until February 1st. The honourable Member and the Liberals therefore believe that at the time we could draw up a completely new law that could take effect on 1 February. There are times when I believe in miracles and wonders, but this does not belong to that category, I would say. However, it may well be as the Liberals say that another law with another form of submission to the Riksdag could work. We would like to see this tested if we can find another structure. That is not the part where I have comments. But how will Liberals deal with the gap that arises from today until 1 February and when, after that day, we have no pandemic law? We cannot take any anti-infection measures, and it must then return to the law of order. Do the Liberals really believe that between January 19th and February 1st, a whole new law will be drawn up with a new approach? Is that the honourable Member's opinion?
i-8SLG5pzPpbQV65jhYXw7iX	Madam President, I would like It is the view of the Liberals that there are very few occasions when it is worth doing in this way, because it would be an extremely heavy job. We know, of course, that a legislative process by its nature needs to take time. In this case, every hour of the day would have to be used. At the same time, this is not just any law. This is a law that violates people's constitutional rights and freedoms and gives the government a power that is unique in peacetime. When we have looked at other examples throughout history, such as the legislative procedure quite exactly a year ago, which lasted from 28 December to 30 December, we saw that these are extremely important issues, and that is why we are willing to take this very heavy process on this occasion. But I want to make it clear that it is not that we think that this should become a new practice in Parliament – certainly not. This is because constitutionally protected freedoms and rights are extremely important for us people to protect, and we think that the government has abused that power.
i-U4L4HkzCNAVUPAFx6kCpvQ	Madam President, I would like About two years ago I met completely new patients when the highly specialized rehabilitation clinic I worked at became a pandemic ward. Although I am used to patients who have a great need for care and who cannot breathe without appliances, this was a completely new situation. Since then, a great deal has happened. The Pandemine has reaped many victims. All citizens have had to make major changes in their lives, and all parties have taken great responsibility. According to Greek mythology, the god Atlas carries the earth on his shoulders. Many actors have the feeling that they carry an equally heavy burden in their activities. Two days ago I was at my old high school, De Geergymnasiet in Norrköping, and met a wonderful Estonian class. We talked about democracy but also about how mine and our decisions in this House affect their everyday lives. I also talked to their teacher Eva about how the coronapandemia affects her students and how tough it can be with distance learning for both teachers and students. At the same time, Sweden, like the rest of Europe, is in a period of even higher spread of infection than before, not least because the omitron variant is contagious despite vaccination. However, there are a lower number of cases of serious illness. The overall pressure on health care remains high, and there is an accumulation of delayed care during the pandemic. Against this background, the Green Party believes that an extension of the Pandemic Act is needed. However, I would like to make it clear that the law needs to remain temporary and that it should apply for a short period of time and be extended if necessary. At the same time, it is important that restrictions are accurate and proportionate and perceived as fair. Madam President, I would like We also agree with the proposal for a declaration from the committee that, instead of being in force until the end of May, the laws should apply until the end of March this year. At this point, it is important for us to have a united committee and clarity. That is desirable. I would like to stress the need for political support, and this can be done in many different ways. But I would also like to say that anchoring is a confidence. And trust – I want to be clear about that – should be well managed. Madam President, I would like On the Swedish Public Health Agency's website I can read the following: In Sweden we see that inequalities in health persist and in some cases increase over time. Our assessment is that the consequences of the pandemic may reinforce these inequalities. It is too early to determine the full impact of the pandemic on public health, but we already see that health promotion and prevention need to be strengthened and prioritised in order to maintain good public health and reduce inequalities. It is very important for us in the Green Party to reduce health inequalities. We would like an offensive public health effort to be made to meet the overall public health impact of the pandemic. We also want the overall capacity of healthcare to be increased through both efficiency improvements and increased resources. Today, many restrictions are used with a clear sub-objective: not to burden health care. At the same time, the lack of capacity in healthcare is not actually a new problem. Madam President, I would like I would like to highlight our spokesperson Märta Stenevi. I think she was very wise the other day in one of our biggest newspapers. She said that we are now approaching a point where we need to start thinking about whether we can really use restrictions on, for example, the right of demonstration precisely to protect health care. Is it not rather the case that it is time to turn the whole issue around and seriously start by strengthening health care in order to protect different democratic rights and freedoms? In this context, I would like to point out that culture also needs increased resources. If we are to be able to have a strong and broad cultural life in the future, we need to support culture here and now, but also in the medium and long term. One can, of course, have views on each of the various restrictions that have been imposed or on what the recommendations look like. I'm not going to have this, though. What is important is that the expertise linked to the Public Health Authority continuously makes assessments and that hopefully, as mentioned earlier, we will have these limitations for as short a time as possible. On the other hand, I would like to take this opportunity to highlight the importance of vaccination and of following recommendations. Although we in Sweden are good at the level of vaccination, we can be even better. This applies both to the first dose and to increasing the motivation for the third dose. There are some people who feel a stronger exclusion in the situation we are in today. It could be language. This can be about mental illness or disability. It's people who feel a little forgotten and a little hesitant. Perhaps they would be better off being directly contacted by health care on this issue. It is also important to remember that not all people are digital. Not all people follow the media in such a way that it is obvious that they know what to do and how to act. I know that a great deal is being done in our country, but I still want to strike a punch in order to keep thinking about those groups that have a little more difficulty than others to get to their vaccination and therefore also their own protection. I think that would make the situation very good. It's about getting more people to vaccinate themselves. Moreover, these people could feel a confidence and less exclusion in society. There is such a need, and it is of great importance, to say the least. Madam President, I would like I shall conclude by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report. I also refer to our specific opinion.
i-38igXWdoE1rxmBHwe3yswS	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the Government's proposal on the reporting of payment periods, the NU report of the Committee on Economic Affairs13. The issue is therefore that large companies should report their payment periods to the Swedish Companies Registration Office. The issue is bigger and more important than one might think and is basically about ensuring that Swedish small businesses are not forced to act as banks for larger companies. So the question is how we can break the trend with longer payment times in business. At the same time, it is also a question of the regulatory burden on companies, because we want to achieve this in the most effective way without creating too much regulatory uncertainty for the companies that are to report. This is basically a good proposal from the government, and that is why we Social Democrats are calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report. We therefore also call for approval of the bill and rejection of motions and announcements. To begin with, I would like to say something in general about our Swedish business environment. Basically, our business environment is important, because it creates the conditions for growth in our country and thus helps fund both our welfare system and our community building in general. I am pleased that the government is actively working on these issues and that Sweden has one of the world's best business climates. Sweden has a good business climate, and for decades we have subscribed to ten-in-the-top positions in various rankings for competitiveness, such as the OECD index. The reason why I raise general issues of competitiveness is that companies' capital supply and liquidity must be seen as an important part of enterprise policy and our competitiveness. This is therefore an important issue, as it concerns the liquidity of small and medium-sized enterprises. Madam President, I would like Everyone realizes that the pandemic has exposed society's strengths and weaknesses. Together, we will build a stronger and better society after the pandemic. In this work, it is important that everyone has a job to go to, and thus business policy becomes central. As always, jobs are the foundation of a strong society, and, as we all know in this House, we entered the Corona crisis with 300 000 more people in work than in 2014. Many of the companies that have overwintered during the crisis will want and be able to grow. We know that four out of five new jobs are being created in small and medium-sized enterprises, and it is also these companies that are being unduly hit by long payment periods. Therefore, this proposal is also a small part of an active job creation policy, as it will strengthen the liquidity of small and medium-sized enterprises. Madam President, I would like What is the proposal about in more detail? As I said, the proposal is basically about the government making a proposal for a new law on reporting payment periods. As I said, the aim is to break the trend towards ever longer payment periods in the business sector and thus also create the conditions for smaller Swedish companies to be able to develop and grow. Only companies with more than 249 employees are required to report information on payment periods for payments to smaller Swedish companies. The data shall relate to the average agreed payment period, the average actual payment time and the proportion of delayed invoices. As I said, this is a good proposal which is intended to counter late payments and, at the same time, to break the negative trend towards longer payment periods. In short, this is important, correct and necessary. This is also a policy in which a united committee supports the main legislative proposal, although there appear to be two marginal dividing lines. The first is the question of whether the legislation should cover companies with more than 249 employees or which, the Liberals propose, 500 or more employees. The second question, on which I will spend a little more time, is how the law should be followed up. With regard to the first question, i.e. which companies should be subject to the accounting requirement, the proposal from the Ministry of Industry from the outset was that companies with more than 500 employees should be covered. This received criticism from both Father and Småföretagarnas Riksförbund, which means, quite rightly, that it creates problems to introduce a new category of companies that do not exist in the law. This risks creating confusion and additional work. Today, larger companies are counted as such if they have more than 249 employees. Therefore, it is also reasonable for legislation to comply with the current classification. A company with a number of hundred employees is a large company in relation to smaller companies. It is clear that there is a certain status at the time, and therefore it is also relevant that companies with more than 249 employees should be subject to the legislation. I am pleased that the government listened to the Swedish Association of Small Enterprises and went in a more small business friendly direction, although I feel it is a pity that not all parties in the Swedish parliament chose to adapt as the government did. The second question is therefore the follow-up. Let me begin by saying that follow-up is extremely important. The reason why follow-up is important is that we have to ensure that the law actually achieves its purpose because the law also imposes a burden on larger companies. It is also clear from the bill that the new law should be followed up and evaluated after some time. This evaluation should be carried out after three years. The Government considers that an evaluation after three years can show more clearly what effect the reporting obligation has had on the development of payment times. Madam President, I would like This is where we come to what confuses me somewhat, because despite the fact that the government has clearly stated that they want to follow up on the matter after three years, a majority of the committees comes to the conclusion that they want to announce to the government that the government is going to do exactly what the government is proposing. It's so weird, I don't know what! It is as if Members have not read the bill. When they realize their mistake, they admit that the government actually writes the same thing, but then they say that it is in the wrong place in the bill. I find it strange to say that the government does not want to evaluate a law that is actually written that it wants to evaluate. This is perhaps the most strange, odd and remarkable announcement I've had. If it is the case that the majority of the committee is right and that the government will not make a reasonable evaluation in three years' time, it would have been reasonable to make an announcement then. To make an announcement today is so strange. Madam President, I would like I know you shouldn't be ironic in the speaker's chair because you usually just seem arrogant at the time. But I can't help it. In my spare time, I'm a hockey judge. This announcement is a bit like an ice hockey judge who shows someone out for stripping and who when the player asks how it is possible, because he wasn't even near the player, responds that you were going to trap him, in the future! It's like a football judge blowing for a shirt draw and when the player protests and says he wasn't even close responds that yes, we know you were going to pull the player in the shirt, in the future! I think this is very, very strange. As far as the evaluation of laws is concerned, I would also like to state that, if the government does not evaluate this law, it can, on the one hand, issue an announcement in three years' time and, as all Members know, also have a monitoring and evaluation responsibility. In other words, the committee can itself evaluate this law if it turns out that the government is not doing what it actually says it wants to do. Now I'm gonna stop ralliing, even if I'm a little upset. In fact, I believe that this undermines the important opportunity for Parliament to make an announcement to the government. To conclude, I would like to say something about the bill. It is good that we agree on the main features of the bill. That is an important proposal. Firstly, the proposal is likely to lead to shorter payment periods. Secondly, I believe that the reporting obligation creates an opportunity for voluntary agreements in business, which we know is usually more effective than mandatory laws. Thirdly, there are also proposals for evaluation in the proposal. Madam President, I would like I support the sensible and balanced proposal.
i-PUzQdDEMnQi9uJBPTBEWRg	Madam President, I would like The best location in a market is when everything flows and everything works well. The various companies of the industry trade with each other and sell and purchase products and services based on written agreements they themselves regulate to everyone's satisfaction and with payment periods that the parties agree to comply with. I'm afraid that's not always the case. In particular, the pandemic has shown what happens when ports close and when trade chains change and break. In addition, fears and anxiety will bite you. Then it becomes vulnerable, the protectionist elements are growing in scope and transport is stopped when they are to pass through countries up to the goal. Therefore, it is also particularly important to distinguish what is the cause and effect when there are shortcomings in retail chains and thus in payment chains. And this is probably so important in view of the pandemic that has overturned our normality in the form of what is termed a just-in-time. It is therefore a question of not keeping stocks in place that cost, but of shopping so that goods and products arrive and are delivered in a flow so that there is no gap in the waiting and delivery of these products. It's not something you want. This has been put on hold when countries shut down because of the pandemic. Containers with products and goods have become standing in ports with long delays. The price of freight has increased from SEK 20 000 to SEK 50 000, and it has also been said that the prices have gone up to SEK 100 000. It costs and delays. Manufacturing has been affected, and delivery times have been delayed and extended. There are today many risks along the way that the pandemic has put on fire. In addition to high freight costs, there are high material costs, the sale of items and waiting times. A corporate customer cannot demand a fixed price. The field of vision does not extend more than one to two weeks ahead. There is a risk here, and you want to eliminate it. The risk is about interest rates, price increases, payments and so on that you want to build into your contracts. The money is passed on from a customer in the shop, from the store to the wholesaler, to the purchaser, factory and raw material producer. Let me give you an example of how the chain is affected. If someone encounters liquidity problems, the problem follows all the way back because everyone expects the money to come in. The situation we are in makes it particularly important for us to follow closely the new legislative proposal that is now on Parliament's table for decisions today. The proposal is about reporting on payment times for companies. The aim is to break the development of ever longer paydays in business. In this way, the conditions for smaller Swedish companies to develop and grow will increase. These are companies that are formed under Swedish law and have more than 250 employees. They shall report annually on payment periods to the Swedish Companies Registration Office for goods and services purchased from companies that operate in Sweden and have fewer than 250 employees. The Swedish Companies Registration Office becomes a control authority that can decide on a periodic penalty payment if the reporting obligation is not complied with. The new law is proposed to enter into force on 1 March 2022 and start to be implemented by summer, 1 July. We Moderates have supported the bill on reporting. The problem of longer pay-offs becomes particularly clear to smaller companies in need of liquidity to grow, while at the same time they do not have the same access to finance as larger companies. At the same time, we would like to stress the importance of the legislator being very restrictive in placing too much of a burden on the business community. It has been said that there is an increased administrative burden of reporting today, and that is why we have been clear about the importance of following up that the purpose of the new law is achieved and that the rules do not adversely affect Swedish competitiveness. The Government mentions in the bill that the regulatory framework should be followed up and evaluated after three years. However, it is not clearly stated in the wording how this is to be done and in which places it should be done. We believe that the government does not attach much importance to this urgent issue. We will therefore see burdensome administration in the future. Against this background, we believe that it is necessary for the Riksdag to make it clear to the Government, through an announcement, that it should follow up and evaluate the new law and the systems established pursuant to the rules. The government should do this within an appropriate time. This can be done after the first reporting period, 1 July 2022 until 30 June 2023, and see what has happened along the way. In the Government's bill, it has been built into extra burdensome administration, and this could have been avoided by not adding a breakpoint in the middle of the summer with reporting requirements late in September rather than following the financial year. We consider this extra administrative burden unnecessary and apply the financial year instead. That is why we have added a reservation to the report. Madam President, I would like I support the committee's proposal under paragraphs 1 and 2, and I also ask for reservation 2 under paragraph 3.
i-2oiJJRDtKz8JJuSdpFHDUw	Madam President, I would like I thank Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson for a balanced speech. Perhaps that is more than one can say about my own speech, although I feel strongly about what I argued for. I would like to take this opportunity to call for the approval of reservation 1, which I did not actually do in my speech. Reservation 1 deals, among other things, with the question of whether the Riksdag should issue an announcement. I therefore take the opportunity now to ask for the approval of reservation 1. However, my question to Mr Hammar Johnsson concerns follow-up. We agree that the new rule should not be too burdensome for companies. We agree that we need to evaluate the impact of the proposal. The government has also stated clearly that it is prepared to follow up on the proposal, but yet the majority of committees chooses to propose an announcement. I wonder how the Moderates and Mr Hammar Johnsson view the proposal for the announcement and the fact that the government has clearly stated that it wants to evaluate the law. Then I would like to hear how you look at the instrument of announcement. I understand that this makes announcements less important, which I find problematic for the entire Parliament's work.
i-QCxukrVvE9E8YSzTwnKzuS	Madam President, I would like Announcement is an instrument to be nurtured. In her speech, Mr Tegnér mentioned examples of comparisons, namely football and hockey. I mentioned another example, namely clarity in what is written in the text of bread, closing clamps and so on. We are both members of the evaluation group of the Committee on Economic Affairs. We are working on how we can be clearer in dealing with legislative proposals that are put on our table, follow-up and so on. I think that the situation with the pandemic is serious and important in view of what I mentioned about how to end up in retail chains and payment chains that are different from what is normal, if I may call it that. I think it is particularly important that this really comes into place and that this is followed up. That is why I think it is appropriate to make this announcement to the government.
i-MBdwZ8Qnk4k4kNCxknPHzu	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Mr Hammar Johnsson! I'm of a different opinion. I think it is unreasonable to interpret the government's writing as not taking this seriously. I think the example of the Committee on Industry's group preparing the evaluation of old legislation is a good one. Had it been thought that this would be reasonable, that is, if one had wanted to press for it, a majority of the committee could have decided that we should evaluate this law right now. But that is not how we work, but it is reasonable to wait for about three years to see how the outcome actually becomes and then decide and prioritise. So I think the government has clearly announced that this should be followed up. However, when it comes to demanding that it be done in a certain way, I cannot recall that it has at some point been described in that way in a proposal. There is, of course, a practice of announcements, namely that they should be handled by the government in between one and two years, and what is happening here is that there is an announcement that by definition is completely impossible to deal with within the framework of practice. I think it is another argument that this actually undermines the importance of announcements. However, I would like to say that I am basically glad that we agree on where we are going. We agree that this needs to be evaluated and, hopefully, that it leads to shorter payment periods. In fact, however, I understand that the proposed announcement is not serious.
i-NzCPeCztYFeAsVtCHU7p6L	Madam President, I would like Thank you for this debate, Mathias Tegnér! I always see people who put something in Parliament as serious, because you have a thought about it. I think that we are in an exceptional state, and now the legislation should come into force in March and come into force from June. It's going to last a year, and after the summer of 2023, I think it's reasonable to have followed it closely – because right now it's like the life of our business community – and to take action if necessary. If we are talking about our business community, I would like to mention what Mr Tegnér mentioned about entrepreneurship and its importance. That's good, because our business community is very important and really needs a boost after what you've been through. But it is also this government that has been in power throughout the pandemic. I have been in many debates and discussed limited companies, tourism, etcetera, and from the Moderates we have pushed the line that individual companies would come up for support along the way. So it is not only when you are coming out of something that businesses need help, but it is also in the meantime that you have a pandemic that you need to help your businesses. This is what we gave a ride on. It was done a little too late and a little too slow.
i-GUswKkSnQk7oCMvgSbFFjJ	Madam President, I would like The Government has presented a bill to the Riksdag proposing a new law on the reporting of payment periods. It is a law that comes into being because of the ever-longer payment periods in the business sector, which has the greatest impact on small businesses. The truth is that for a small company this can have a major impact on its ability to develop, take responsibility for its own payments and expand. There are also small businesses who have shown that they have not been able to make new appointments due to the long payment periods. The development of payment times is going in the wrong direction, and Sweden is actually the worst in the class if we compare with our Nordic neighbours. At the same time, we know that it is small businesses that create jobs and drive much of the business sector forward. The purpose of the law is for larger companies to report to the Swedish Companies Registration Office the payment periods they receive when buying goods or services from smaller companies. Companies shall report contractual payment periods, the average actual payment time and the percentage of invoices paid after the end of the agreed payment period. This will put pressure on companies to improve their payment times. There all parties agree; we simply see this as a necessary tool. Companies will have a transition period so that they can get the systems in place, and the Swedish Companies Registration Office will develop a digital tool for reporting. In the bill, the government also proposes that the law be followed up and evaluated after three years, and we think that is a good thing. In this way, we can analyse whether large companies are better at keeping payment times vis-à-vis small businesses. Having said that, I and the Left Party are in favour of reservation 1, as we believe that the bill covers what is needed to implement and evaluate the law.
i-GJotaEWRpaDb8azKHeZTPy	Madam President, I would like We are now debating the Committee on Economic Affairs' report on the reporting of payment periods. The Liberals support the Government's proposal, which aims to shorten payment times in business. It is an important issue for companies in general and for smaller companies in particular. On the other hand, we believe that the new law should be followed up and evaluated, and that is why we support the announcement proposed in the report. It is a sound procedure and a way of working that the government and parliament should always have. We think it took a little more clarity there and therefore support the announcement. We must always ensure that we create the best possible conditions for Swedish companies to develop and grow. There are elements in the Government's legislative proposal that could have been drawn up in a different way that would mean less burdensome administration for the companies concerned. During the consultation round, criticisms have been made, for example concerning the period of time to be covered by the statement of payment periods. In line with what several consultation bodies have said, we believe that the accounting should follow the financial year and not, as the government proposes in the bill, have a breakpoint in the middle of the summer and reporting requirements by September. This would have made it much easier for companies, who would then also have been able to follow the same system regardless of what information is to be provided. We would like to see such a change in the new law so that the rules do not have any more impact on the companies concerned than is necessary. That is why I am in favour of reservation 2.
i-RGUbbo6UYqTf9kSg8hNMeu	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal for a decision to be approved. The report touches on a sensitive issue, because there are always risks when policy is to go in and regulate the private and free business sector in detail. I defend a free business community and believe that politics should stay away from it to the greatest extent possible. However, there is sometimes a need for regulations to ensure that fair and fair conditions are respected in order to maintain growth and innovation. Personally, I have spent a lot of time on this issue to find a path that could work for everyone without too hard regulation and governance having to be implemented. Therefore, I think that the proposal is balanced and balanced in order to overcome the problems that smaller companies face with long payment periods. These are suppliers who are often completely dependent on the large companies they supply. The consequence is otherwise that in the short term this may upset the company's ability to pay its own bills on time. Furthermore, the liquidity of the company is crucial for growth and job creation, as long payment periods are particularly detrimental to SMEs. Madam President, I would like I read an investigation from Intrum. One in five companies argued that they would have both the need and the scope to employ more staff if it were not for the long payment periods. The same study found that 50% of companies are obliged to accept longer payment periods than they are comfortable with. Larger companies have a much greater scope for manoeuvre than smaller companies, which means that smaller companies are forced to agree to totally unreasonable payment conditions because large companies demand this. That, of course, will be a problem. For the Swedish Democrats, it is important that small businesses have the right conditions for innovation and growth. Small businesses are an important key to job creation; it is something other than to throw huge taxes on unprofitable subsidised labour market measures. Four out of five jobs are created by small and medium-sized enterprises, which of course speaks clearly. We Swedish democrats want more people to start businesses. We also want more small businesses to have better opportunities to hire and profit – it is only constructive for society. As far as the Social Democrats' objections to the initiative are concerned, I can certainly understand the argument. However, the consequences of putting unnecessary and burdensome regulations on the shoulders of small businesses are recurrent, and this should not be the case. The regulatory burden costs small businesses enormous money annually. Unfortunately, we do not see that this trend has turned in the right direction, but unfortunately it continues in the wrong direction. It is estimated that the cost will increase by about 1 billion annually. According to the Swedish Agency for Growth's report, which came in April last year, the cost of small businesses has increased despite the Government's ambition to reduce the cost. The report from the Swedish Agency for Growth points out that 60 per cent of small businesses believe that laws and regulations are a direct obstacle to growth and development. As I mentioned earlier, the cost increases by 1 billion annually. That being the case, there is an enormous amount to be done in order to achieve the objective of reducing the regulatory burden, and I think that this is a step in the right direction. That is why we believe that this type of sunset clause, which points to when and how it should be done, is a good thing to assure companies that there will be no additional regulatory burden without achieving the desired result and nothing else.
i-T1WN3EFEiArwwFW2P2Yi25	Madam President, I would like I thank Mr Christiansson for his speech. I wasn't really going to ask for the floor, but Alexander Christiansson pressed a button that made me also press the button. What is important here – and here I feel that we are united – is that there is a need to reduce the regulatory burden for Swedish companies. Then we need to do this in a smart way, so that we can still achieve the goals we want to achieve. It is therefore a good thing that the government has developed new, serious and concrete objectives for regulatory policy. This is another discussion, but it is also relevant to this discussion. However, it is not the case that today's proposal imposes a regulatory burden on small and medium-sized enterprises, as I understood the honourable Member said, but in this case it is only large companies that actually have a greater regulatory burden. It is important that we evaluate the law, as everyone has stated. On the other hand, I am, in principle, opposed to sunset clauses, that is to say, a decision has been taken from the outset to put an end to the law. We do not do that in this case. Among other things, American scientists – successful ones, as I see it – who work with regulatory simplification sometimes feel that sunset clauses are somewhat rogue and that it is more reasonable to review the regulatory burden in an entire sector at the same time. My question to the honourable Member is probably: is it not the risk that this announcement will only reduce confidence in announcements? After all, the government and the committee agree on what to do.
i-FFZ9oTGj8ZpAVWD1j3PqSz	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question. This tool is crucial for us as an opposition to be able to work and pursue our questions. Maybe I was unclear about the regulatory burden. I just meant that the regulatory burden is a major concern for Sweden's companies; that is the view both me and Mathias Tegnér. This proposal does not impose a regulatory burden on small and medium-sized enterprises, but it does for large companies. I'm talking about the general regulatory burden. My view, and that of the business community, is that the regulatory burden is increasing rather than decreasing – we can see that in figures. I find this regrettable, especially when the government has had – and has – the ambition to reduce the regulatory burden. Then you do something wrong. That is why it is important to include this aspect when we discuss this issue and all issues relating to the regulatory framework for companies in general. Having said that, I would like to ask Mr Tegnér whether he believes that developments are moving in the right direction. The Social Democrats have now been in power for quite a long time, and there have been stated objectives and ambitions in this regard. At the same time, things are going the wrong way. I would not have been happy with that development, but I would like to ask the question anyway.
i-57sETkLdBMvAHdKjdURB5v	Madam President, I would like I thank the honourable Member for the question. Now this discussion passes on to a question of rules and rules, but I will, of course, answer the question. I do not think that we should be satisfied when calculations and assessments suggest that the regulatory burden is increasing. However, it is a question of keeping your tongue straight, because we know that about 90% of the costs of new rules come from European legislation. In some respects there had been a regulatory burden regardless of government, given that we are still in the European Union; it is possible that we have different opinions there. At the same time, EU membership means that we have access to the world's largest market, which is extremely important for Swedish companies. I believe that about 60% of the Swedish labour market is linked in one way or another to Sweden's exports. In short: Of course, one cannot be satisfied when the regulatory burden increases. It should be remembered, however, that much of the rules come from the EU. I think we should pay tribute to Maud Olofsson. She did some things as a minister of industry that I certainly did not appreciate, but she did very well with the work on regulatory issues. At the same time, we know from that time that the regulatory burden increased even then, measured in terms of money and the perception of entrepreneurs, so we should remember that the issue is not easy to solve. I'm going back to the announcement. The former member of the Committee on Economic Affairs wrote a debate article which I read the other day and which was about announcements. There he was very clear that announcements will be processed within two years – otherwise he feels that the government does not take the Riksdag seriously. Now we are deciding on an announcement that is impossible to deal with within two years. Does this not indicate that the announcement is wrong?
i-FhwZ5tt7Cr5dACA62u4AMr	Madam President, I would like These replica shifts can be fun – we went from announcements to regulatory changes, and all of a sudden we were on the European issue. That's what happens sometimes. The initiative tool, as I said earlier, is absolutely central to our work here in Parliament. I think it is only positive that the clarity that needs to be given to this particular report is further strengthened by this initiative. It is in a bread text, but we want to ensure that this will be followed up and that this is something that we will work on in the future to ensure that it gets the right results and is not in danger of becoming like much else that this government has unfortunately done – something that falls into the sea of oblivion and lies there and squalps. In the run-up to this debate, I chose to sit down and go through some of the regulatory frameworks which have become burdensome and which have not always achieved the results requested. It ranged from data protection to public procurement, environmental regulations, planning and construction rules, industry-specific rules and tax liability, to take some examples. We need to work on these things so as not to end up in the situation that small businesses – as in most cases – do not get the growth and profitability that they need to be able to employ and solve much of the problems, to take an example from the labour market. Having said that, I am very pleased with this initiative. I think that is absolutely correct. It was great to include that in the report.
i-KoarBPQuKD8Y5bs6EMetyG	Madam President, I would like The Centre Party supports the committee's report Calls for the reporting of payment periods. I support the proposal for a decision. Madam President, I would like Much has already been said by previous speakers. It is, of course, a report supported by a united committee. I will certainly repeat some of what you other speakers have already said. But as an old teacher, I know that repetition is good for learning and taking on something, so hold on! Just as Mathias Tegnér began with, for a long time smaller companies have been allowed to act as a kind of bank for larger companies that do not pay their invoices on time. This means that it can be very tough for small entrepreneurs, because they in turn also have bills to pay at the end of the month, as well as salaries for any staff. According to studies carried out by Intrum Justitia and also mentioned here in the speaker's chair, some of the smaller entrepreneurs say that they would like to hire more but that delayed payments from customers do not make them dare. The government is now presenting a legislative proposal which the Committee on Economic Affairs as a whole supports, as I mentioned. The proposal requires companies with more than 250 employees to report their payment periods when they have purchased goods and services from companies with fewer than 250 employees. The information shall include average payment periods and average contractual payment periods. Invoices paid late shall also be reported. If you as a larger company do not report, you should be able to get a fine. This should be data that suppliers should be able to easily find in registers to get an idea of the payment procedures of, for example, a large company to be negotiated with. Madam President, I would like Indeed, according to Intrum Justitia, it is not only among some large companies that there are problems with long payment periods. We have not mentioned it, but it is also the case that small businesses feel pressure from the public sector to accept poor payment conditions. It also takes the longest time to actually pay the bills to small businesses. Did you know that? Although the public sector is subject to a mandatory law on payment times, it does not always seem to work. That is why the government should also put pressure on those municipalities, regions and authorities that are not doing well.
i-5aJerC3iuV9xd2CFrQyvHU	Madam President, I would like A new law will be introduced on reporting of payment periods. It is longed for by many. The aim of the new rules is to break the trend towards ever longer payment periods in business. This will result in better conditions for smaller Swedish companies to develop and create growth. We recommend that the law be evaluated in accordance with the announcement. We do not oppose the proposal, but believe that it is essential that an evaluation is carried out and that relevant measures can be taken if it does not come to an end. Why, then, is this so important? Well, Madam President, I have the privilege of listening to people around me who, without a courtesy filter, dare and want to tell me what it actually feels like to be an entrepreneur. It is entrepreneurs who, among other things, talk about the challenges of the rules that exist, including what has arisen during the pandemic. I always try to do my best as a politician to listen, mentalise and then shape a policy that makes it easier to start, run and develop businesses. That is also what this bill is about. Companies should not have to function as banks. It is against this background that it is so incredibly important to seriously make a balanced analysis of what all the rules, laws and regulations mean for the individual entrepreneur. Sometimes it feels almost as if the majority of the parliament sees entrepreneurs' time as a free service that you can call off freely without considering that time actually costs money. The fewer and more appropriate regulations companies have to relate to, the easier it is for companies to do the right thing and be able to focus on their core business, which is also for the benefit of society as a whole. With this, I call for the proposal in the report to be approved.
i-NwEMaq8KhQBqtdQxJL1mzb	Madam President, I would like Sweden is in need of a vital business community. That is the basis for growth, jobs and development. It is therefore essential that it is part of the mission of our authorities in the country to look at development and propose sustainable ways forward that are solution-focused. The level playing field between state-owned companies and private companies is a prerequisite for strengthening and further developing the entire Swedish business community. That is why it is important to keep up with the time and that the owner constantly asks himself whether ownership by government is the best result. The best thing for the country would be for state ownership of companies to be reduced from today's 46 wholly owned and partly owned companies. We need to review the holding of state-owned companies and, with great care and responsibility, dismantle state-owned companies while taking great account of the value of taxpayers. The Moderates are looking for more discussion about our state-owned companies regarding business issues. This does not, of course, apply to companies that have a specific social mission or are of strategic and security policy importance. Madam President, I would like We note that there are shortcomings in the governance and management of state-owned companies. The Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed the government's governance of the state-owned companies and found major shortcomings in the fact that sustainability analyses are not carried out continuously or systematically, which is of great importance. When we work towards a fossil-free society, all state-owned companies must also assume their responsibilities. The state is a major owner and will continue to be so for the foreseeable future. It places high demands on clear principles, wise governance and responsibility. The state-owned companies should focus on creating long-term values, and the state should be an active, professional and responsible owner, especially in those companies that have just a social mission. This also means that in markets where state-owned companies operate, they should have an ownership perspective that allows for fair terms with other actors. A clear example of how it will not work was when state Systembolaget went out with ads that politically influenced against farm sales. The state as an active and responsible owner should be clear to the state-owned companies that they should not engage in political opinion-forming. The state-owned company portfolio, as I mentioned earlier, consists of 46 companies in various sectors of our business. Most state-owned companies are found in basic industry and energy. Today, most of the companies operate on a commercial basis on fully competitive markets. Mr President, I would like to A big and important issue right now is electricity prices, and here Swedish Vattenfall has a big role to play. We see how they are and build nuclear power on the other side of the Baltic Sea, in Estonia. We Moderates are happy to see that they can have the same assignment in Sweden. It is clear that there is a dividing line in Swedish politics between those who believe that it is urgent that Sweden has access to fossil-free basic energy every day of the year so that the country can develop and gain growth and those who do not mean it. Removing functioning electricity generation, as happened with Ringhals 1 and 2, at a time when Sweden needs to increase, not decrease, electricity generation and when more than twice as much electricity will be needed in the future is the wrong way forward. What has been built up in our country with hydro power and nuclear power from south to north in strategic locations to supply our country with electricity around the clock has been lost in southern Sweden with the red-green government, which now also affects the country in total as northern Sweden needs its electricity production for development and growth. Mr President, I would like to We have another large market where we find both state-owned companies and privately owned: the mining industry. It is a large and important market for an export-dependent country, not least because in our country we can be self-sufficient when it comes to rare rock metals, as Sweden is one of the EU's countries with the greatest access. Our country has been at the top of the mining industry for a long time, but now we have lost our ranking due to long lead times and major regulatory problems, which the government has not taken hold of. If we are going back to the top as a significant mining nation, the government must assume its responsibilities and review the regulatory and unreasonably long lead times. For example, the Kallak mine in Jokkmokk, a case that has been on the government table for five years. It doesn't make any sense. The Fäboliden gold mine in my municipality Lycksele has struggled with all the complicated rules, and the case will in February be brought to court for decision. It is not wise for small investors to lay out costs without income because the government has too complicated rules and too long lead times. It doesn't make sense. Over the last few years, a number of state-owned companies have received major state financial contributions to cope with the pandemic we are in. The list can be made long. This creates concern on the market when large state-owned companies are unable to meet their targets and the state has to go in with additional contributions to their own companies while private companies operating on the same market have to manage their own finances. The Moderates want the state to eventually divest its ownership of several companies that do not have a clear social mission. Until then, however, state-owned companies must have good governance of their activities. The Swedish National Audit Office notes that the state has an ambition to be an active and professional owner regarding sustainability. That is a good thing, but it is also a question of turning this ambition into concrete action. There's more to do here. State ownership needs to be examined more systematically and recurrently than is the case today. The Swedish National Audit Office's review also shows that it should be clearer which international guidelines apply to the companies. Today, there is scope for interpretation that creates ambiguity. Finally, on behalf of the Moderates, I would like to emphasise what the Swedish National Audit Office has said about the need to improve information to the Riksdag so that it also includes information that clearly indicates how state governance is taking place and how far the government has come to balance economic, social and environmental sustainability in the state's corporate ownership. Of course, I support all of our reservations, but for time winning, I'm in favor of Moderate reservation number 5.
i-VJYE2SzysjtW9oAyttaoMY	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating the Committee on Economic Affairs' report on proposals and letters concerning state-owned companies. There are several important Swedish social functions carried out in company form with the state as a whole or as a partner and where the companies generally operate in a competitive market. The Swedish Democrats are in favour of a continued state commitment in corporate form that gives an influence from the public. In some cases, state-owned companies manage natural resources within the country, and ownership guarantees that these will benefit all of Sweden's citizens. We do not see the sale of state companies as an ideological end in itself. On the contrary, government involvement often strengthens important and central social functions in Sweden. However, there are state holdings which, under certain circumstances, could be reduced or completely abolished, as ownership cannot be justified for the benefit of citizens. Here is our basic view that the state should eventually divest its ownership of companies that do not have specific social mandates or are of strategic and security policy importance. A good example of this is the state's holding in Telia Company. Telecoms is not a core business that the State should be engaged in, especially when it operates in a liberalised and well-functioning market. Ownership is also problematized by Telia buying Bonnier Broadcasting a few years ago, which means that the state, through its dominant holding in Telia, becomes the owner of other terrestrial television in addition to the control of public service. There is no political control of this today, but it is still not a desirable situation. It is clear that Telia's board has chosen a direction that is not in line with the long-term interests of the state: to be a dominant player in the media market. Our entry point is therefore that the company should be divided according to social infrastructure and telecommunications operations. It is not the task of the Riksdag to assess purely commercial behaviour, and we should have full respect for Telia's Board of Directors' view that the acquisition of Bonnier Broadcasting was a good deal in the long term and the right strategy forward for the company. However, it is the Parliament's task to take responsibility for democracy and that healthy competition prevails in Sweden and to ensure that the state has control over precisely socially important infrastructure. Our view is therefore that the state, as the dominant owner of the company, should work for a division between telecommunications activities and the socially important infrastructure. There the entrance should be to strengthen ownership in the latter part but to divest ownership of the telecommunications business in the long term. Mr President, I would like to Something else that is most topical these days are questions about our electricity supply, where the price of electricity has rushed to levels that probably no one would have thought possible if one had asked a year ago. It is something that plagues many households and strikes the competitiveness of business directly. A major contributor to this is the forced closures of Swedish nuclear reactors in southern Sweden, where an already strained power balance has become completely unsustainable and where fossil power sources such as natural gas and coal power are now setting the price of electricity in the two southern electricity price areas. This is a development which the Swedish Democrats have unfortunately feared and which we have repeatedly raised in this House. Two years ago, the Swedish Democrats' proposal was debated to give Vattenfall in owner directives to push Ringhals 1 and 2 further, which was supported by the Moderates, Christian Democrats and Liberals who joined. Unfortunately, it fell into the vote with only one mandate's overweight. In the debate, I asked the Member who represented the Social Democrats why they did not want to make use of the possibility of extending the two reactors over time and got the answer: ..................................................... So the Social Democrats think that dependence on fossil sources of power, such as natural gas and coal, is better than investing in nuclear energy, which, unlike natural gas and coal power, is considered to be a dirty old technology. In the wake of these closures, we can see that it has led to such high electricity prices that some households receive higher electricity bills than they have income on a monthly basis. This is something that the state earns billions on when VAT revenues flash with high electricity prices. One wonders, Mr President, whether it was this money that the Social Democrats intended to invest in welfare or the police. No, we can probably conclude, two years later, that when subsidies are made available to households as a result of high and runaway electricity prices, this is definitely proof that energy policy balances are a failure. It is time to give a clear message to Vattenfall that they are not prevented from either looking at replacement reactors or developing new nuclear technology in Sweden. Today, they evidently feel compelled to do so abroad. Another more distressing aspect, particularly in view of the security policy situation, is that the state, indirectly through Vattenfall and without the intervention of the Social Democrats and the government, has for a long time been able to purchase Russian nuclear fuel from the state-controlled company Tvel. Russia is now supplying nuclear fuel to the West for the first time, which is a huge success for Rosatom and for Putin, who has long been trying to enter the market here. Within this group of companies there are several different branches of activity, where specifically civilian nuclear energy is found, but they also have a division for the development of nuclear weapons to Putin for defence purposes, which now receives a coverage grant from Sweden and a Swedish state-owned company. Europe and North America have seen Rosatom's expansive exports of nuclear energy as a tool for Russia to increase its geopolitical power. Their interests are usually equated with those of Russia because the company is under the rule of the Russian state. The President of Russia determines the strategic objectives of the company and appoints directors and board members. For several years now, Russia has been engaged in deteriorating the security policy situation vis-à-vis the EU, which has led Parliament to adopt a resolution against Russia which specifically mentions that it should not do business with its energy company Rosatom. This has not been picked up in Sweden. The EU has also stated in its energy security strategy that it should not put itself in a situation where it becomes dependent on Russian energy and has specifically pointed to Russian nuclear energy. Many have pointed out that the geopolitical situation in our part of the world, which is already strained towards Russia today, will hardly be better when Russia can turn the crane off even for nuclear supplies. This is a means of power that we do not want to see in the hands of Russia and Putin. The Swedish Government and the Riksdag should reasonably act in such a way that Sweden avoids such a situation. Therefore, the Swedish Democrats, as the only party in this House, believe that the Swedish Government should return to Parliament with an analysis of the security policy situation based on the state corporate transactions that are taking place with Russia. In view of this, Mr President, I would like to endorse reservation 28 in the report.
i-43yrLTuj7DTmdBB4Gebzkx	Mr President, I would like to Of course, we in the Center Party support all our reservations in the report. I request the approval of reservation 31 under item 20 concerning the mission of Visit Sweden AB. In fact, it was my colleague, Per Schöldberg, who was going to take this debate, but he is home sick. I just want him to get credit for this text, which he has spent a lot of time and energy on. I am a simple messenger who has only completed. If Per Schöldberg sees this debate, he can stretch on the couch. The Swedish economy is characterised by a variety of forms of enterprise and different types of ownership. The state is an owner among many. The basic structure of Swedish industry, a mixed economy, has served the country well. But of course it is in the nature of the matter that when the state owns, while it makes laws and sets the rules of the game, the state must be careful and discreet. The Center Party considers that it is not a core task that the state owns and operates companies but that in some cases it may be justified. As the state is a major shareholder and will continue to be so for the foreseeable future, it is important that the owner operates its companies in a long-term professional, value-creating and sustainable manner. Again, it is important to point out that several of the companies also have important social assignments where the focus is not only economics but also other benefits for society. It is important here that the social gains are clearly accounted for and that they govern the companies' operations. Mr President, I would like to In the extensive climate change of the economy under way, the state-owned companies will be active in realising Sweden's commitment to Agenda 2030. We know that companies are happy to take the challenge as they see both climate and business benefits. I would like to stress that the Center Party sees that the security policy aspects must be taken very carefully into account in the state ownership portfolio. Our basic view is that the state as owner should ask itself whether the market itself can solve the task of a state company. Then this will be tested. But the Center Party does not look at the state sale of companies, nor at acquisitions solely from an ideological point of view, but also at a pragmatic point of view. As well as we cannot rule out sales, we cannot completely close the door to acquisitions or to the start of new companies. Everything must be tested commercially and with social and market benefits as a guiding principle, especially in these times of unrest. Mr President, I would like to I have three impacts on specific activities that I would like to highlight in this speech. The first is Visit Sweden AB. The Corona epidemic has affected travel all over the world, and foreign tourism has largely been replaced by the home beach. This is good in many respects, but in the long term we are convinced that people will want to travel across national borders again and discover new cultures and environments. Sweden has received international attention during 2020 because Sweden's disease control model has deviated from that of many other countries. We believe that one consequence of this is that Sweden risks losing its attractiveness. It is therefore important that the state, through its own companies, now gathers together to promote the image of Sweden as a visiting country again. The Government should therefore ensure that through its steering by Visit Sweden this is a priority task. Sweden's attractiveness as a visitor country should preferably be increased and in any case maintained. The government should also consider increasing the government base grant to Visit Sweden in order to achieve an effective and effective marketing of Sweden abroad. Global tourism is characterised by fierce competition, and other countries market their countries aggressively. We would like to stress the importance of Sweden not falling behind in this respect, so that when the pandemic eases, we are ready to receive large amounts of visitors. I would also like to go into Sveaskog AB. Forests are extremely important for the Swedish economy and create jobs in rural areas. In the Swedish forest, a carbon sink is created because we only fell 75% of the growth. But the greatest benefit does the forest as we can replace fossil products and processes with renewable raw materials. We believe that ownership, responsibility and authority go hand in hand. What you own is also managed and cared for. For us, ownership is a fundamental right and a guiding principle. Therefore, we believe that the Swedish forest should continue to be cared for and used according to the principle of freedom under responsibility. At the same time, we see that efforts to strengthen biodiversity and endangered species in forests and soils still need to be strengthened. However, in order to achieve increased participation in the formal provisions for forests, this should mainly be done through voluntary action and through the fact that the initiative for the formal protection of forests comes primarily from the landowner. We believe that a cost-effective way to protect soil is to use state-owned productive forest land, for example from Sveaskog, as a replacement land for forest protection. Mr President, I would like to For us, it is an important principle that landowners who are forced to refrain from using their land should receive the compensation to which they are entitled. Compensation land can therefore be an attractive option for individual landowners who want to continue active forestry. We are therefore in favour of the proposal on replacement land, i.e. bytes land, of 25 000 hectares of Sveaskog forest land included in the forthcoming forest bill. In addition, there is also a new land sales programme for Sveaskog in this forest bill. Someone in here mentioned that in a process in the Committee on Economic Affairs we had looked at how the previous or current Sveaskog programme of land sales has turned out. We in the Committee on Economic Affairs have seen that there are shortcomings in Sveaskog's current social mission to sell land because sales have not always benefited rural areas, which was the intended purpose. We are therefore in favour of the proposed change in focus and scope of Sveaskog's land sales programme by selling up to 60 000 hectares of productive forest land to individual owners of forest and forest properties that are jointly owned and managed within so-called common forest and grid forests. Mr President, I would like to Finally, the third and last thing I intend to mention is Postnord AB. The Swedish state owns 60 percent. The Government appointed a postal law investigation last autumn to look at the long-term conditions for Postnord. At the same time as this investigation is being launched, Postnord announces a bi-day presentation in Lund and Kävlinge municipalities. There has to be nothing wrong with the bi-day distribution or with pilot attempts. But the problem is that it is not about a test to be evaluated but about a plan that is now rolled out all over the country before you have evaluated the results in Lund and Kävlinge. I get many calls from worried local councillors and also from the public in rural and sparsely populated areas who have views on this – on the dialogue and the process. This is not just a question of profitability or a business issue. It is a question of democracy because there is a clear risk that many newspaper readers who read a paper magazine in the morning may be in danger of getting the newspaper when the news is old or of getting a very substantial increase in the subscription price, which in turn risks fewer people reading local newspapers. For me as a center party, this is a system that creates more questions than answers. Of course, state-owned companies must operate with profitability and sustainability according to existing regulations and instructions. But the examples show the importance of having a dialogue that works, not only with those who give owner instructions, but also with people throughout the country who are directly and locally affected by business activities.
i-9n8aT1sqdS24Ka1FsmPvCn	Mr President, I would like to I was going to go into a specific company that's in the government portfolio. The Center Party previously voted with the Swedish Democrats to issue an announcement from the Riksdag regarding ownership in Telia Company – as happened. Today, the Center Party, together with the Social Democrats, is voting for continued ownership of the company. From the Swedish Democrats we do not think it is appropriate for the state to become a dominant player in the media market through both public service and ownership in Telia. We also think that telecommunications should not be a core business for the state, as it is a market that is fully liberalised and that is well-functioning. There are also problems with the purely business decisions that are made regarding the infrastructure Telia has, for example when you might close copper lines that are located in rural areas because you think they are unprofitable. But perhaps there is a political value: that this House, for example, thinks it is stupid. Then it is stupid that it should be on commercial companies to make business decisions. Therefore, it would have been a little interesting to hear why the Center Party has changed its mind and why they think that the state should retain ownership in Telia and why it is important that the state should continue to be the dominant owner and remain in the telecom business as well. My question is why the Center Party has changed its mind and why they want to retain ownership in Telia as they are wave champions in today's vote.
i-qF6VHdS133SARk5ZYTovS	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mattias Bäckström Johansson for the question. There are also, as I pointed out in the speech, some that are called security policy. I think it's important to think about it. If I am not mistaken, Telia has been divided, i.e. the part dealing with infrastructure has ended up in a particular company. I think that's very good, so you separate this. Otherwise, I can say that the Center Party has nothing against dismantling the part that does not deal with the infrastructure. We never said that. What the discussion was about was that when you had the whole of the company with the sensitive infrastructure it could simply be distributed to a separate company. I think Mattias Bäckström Johansson is also very well aware of why.
i-JGZJAhsExPgkvM1djjeC7J	Mr President, I would like to Nevertheless, I note that the Center Party does not intend to vote in favour of any of the reservations relating to the long-term ownership of the infrastructure part. In part, it concerns security policy aspects but also the conditions in rural areas, where you may find that you do not want the copper pipelines left on the hill and they disappear. Therefore, we believe that there is a value in the fact that the public has a greater influence on the infrastructure in general and that this should not be in commercial companies. In particular, it should not be on a listed company in the long term to decide which infrastructure should exist in rural areas or to be responsible for links with facilities of security policy interest. Just because some parts have been separated and this work has been started does not mean that the connections with copper wires disappear. This knowledge remains in a listed company, where other stakeholders could also take over majority voting. Therefore, there should be an interest in working for and looking at how to make a functional division of the company so that one gets away from this problem in the long term. There is also a proposal in the report we are dealing with here today to investigate it: how could we get away from this problem in the long term? Even if Telia has lifted some parts, the physical connections remain where they are, and then it should be interesting to at least look at it. But the Center Party does not even support the proposal to start such an investigation to look at such a division. Once again, Mr President, why does the Center Party not want to look at such a division in order to get away from the ownership of a telecommunications company in the long term?
i-G5qPzVhFJpocicXTEtqbgG	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much for the question. Actually, I can say that we are quite in agreement. Personally, I have nothing against selling parts of the government portfolio when required. I rather believe that the Swedish Democrats are perhaps more perverse for the state companies than the Center Party. As far as this particular section is concerned, I certainly think that this could be reviewed, but I need to have a discussion with my parliamentary group on this. It has become very clear to us recently that security policy issues are more important than we think, and I think we need to look at this in peace and quiet – just as we need to evaluate and look at, for example, the ownership of wind power. Today we see that large Chinese companies own quite large parts of the Swedish wind farm. What does it really mean for security policy in a future? So there are a lot of things you need to look at. We will certainly do that and come back, because the issue is very important.
i-XwPV3gmmDoVe2RJNB2q6j5	Mr President, I would like to The debate today is about last year's report on state-owned companies. The Government has submitted a letter explaining the management of the State's corporate ownership and the activities of the companies managed by the Government Office at the end of 2020/ 21. In the letter, the government states that it will actively manage the state's assets in the form of the shares of the companies with state ownership so that their value development and return will be the best possible, given a balanced risk-taking, and ensure that the specifically decided social mandates are carried out well. The Government states that in order to achieve this, it is important to give the companies the conditions and opportunities to develop and continue to compete in their markets. It also stresses the importance of the state being an active, professional owner with a focus on long-term value creation. The government also notes that increased globalisation, technological development and competition have changed the conditions for a number of state-owned companies. As a consequence, the state-owned corporate portfolio has changed significantly over time. For the State as owner, it includes examining the reasons for continued state ownership as well as considering the different roles and orientations of the companies. The Government argues that the focus on many of the companies' activities and community assignments justifies that the state continues to be a significant shareholder. The Left Party broadly agrees with the government in this regard. Mr President, I would like to Yesterday, I and several members of the committee attended the meeting of the Transport Committee with the Minister for Economic Affairs and the CEO of SJ. There were questions about the disruptions suffered by train traffic due to the new planning system or the scheduling system, which is now being used. It was actually called the heart-lung exchange at the meeting yesterday. I understand that a new system and changes always lead to run-in disturbances. But when you hear from staff how their schedules can be changed at short notice and how their puzzle with the family becomes impossible, it doesn't feel like the company had the trade unions with when major business changes were made. Well, it may be that sick leave and the pandemic have caused further trouble. But I am equally convinced that the liberalisation of rail transport has led to a lot of work that has been done in the past on prevention. Mr President, I would like to Back to the hearing yesterday. I asked the Minister for Economic Affairs whether the ownership dialogue has any significance for the governance of state-owned companies. The answer was, of course, that it is of great importance and that the government is following developments in the companies and asking questions about relevant things that are going on. That's it! It is certainly important and forward-looking talks that are being conducted. The other week, however, I listened to Ali Ali's interpellation debate with the Minister for Economic Affairs on SAS – how they dismiss staff, how recruitment of staff takes place via staffing and via SAS Ireland, how the right to re-employment is compromised and so on. The question put by my colleague, Ali, was: Should the state, as a major owner of SAS, roar when everything is so clearly done to circumvent the Swedish model, which should be a parade branch for the current Minister of Economic Affairs? The answer given by the Government was that SAS is a listed company where we are a minority owner and cannot influence the operational activities. Here I must agree with the Minister that our potential for influence is limited. However, it is also worth recalling that the taxpayer went in with several hundred million in capital injections to SAS. The terms and conditions for raising capital were strict and quantitative requirements for reducing emissions, as expressed by the government when the aid was presented. However, we did not hear anything about how this government views the Swedish model – unfortunately, it can well be said. Mr President, I would like to I'll leave SAS and return to SJ. What bothers me and the Left Party somewhere is how when questions are asked about the government's governance of the companies, the answer is that the state appoints owner representatives. It refers to owner directives and general meetings and to the continuous dialogue of owners. But what is also said is that you comply with the Companies Act, and it is the same as for privately owned companies. I fully agree with the interpretation of the law. However, I know both the owners of small limited companies and the owners of a little larger limited liability companies, and I can guarantee that if the owner thinks that the company is doing something that he does not think follows the owner's intentions or the values associated with the company, the chairman and CEO will probably, if the owner does not happen to be the same, be called to a dialogue meeting quite immediately. And I think that's where the company's focus will be clarified to the chairman and the CEO. Mr President, I would like to There is, of course, a lot to be said about when it comes to companies that are supposed to provide essential functions, ranging from the transport of goods or people to aircraft, a potech, cheese, car testing, electricity supply, companies that process and exploit our natural resources and much more. There is every reason, with the transformation taking place in society, to look at what our companies that we own together can do to facilitate or speed up the road to the welfare country without fossil emissions that the government is so keen to talk about. We cannot expect the citizens of society to change and do their utmost to contribute as much as they can if their everyday lives are destroyed by high electricity prices or high fuel prices, just to mention a few things where some of the citizens pay a huge price. Mr President, I would like to I will conclude by saying, of course, that I support all our reservations. But I only call for the approval of one who somehow gives a picture that should permeate the state's ownership. It is reservation 12, where it is stated that, for example, the social benefit should always be the focus of the ownership strategy while the companies operate economically efficiently.
i-KBdxLS3cyYGy4oydjQ4pMt	Mr President, I would like to Christian democracy is based on the principle of governance and subsidiarity. This means that the state should not do everything, especially things that others can do better. The Swedish state currently owns 46 companies. We should consider whether all these activities are really suitable for having the state as owner, as we Christian Democrats believe that the focus should be on the core business of welfare. The fact that the state operates a number of companies in competitive markets, without clear social mandates, must be called into question in this light. Moreover, the great advantages of private enterprise call for strong reasons for the state to be a player in markets where it sets its own rules of play. At best, state ownership may mean that taxpayers earn a penny, but there is also a risk that they will have to raise capital as it has had to be made to Green Cargo, for example. In the longer term, it is bad for the economy, and the taxpayer, when the state steps in as a player and distorts functioning markets. It risks creating negative effects when companies owned by the State can act aggressively and even offer lower prices than privately owned companies that have different yield requirements and lack corresponding access to capital. That is why we Christian Democrats believe that a government should work to limit the state's ownership to companies that have special social functions or that manage assets that are of particular national interest. For that to happen, we believe that a new government is needed. Mr President, I would like to The Christian Democrats have previously proposed, among other things, a structural deal that includes a number of state-owned companies to secure nationally important internet infrastructure. The transaction would, among other things, mean that the state will sell its holding in Telia but will completely take over the ownership of Skanova. We have also pointed out that ownership in SAS should be reviewed in the light of the fact that the company is operating in a competitive market but at the same time has an important role in Swedish passenger transport. We Christian Democrats have listed a number of state-owned companies that should be given priority for sales during the next term of office. Sales processes are extensive and complex, and therefore priority should be given to those companies that are considered to be particularly market-distorting. I choose to go in a little bit of a picture of who this is and why. Let's start with Svevia. Basically everything the company offers can today be offered by privately owned alternatives. A report last year indicates that the company has underpriced its offers to the Swedish Transport Administration while at the same time suffering losses. SBAB is another company. Although Sweden is in need of stronger competition between banks, SBAB does not perform a unique function in the Swedish mortgage market that justifies continued ownership. For example, the company has no special mandate to press mortgage rates on the market or to offer start-up loans to first-time buyers. Infranord: Since the company broke out of Banverket, railway maintenance has been procured, and competitors exist. There is no particular reason why the company should remain in state ownership. Green Cargo: Sweden has been notified to the European Commission by competing companies because of the capital injection made in the 2021 budget when this was considered to distort competition. There is a risk that the company's dominant position on the market, combined with the lack of profitability, will hinder the development of the sector. The last thing we've listed is Jernhusen. The company should not be divested in its entirety, but it should gradually sell its properties. The urban development of neighbourhoods near train stations in which the company participates should be provided by private property developers, not taxpayers. Disposals should take place in the way that creates the greatest value for taxpayers and should primarily be used to reduce public debt. If the public debt is deemed to be at a sustainablely very low level, it can also be considered to distribute shares, or the proceeds from a sale, to households. The sales streamline the government's tasks, strengthen the resilience of the economy through lower public debt and create better functioning markets. That is a long-term gain for the household. Mr President, I would like to We Christian Democrats believe that it would be interesting to have a transparent review of the activities of state-owned companies in the form of internal developments that extend outwards and are taking place in competition with other actors. In this respect, we believe that all authorities should also review which activities are in competition with private companies. As I said, we do not believe that all state-owned companies should continue to be owned by the state. However, those which are still owned by the State should not, in any case, compete with private activities. I am in favour of reservation 3 in this report.
i-Ddpieeb4ACXY7urmtk2VWj	Mr President, I would like to I will make it very easy for Mrs Brodin of the Christian Democrats to give an answer. Is there any liberalisation that you think has failed in Sweden with everything that has happened? Is there any liberalisation that the Christian Democrats do not think was good?
i-CJF2nsmovmwCvnGWa9ozN3	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr Lahti, for the question. I think the honourable Member himself has something in mind where he thinks we should admit that something has gone wrong. If so, I would like to put the opposite question: what is the honourable Member's point?
i-SeXgKdUC6PF6a5JoNTLqCL	Mr President, I would like to I thought the Christian Democrats had a picture of the whole process. We have had liberalisations from the beginning of the 1990s with lots of activities that have been liberalised. I live in the countryside. I see what has hit the countryside. There are many things that would not work at all if we were not to have a government complaint. Yet, in the speech made by Christian Democrat Camilla Brodin, it sounds like there is much that needs to be further privatised. I'm just taking an example, because I don't think Camilla Brodin has that sort of thing in mind. LKAB was in a very bad position in the early 80s. If it had been privately owned, we would never have left any mining in Kiruna or Malmberget. I'm convinced of that. As there is a government owner who has a long-term perspective, it is still there today. It has delivered tens of billions after that to the state. There are many such activities that I could go into. I thought Camilla Brodin was safe and wanted to privatize further. I can ask you one more question. SCA is a privately owned company. Does it manage forests better than Sveaskog, which is a state-owned company?
i-Myt15t7jV9mdXbMe4STxsA	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the clarification from Mr Lahti. We Christian Democrats do not think that all the state companies that exist today should continue to be owned by the state. The state must give priority to what is important for society. There is a market out there where we see that private companies can do it better. We also see that the state is currently operating in an already functioning market and is putting away the bones of these companies. It is often established companies that mean an incredible amount in our sparsely populated areas and in rural areas. Svevia is one such example, which really knocks away the bones of these very companies. I can list a number of companies that we do not see as necessary for the state to own. We believe that we really need to look at what the state is supposed to do and what the state is supposed to do. When there are others who can do better, let private companies do it. The state isn't the best at everything. We're gonna make laws. We will ensure that we have good companies that are doing well and that ensure that the socially important infrastructure and tasks work. What Mr Lahti is raising here is just an attempt to get us Christian Democrats to take the issue in a completely different way. So thank you for the question, but I choose to stop there.
i-Y2iM1R1ay1sVf6sQZasBxk	Mr President, I would like to We are now debating the Committee on Economic Affairs' report on the 2021 report on state-owned companies. Liberals have several reservations, and we naturally support all of them. However, in order to save time, I will ask only for reservation 27. Let me begin by saying that there must always be a clear purpose for the state to own companies. The principle principle of the liberals is that the role of the state should normally be to define the framework and rules that apply to the business community and companies – not to own and operate companies. The State should therefore reduce or phase out its corporate ownership if such changes lead to better functioning markets or more efficient public services. The State must therefore only operate an undertaking in exceptional circumstances. Exceptional cases are therefore State-owned companies with a specific social mission. This means that in those state companies where there is both a social benefit and a competitive situation, these activities should be separated so that the state ownership in the commercial part is separated and decommissioned. Of course, all sales should be preceded by a thorough analysis that clearly explains which parts of the business should remain in government ownership for, among other reasons, strategic or security policy reasons. Other activities carried out for commercial purposes in a competitive market should then be divested. In short, only state-owned companies with a clear social benefit should be maintained in state ownership. Mr President, I would like to The central government's portfolio currently consists of 46 companies with a value of approximately SEK 700 billion. Are all these government companies for the benefit of society? No. Are they strategic for the state to own? No. Is there any reason for security policy to keep all these 46 companies? The answer to that is also no. So we have 46 companies with a value of 700 billion– I think you should let it sink in for a while. We therefore believe that the government should set up an audit commission to review the social benefits of state-owned companies with community assignments and which companies are strategically or politically important, in order to consider which companies should continue to be owned by the state. In addition, this broad review should include an analysis of the manner in which these companies compete with private companies. In addition, the divestment of companies that are not socially beneficial and are not strategic in any other way means that we are renouncing the tasks of the state and creating better functioning markets. Mr President, I would like to However, I can see that the state is and will continue to be a significant shareholder of the company. Against this background, I would like to state that the State is also a major landowner through its corporate ownership. The Liberals therefore consider that the State, in its role as owner of the company, should contribute to increasing the availability of buildable land. This does not, of course, apply to cases where land ownership has a bearing on protected natural interests or other activities of social interest. In this way, the Liberals believe that the State can complement the municipalities' responsibility to provide buildable land and enable an increased rate of production of housing and commercial premises. The government should therefore revise the ownership directives for state-owned companies that are landowners so that they are required to contribute to increasing the availability of buildable land. Furthermore, the Liberals believe that Sveaskog's forest holdings should be reduced by sales at market prices. Local ownership of the forest is beneficial for a living countryside. Liberals believe that it is possible to further increase the ambitions for the transfer of productive forest land from state to private ownership. That being said, the forest is a real treasure. Forests contribute with many different values, including as a common space for outdoor life and by combating climate change and preserving biodiversity. At the same time, the forest industry is one of Sweden's most important industries and crucial for Swedish exports. More forest needs to be protected, but smaller forest owners are often more successful in terms of the environmental objectives of forest management than the major forest owners. Mr President, I would like to Liberals believe that the gambling market needs to be regulated in order to counter abuse and gambling addiction. As the online gambling market is international, more initiatives are also needed at EU level to curb abuse. With the re-regulation of the Swedish gambling market, the state has a clearer and more important role in overseeing the gambling market than has previously been the case, and this in a market where the state itself participates. But there must be a clear demarcation of the state's behaviour, on the one hand, on the competitive side and on the other, where there is still a monopoly. We therefore believe that AB Svenska Spel's various activities should be separated from each other so that games that are still reserved, such as land-based casinos and VLTs, continue to be conducted under Svenska Spel's direction. However, there is no reason for the state to act in the competitive gaming market via Svenska Spel with other types of games. The Liberals therefore believe that Svenska Spel should be divided into two different companies: a company under the wing of the state and a private company. Mr President, I would like to The same applies to Telia Company AB, where the state is a major shareholder. Telia has become anything but a telecom company. Today, the company is more of an entertainment company, or a content company, with a wide range of activities. Telia now also owns Bonnier Broadcasting, which includes TV4 and C More. There may be strategic and security-politically important elements in Telia over which the government will continue to have control, and there has been a comprehensive analysis of what a reduced ownership of the company would mean. But there was never any analysis of a functional division of activities into two parts and what this would look like. There would be two parts, where the state continues to have control over strategic and security policy important parts, such as networks, but where parts such as the telecoms part and not least the content part, including TV4 for example, will be disposed of. The Liberals believe that the government should initiate such an investigation. Finally, Mr President, the state should only operate companies in exceptional circumstances. There must be a clear purpose for the state to own companies. In a well-functioning market economy, the state makes laws, makes decisions on taxes and carries out government duties. If, at the same time, the State competes with private companies on the market, the roles are mixed together. The state monopoly will be dismantled and the state's ownership of companies will continue to be reduced.
i-PYKFp7QkAvkXEdxaBThLXZ	Mr President, I would like to I put the same question to Mr Teimouri and try to get a better answer than the Christian Democrats. Is there any liberalisation in Sweden that the Liberals regard as a failure? With all the market experiments that we've been through in everything from school to care and with the decommissioning of parts of the state's corporate ownership, is there something that the Liberals see and think that this didn't turn out really well?
i-YBK2WFdTodNmaKeWxX8WSq	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Birger Lahti, for your question! The simple answer to that question would be no, but it is not that simple. There is, of course, a large palette of challenges when a company goes from having been state owned to becoming private. That does not mean that it is something that is bad – on the contrary, I would say. But when one comes out in a competitive market, there are elements that need to be improved and that take longer, sharing where one has not had the same culture within the state company and so on. Then, of course, as I also mentioned in my speech, there are things that can have security policy or strategic aspects. The State shall continue to own the companies there. Having said that, however, very many of these 46 companies and these 700 billion are now in the hands of the state which could instead be on the private market. The question is really how the Left Party views the parts where there are competitors in the private market. Is the government supposed to run a company? I can ask Birger Lahti that question. Is it the primary responsibility of the state to do this when there are no socially important tasks?
i-H4XYHUsMYdrFc9qdEFfNKT	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question from Liberal Teimouri. Absolutely, there are lots of companies where the state should be involved. First of all, if you make money somewhere, is it wrong that the state is making money? It was the state that took responsibility when the pandemic struck. Then everyone stood with their hat in hand, and the state was sitting with black elephants. Is it wrong that the government is making money? A typical example is LKAB, which has raised billions to the Treasury. They would not have existed if a liberal party had ruled Sweden when the crisis struck in the early 80s. Sveaskog is another. I asked the Christian Democrats if they think private companies are doing the best job in a competitive market. I asked if SCA manages the forest better than Sveaskog. I have nothing against SCA in it; I just wanted to ask if SCA manages the forest better than Sveaskog. There are lots of companies where I think it is important that the state is on the track. It should really be the state that runs all companies that extract and exploit our natural resources. Having said that, I have still not received a complete answer. You think everything has been fine, Arman Teimouri, with a liberal approach to liberalising all markets. There is nothing you can point out that has failed in Sweden. Thank you for that answer. Of course, I'll take that with me into the election campaign.
i-NMkVJkatYLBZzZiByxum7J	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased that we can debate these issues in the electoral movement as well. I'm a little surprised. I know it is the Left Party's view of companies and their role in society, but to say that they stood with their hat in hand when the pandemic struck, I would say, is quite remarkable. I think that it is very much a question here that entrepreneurs, like many others, pay taxes to the state. Then they also expected support when we ended up in this situation. But to get back to your question, Birger Lahti: When it comes to state ownership of companies, we in the Liberals do not believe that the state should enter competitive markets where there is no social mission. Where there is no security policy sensitive information or strategic elements, the state should not be present. There are many others who drive it much better. We have many good examples of this which we must also take with us. It is not always very bad, as the Left Party thinks, when the state gives up its ownership. On the contrary, companies in the market often do things much better than the state precisely because they are companies and know what they are doing. The state does not always have the same experience.
i-NTtiAyXvWsEiWLG71DNjYf	Mr President, I would like to In these contagion times, there will be some new faces in the debates. I will try to do the Green Party's policy in the area of justice in the absence of Amanda Palmstiera. Mr President, I would like to Expectations of state-owned companies are rightly high. We in the Green Party would like to highlight some of the expectations we have, namely the following: The state-owned companies will contribute to the transformation. They shall have scientifically based climate targets and plans. State-owned companies that source their revenues from Sápmi's natural resources should return part of their profits to Sápmi. If there is foreign business in the companies, they need to take into account the impact on water, energy and food safety where they operate. Even smaller companies have to change – Almi Business Partners should provide better support for that. The Green Party believes that state-owned companies should contribute to the transformation. These companies must be steered in a climate and environmentally sustainable direction. Vattenfall, LKAB, SAS, Postnord and Sveaskog account for 99 percent of the emissions in the government portfolio. In the ownership policy, the government has decided that the companies should be an example in their industry and work towards achieving the environmental quality goals and the Paris Agreement. There are, as I said, justifiably high expectations. In order to achieve this, the government needs to develop and intensify governance so that the wording on sustainability really has an impact. All state-owned companies should have scientifically based climate targets and climate plans that take them to the targets. The climate can't wait. The Environmental Party would like SJ to have a community mission to promote increased rail travel in Sweden and to important cities in our neighbouring countries, including increased night rail traffic and direct lines to other parts of Europe. The Green Party wants state Swedavia to work for reduced air travel and for the government to commission Visit Sweden in its marketing of Sweden as a tourist destination to focus on markets close to us in order to reduce flying. The Environmental Party wants to change Sveaskog's owner directives as well as Fastighetsverket's and Fortificationsverket's regulatory letters so that all state forest owners move towards forestry without giant kerbs where felling methods are adapted to create space for greater biodiversity and carbon storage. We want to develop Almi Företagspartner's mission to provide support for the transition of smaller companies in order to help small industries and companies reduce their climate impact. Small companies sometimes have insufficient resources to cope with the transition to fossil-free and circular on their own and need better support to switch. The Green Party also wants the government to mandate state-owned companies to pay particular attention to the impact on water, energy and food safety in their foreign activities. When planetary limit conditions for greenhouse gas emissions are exceeded, when we suffer loss of biodiversity and when the nitrogen cycle comes out of balance, it has consequences for water, energy and food. Measures to safeguard one of these needs must be designed in such a way that it does not put other needs at a disadvantage. Mr President, I would like to Throughout history, the Swedish state has used natural resources in Sápmi. It is resources that have built and continue to build Sweden richly. In addition to giving the Sami more influence over how natural resources are used in the future – which will now be possible with the consultation order decided by the Riksdag next week – revenue from the state companies needs to contribute more to the development of Sami society. State companies drawing their revenues from Sápmi's natural resources should allocate a share of their profits annually to finance the management and development of Sami society, language and culture. Other companies whose activities have a significant impact on Sápmi's natural resources should also contribute. In conclusion, the Green Party sees state-owned companies as important role models in the transition towards a fossil-free and circular economy, which acts as role models in terms of both climate and respect for human rights in all situations. Mr President, I would like to We in the Green Party support all our reservations, but for time-winning I only call for reservation 14, which includes how state companies should contribute to the transformation and that those who draw profits from Sápmi's natural resources should dedicate part of their profits to supporting Sami society.
i-NBeoG3ukcAeM2xthkAYaQt	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Camilla Hansén, for your speech. I have a brief question for Mr Hansén. The state-owned company Vattenfall has quite a responsibility to ensure that Swedish society provides energy to all users. Now, together with the Social Democrats, the Green Party has ensured that Vattenfall has closed down two of our major nuclear power plants, Ringhals 1 and 2, with the result that electricity prices are now astronomically high. Does the honourable Member, Camilla Hansén, think that it is a wise decision to allow companies and individuals to pay astronomically high energy prices instead of investing in fossil-free alternatives, such as nuclear energy is still classified as?
i-7jKZsbq2Z5qXVXLwskv8VR	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Elisabeth Björnsdotter, for the question! These reactors were shut down because it was not considered profitable at the time to make the necessary investments in them. Electricity prices are created in a European market. The Green Party sees no intrinsic value in astronomical electricity prices. Electricity and energy extraction, however, is always something that affects the environment. The Green Party will not see nuclear power as a sustainable type of energy. We need to find other ways to get the stability in the electricity market that Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm is calling for. It's about energy efficiency. In fact, we cannot afford to spend energy that we can use for other purposes. It is also about renewable and sustainable energy sources. Nuclear power will not be a sustainable form of energy in the long term. This is partly about mining, partly about the risks during the time spent using nuclear power, and partly about the fact that there are no ready-made solutions for disposal. What we want is to change, so that you can have reasonable electricity prices with sustainable energy sources.
i-KGW1yZZepjQ5kNFViRbXPb	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Camilla Hansén, for your answer! We are seeing a growing labour market in Sweden right now. This also means that energy consumption is increasing significantly. The eyes turn north, for which I as a Westerner am grateful. This means that we have a huge need, of course, for sustainable and renewable energy. This does not mean, however, that we can shut down two nuclear power plants as we cannot replace nuclear power with sustainable energy production today, at a time when we need energy so badly. That is why, of course, we need to meet halfway when it comes to finding renewable energy and being able to phase out nuclear energy – yes, perhaps. But we are not there yet, and that is why I believe that we cannot shut down nuclear power until we have a sustainable alternative. So I would ask Camilla Hansén once again: does Camilla Hansén think it is reasonable that both companies and individuals should pay such astronomical sums for their electricity bills today, just because we cannot provide a reasonable amount of energy for the consumption we need?
i-MsQU8z5gaxSjaAC99nJSMn	Mr President, I would like to I do not believe that astronomical electricity prices have an intrinsic value. On the other hand, you have to pay for emissions. Nevertheless, I am pleased to hear that the Moderates are opening the way for the phasing out of nuclear power, which is met with renewable energy. I, who do not go into these matters every day because I do not sit in this committee, do not know any reactors that are facing immediate closure. But there are certainly others in this House who know this better. What we know is that we produce a lot of energy in Sweden. We know that people are in line to build wind turbines along Sweden's coasts. There is enormous potential here. We also know – and as far as I understand, nobody disagrees about this – that the transfer of energy between different parts of the country is not enough. We must have reasonable electricity prices, and we must also have reasonable energy sources, that is, renewable energy sources that give us stability into the future. I also think that what we need to do now when we support households, industries and businesses is to help to switch to sustainable energy in their houses and properties, to do additional insulation or whatever is needed in different ways. This is how we reduce dependence on European electricity prices.
i-5V8hAwsNP9XGQFZLSGKwky	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by saying that it is extremely honourable to be standing here for the very first time today. A week ago, I was also at my first meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs. It's a little nervous, but I'll give my first speech. Our state-owned companies are something we should be proud of. We own the companies together. It is we, the Swedish people, who own them together, and it is our task to manage them by being an active and responsible owner in a professional way. In this way, we contribute to the value creation of the companies, and this has meant that the state has received more resources and thus been able to invest in increased pensions and more police officers and make investments in welfare. The state's companies are located throughout the country and form a significant part of Swedish business. Sweden also follows the OECD's corporate and management principles and guidelines. Central government companies include important activities such as high-tech research, telecoms, properties adapted for community services, growth capital, cultural experiences and meaningful work for people with disabilities. It is the Board of Directors of these companies that has operational and strategic responsibility, and it is the Government that is responsible for governance through ownership dialogue and directives. Ultimately, it is we in this House who are responsible and set the framework. We have a total of 46 state-owned companies, of which 22 have specifically decided community assignments. A total of 135 000 people are employed and the value is SEK 700 billion. It is a steady increase of over 100 billion in recent years. The value of our companies has thus been a good deal for the Swedish people, despite the tough times we have all experienced during the pandemic and are still in. We have also received over 300 billion in dividends since the turn of the millennium and nearly 200 billion in the last ten years alone. All companies have delivered dividends over the last decade. Among other things, it has gone to health care, school and care. The state-owned companies must be at the forefront of sustainable entrepreneurship with a healthy and safe working environment. We must have high standards, work for gender equality and show examples in responsibility. The Swedish National Audit Office has also pointed out that, it is clear that the state strives to be an active and professional owner in the area of sustainable business. Mr President, I would like to Research has shown that a diversity of people with different experiences and a gender balanced board is a win-win situation. State-owned companies are also an example of this. For the third year in a row, state-owned companies have a higher proportion of women than men on boards and a significantly higher proportion of women as CEO than private companies. Here our state-owned companies are far ahead of the private market, and this would not have happened without a Social Democratic-led government. Mr President, I would like to In the report we are debating today, we are dealing with the Government's letter on the 2021 declaration of state-owned companies. We are dealing with 32 reservations, 9 specific opinions and some sixty requests from the general period of exercise. I support the committee's proposal and reject the motions. As I mentioned earlier, approximately half of the companies are run with specifically decided community assignments that are important for culture and research, such as Rise, Dramaten and SSC for the Esrange space base. For most of the assignments, the companies operate entirely commercially and in fully competitive markets. Let me mention some additional companies in the state's holdings: Apoteket, LKAB, SBAB, Vattenfall and Almi Företagspartner, as well as Almi Invest, which operates through venture capital across Sweden, which is extremely important and often crucial for the supply of capital, which does not always function optimally outside our metropolitan regions. There is also Saminvest, for capital through funds. Sweden's forest is also an important resource, a large part of Swedish industry and a renewable export. Our total forest industry employs well over 100,000 people, and for each tree harvested three new ones are planted. Our forest holdings have had a steady increase for many years. In fact, we have twice as much forest now as 100 years ago. Here is Sveaskog, Sweden's largest forest owner, in government ownership, with great responsibility for our biodiversity. Mr President, I would like to We are now seeing a gigantic green transition throughout Sweden, and I am pleased to see the development we have in Norrland, where investments of over 1 000 billion are expected in the coming decades. Some have even estimated investments at over 2 000 billion with all the surrounding industries that will be needed. Labour will be needed. Companies are in line for establishment, and it is gratifying that our state-owned companies Vattenfall and LKAB have a large part in this green industrial conversion to produce fossil-free steel. LKAB has employees in twelve countries with 4,500 employees. 80% of all ore delivered within the EU comes from northern Sweden. The company is also at the forefront in terms of sustainability, which is at the core, but also in terms of digitalisation, innovation and research. Together with SSAB, Hybrid was formed, which already in August last year produced the world's first fossil-free steel, which is also already delivered to the customer. Former Prime Minister Stefan Löfven spoke in SVT at the opening ceremony about an epoch shift in the Swedish steel industry. 10% of Sweden's carbon dioxide emissions will be affected by this. A hydrogen storage plant will also be an important part of planned production. Wind power, both land-based and offshore, is extremely important for Sweden's companies and is growing rapidly. In fact, if we take 2015 as a reference, wind power will now deliver more than twice as much as Ringhals 1 and 2. Within two years, wind power will be the second largest energy source, and together with hydrogen storage this will be particularly interesting. Discussions also often raise the question of how active ownership should be and how far the state as owner should be inside and poke in the company. Today's governance is well balanced and wise, and the companies are run by professional boards with high competence. The end in itself also often comes up in debates. It is not an end in itself for the state to own companies, but does the company fulfil a function with special social tasks or if it is good for the Swedish people as a good investment or important from a safety point of view, it is a bad decision to dispose of it, if only for pure ideology. Some parties want to sell everything that does not have community assignments, others want to sell virtually everything and others have a mix. Mr President, I would like to As I began by saying, our state-owned companies are a good asset for all citizens. The annual report that we can read today clearly shows this. We Social Democrats believe that our state-owned companies are a security, a growth engine and a forerunner in gender equality and sustainability. In this way they contribute to the welfare of the whole of Sweden, for us and for future generations.
i-LDCSciNvpqp8X9hD2fB8Gb	Mr President, I would like to I was going to dwell a little on a specific company, namely Vattenfall. The Social Democrats often point out that it is the market that does not want to invest in nuclear energy and that it has nothing to do with politics or political pressure. One might well think about the extent to which this applies to Vattenfall. When the Social Democratic government presented its first budget bill after the 2014 elections, it wrote: Vattenfall's plans to prepare for the construction of new nuclear power are discontinued. ..................................................... During the last parliamentary term, the Social Democratic Government raised the impact tax several times, which struck only against nuclear power. When the early closure of Ringhals 1 and 2 was in place, minority owners or others were not given the opportunity to operate the reactors further. In the near future, it has also emerged that the former Green Party's energy policy spokesperson, who was a member of the Government's Energy Commission, has stated that the Social Democrats, together with the Green Party, agreed that Vattenfall would not spend money on new nuclear power and that the change of course would take place through informal governance whereby members of the Company's Board of Directors would be replaced. One might well wonder whether this is not political pressure. It affects which road Vattenfall chooses to move forward. It would be interesting to know how Mr Frimert views this and what he would like to call it, if it is not political pressure.
i-HS9R47cccNpfApUQpmCxrS	Mr President, I would like to Yes, it often sounds in the debate as if it is the fault of the Social Democrats or the Green Party. I would like to make it clear to the honourable Member that the nuclear power plants that have been shut down have not been closed down by political decisions. Only last year, Mattias Bäckström Johansson confirmed here in the speaker's chair that it was not a question of political decisions. It was decisions made by Eon, Uniper, and Vattenfall. As the honourable Member says, we had an energy agreement with the Moderates, where the waste fund was improved. The nuclear tax was decided to remove in 2016. However, it was raised twice by the former bourgeois government. This time it was just a penny it was all about. Nothing affected the closure. I would also like to make it clear that it is perfectly possible to build new nuclear power stations, but no party has put it in a budget, nor any market player. However, in order to balance this with the solution of nuclear power, I would like to remind you of something that may not be directly related to the subject. I would like to remind you that things have happened. We have had 46 serious incidents in nuclear power plants. We've had Chernobyl, and we've had Fukushima. It is estimated that the cost of restoring everything is approximately 7,000 billion.
i-N68nmgFPGaxehokyXNFcE6	Mr President, I would like to With regard to commercialism, it is difficult to blame someone other than the government for raising the impact tax. The government went ahead with it, and it also affected the decision to close prematurely. Here you stand, ralliing around Chernobyl. This will probably have a rather poor understanding of what is happening in our nuclear reactors and what nuclear safety there is. If you have that entrance, I understand why the Social Democrats are returning to the wrong place. This is what happens when facts and science are not part of the decisions you make. In my speech, which I made earlier, I also highlighted the distressing fact that Vattenfall is now purchasing nuclear fuel from Russian Tvel. This has happened without intervention from the Social Democrats or the government, to which the Swedish Democrats have been critical. Within the company group we are now buying nuclear fuel from, Putin's nuclear weapons are also being produced for defence purposes. This is now being done with coverage grants from State Waterfall. In this report, the Swedish Democrats propose that the government return to Parliament with a security policy analysis in connection with Vattenfall's business with Tvel. This is something against which the Social Democrats are opposed. I wonder, Mr President, why the Social Democrats and the honourable Member do not believe that a safety policy analysis is justified when a Swedish state company buys nuclear fuel from the same company operating Putin's nuclear weapons.
i-8fXdfgfMk6xZv1na3rbBSk	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mattias Bäckström, for the question! I'll come back to the nuclear incidents a little later. We take security policy very seriously. Therefore, the government has invested more in defence than any other government has for decades. This is also why we are critical of SD's willingness to sell, for example, Telia Company, which the defense clearly dismissed. As far as energy is concerned, developments have shown that Russia is using the means it can. This is why the new electricity support is important. The reason for electricity prices is therefore Putin's distortion of natural gas taps, which affects the whole of Europe. We believe that security policy considerations are important for state-owned companies. That is why I am pleased to support a government that takes the issues seriously and does not sit on Putin's lap, as a right-wing policy across Europe does. We are therefore taking this seriously. I would like to remind the honourable Member that in 2018 Jimmie Åkesson did not know who he preferred, whether it was Macron or Putin. The honourable Member is right that the state corporate portfolio needs to be reviewed in the light of the security policy situation. But I've read the Member's motion. Nuclear fuel is not mentioned. It is simply not true that SD is the only party that has a position on the matter. Regarding incidents, I have gone through it because in my previous life I have worked a little in the electricity industry. There have been quite a few incidents. Nevertheless, I think that is something to be taken on board. Even now, in the last few days, we've seen drones over nuclear power plants. There have been a total of 46 major incidents, and Ringhals 2 was closed for almost two years. The honourable Member claims that nuclear power is planable, as you say. But I also say that it can be extremely unpredictable.
i-DpLjdXnYt4Bh9Sck8d3aQF	Mr President, I would like to I would like to welcome Mr Frimert to the Industry Committee and to our first debate – it is not going to be the last one, I suppose. I pressed the button because I jumped to when the honourable Member said that it was because of the Social Democratic Government that the proportion of women is high in the state-owned companies. That's something I can think of. Have the state-owned companies only existed for the last seven or eight years? Is that what the honourable Member is referring to? The honourable Member then highlights the development in Norrland, for which I am pleased. This will create a great many jobs and a great deal of tax revenue. But then we need energy. In principle, we need twice as much energy as we produce today. At present, there is no plan for how we can double our energy production. Instead, nuclear power is being put down that could cover a large part of the energy needs we have today.
i-4cHYXp859xaCzx6T9pfrXK	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm, for the questions. I have heard these debates for a while from the other side, not up here from the speaker's seat. It's actually getting a little unserious. You keep saying that we have shut down nuclear power. We are not the ones who have shut down nuclear power. It's strange that you keep pushing it like it's gonna be a mantra. It's Uniper, Eon and Vattenfall that put it down. And they did it on a profitability basis. Despite trying to change their minds in this House, and despite pressuring the media to change their minds, they abandoned nuclear power. As far as the green changeover is concerned, it is fantastic. There are applications in Sweden for approximately 500 terawatt hours when it comes to sea wind power. We have 350 terawats only in southern Sweden that apply precisely to sea wind power. What is needed, of course, is a better core network. But we have a tremendous asset in being able to use this.
i-4tHAABz2QVMxMJq9H5K3rW	Mr President, I would like to I understand that Mr Frimert is tired of hearing the argument about the closure of nuclear power, but it was actually State Vattenfall that was responsible for the closure of Ringhals 1 and 2. It's a state-owned company, and it's the state that controls it. And the government, which is governed by the Social Democrats and the Green Party, is responsible for the state companies. Therefore, I do not understand that Mr Frimert thinks that such a claim can be avoided. Then I would like to talk about what we have been discussing and which I made in my speech on the decommissioning of state-owned companies. Like the honourable Member said, it is perhaps mainly about ideology. It is not a question of seeing how efficiency, profit and development can stand for something else instead of keeping a state company just because of ideology. I would rather see a market and a developing economy with competition on equal terms than have an industry based on ideology.
i-Y7cVPYLu7CYVeWh4EwuV17	Mr President, I would like to There is, of course, always a need to review state ownership in order to ensure that the companies perform a function. But we see it as problematic, just as Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm raised, that you usually want to sell successful companies for purely ideological reasons. Companies like us play an important role. Most people have an important function in society, and we get a good return from them. As I began my speech, it is EUR 200 billion over the last ten years. Then it must be a good investment for the Swedish people, for our school, for our police, for welfare and for health care. If I come back to nuclear power again, which Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm often lifts and which will be your mantra in this election movement, it feels like, was also Uniper one of the owners of Ringhals, if the honourable Member does not know about it. They had no different opinion. Other nuclear power plants have been shut down in Sweden, as other owners, e.g. German Eon, have been involved. I find it difficult to understand why you make it as if you are against the planned wind power that is the future. You are against renewables. It is also like a mantra, as if only nuclear power is involved. We have six nuclear power plants. In fact, we were among the first to build nuclear power in the world, and those that were originally shut down were old. Both Ringhals 1 and 2 have had extremely serious incidents, as I told a Member earlier. As I said, it was down 46 times in the last 40 years. As I said earlier, nuclear power is a major part of our energy mix and will last for a long time. But now that we see the green revolution and how companies are queuing up to come here and invest in green energy with the ocean wind that is a success, I actually think that the moderate-led municipalities must get in the collar and allow the processes to move forward.
i-oREGE3WfzFq3PNBLhDcfV	Mr President, I would like to I would also like to begin by welcoming Anders Frimert to the Committee on Economic Affairs. It has been interesting to listen to the honourable Member's speech here today. I did not intend to take a line, but when I listened to the Member at the end it sounded almost as if all the state companies are a gift from above and that everything is really great with all state companies. One example I take up and look at here is the state-owned company Svevia. It is today Trafikverket's largest supplier, but it is also because you price you rather hard. The biggest deviation that we were able to see in a report last year is a bid of SEK 262 million where the closest competitor's bid was SEK 461 million. It is therefore an incredibly unfair price dumping on a market by a state-owned company. It is not that I believe that the honourable Member may have been familiar with exactly all the issues, but is it really the task of the state to turn its back on the private players who are trying to survive in a functioning market?
i-KVQMdusABwQGdTwk3KNh5N	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mrs Brodin, from the Christian Democrats. As I said, I think there is a difference between how the bourgeois think and how we Social Democrats think. I have the pragmatic view that this is a good investment for the Swedish people, and we have clearly seen this in our state-owned companies. They have thus increased from 560 billion when the honourable Member stood here two years ago to over 700 billion today, and that is for the benefit of the Swedish people. Svevia is a company that started in 2020, I think, and the main reason why it would be registered was to increase the conditions for competition neutrality and eliminate the grounds for suspicion of cross-subsidisation and thus increase productivity in the electricity market. If it is that you feel neglected or something, then we have both the Competition Authority and the EU. A former Member here mentioned Green Cargo. That matter is already settled, and it means that the state does not pay out the money, if it is now included in the media.
i-jGi8aSbSVhfP5mn8RvesJ	Mr President, I would like to I thank the honourable Member for his reply. Should I interpret this as saying that the Social Democrats think it is perfectly okay to dump prices in this way and allow the part of the company that has been involved in the procurements to go with a severe deficit? I do not think that this is a fair way of running companies at all, and I certainly do not hope that this is what we should do for taxpayers, that is to make unsound money in an already competitive market. I am a little perplexed if it is such an approach that is advocated. That is my continuing question.
i-Ckd3puTrQosZmn7FrAdPxt	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Camilla Brodin! Svevia is a fully competitive company that competes on the same terms as everyone else. It's lucky it's not the other way. As the honourable Member may know, Svevia and the company were founded during Arento by the bourgeois-led government in 2008. It would be conducted on the market, which meant that you wanted to bring up competition on the market. Furthermore, the company has never received any additions, which means that the company must do something extremely good. As I say, if there are companies that distort competition in an unsympathetic way, we have regulations in both Sweden and the EU. I highlighted the example of Green Cargo, where the company was right and everything worked. I am pleased that we have the Competition Authority which ultimately ensures what is demanded, namely the interests of the companies.
