i-XVP4JRJw5B2gkgT349hjGS	Madam President, I would like The security situation in Europe remains very serious. Russia wages an indiscriminate war of aggression against Ukraine. It is an act that is unprovoked, illegal and indefensible. Sweden and the EU have condemned Russia's invasion of Ukraine in the strongest possible terms and have responded with historically far-reaching sanctions against the Russian government and its economic interests. At the same time, Ukraine is demonstrating resilience and great courage in its defence. Of course, they have every right to defend themselves against the Russian invasion in accordance with international law. The government continues to push for further sanctions against Russia and for the sanctions already decided upon by the EU to be implemented in a way that has the intended effect. Sweden has been providing substantial financial and humanitarian support to Ukraine for a long time, as well as support to strengthen Ukraine's resilience, including in the military field. Since the invasion began, the government has announced an increase in humanitarian aid. On 28 February, the Parliament decided in broad agreement to assist Ukraine with military equipment and to make a financial contribution to the Ukrainian Central Bank's fund in support of the country's armed forces. The Swedish Parliament has also supported the fact that Sweden guarantees loans from the International Reconstruction and Development Bank to Ukraine of approximately SEK 600 million. But the images that we see of the devastation in Ukraine of all civilian victims and targets that have been devastated speak clearly. Ukraine will need substantial support from us and the rest of the world for a long time to come. This was also one of all the important messages that President Zelenskyj had for us when he spoke here in Parliament today. The humanitarian, economic and military support that Sweden has provided has been done in cooperation and coordination with the EU and the EU Member States to help Ukraine in the best possible way while taking into account our own defence capabilities. Today we are taking a position on the report by the Committee on Finance on further support for Ukraine, and the proposal is as follows: Now, as in previous decisions, the government's proposal is carefully balanced. In addition to supporting Ukraine, it is about doing what best protects Sweden and Sweden's people's security. For Russia's invasion is not only a threat to Ukraine, it is a threat to the whole democratic and European security regime and therefore also to Sweden's security regime. This also means that, in addition to sanctions against Russia and supporting Ukraine, we must strengthen Sweden in many ways in the future. That is why I also welcome the agreement that has been made to strengthen Swedish defence in the near future. Madam President, I would like This is a clear statement that we will continue to support Ukraine together with the rest of the EU Member States. All the parties in Parliament have shown a great deal of cooperation in order to be able to make this decision quickly, and I am very pleased that a united Committee on Finance has now supported the proposal. I really want to thank everyone involved for that. I am convinced that the broad political consensus at this stage is something that serves Sweden well in this serious situation. With that, Madam President, I support the proposal in the report.
i-BLeHxGKBNBHJgCGf2Qjgy7	Madam President, I would like Russia's war against Ukraine has now been going on for a month and a day of destruction and death. The Europe we woke up to on 24 February 2022 will affect our continent and our security for decades. There will be a time before and a time after this. Mr Putin can be said to have had three goals with his invasion: to crush a democratic and independent Ukraine, to make Russia strong again and to divide the EU and NATO. In all these areas Putin has failed. What we see is an impressive resilience of the people of Ukraine. Where Russia might have thought that red carnations would be thrown against the soldiers, Molotov cocktails are thrown by people who are in opposition to danger and show great will and courage. Russia is completely isolated. The sanctions bite, and the morals fail. The EU and NATO are more united than ever and are clearly behind measures against Russia. Madam President, I would like It is a strength that eight parties, that is to say all, in the Swedish parliament now say yes to a second arms package to Ukraine consisting of 5,000 armored shots and mine clearance equipment. A month ago, when the Moderates raised the question of defensive weapons publicly to Ukraine for the first time, objections, criticism and questioning came from many quarters. The climate of opinion has now changed noticeably. It's good and pleasant. It is fundamentally welcome that we are many politicians and parties who are now behind this. Madam President, I would like It does not stop at this. Ukraine needs all our support at all possible levels. Just as President Zelenskyj just said at his appearance here in the Swedish Parliament, humanitarian and political support is needed, but also continued clear sanctions against Russia and the circle of men of power around Putin. More weapons packages are also needed from Sweden. My call to the government side is to inventory with relevant authorities and Swedish industry what it is possible to provide further without new and more arms deliveries for that reason going out over Sweden's own security. Surely we can and should do more. There is a clear popular turnout here. Sweden is a blue-yellow nation, and the Swedes feel with another blue-yellow nation that is set under attack and attack. This can be seen in the fundraisers and in accounts where money can be deposited for the benefit of the Ukrainian people. It can be seen that Monday meetings have again begun to be arranged around the country. At the end of the 1980s and early 1990s, such meetings were held for the cause of freedom in Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. Now they are being held for Ukraine's cause, not only in Stockholm but in the country from Malmö in the south and north. Madam President, I would like With our parliamentary decision on armored bulkheads and mine clearance equipment, Sweden is making a contribution. We are doing this together with other countries that are acting in a similar way. Today, President Biden is visiting Europe. It is an extremely important signal – Europe and North America, the EU and NATO, side by side. What Russia's war against Ukraine has managed to create is precisely the great proximity between us like-minded states. This has a strong impact on the NATO debate now taking place in both Sweden and Finland, Madam President. The day now does not have to be far away, as our country is not only a natural and obvious member around the EU table and receives President Biden as a guest, but also sits around NATO's decision-making table with the President of the United States in another part of Brussels. That day doesn't have to be far away. Madam President, I would like I am in favour of the Finance Committee's proposal for a decision on a second package of arms for Ukraine, and I hope that it is already planned for a third package.
i-NVhhCxfaCtBootBBjK8HhC	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for strong support for the committee's proposal for a decision. Madam President, I would like Although the situation in Ukraine has been difficult ever since Russia illegally annexed Crimea in 2014, 24 February 2022 is a date that sticks to our memory. It was that morning that we woke up to the news that Russia had begun a large-scale invasion of Ukraine. And that was the day that peace in Europe ceased to exist. Since then, we have seen terrible images in the media showing how the civilian population is affected by the war. These are images of civilians armed to defend their country in a heroic struggle against a numerically superior enemy, while hospitals are bombed, civilians are attacked when they try to escape the destruction of war and little children are injured or killed in the horrors of war. These are indescribably horrible images that leave no one unmoved. Russia's invasion of Ukraine is a violation of international law. It is a full-scale military attack on a democratic state in Europe, something we have not seen since the Second World War. Ukraine is currently struggling for its survival. It is a struggle for the right as a free country and a free people to make their own choices, to live a free life and live in peace with their neighbours. This is something that we often take for granted in our own small part of the world. But Ukraine's struggle is also a struggle for the freedom we feel in the rest of Europe – peace, freedom and opportunities for all countries to develop in the direction they want. Ukraine is fighting a struggle for democracy and freedom not only in its country but throughout Europe. For that we shall be Ukraine eternally grateful. Madam President, I would like Today it is four weeks since Russia began the large-scale invasion of Ukraine. Such a strong opponent as Russia is not easy to take on. But the Ukrainian people have accounted for an almost superhuman achievement in the defence of their country. Few believed that they could effectively resist a Russian attack for some time. Today, four weeks after the invasion began, many of us are impressed by the heroic Ukrainian resistance that has caused the Russian offensive to lose power. It is now clear that Russian tanks, combat vehicles, helicopters, aircraft, artillery and maintenance vehicles and more have been destroyed in greater quantities than anyone could have imagined four weeks ago. It has become clear that the motivation of the Russian troops cannot match that of the Ukrainian people. It is motivation that is crucial for how successful each side of the war will ultimately be. On this particular point, Ukraine seems to have a great advantage. But maybe it's one of the few advantage they actually have. In terms of military equipment and numbers of soldiers, the Russian army has a huge advantage. Ukraine is therefore in great need of external aid in order to defend its country. Madam President, I would like Several countries have sent a large number of armaments to Ukraine in recent weeks. But the material is being consumed at a rapid rate, and Ukraine needs more equipment to continue the struggle for its people's freedom. They are in great need of diverse materials, including weapons to combat armor and air combat forces. I am therefore very pleased that the Parliament will today take another decision to strengthen the Ukrainian defence with further much-needed equipment. It gives the Ukrainian defence and the Ukrainian people hope in a very dark time. It goes without saying to me and my party that we should give the Ukrainian people the support we can. For us, it is obvious that we should give the Ukrainian people hope for a future without war.
i-DyheBB6YDgKJXMHHYyk9q9	Madam President, I would like It is today a month that the conflict, the invasion, the illegal and inhumane invasion of Ukraine has been going on. It's so much longer than we've feared. It is many days of grief and suffering, of terrible crimes against humanity, of images that we have difficulty forgetting of children's hospitals that are deliberately being shot at and of cities that are being demolished indiscriminately. And there are so many nights when parents put their children to bed for the roar of Putin's bombs. But it is also so much longer than we could ever have hoped for. So much longer has Ukrainian society and the Ukrainian army held up against Putin's armies. The defence of the freedom of the whole of Europe has been maintained, not just for its own country. It is also a whole month when the Western world has joined forces for strong sanctions against Putin. Today, Biden comes to Europe to meet the EU, NATO and G7 leaders. The authoritarian, aggressive nationalism of the world is now being defeated by a powerful, united international community, by the combined liberal, democratic community of the world. President Volodymyr Zelenskyj today spoke very touchingly before our Parliament, our House. He should know that Sweden hears him and that Sweden will respond to his appeal. This is our generation's most important decision, and now we can only endure and do more. We must promise that we will continue to send more help and more weapons every day and every hour that the Ukrainian army continues to fight. We must promise to continue to extend sanctions and put the largest banks in Russia on the sanction list every month as Russian democracy activists demonstrate against the war in the streets and squares. And we must continue to receive fleeing Ukrainian mothers and children as long as they need security. We must promise never to surrender until Putin and every one of his generals who have committed war crimes and have deliberately shot at children, the elderly and the sick are hunted around the world, sentenced and imprisoned for their hideous crimes against humanity. There is so much that Sweden can do in our blue-yellow community, as President Zelenskyj stressed, together with Ukraine. I would like to support the proposal. I believe that today there will be a united parliament behind the delivery of 5 000 armor shots and mine clearance equipment requested by the Ukrainian Government. We have a world-leading defence industry with a large capacity. We must now do everything we can to continue to deliver what Ukraine needs and show that we are doing our part and that we expect the West to continue to deliver more and more powerful weapons. We must continue to send much more humanitarian aid and demand humanitarian corridors for the tens of thousands who lack water, food and medicines. When mothers and children and grandparents and grandparents come to our country, Sweden's thousands of volunteers and municipal employees are ready to help. I met several people yesterday in Haninge in a school converted to accommodation. I saw how they helped in the morning and evening with shelter, food, beds, clothes, shoes and stuffed animals for the children in the playroom so that the children's fathers fighting in Ukraine should know that their families are safe in our country. We must take advantage of all the power that exists around Sweden, all those who want to fight to help and show humanity by employing people and by providing care, interpretation and all that they can do. They must meet with us in this House so that they can help. Sweden is not least a major and decisive player to stop the billions that daily flow into Putin war machine from the gas exports that go to Western Europe. It is an export to which Putin is tied through his gas pipelines to the EU itself, which now pays billions of dollars every day into his war treasury. We are paying 80% of his gas exports. Sweden does not receive much gas, but few countries in Europe can in as little time as we increase fossil-free power generation and quickly and profitably travel new offshore wind turbines. If we can only get up 50 terawatts of the 400 terawatts that are planned as offshore wind power in our waters, we can replace all electricity from Russian gas in Germany. Sweden now has a major role to play in stopping Putin's gas. It's time to get up on stage and build the power plants. Finally, Sweden is a member of the European Union whose ideals of an open and free Europe our Ukrainian sisters and brothers in their struggle for freedom have honored beyond what we ourselves have ever been able to do and more than any European directive has ever been able to achieve. In this way, Ukraine is today as much a member of our European Community as we or any other Member State of the European Union. That is why we must also open the door for them to the European Union. We must believe in their European dream as much as they continue to believe in it, despite the tears and devastation of war. We must believe that it is with us in our common house, as President Zelenskyj asked us just before this debate, that we will build together the beautiful European cities of Ukraine. What we now need to do is stand and hold the door open to membership open to them. We must fully believe that one day they will be able to go through this open door and make them candidate countries in the European Union. A month has passed, and we are fighting with Ukraine. Sweden cannot be neutral in the struggle between evil and good. There can be no free democratic country. Every morning, when we wake up to what Ukraine has done for all our freedom in its struggle, let us think about what we can do more for Ukraine. These are the same values – common and eternal values – we stand for, and they are stronger than any military and any regime.
i-TtbHtZ8DXWJfDrzck6UJk2	Madam President, I would like My mother was much younger than I was when totalitarian forces took over the country. Miliser haunted her apartment. At the time, she happened to be at her neighbor's house, so she got away with it. They were there to mark her and capture her. Her friends were imprisoned. There were those who were tortured and executed. My father, almost as young, saw the militia waving guns in the lecture rooms. The students were to be silenced, captured and destroyed, because they were suddenly enemies of power. If these young people – my mother and my father – had not escaped the regime, I would not be standing here today. I know what oppression means and what totalitarian powers are capable of. I realize what freedom from it means. They want to silence opponents, control our worldview and dictate our lives. They're trying to scare us to abstinence. They want to take our humanity away from us. We are now dealing with a brutal and unpredictable right-wing nationalist Russian dictator with dreams of a new Great Russia. But war of conquest must never pay off, for what would that mean for our world system? It is our generation's duty to do what we can to prevent this human tragedy. Ukraine is worth defending. Ukraine is fighting our war. No country has the right to judge over another. The right of every people to decide for themselves over their country and their future is unconditional. The principles of international law must never be curtailed. Swedish security policy is also based on these principles of international law. No one's in charge of us. No one is in charge of the Ukrainian people except themselves. They have shown superhuman morale. Never underestimate people's ability to defend themselves, their children and their dignity! Let it sound all over the world: Russian troops must leave Ukraine. Now people are fleeing the horrors of war. A mother with her baby in her arms cries after a long journey through Europe. I met them when I was at the Migration Agency's application unit in Malmö this week. Giving them a sanctuary tells the world which side we're on. We now see with what courage many are fighting the Russian invasion – Russian deserters, refugees, reporters and civil servants. This is Putin's war, not the Russian people. I would also like to thank the Port Workers' Union for their courageous and civil courage in not accepting Russian ships. I know that the Transport Workers' Association is now also waiting for the government to decide that this will become a national policy. We urgently need a ruling on this issue. Today President Zelenskyj spoke in the Chamber. It is clear that Ukraine needs continued support. The assets of the oligarchs in Europe must now be frozen. Now we must take responsibility for stopping imports of Russian gas and oil. Russia must be excluded from international trade. Madam President, I would like Respect those who are upright when the wind wines! Defend them and protect them! They stand up even though it would be more comfortable to sit down. It is the courage of many people who will end this war of aggression, and I am pleased that Sweden can also do its part. It is important that we can take this decision today in broad agreement. We stand up as a country for what is right. Ukraine needs assistance with weapons and humanitarian aid, and that will be provided by Sweden. Madam President, I would like Vladimir Putin is a hangman, a war criminal who now commits one of the greatest crimes against humanity. One day justice will be done. One day, those who have committed these crimes will be brought to justice. Let us never forget what they do and what they have done. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report.
i-JBVzxwg7znLL6MsHrba9a	Madam President, I would like When we see a shot-up stroller or a dirty, bloodstained teddy bear that no longer has a arms to crawl into, we can for a moment sense the horror that almost cannot be taken in. A month of hell on Earth in Mariupol and in Charkiv. Now the bombs of terror are raining on our fellow citizens in Europe. Putin war crimes are becoming increasingly serious, the destruction of bombs is becoming increasingly indiscriminate and the claims of evil are increasing. Then we must respond with more support, more humanitarian aid, more sanctions, more military aid and more willingness to help those on the run. Ukraine has shown outstanding courage and will. You've shown what you're capable of. We need to show what we are further capable of on the part of Sweden, and we need to show what we are further capable of on the part of the European Union. We have listened in this Chamber to President Zelenskyj today. We have heard his message from this morning: Make yourselves heard and tell us that freedom is important, that peace is important and that Ukraine is important! And we've heard, and we can't and won't be quiet. Madam President, I would like It is today one month since Russia entered Ukraine. Little children live in shelters. Hospitals, schools and preschools have been attacked, and theatres, where visitors recently enjoyed culture, have been completely destroyed. Thousands have been killed. Bodies are laid in mass graves. People's lives have been destroyed. And over 10 million have fled from this aggression, this attack war in Ukraine. Nevertheless, the Ukrainian dream of freedom and of living in security in their own country, in their own state, in their Ukraine, lives to live in democracy, peace and with the opportunity to freely love, seek happiness and build their future together with others. That dream must live, and so is everyone's dream. That is why I am pleased that, on a proposal from a united Committee on Finance, we are now taking a decision this afternoon on more military aid to Ukraine, with armored defences in the form of an additional 5 000 armor shots and mine clearance equipment, which will enable Ukraine to regain its own power, its own country. These are big and serious decisions, but they are also self-evident decisions. I support the proposal. But I also want the Swedish Government to know that we Christian Democrats want Sweden to do more. The government should know that you have our full support if you would suggest sending anti-aircraft, which is so much needed, in the form of, for example, Robot 70 or 90. I want you to know that you have our full support to send further armored shields. You have our full support to send additional matransons and to send off-road vehicles. It is now a question of strengthening Ukraine's resilience in order to press ahead with negotiations for a diplomatic solution to the war that can bring real peace. We expect and call for more military, more humanitarian, more political and more financial support. I also want the government to know that, as far as sanctions are concerned, you have our full support for action in the European Union, so that Sweden can push for the stopping of Russian ships from arriving in European ports, as has been done in the case of airspace. Sweden is welcome to push further – this is our wish – to stop all Russian banks from using the international Swift system, which would make payments difficult. And you should know that you have our full support to push forward to stop Europe from buying Russian oil and gas. The sanctions must be as severe as possible to allow the Russian population to see what an accident Putin is bringing not only on Ukraine but also on its own country with its war crimes. Madam President, I would like It was also very hopeful to listen to President Zelenskyj today, to see a tomorrow and the possibility of building up a Ukraine again at the moment. As he said, the beautiful cities can be even more beautiful. Sweden can also help there. I am also thinking of when, a few decades ago, in this speaker's chair, I debated with the then Foreign Minister Anna Lind h what Sweden could do to counteract dictatorship and aggression from oppressors in the world. She said to me, the oppressors eventually lose. May that end come quickly, and may a new beginning for a free Ukraine come soon.
i-Qe118EUxHEqkWP4ZzR4xHQ	Madam President, I would like We are discussing today a second shipment of weapons to Ukraine, and it is to be welcomed with even more armored shots. A month ago we sent 5 000, Madam President, and today we are sending 5 000 of exactly the same kind. Perhaps the question arises as to why we did not already decide on 28 February on all 10 000 armored bulkheads. It would have been more practical and would have had a faster effect. Madam President, I would like The time has now come to ask where Sweden's more qualified weapons are now doing the most good. Is it packed in Swedish stores or is it possibly at the front in Ukraine? Madam President, I would like We all despair over the unimaginable suffering of the Ukrainian civilian population. President Zelenskyj has repeatedly appealed for a flight ban in Ukrainian airspace. NATO and the United States have not seen this possible without escalation of the ongoing armed conflict. However, access to ground-based air defence can also deny an attacker access to airspace. Madam President, I would like Sweden has access to simple but extremely efficient anti-aircraft missiles, Robot 70. It is a weapon that we have in great measure and which would ease the ongoing terrorist bombing of the Ukrainian people. Some feel that when qualified weapons are sent into an armed conflict, such as the one currently taking place in Ukraine, there is a risk of escalation. But I want to say that we Swedes are already on Putin's black list, and we are there in a great and very good company. Every day Ukraine manages to maintain resistance is a victory. It is not just a victory for Ukraine, Madam President. It's a victory for all of us. I support the committee's proposal.
i-5PNny4XFUwk4MeHuTWHCph	Madam President, I would like Today is the 29th day of war. It is the 29th day since Putin decided to invade Ukraine, against all international law. It is an invasion that is ruthless and cruel and has caused enormous human suffering. We have heard in this House today Zelenskyj what Europe needs is peace and justice. He asked for more and tougher sanctions, for Russian vessels to stop calling at Swedish and European ports and for all imports of Russian oil and gas to be terminated in order to turn off the cranes that provide Putin with money for continued attack wars. I understand and share the concern and fear that many feel about the terrible things that are now happening in Ukraine, right in our neighbourhood. Instead of letting anxiety pass into hopelessness, we act. I am pleased that Sweden is a country that is now so united in our support for Ukraine. The decision we are going to make today is yet another proof of that. We must do everything we can to assist Ukraine and the people who need help in the situation of distress. We see that the needs are enormous and increasing every day. Then our humanitarian aid must also be increased. The images we get from cities such as Mariupol, Charkiv and Cherson are terrible and absolutely despicable. The major international aid organizations such as the Red Cross, Save the Children, UNICEF and many others are now doing an invaluable job. I am as Swedish proud to contribute to those organisations' core support. This means that they are strong in themselves to be able to go in now. They have power in their organizations. But we also provide flexible non-allocated core support that allows us to change focus and also help and support when a new crisis arises or a new war starts. Here Sweden is quite lonely, but more should follow. In difficult times, we need more aid and more cooperation and not less. We are also helping Ukraine by accepting all those who are now fleeing. We all hope that the war will be over quickly. But we also see that it risks being prolonged. Thousands and thousands of homes are also destroyed. Here the government must take responsibility and show the way for the municipalities in their reception. Those who have received temporary protection under the mass refugee directive shall be subject to the same rules as those granted asylum. All municipalities in Sweden must now take responsibility for receiving people and ensuring a good reception. Those who have fled Ukraine, no matter how long we think they will be here, shall have the right to establishment, sfi and care. The role of civil society in this situation is also crucial, and it must continue to have our support. This also applies to the major international organisations. But even every small organization, every individual who engages, is today incredibly important. Without people's will to support vulnerable people in need, communities would have perished. Solidarity is vital. We must now unite all those who want to see a move away from power-full despots on their own being able to destroy whole countries and invade any country they want. Together, we must show that such a world system no longer exists. It is in democratic societies that we develop and develop, not in dictatorships. Civil society is also a very important part of a living democracy. That is something that Mr Putin is now clearly demonstrating in his domestic policy. The new laws that are to suppress civil society show that his will to suppress democracy is immensely great. He believes that it is possible to do so by banning civil society. Today, President Zelenskyj also asked for tougher sanctions. He wanted a new package this week. We know that it also produces results. We are in favour of making sanctions as harsh as possible. What he also asked for, and what would be even more effective, was that Sweden and the EU should stop importing Russian oil and gas. Today there are several other Members from other parties who have said that they strongly support stopping the sale of oil and gas in Europe. Unfortunately, however, your parties did not vote for it when we had a Green Party committee initiative earlier today. All the other parties abstained from such a clear initiative. I hope that what we have heard in this House today is true and not the other. Today, the Moscow Stock Exchange is also opening. Far from all companies can be traded with. But those who can be traded are the very ones who handle the oil and gas. They're the ones who fatten Putin's war fund. It will be possible to trade with them. The signal in it should be completely deafening to those who still believe that it is possible to act as one hand does not know what the other is doing. We cannot be prepared to spend billions upon billions on humanitarian aid and a stronger defence when, at the same time with our good memory, we allow us to pump billions after billions to strengthen Putin war fund and give him the tools to continue his invasion. We know today from a study that nine out of ten Swedes, 91%, are in favour of a stoppage of Russian oil, coal and gas at Swedish and EU level. We must stop the imports of oil and gas from Russia, and we must do so now! I hope that is the message that all parties will give after this and nothing else. I want to finish with the author Peter Englund's text on Instagram from the other day. That puts words on the moment we are in. He writes: A star time. The expression is German. That's what we're living through now. A moment that will define our time, affect the whole world, yes, world history. The decision has not yet come to an end. Today we are still facing two alternative realities, two different futures. Both are possible. The struggle for democracy must be won for the sake of the Ukrainian people, but also for the sake of all our democracies.
i-X9AkkPnVX2QnCYcM9xeThy	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin my speech by expressing my sorrow for the unimaginable. I wish power to all those affected at Malmö Latin School, the victims' relatives, all students and school management. We are appreciably influenced by the debate that was here before, but also by the speech that the President of Ukraine gave here about an hour ago. At this very moment very many children and young people are feeling the unrest in the world. There are very many occasions where students learn a lot more but also get the opportunity to get answers from teachers in a situation where it is very difficult to handle difficult questions. At the same time, many feel that spring is approaching and with the beginning of the final phase in one semester. There are more than 100 days left until the student, where a new phase of life will begin. There are as many days left for those who go from preschool class to first grade, for those who finish sixth grade to start seventh grade and for those who quit ninth grade to go to high school. But there are also those who do not finish their schooling. There are those who slip behind and who do not feel that they get the support they need. There are those who feel excluded and who feel that segregation in society is holding them back. It is the correction of national exams, grading and planning of schooling and school leaving. It's preparation for a new semester and new students. When I planned and prepared for this, someone said: There is some air in your speech, Roza. But I tell you this to illustrate how broad the school and school world are and how broad its tasks are. You have challenges. The student base is different, and the conditions are also different for each semester. But it is also this, Madam President, which is exciting about school and the world of schools – at the same time as it is challenging. The school's mission is broad, but the school law is clear: The school should secure all children's and pupils' rights to equal schooling throughout the country. It should ensure that everyone feels safe and gets studied. For this we need to review the school system that we have in Sweden. We need to review the distribution of resources, the negative impact of school elections on segregation, school money and the lack of comprehensive social composition. These are some of the things that we Social Democrats see as important to review. The report deals with 180 requests for exercise from the general exercise period. It is gratifying that there are so many sports that deal with different types of suggestions on how to strengthen the school and its opportunities. It also feels safe to know that much of what the exercisers lift is something that the government is already working with or investigating at this time. Madam President, I would like The School Act is clear, as has been said, that the school system and education should aim at children and pupils acquiring and developing knowledge and values. The school will promote all children's and pupils' development and learning as well as a lifelong desire to learn. At the same time, it is about personal development. There, all children should receive incentives based on their own circumstances and develop as much as possible according to the objectives set. No child should slip behind. No child should be held back either. We Social Democrats believe that giving children and young people the opportunity to have a good future also contributes to the development of society as a whole. Education is a social effort, and it should not matter where in the country you live or what preschool or school you go to. Everyone has the right to a good school, and there should be no bad schools. Madam President, I would like You know what I love about Swedish school? That is precisely the basis on which it stands. It is the content that strives to fill every kid's backpack with experience and knowledge so that they become responsible citizens who know their rights and freedoms and who also protect them. I love that in Sweden you can become just what you want. At least there is such a strong ambition and will on my part. But there's a but. To be able to give students knowledge requires that we have an equal school and an equal school system. This requires several reforms of knowledge and equality. The Social Democratic-led government has introduced, among other things, an equivalence grant for greater equality in schools. There are now also previously targeted initiatives to strengthen staff in the field of special education, but there is also a contribution to both continuing education, teachers and preschools. Equivalence grants are allocated according to socio-economic factors so that all schools receive resources, but those with the most difficult conditions get the most. Today we see that it is becoming increasingly clear that it is your background, your parents' level of education, the place you live or the school you attend that can affect your opportunities. The compensatory mission, which aims to equalise differences in growing-up conditions, is made more difficult under the system we have today. This requires that all municipalities build their resource allocation according to the needs of the student groups. As we phase in the equivalence grant, we are also phasing out a number of targeted state subsidies. This development will continue in order to make the system more transparent and easy to use and can also fully benefit small principals with small administrative resources. This increases equivalence. Madam President, I would like The Social Democratic-led government has introduced important reforms to tackle and prevent the challenges facing the school. These include the read-count-write guarantee, which is a tool for deploying resources and support early in collaboration. It is about offering holiday school to those students who are at risk of not passing school. It's about homework for everyone, regardless of the size of the parents' wallet. We have strengthened ownership and management testing to prevent rogue operators from conducting school activities. The indefensible school segregation we see, which early sort children and young people and which does not contribute to the cohesion and community of the school, is totally unacceptable. We are pushing to break with the segregation mechanisms of the school system. The school elections are supposed to be fair to everyone. We're going to protect the free choice of school, but we're going to stop the prize hunt and get rid of the unfair queue systems that increase segregation and reduce equivalence. The goal must be a comprehensive social composition of school units and classes so that children of different backgrounds meet and are enriched by each other's experiences. We need to put mechanisms in place to attract the best teachers and principals to schools with the most challenges. We will create security and study in every classroom. Swedish school is for our children and young people. It is in school the foundation laid for the rest of our lives and for the development of society. It is about what we can and what we want and what opportunities we will have in the future. The school will give all children the chance to be their best self. That is why the focus in school must be on our children's and young people's journey of knowledge and nothing else. We have amazing teachers and school leaders, who do their utmost every day to help the students learn what they need and preferably a little more. We must create the conditions for their important mission. We will have reason to debate these issues this spring, and I look forward to that. With this, I support our reservation 3.
i-45aYZfrxRGUhB2d2wC99Mu	Madam President, I would like For many children, the Swedish school works perfectly. You wake up in the morning and really run off to come to school and meet your friends. You feel like you're learning and developing. But for a lot of other students, it's just the opposite. I would say that with this Social Democratic Government we have unfortunately seen school failures over a long number of years. About eight years ago, Magdalena Andersson not only promised that Sweden would have Europe's lowest unemployment rate, but also that both serious crime and the proportion of failed students would be halved. So, how's it going? Not very well, is the grade and the judgment. Europe's lowest unemployment has become one of the highest. The number of gang killings and shootings so far this year has broken unwanted records. There are about as many children today as there were a number of years ago. 16,000 students leave the ninth grade without passing grades, and more than one in four children in grade 6 is failed on one or more subjects. About half of the teachers have said in a trade union survey that they are exposed to physical violence. These are a number of examples that show that we have had some lost years with Magdalena Andersson and need a new focus on school and education policy. Today, Madam President, I would like to point out four legs in a new school and education policy. Firstly, it is about getting the school in order in order to be able to get Sweden in order in this way. Among other things, it is a question of introducing a new criminal offence, a threat to officials, which also includes school staff. It is about the fact that it is not only a right but also an obligation for principals to act and reassign students if necessary in a way that is not done today. It is a question of setting up special emergency schools for children and young people who commit serious crimes so that the important part of the training is not lost, along with other actions. It is also a question of taking an interest in school health care, where there have been things that cause pupils and children not to receive the support they should receive. Secondly, Madam President, we must re-establish the school of knowledge. We need to focus more clearly on measurable factual knowledge. We need a central correction of national tests. We must make efforts to counteract both grade inflation through tests and other inappropriate pressures that can occur both from children and, for that matter, from parents as well. This new vision of knowledge will push away the progressive, almost flurryed pedagogy that has been, where teachers have been seen as coaches and had a relatively knowledge concept. It will permeate the school and teaching and, of course, also a round-up in teacher education. Thirdly, Madam President, we need a developed free school system. It must be another ownership and management test. We simply have to settle with a rather lax attitude and make higher demands on those who are going to start and run a school. We need to make higher demands on inspection and control gradually and link profit distribution to quality, but also work with such things as an active school selection. Fourthly, we need to clearly reject the government's proposals on such things as bushing, quotas and lottery tickets. The government does not deal with the serious language problems we have in school and society. Thousands of children today grow up without proper language skills. Of course, many may think that it is people who come here. They exist, but I also think that we should point to everyone who grows up here and who already at the BVC can see does not have a vocabulary, a vocabulary. It can be clearly seen that if no specific efforts are made, they will find it difficult to meet the demands that will be made in school and later in society. Here we need a completely different approach in order to get to grips with this and to give all these children the right conditions in a way that does not happen today. We must, of course, develop admissions and choices in such a way that we have predictable criteria and start from such things as sibling priority and proximity. However, we must also be clear that the Socialist Government's proposal to now start sorting children based on ethnicity and the parents' educational background are things that do not belong when we are distributing school places. Beyond these four points, Madam President, I also think it is important to try to contribute to the long-term. Here I think the Secretary of School is making a big mistake. Then I am not thinking of her bad proposals – we can fight in politics, and we think that some of this with selection of ethnicity is bad – but rather I would say this: the fact that she and the Social Democrats are not sitting down with other political parties can have a serious impact on the school. What teachers have a right to expect is that, in addition to what one's own party thinks, one tries to contribute to broad political solutions and long-termness. Here we can see that we have important challenges ahead of us. I have pointed out a few: order and order, vision of knowledge, the role of teachers, admission and school funding. Sadly, in one of these matters the Minister of Education has not picked up any of the other parliamentary parties. A focus of a new post-election education policy is to do the right thing in substance, in other words to seek broad political solutions. That is what the staff of the school deserve in the future. To conclude, I would like to endorse reservation No 22.
i-MzjrxuJquKVAVeDRGwPupv	Madam President, I would like We are debating today, as I said, the UbU report14 Comprehensive school issues. I intend to devote my speaking time to being just horizontal, which I think the previous speaker has also been. For decades, we have had to take note of a wide range of alarm reports about the situation in the Swedish school. It is about everything from worrying results in various international measurements of knowledge and that a large proportion of students go out with incomplete grades to segregation, increased insecurity in school, Islamism and so on. I believe that instead of discussing these problems in depth and seriously, the Social Democrats choose to play the game, not least by trying to blame everything or at least most of it on the free school sector. I believe that this is largely about trying to sweep the monumental failures of one's own party in the school area under the carpet. When it comes to the alarm reports, these have not least pointed to a school that is increasingly messy and violent, where both students and teachers are suffering very badly. At the same time, we have been able to see how segregation has become worse and more extensive. The explanation for this is not found in the free school sector or in the market school, as the Social Democrats claim, but primarily in the surrounding society and in the policies of the Social Democrats, but also previous governments. Madam President, I would like Decades of multiculturalism, mass immigration and Islamisation have created a hard, cold and segregated society. Since the school is a reflection of society, it is of course where we find the explanation that it looks like it does. There we have the main explanation for segregation, which the Social Democrats often talk about. I might think it would be nice if the parties that have been involved in creating this situation also took on their responsibilities, rather than trying to engage in what I consider to be ugly games and snipers against the free school sector. Add also decades of fluid pedagogy and total calllessness. To try to prevent this situation from getting worse, we must, of course, dismantle multicultural society. It's a lead, and it's important. As far as school is concerned, we must, above all, oppose the flum school and do everything in our power to restore some kind of school of knowledge. The school's main mission is to convey knowledge, nothing else. For this to be possible, it requires a focus on knowledge learning and learning, as well as a clearer teacher role where we restore the status of teachers. Only then can we raise the knowledge results and prepare all students for further schooling. I mean very seriously – and there are many who agree with me – that school today has far too much focus on group work and its own fact-finding. There are many students who can do this, but there are all the more who don't. Therefore, all students must have access to educational textbooks, equally for everyone, and more of what I consider to be classical caeder education focusing on knowledge learning, nothing else. Let us be clear about what children need to learn. It's only when students have the basic knowledge– it's not possible before – that we can demand and expect them to reason, compare, value and draw conclusions. They must have the knowledge first, and they do not today at school. A lot of students don't get it, and we point that out in one of the reservations. At the same time, teaching must also be adapted to the circumstances of the pupils. We want tiering in nuclear materials. Students in need of special support should of course receive it, in the form of small teaching groups or resource schools. The possibility to attend if a year is available and should be used if necessary. Specialised pupils shall be taught at a higher level. New arrivals must be taught in preparatory schools, and it is only when you have sufficient language skills and subject knowledge that you should be able to move on to ordinary classes. This is important. Not all students are made in the same form. I know that socialists often want it to be that way – you boot students in one form. It is a bit like a factory: bring the children on one side and out with them as obedient little socialists on the other. I don't believe it. We must enhance the importance of professional skills and practical knowledge and give students the opportunity to develop these abilities in school. I share the view that subjects such as crafts and sport, home and consumer knowledge should be refined from the requirements of theoretical knowledge. Those children who may not reach as high as many others in subjects like mathematics and so on may be very good when it comes to practical knowledge. That they can develop them and feel that they are good at something is very important. We can't expect all children to be the same. We can't shape them in one form. It's not working. Madam President, I would like Much of the explanation for the unequal school and the reduced equivalence that many parties are talking about today is found in municipalization. It was pushed through by the Social Democrats with the support of the Left Party Communists. We believe that Swedish school is a national interest, and therefore we need a state headship. It is not least that we need a state funding model that can ensure greater equivalence and also ensure that schools are of a consistent and high quality wherever they live in the country. In addition, a government headship with clear and norm-making national guidelines, equally for all schools, wherever you live and without exception, improves the possibility of control and follow-up. Very important! Given that society looks like it does and what I said about the school being a mirror image of society, it is no wonder that today, unfortunately, we are seeing a school of widespread violence, bullying, sexual harassment and ethnic and religious contradictions. This must, of course, be dealt with vigorously, and that is when we need the clear national guidelines. Teachers must be given greater powers to maintain their studies, while at the same time ensuring that schools move pupils who do not work in the normal school situation. It's really important. It's about ensuring that students who fight and mess get the help they need. Often it's actually about students screaming for help and needing it. They must be given it separately, in small groups, by teachers who can handle them. But it's also about moving these students so that other students and teachers get to study and to focus on knowledge learning – what the school is supposed to do and which is central there. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats stand up for both the free school sector and the free school elections. This gives students the opportunity to apply to a school that suits them. This is important. It should be a school that can give them security, study and not least a stimulating schooling. This does not mean that we think that anything should be able to go on in the school sector or that we are turning a blind eye to problems. Of course there are problems there. Of course, more control is needed, not least of the economic conditions. We have talked about a strengthened ownership test, of course, and the introduction of an economic buffer so that there is a long-term perspective in education. Above all, we should be able to close schools that are misbehaved and do not live up to our governance documents – of course. We also want a stop to the establishment of religious free schools, a ban on Muslim free schools and a stop to foreign funding of free schools for religious or political reasons. Once again and in conclusion: We stand up for and defend the right of students and parents to choose the school that suits the students best. Limiting freedom of choice does not lead to any improvement whatsoever, on the contrary. Students should not be used as an integration tool in what I consider to be a very awkward attempt to remedy the surrounding segregation in society, which is a direct consequence of the total failure of the policies of the Social Democrats but also of many other parties. Having said that, I would like to ask for the approval of Amendment No 15.
i-EBzpUjQQosR51tVXTnSWdE	Madam President, I would like Richard Jomshof woke up the bear that was falling asleep, I was going to say. But I didn't. There is a great deal in Mr Jomshof's speech that makes you both amazed and surprised. It also gives rise to a lot of question marks that I feel I need to straighten out now. Richard Jomshof says that the problem is not the school market and the school system. At the same time, Richard Jomshof says that there are problems and that they primarily occur in areas where there are many children and young people with foreign concerns. We want to combat segregation, because we want everyone to become part of society and become the citizens of society that we need. That is why I have to ask Mr Jomshof the question: how are we going to get to the problem of segregation, and how are we going to ensure that children and young people who grow up in segregated areas are given access to the system of freedom of choice that Richard Jomshof is so fond of?
i-6kKXwZiYXVHJeiCvrkMZQS	Madam President, I would like If you read the motions that we have presented since we entered Parliament, you can see that we have often pointed out problems in the free school sector. They exist, and we have highlighted this on many occasions. But as far as segregation is concerned, I would say that this still affects the margin. Even when I was in school, especially in the 80s, we had a segregated school. You went to school where you lived. The composition of the school was different depending on whether you lived in a residential suburb or a high - building suburb, and the schools looked different. Even then there were alarm reports and newspaper articles talking about an unequal school. What has then happened is the mass immigration that many parties are behind. At least all parties were behind the previous one, except the Swedish Democrats. It has further diluted and worsened segregation. That is where the main problem lies. It's always been segregated, even before, but now it's so much worse. What the free choice of school means, for example for an immigrant family in a suburb that wants the children to learn Swedish, is an opportunity for them to place their children in a school where there are more Swedes. It's a voluntary choice you make. Not everyone wants to make this choice, nor can it be imposed on them. You will never ever fix segregation by hitting what you call market school. It will affect the margin. Because then your completely insane immigration policy, which is filling these areas further, continues. That's where the stakes should be put. It's about how many people get to come to Sweden. You will never be able to correct segregation at all with the policies that you otherwise do. School is not an isolated phenomenon. It is part of the great society. Just look at what it looks like. It's your creation, not ours.
i-WVFe8yBzhiE9e9JEdGnZh7	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Jomshof, for your answer. One of the problems is here. I'm a refugee child myself. I would say that I am not a problem, quite the opposite. By gaining the conditions, I have been able to contribute to this society on the same terms as everyone else. But it is very interesting that Richard Jomshof says so clearly that it is mass immigration that is the problem. At the same time, the free school system and the freedom of choice of some, not all, children are protected. Mr Jomshof stands here in the speaker's chair and clearly says that not all children are in the same shape and that we cannot expect that either. But Richard Jomshof expects all people to be in the same shape. In fact, I find it very liberating that it becomes so clear that the focus of the Swedish Democrats is to protect the opportunities of the free school groups to operate in a market where some students are sorted out and where students who are not profitable are not allowed to take part in the freedom of choice. At the same time, Richard Jomshof says that there is a difference between children and children. The solution to the problem is not to change the system, to promote more integration efforts, to strengthen each individual, to enable people to develop and take part in the labour market and so on. These are measures that are not in the glossary of the Swedish Democrats, and I find it very liberating that it becomes so clear here that they stand for the right-wing policy that we always talk about that they stand for.
i-WH5MEpzjqG2Tro7C1sgufm	Madam President, I would like The fact that we need another government in the country is clear, and that it should have a right-wing direction is also self-evident. Just look at how you have mismanaged the country – perhaps not Roza specifically, but this is still part of a larger left-wing concept. You carry a very big responsibility for what it looks like. It goes without saying that we need a right-wing government in this country. You'll have to help point that out; that's great. Come on, let's go! It's perfect. The more people who find out about this, the better. With regard to this with different backgrounds, I know that those with different backgrounds often try to use it, compare and point out how good they are. I also have a different background, from Finland – it may not be so exotic. But it's not something I run around pointing out, because I don't feel the need to do it. I live in Sweden, I am Swedish, I feel like Swedish. If someone else doesn't see me as a Swede, it's up to the n; I don't care in the least. There are many of us who have a different background in Sweden today. I think we have discussed this before. It is not that all immigration is automatically bad. Of course there is immigration that is good for the country. But obviously not all immigration is good, given how it looks in Sweden today. We have gang crime, unemployment, exclusion and gangs controlling streets, suburbs and half cities. Seriously – our welfare is about to be destroyed. You have to be really blind if you don't see it. It is clear that this also affects the school. That is where we have the main problem. Is everything all right with free schools? No, absolutely not. I began by saying that we have made many proposals over the years, where we have also wanted to see an extension and a certain change, because change is needed. I agree with what Lars Hjälmered, the representative of the Moderates, pointed out earlier in the speaker's chair and share the view that it would have been great and dressable if the Social Democrats instead of trying to use this as a bat and, furthermore, ugly play had taken a holistic approach to the school. I think we could actually land in a certain consensus on these issues. We may not want to go as far as you want, but I still think the possibility exists. But then you need to talk to each other. We shall continue this debate another time.
i-S5Kdobv4htbTPVFzzVoG1o	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 22 in the overall school report that we are debating today. I also wanted to stick to the overall approach and raise some questions from the general exercise time that we in the Center Party have highlighted. Passing school is a key factor for further studies but also for the possibility of getting to work later in life. Today we note that far too many pupils leave comprehensive school without a complete grade and that far too many leave upper secondary school without a complete grade. This creates problems for society. It is a failure on the part of society that no more pupils pass primary school and become eligible for the national programmes. Reforms and efforts are needed there. Most students and teachers are met by a good school, but there are parts in the school where there are shortcomings, and more needs to be done for more students to pass the school. We in the Center Party believe that we need to have an increased focus on the knowledge in school and create the conditions for a more equal school. It is about breaking the differences that exist between students' background and gender in study results and that in this way we can create a more equal school. It is about strengthening student health, safety and education at school, breaking segregation and making compensatory efforts, not least to break the pedagogical segregation. Today, teachers with the longest experience tend to meet those who have the easiest conditions. We need to make more efforts to ensure that the most skilled teachers meet those students who have the most difficult conditions for more people to pass school in this way. The fact that we have too much turnover in the case of principals is another problem that we need measures and reforms to overcome. For the Center Party, freedom of choice is important, but it is also important to develop freedom of choice so that it can benefit more people. Today, children of parents with higher education tend to choose schools more than children of parents with lower education. Through an active and mandatory school selection, we ensure that all students have the opportunity to choose. In addition, more information efforts are important, so that we can not only make an active choice but also a well-informed choice. It is an important issue in the future. In order to develop the school, we also need to follow developments in school. How are students doing at school? In recent years, there has been a major discussion in the Education Committee about international knowledge measurements, including Pisa. The Center Party recently presented a committee initiative on the introduction of national knowledge measurements. We have this in this report as well. We see that it would be a good way forward for us to complement international measurements with national measurements to follow Swedish school development. In addition, we can see that digitalization in Swedish schools can be further developed both to reduce the administration of teachers and vice-chancellors so that they can devote time to teaching and quality development at the school and to be able to more easily monitor students' development continuously and in this way make efforts for more students to actually pass the school. We also need to learn, as we say in the report, from the pandemic that we have been in in recent years, where many students received distance education for periods. There needs to be proper evaluations in a situation where we have this in fresh memory with both students, teachers and principals: Which parts worked well, and which parts did not work well? Qualitative studies are also needed to see how this affects the actual knowledge, so that with new experiences, research and science – as the School Act also says – we can develop the Swedish school and learn lessons for our future so that more people can pass the school. Madam President, I would like Sweden looks very different in different parts of the country. From the Center Party we have a clear perspective on the fact that even Skolsverige looks different. Approximately every other school in Sweden has fewer than 200 pupils. One in four schools has fewer than 100 pupils. In this House we often take decisions on high standards and the like, which risk hitting smaller schools. In the report we are debating today, we in the Center Party have a proposal to give better support to the smaller heads in order to meet the legal requirements that exist. It is about reducing the targeted state grants and that the grants will be more general, that the Swedish National Agency for Education will produce support material and focus more on the smaller authorities being able to carry out their activities. Smaller schools are available not only in rural and sparsely populated areas but also in cities and in the archipelago near larger towns. Then we need better support for smaller schools in order for them to be able to work. Finally, we also need to ensure that serious principals act and that schools that fail to meet the standards can be closed more quickly. The focus of the national audit carried out through the Swedish School Inspectorate should be on those schools where there are low results and where more efforts are needed to reverse developments. In the first place, we will give strong support to the principals, but we will also be able to close schools where it does not work. We need more focus on knowledge results. We need to ensure better follow-up and further efforts, not least for small schools.
i-5uCpj8BXkYxoEdNtXkSwAj	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to say a few words about the terrible school attack in Malmö. It is a deed that has led to enormous damage to a great many people. The school should be a safe place. No student, teacher or other staff at the school should feel insecure, and absolutely no one should be subjected to these types of deadly attacks. My thoughts and those of the Left Party go to the two teachers who were killed in the attack, their loved ones, students and school staff at Malmö Latin and all the others who have been affected by this in different ways. This is the third school attack in seven months. The two previous attacks, like the terrorist attack on the Crown of Trollhättan a few years ago, had clearly racist and right-wing motives. Now remains to be seen what motive the perpetrator has had in this case, but judging from the reports published so far, it is clear that the government and the parliamentary parties must have an action plan for how to prevent this type of act that often has clear hate motives. Madam President, I would like This debate is about many different school issues. I was going to focus on two of these. Sami preschool and school will contribute to the development of children's and pupils' Sami identity, culture and language. Sameskolstyrelsen is a state school authority under the Ministry of Education and the Sameting. Work must be done to ensure that all Sami children have access to an equivalent education of good quality with Sami teaching elements. The Agency shall, among other things, carry out the State's headship for Sami school, promote Sami teaching material production and interact with other school heads, so that Sami pupils who do not attend Sami school can also be taught with Sami elements. The Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed the state's efforts in Sami education, with the Sameskolstyrelsen as the responsible school authority. The review has shown on a number of occasions that several objectives of the activity have not been achieved, for example as regards the production of teaching materials. In addition, according to the report, the Sami Board of Directors performs some of its tasks poorly. The shortcomings in this case mean that Sami pupils in the Sami school risk not having sufficient conditions to achieve the goals of the education and that Sami students outside the Sami school do not have access to education with Sami teaching elements. According to the Swedish National Audit Office, both the government's governance and the agency's own work are reasons for the low level of achievement. The long-standing and extensive shortcomings in the Authority's activities also suggest that the Sami Board does not have sufficient conditions to fulfil and carry out its tasks. Therefore, the Swedish National Audit Office has recommended that the activities of the Sami Board of Directors be housed in the Sami Parliament and that responsibility be transferred from the state to the Sami Council. The report on a new government structure in the school area, 2018, showed that it is difficult to find a fully functional headship for the Sami school. There are problems in a number of areas in the so-called governance chain. The investigation suggested that Sametinget should become the new head of the Sami schools. The Left Party agrees that a transfer of responsibility from the Sameskollstyrelsen to Sametinget would improve the conditions for Sami education. The main advantage would be clearer governance. The incorporation of the tasks of the Sami Board into the Sami Parliament is also in line with the form of government, which states that the opportunities of the Sami people to maintain and develop their own cultural and community life should be promoted. Although the Social Democratic Government, with yesterday's decision, unfortunately showed that they don't care very much about the situation of the Sami – they gave permission to a terrible company to start a mine in Kallak, or Gállok as it is called, despite all the negative consequences that it entails for Sápmi – we hope that in this case the government can release the colonial thinking, as I call it, when it comes to Sami education and the Sami schools, and that they can therefore also listen to the National Audit Office and the investigations that have existed and transfer responsibility to the Sameting. Madam President, I would like The other subject I was going to talk about is not going to come as a shock to anyone in this room. Yeah, it's about marketing school. From being a leading country when it comes to school, Sweden has become unique in a negative way. We are the only country in the world that combines a tax-funded school grant with unlimited opportunities to make profits and an almost free right of establishment for private operators. Those who pay primarily for this market experiment are the students. We see schools going bankrupt in the middle of the semester. We're seeing falling school scores. We see fewer teachers who are qualified and an increasing gap between pupils from families where there is a high level of education and students who come from more weak socio-economic conditions. In a school market, access to knowledge and education is not a priority. It's the win. In addition, during the pandemic, private schools' profits have increased. An article in Dagens Nyheter in February reported that the increase in school absenteeism due to high spread of infection has reduced the staff costs of free schools while the schools have been reimbursed for these staff costs via school money. Madam President, I would like The Swedish school system with marketing schools and school money also poses a number of problems for municipalities. It will be more difficult to plan the activities in the long term. It will be more expensive, as private operators will have to be compensated by the same funds as municipal schools regardless of which pupils have the greatest needs. Market school defenders argue with freedom of choice and increased control. But a growing administration and increased control are also driving up costs further. How parents should know which school is best for their children does not answer either. It can also be clearly seen that Swedish pupils' school results have deteriorated since the market experiment started in the 90s. There must be an end to this experiment. The market school goes where parents have a high level of education and can help children with schoolwork after school and not where the need for education is greatest. In this way, there is room for fewer teachers and less spending so that profits can be increased. The market system also pushes teachers to score higher than they should. According to reports from the Swedish National Agency for Education, it is clear that students who attend marketing school receive higher final grades while they do better in higher education for students who have attended municipal school. The Left Party wants to see an end to the market school, and a majority of the Swedish people agree with us on this. The Left Party wants a funded and democratically managed school, where the needs govern the allocation of resources. In an equivalent school, every student is given good opportunities to have his/her needs met so that all students can reach the goals. However, in order to create this equal school, we must take back democratic control of the Swedish education and school system. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to say that the Left Party considers it extremely important that the Riksdag should take a decision to ban the use of educational forms of profit-making organisation. Together with the Green Party, we have a reservation on this. That is reservation 25, to which I would like to give my assent. Now the Green Party is not here, so I will be in favour of two reservations today. Madam President, I would like Civility is doing everything possible to counter these types of proposals. They defend capital to such an extent that they cannot even consider agreeing to have the principle of public access in the Swedish school. When the Left Party last tabled the proposal in the Education Committee, the right-wing parties and the racist party voted against it. Of course, we have not given up on this issue. We would therefore like the Left Party and the Green Party to vote in favour of reservation No 26.
i-E8NMAwdpe47gX7ycgyE7vT	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 7. We Christian Democrats are working for a school that creates the conditions for every child to develop as a person and realise its potential. But too many children are unfortunately betrayed today by Swedish school. One in seven completes comprehensive school without having upper secondary school qualifications. The way forward for more people to succeed is not about lowering the knowledge requirements, which the government has been working on. Instead, Swedish school needs more time for teacher-led teaching by knowledgeable teachers who have high expectations of the students, and it should focus on factual knowledge. In fact, in Sweden, comprehensive school has a whole year fewer hours than the average in Europe. Therefore, we have commissioned the Swedish National Agency for Education to prepare for an extension of the guaranteed teaching time. We have also set aside SEK 5 million this year to prepare this work. Of course, more teaching time is not enough. Early knowledge checks and support measures are also needed to enable more children to succeed. And all children need to be tested early for reading and writing difficulties so that support measures can be introduced in time. These are support measures in the form of increased teaching time, homework and holiday school and, not least, special teacher support and special teaching groups that should be available at each school. We're gonna need more adults in school. We need more special teachers and special educators to succeed. But we also need to start measuring the knowledge development at each school so that we see how much children actually learn and that the school does the right things. It is about that all schools should be obliged to work with diagnostic tests, which measure what is called progression, that is, the development of knowledge. We also want to see an annual national knowledge measurement that is comparable over time. In parallel, we Christian Democrats want to give a mission to the School Inspectorate to start reviewing all schools based on pupils' knowledge and quality in teaching. It is not only education and teaching that need a stronger focus on knowledge; it also needs the review. In both Norway and England, students are able to measure their knowledge development. Of course, we could do that in Sweden too. When you have such measurements in place, you can then commission the Swedish School Inspectorate to rank the country's schools each year on the basis of knowledge development and a number of key factors that the school researchers assess are relevant for evaluating the quality of the schools. We therefore want to commission IFAU to propose which information and statistics need to be publicly reported in order for the Swedish school to be able to evaluate in a way that reflects students' knowledge and is fair. We believe that such measures will enable us to safeguard the freedom of choice that exists. We also protect quality and put knowledge in focus. For us Christian Democrats, it is also obvious that we should have an equal school throughout the country. Unfortunately, we know that the differences in knowledge between cities and countries are great. It is also not only the results of knowledge that differ greatly, but also the funding of the school. It is very different in different parts of the country. According to the Åstrand study A more equal school makes as much difference as 30-40 per cent when it comes to how much municipalities choose to invest in school and school money. A high school student in Arboga today receives twice as much as a community student in Borås. Why, one might ask. We Christian Democrats want to reduce these differences and strengthen pupils in rural areas and small towns. Today, therefore, we Christian Democrats join the Center Party in voting for a mandate to examine the quality of small schools and for us to make recommendations with a view to strengthening the conditions for pupils and teachers in the smaller schools in the country. We Christian Democrats also want to see increased government governance of the school's funding of Swedish schools in order to achieve an equivalent school throughout the country. We have proposed a national school money standard and believe that it would set the right expectations for the municipalities and facilitate comparisons and thus also accountability if it were clarified how the school money should be calculated and what costs the municipalities need to take up. We believe that increased government governance of school funding could guide municipalities towards a better and more equal school across the country – a school where every child, regardless of where he or she lives, has the opportunity to realise his or her potential.
i-KoB2doCc5i9xnupJLiD1Gz	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by briefly touching on what happened in Malmö this week. It is of course with great sadness and dismay but also anger that we witness what has happened where two teachers have been killed by a student. Of course, no society is immune to this kind of deed. It is impossible to completely protect a society from such things. We may also not know enough about motives and other things, if it is ideologically justified, something personal and so on. We live in a time when we have seen more and more such acts, not only in Sweden but also in other countries and not least in the United States. There are certainly some lessons we can learn from this. It is about crisis management, how to prepare, whether you need to strengthen the shell protection in schools and so on. Our thoughts of course go to the relatives and also to students and school staff at Malmö Latin. The second, Madam President, is that we are living at a time when Russia has invaded Ukraine and is trying to rearrange our continent in the largest bloodbath in many, many years. We had the Balkan wars a few decades ago and before the Cold War and World War II. These are terrible war crimes that are being committed. This also means that very many Ukrainians are forced to leave their homeland. Many come here to Sweden, which will place higher demands on our municipalities and schools when it comes to giving Ukrainian refugees the opportunity to a good school and a good education, whether they are here for a shorter or longer time. Madam President, I would like The third thing that I think is important is that we are now coming out of the pandemic that has been like a wet blanket over us and has caused so much trauma throughout the world and also in our country for several years, with thousands of people who have passed away. People have made enormous sacrifices to enable our society to cope with the pandemic and get out of it. We know what enormous efforts they have made that have worked in the front line during the pandemic, not least in health care. Many of them have received a great deal of support, while some have received far too little support. Another group that has made huge sacrifices during the pandemic is Sweden's students. In fact, the students who took the student in June last year had in practice studied half of their upper secondary school time remotely. I think that the older generation in Sweden does not really understand the consequences it has had for a lot of people. The Swedish Student Unions conducted a large survey where they asked students how they have measured during the pandemic. It is quite frightening reading with examples of how you have developed social phobia, home sitting, mental illness and so on. It also leads to a very large amount of knowledge. Former speakers have spoken about teacher-led teaching. It is very important, and that is what has taken a beating during the pandemic when you are forced to sit at home, log on to the computer and have different types of teaching at a distance without the teacher-led teaching and where the teachers also have less time for the students. Reserve 6 from the Centre Party and the Liberals concerns covid, Madam President, and I call for its approval. I would also like to call for the Liberals' reservation 12, which concerns the nationalisation of the school, i.e. a state head of Swedish school. It was a devastating decision that was made in the Swedish Parliament at the end of the 1980s when the Swedish school was municipalized. It has greatly weakened the status of the teaching profession and has led to very large differences and a lack of equivalence in municipalities around the country. Of course, they fight hard. All municipalities struggle, work, allocate resources and try to recruit the best teachers and school managers. But we see that many municipalities do not meet their commitments to school in the way they would have to. In their speech, the Christian Democrats mentioned the differences in school money. For comprehensive school it is basically the same schedule, the same hour plan, the same subjects and so on, and there is little difference in teaching. However, between upper secondary school programmes, there is a great deal of difference in costs between different programmes. In primary school, however, the costs should be very much the same across the country. Yet it can distinguish a great deal in school money between different municipalities. It is clear that municipalities with greater challenges, for example, in terms of new arrivals, people who do not have Swedish as their mother tongue, higher unemployment, greater social challenges, overcrowding and so on often need to invest more in their school. The problem is that those municipalities have a weaker tax base – simply because they are poorer – while rich municipalities have a high tax base, many who work, and often not the same extensive social challenges as the poor municipalities have. The whole approach to the municipalisation of Swedish schools has meant that some municipalities have much better conditions than other municipalities. This means that we no longer have an equivalent school in Sweden. In addition, some other things come with regard to Swedish school. I bought Bamse for my youngest son a few years ago. It turned out that the cost of a Bamse subscription is higher than the total cost per student for teaching materials on all subjects in one academic year. In Sweden, an average of SEK 600 per student is spent on teaching material. It doesn't make sense. In Finland it is more than twice as much, and in Norway it is over SEK 1 000 per student. It is very strange that students in Swedish schools do not have access to physical teaching material. According to a study by the National Association of Teachers, this has led a teacher in Sweden to spend an average of 80 hours a year producing his own teaching material. Of course, they are not quality assured by any educational institutions or researchers and so on. We must raise our ambitions for Swedish school. We must understand the importance of basic theoretical knowledge and teacher-led teaching. Armand Duplantis jumps well 6,20 meters in pole jumps. Does anyone think he'd jump 6.20 if there wasn't a bar? No, probably not. You can jump high jumps and pole jumps without a bar. The problem is, firstly, that you do not know how high you have jumped and, secondly, that you do not know when you have jumped higher than the previous jump. This is exactly what we need in Swedish schools, i.e. bars that can be raised. When you reach a level you tighten the bow a little more, you raise the bar a little more, you raise the demands a little more, you have higher expectations. That is why we need more national tests, grades, more reconciliations and more evaluations. This is also needed for those students who do not reach the targets to be able to get extra help and support. This means that the leading classes and profile classes that exist in Swedish schools in secondary school and upper secondary school should be permanent. They should not only be a trial activity, as is the case with the primary school profile classes. Madam President, I would like I think that the school debate will be trivial, boring and one-track in Sweden when the government, above all, places all the blame for all the problems in school in the free schools. We must remember that over 80 per cent of Sweden's students attend the ordinary municipal school. It does not deliver enough compared to our expectations of the municipal school. There are many different problems in Swedish school. You cannot project all the challenges and problems in Swedish schools at free schools.
i-SLB1ch6MVZST4AbyysBqKk	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered today by Minister for Labour and Gender Equality Eva Nordmark, Minister Anna Hallberg, Minister Anna-Caren Sätherberg and Minister Lina Axelsson Kihlblom. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. Minister for Labour and Gender Equality Eva Nordmark answers both general policy questions and questions within her own area of responsibility.
i-CkH3F9VnXERNuEMC8JtWfE	Madam President, I would like The war in Ukraine affects us all, and it affects many industries. One of the industries most affected is food production. Ukraine and Russia are very important for food production throughout the world, in many ways also for it in Sweden. In Sweden, we have historically reduced our self-sufficiency. Today, we're down to 50%. The signals that we are receiving now because of the lack of profitability and high prices of inputs are that farmers choose not to put pigs or fill up with poultry in their stables. We can therefore fear that we will have a reduction in food production in the near future. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Rural Development how it intends to act at this stage. It is no longer enough to say that we are following developments. It is time to put your foot down and lead the development instead, otherwise Swedish food production will decrease.
i-SaxNB7eHgaqbzzp1uavB2b	Madam President, I would like I thank Mr Widegren for the question. It is a troubled time for many in Swedish agriculture, not for everyone but for many. The government has also acted quickly with the billions of aid that we presented already in February. The Minister of Finance was out two weeks ago with a further reduction in the diesel price. We can see higher settlement prices. After all, we have to take both revenue and expenditure. Ica was out two days ago and told us that they are now going to raise food prices so that there will be more of Swedish goods on the shelves. I came home from Brussels on Monday. The European Commission is now opening up the regulatory framework so that more aid can be decided. With the EU opening up to this and that message came yesterday, I still say to John Widegren that this is something that we are looking at seriously and very carefully to see what can be introduced.
i-Jx6k8o9Lv31KNgDyuJaTWv	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. I am fully aware that we need to work towards the EU in simplifying regulations, obtaining exemptions and the like. This is a question of profitability but also of preparedness. The great fear is that, for the 2023 growing season, there may not even be access to agricultural inputs, whether we manage to maintain the profitability of agriculture so that they can be bought.
i-X5R54fQV5w9tYB4emXKScn	Madam President, I would like It is quite right that there is concern about certain inputs of which Russia, for example, has been a major producer. There, the Swedish Government and the EU also act strongly. We can also see several good initiatives being made in the change in order to produce more at home. In addition, I would just like to say to John Widegren that what we are seeing in the light of this is that the transition that we need to make so well needs to take place now, that is, that we do not have the dependence on these inputs.
i-P45d2ecLKEuwgVo56hpSG7	Madam President, I would like My question also goes to the Minister for Rural Affairs. The energy crisis struck last autumn. Russia's war has made this even worse. We are now facing a Swedish, a European, yes, a global food crisis. My question to the Minister is: when are the new measures coming? In February, the Government presented a package of measures which was inadequate and outdated even before it was delivered. The farmers then called for 2 billion. They got 1 billion. Fertility prices rise by several hundred per cent, but prices of final products will not rise as much. Much suggests that we will see reduced production when it needs to increase most. When are the measures coming?
i-KaJdfgpTtS58JBxWTzs5PJ	Madam President, I would like I thank Martin Kinnunen for the question. As I just said to the previous speaker, John Widegren, the action came very quickly in February. But after February, the world situation has changed, that is, Putin has chosen to enter illegally and unjustly into an invasion of Ukraine. This means that we have taken other measures. For example, the Minister of Finance was out two weeks ago with a further reduction in the diesel price. The food chain must work because we have a market-oriented agriculture in Sweden and in the EU. It has reacted with higher settlement prices. As I said earlier, Ica was out two days ago and told us that it will raise food prices to ensure that there are Swedish goods on the shelves.
i-SFaMg2HsV8nDFh57mnB2sa	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. It is positive that the government has finally begun to look at fuel prices, but we still have too social democratic prices for petrol and diesel. When is the government prepared to review the level of the reduction obligation? When can we see a drop? When can we see significantly greater tax cuts? It is not reasonable that Swedish farmers, Swedish skiers and Swedish households should pay several SEK more for fuel.
i-MHpaUqLHbzoNvyQfSBrmjM	Madam President, I would like I believe that everyone – or at least most – in this House understands that we need to make a major transition so that we are not dependent on Russia's inputs and so that we have an agriculture that is competitive and can produce the biofuels that we need in both agriculture and forestry. I'm thinking a little opposite of Martin Kinnunen. We have reduced the price of diesel to the level that goes, but we must also change.
i-VizaMj7pf8dn26nBJaxk6u	Madam President, I would like I, too, have a question for the Minister for Rural Affairs. As early as 2017, the Swedish Defence Committee presented a report that includes fundamental issues of security of supply, including food issues and also the prerequisites of primary production. At the beginning of the year, the Centre Party took the initiative in the Riksdag for a support package of 1 billion. It was heeded by the government. We have now estimated that at least 2.1 billion more are needed. It is about 1 1⁄2 billion to animal producers, whose feed costs are now running. It is a question of maximising the refund of the diesel tax until 30 June 2023, but also of obtaining a retroactiveity in the refund from 1 January, together with aid to Norrland. My question to the Minister for Rural Development is how the government views this proposal. Will you support this?
i-Be7pTvRtteqFjZQZwWanNC	Madam President, I would like I thank all Members for their great commitment to Swedish agriculture, which is incredibly important. What we are seeing at this point is how we really want to follow the food strategy that we have decided on, so that we can also see increased food production. Not all elements of the Center Party's proposals are feasible here and now. The measures that the government has been looking at have been measures that can be taken under the current system, so that money is spent on agriculture as soon as possible. We look at everything, Daniel Bäckström, but we look at the measures that at this point are effective.
i-QXuG79nF11HVYYoR5xWoTr	Madam President, I would like It is of course extremely important to take measures on time, both for the coming harvests of the year and for autumn use and spring use next year. Given that 15 per cent less fertiliser has been purchased for Swedish agriculture due to the high cost situation and because of the capacity to supply from the east, my question to the Minister for Rural Development is: How does the government intend to ensure that there are inputs such as fertilizers and fertilisers for the coming season?
i-GCHaxMPapqE2b312A2n48E	Madam President, I would like The authorities are watching this all the time. The authorities have also told us that fertilizers are available in Sweden but, as Daniel Bäckström says, at higher prices. On the other hand, there is capacity for this year. As I said in a previous speech, both the Swedish Government and the EU are looking at how to ensure that the inputs needed are also available for the next season.
i-B5X3x2hRthsuC6ap3whmf1	Madam President, I would like My question is addressed to Minister for Employment and Gender Equality Eva Nordmark. Last week, together with the Constitutional Committee, I visited the trade union ST, which organises state employees. Among other things, they told us about their report, the silent state, and the frightening results that emerge in it, for example, that almost one in three people are concerned about reprisals if they make criticisms, that they refrain from sounding the alarm about maladministration, that they do not really know what rights they have and that it is unclear how to proceed. A quarter feel that they themselves have been subjected to reprisals or are somewhat unsure of whether they have been subjected to reprisals. Just as many people know someone else who has been affected. My question to the Minister is therefore what measures she intends to take to make the state an example of employees' working conditions and the right to a workplace without a culture of silence.
i-GWVuePigRcvpqzeDxKTXEE	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jessica Wetterling, for this very important question! Of course, we have a fundamental right to freedom of expression. It is extremely important that we can use it in all workplaces around Sweden, that we can point out shortcomings when they exist and that we can express criticism. That is why trade unions have a very central role to play. I am pleased that the honourable Member chooses to highlight the ST report, because it is precisely this reflection of what it actually looks like in the labour market that needs attention. We have taken a number of measures from the government to strengthen and clarify the right to freedom of expression that is enjoyed in the labour market. Only in December came a new decision. I welcome the fact that trade unions continue to raise this important issue and are prepared by the government to take further action if necessary. It is by highlighting problems that we can remedy them; that is my starting point.
i-7T7kuQE5iqjV4LinqFLa9H	Madam President, I would like As the Minister said, it is essential for a functioning democracy that our social institutions are open and transparent and that all citizens are guaranteed freedom of expression and transparency in the public sphere. It is at least as important that employees within the state have this knowledge. The Silent State report shows that many employees do not know the principle of public access, freedom of communication or freedom of expression. Especially is the ignorance of those who have refrained from making criticism.
i-AtLufYaJzkDMeSTM7wTaoz	Madam President, I would like Trade unions play an important role here in increasing knowledge among their members. That is why I very much welcome this report. It is also the case that the employer has a responsibility to ensure that employees know what applies at the workplace. I welcome the fact that we can continue to discuss how we can strengthen the protection of those who point to shortcomings. It is by going this way that we can develop our business, whether it be government or other parts of our society.
i-Th78Wqd8NkvPwECJD1rVCB	Madam President, I would like The cost crisis for Swedish agriculture was very difficult even before the Ukraine crisis and is now almost total. When we need food production most, there are very strong increases in the cost of fuel, electricity, feed and fertilizers. I note that the billion that Prime Minister Sätherberg boasts was pushed by the Riksdag in February. As late as Tuesday, the Social Democrats – the government party – dismissed a package of support that includes a refund of diesel tax retroactively from the turn of the year, so that farmers can feel that they can get started with spring use and know that part of the cost has been lifted off. It is also a question of increased support for livestock production, so that you know what you can do with your livestock.
i-TxXufbUF9Kab1GqDZRJRSC	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jakob Forssmed, for the question! Swedish agriculture is hugely important. Swedish agriculture not only produces the good goods – you live in the countryside, as I do, agriculture is also rural developer and green-job employee. Agriculture is also pushing hard to become fossil-free; it aims for Swedish agriculture to be fossil-free by 2030. This is something that the government is trying to support, among other things with a biogas premium that we now have in the Climate Klivet. We have made the reductions that have been possible on diesel. We have reduced the price of diesel for the farmer; according to our proposal it will be 3, 93. Added to this is what the Minister for Finance announced. Much has been done, Jakob Forssmed. As I told you earlier, I have just been to Brussels. We get other opportunities to do things after the decision and message that came to the government yesterday.
i-TLoGQ4q8YafLYYoHHzWhkT	Madam President, I would like With all due respect for the Government's response: The notification is now needed for those farmers who are thinking about how to continue their operations and how to do with efforts this spring. The Government has twice highlighted what ICA is doing. It would also be good to know the government now intends to do so; after all, this is the task of the Government. As late as Tuesday, it was dismissed to give the tax refund retroactively. Is this something that the government is prepared to reconsider at this time?
i-QDKsR864WUBFuVeGQLpyU2	Madam President, I would like I think that Jakob Forssmed, like me, knows that doing tax rates retroactively is not something that Sweden has done. I don't know if that, either – making a decision with a retroactive meaning – is something that we do. Having said that, I would like to remind Jakob Forssmed that we have a market-oriented agriculture and that the farmer is paid for the product it delivers. This is very important for Swedish farmers, so I think they are very happy that they see higher settlement prices and that Ica talks about raising food prices so that the farmer actually gets paid for his job.
i-R5CuHspT5Maebwq8cKCemi	Madam President, I would like One consequence of Russia's invasion of Ukraine is that we have now received more than 14 000 Ukrainian citizens, most of whom are women and children and about half are of working age. I listened the other day, Madam President, to the Minister for Employment's press conference on how we are preparing as a society. The municipalities do their utmost in a positive way by receiving and standing up. The question of self-sufficiency will soon come as a letter to the post office. There is an expectation that the adults who come here will also support themselves. But when you listened to the government, you didn't hear anything about extra resources for Arbetsförmedlingen. Nor will there be an opportunity to receive Swedish education, which for many is crucial for entering the labour market. My question to Minister Eva Nordmark is: Why are you opposed to this?
i-6B2dtgnRtEfbA22o6uvHau	Madam President, I would like I thank Roger Haddad for the very important question. Yes, Russia's invasion has meant that we now have the most serious refugee crisis in Europe in modern times since the Second World War. As we have activated the EU's temporal protection directive – the mass refugee directive, as we say in Sweden – we also have the opportunity to provide these people with both protection and work permits directly. We know that those coming from Ukraine generally have a high level of education. In addition, many have moved on to higher education. Our assessment is that many of those who now come to Sweden will not only be able to but also want to contribute and support themselves. Here we have great opportunities with matching. Today we have over 218 000 vacancies at Platsbanken. A lot of those jobs will certainly many of those who come from Ukraine will be able to apply for and be matchable to.
i-7K35Ty31ySDd1oAB3Z1EN2	Madam President, I would like I am absolutely convinced that the many mothers and other adults who come to Sweden want nothing more than to do good and good in Sweden, whether they are here for three months or a year. We do not know, Madam President, how long this conflict will last. Therefore, I find it remarkable that preparedness is not triggered much earlier and faster when it comes to resources, toolbox at Arbetsförmedlingen and mapping together with the Swedish Agency for Higher Education. One could already say to the municipalities: Offer Swedish education, because it is important for the establishment!
i-4jwiJ2tNsx9Dk5awJrYwCc	Madam President, I would like Those who come are now given the opportunity to read everyday Swedish through folkbildning. On the other hand, SFIs are not available at this stage, but should be registered. But everyday Swedish is an opportunity from coming to Sweden within the framework of the mass refugee directive. This is central. We also, of course, have an ongoing dialogue with our authorities on what needs to be done. Our authorities are working very intensively. The Public Employment Service will carry out a skills survey, so that we in the Swedish labour market can take advantage of the skills of those who now come from Ukraine.
i-3714gZmkvB6YoLDR1bDEJP	Madam President, I would like This afternoon, I will miss the Minister for Rural Development in the debate we will have on the forest bill. It is about ownership and nature conservation in the forest. The rights of forest owners are not just about voluntarily choosing between protecting forests and valuable nature or not doing so; this is regulated by law. Forest owners must also be able to receive compensation when the forest needs to be protected for conservation reasons. They must also be able to obtain advice. However, the budget for the forest bill was removed when the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and others voted for another budget in the Riksdag. Who will take responsibility for implementing the forest bill's nature conservation efforts? What's the government gonna do? This isn't gonna make any sense.
i-4bSTZimYBJ3Jmfx2G7GRrm	Madam President, I would like I thank Maria Gardfjell for the question. Maria Gardfjell is quite right that protection must also be matched with funds. If we have forest owners who volunteer to join us and say that this is a sheltered forest – I can imagine that it will of course also be matched with funds. I share Maria Gardfjell's view that it was a great pity that the money in the budget that we spent together disappeared. Then I do not think that Maria Gardfjell will miss me so much, because Isak From will be here to take the debate with honour. Maria Gardfjell's supplementary question was about the other parts of the budget that disappeared. My answer is that it will simply take longer, which is also very unfortunate.
i-38gsAssDreb9BWtiYSgqGJ	Madam President, I would like It goes without saying that we will miss the Minister in this very important debate. The proposals in the forest bill that will now not be implemented relate to the strengthening of forest protection. There are 700 individual forest owners who have signed agreements and are waiting to receive their money. What does the government want to say to them?
i-RpYxfzo8BvWvdNjWfKxo1W	Madam President, I would like What I want to say at the moment is that last year about SEK 300 million went to that protection of the forest and that in this year's budget there are still 410 million left. But as I said from the beginning to Maria Gardfjell : Of course there must be funds that match the protection. It's important if you're going to do what the bill says.
i-D1gmBLdhHW3ivibUt3kYCs	Madam President, I would like I would like to address my question to the Minister of Education. Ukraine is under attack. The hell of war has already driven millions of people on the run. Hundreds of thousands are expected to come to Sweden for protection, and many of them will be children. Children are entitled to and need to attend school. We know how important schooling is for a good reception. However, I note that some schools have a greater responsibility than others. The municipalities are responsible for being prepared to accept all children in their schools, a responsibility that independent schools lack. That is why I wonder: how does the government intend to act to ensure that this works as well as possible?
i-TymNyTMpnRrF4SFaXw2PBy	Madam President, I would like I thank Linus Sköld for this very topical issue. As we all know, we offer schooling in Sweden to all Ukrainian children. That is our duty. The mass refugee directive is very clear about that. The municipal schools, as Linus Sköld describes, have an obligation to receive the children. Within a month, students will have a school place. We have given two assignments to the National Board of Education regarding this. With regard to independent schools, the government today decided that they should have the opportunity to receive pupils on the basis of a proposal similar to what was passed through in the Riksdag in 2015. If we're gonna get through this, we can't have some people who won't help. It is therefore a very important decision that we have taken today.
i-nimtQbb49Yh2XWeXfJ5nm	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his answer. I think it is brilliant that the independent schools are now given the opportunity to marry some places for newly arrived children in the same way as in 2015. I very much hope that the independent schools will take that responsibility and want to share the task. Although many of the children who are now coming bring with them a basically uninterrupted schooling, reasonable knowledge of English and probably partly better conditions than was the case last time we had a refugee crisis, it is a major task the school system has ahead of it. What further action is the government taking?
i-LvTUDxBJdjgoovxGEEzcB6	Madam President, I would like We have decided that the Swedish National Agency for Education will give a great deal of support to all the principals, partly by recruiting teachers and partly by assessing the students' knowledge in a good way. As previously described here, those coming from Ukraine have a very high educational background. For example, there are actually more people who have attended high school among the young people who come here than among young people in Sweden. This is a big job. If we help out, it will go well, but it will be challenging.
i-PAy363SsRwxbs7J7d5VVXP	Madam President, I would like I have a question for the Minister for Rural Affairs. The runaway price of fuel makes it look dark for the future of equestrian sport. Increased fuel costs for our farmers will ultimately mean a rather sharp increase in the prices of coarse fodder. It is expected that feed prices will increase to double, not least because feed also needs to be driven over longer distances if you live in Norrland, as does the Minister. The high fuel prices also mean that riders in sparsely populated areas cannot afford to travel to competitions when distances are long. Norrland counts in equestrian sports from Gävle up and up, and I just talked to an entrepreneur and mother of two elite young people in Vännäs who have had to reset the whole competition season because the prizes per competition have doubled. A team in Västerbotten that will be able to complete the elite series costs only in fuel 17 000. These girls will not be able to fight in Sweden anymore.
i-QPAo6RFHYWwfv94neNQXoT	Madam President, I would like I thank Alexandra Anstrell for the question. I live in the middle of Sweden, so Norrland is huge. And just as Alexandra Anstrell describes, this part of Sweden often has long distances. The horse industry is important, and the diesel reductions that are now being presented will of course also meet the horse industry. First there will be 50 cents in May, if I understand it correctly, and then the government's proposal in the spring change budget will be a 1, 30 diesel reduction. This will also mitigate the effects on the horse industry.
i-NGppdGjYm2E5E5SaUNHrkJ	Madam President, I would like The gold turned to sand. This is how we can describe the handling of the proposals that have been made and that the government has ignored in terms of emergency preparedness. Many of the problems we encountered during the pandemic crisis could have been prevented. As early as 2019, the Nordic Council Bureau had developed a major strategy for societal preparedness and security. It was adopted unanimously by all parties in all countries, but it has not yet been implemented. Since 2019 we have received the Enestam report and an emergency preparedness proposal that the Bureau presented in Malmö at the beginning of this week. Madam President, I would like Given the large toolbox available to prevent future crises, I would like to ask Minister Hallberg: Why have the recommendations and reports that have been prepared to ensure our emergency preparedness not been implemented? What has the Minister been doing concretely since 2019?
i-Csti4rvpTv1Emw9tNZ2QoW	Madam President, I would like Shortly after the end of 2019, we entered a pandemic, and now we are in another crisis. It is extremely difficult to know how the crises will fall out, but of course we will learn from each crisis. In addition to our own lessons, we have, as Angelika Bengtsson says, the Enestam report. What we are now doing on behalf of all Nordic prime ministers is reviewing crisis preparedness in the Nordic region and also taking part in the Enestam report. Much is good there, and for the Nordic Council session in November this year also the Council of Ministers' proposal on how to strengthen crisis preparedness. We have learned a great deal from the crisis and we will have much better cooperation in the future. On the other hand, we must be honest that it is very difficult to see what the next crisis will look like. But cooperation, dialogue and a better structure for meeting crises are just what we need now, and we will also be able to put such proposals on the table in November.
i-Pgbn2Nw2d9V61zkGe1Q8qG	Madam President, I would like On Monday, two teachers were killed in Malmö. I will not reduce what has happened by making politics out of it, speculating on causes or claiming that I have any answers. But like everyone else in Malmö, I am full of questions about how it could happen and why, but maybe we will never get any answers. But what we do know is that in less than a year there have been three serious school attacks in Skåne, and Säpo warns that more and more children are radicalized online. We must therefore seek answers to what is going on, and I am convinced that we must all help to find these answers. Therefore, I ask the Minister for Education: Can not all parties in Parliament sit down together with wise people from all over the country to see how we can strengthen the work of catching up these guys before it is too late?
i-EzRB85QzsLE775B13WujbU	Madam President, I would like I share Mr Niels-Paarup-Petersen's fear of what happened on Monday. We have seen such things all over the world and in recent years also in Sweden. That is why, last week, we put forward proposals to strengthen the security of schools, which provide more opportunities to move pupils, give teachers better opportunities and so on. We also have a bill on student health where we clarify what schools have in place. We also have proposals for resource schools. We have therefore tabled several proposals in the last few months alone. To answer the question: I think it is a very good proposal, and I am happy to sit down and talk about the work environment work, systematic safety work and clear cooperation between schools, social services and the police that is included in the legislative proposals.
i-Xw8U9GVQTEhx7ydxFqh1yJ	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister Nordmark. The Minister has been in the Committee on Employment on several occasions, which I appreciate. Together we have been able to talk about the shortcomings in the interaction between Arbetsförmedlingen and Samhall. Today Samhall is not fulfilling his basic task of offering work to people with disabilities who are far from the labour market. In committee, the Minister has agreed with me every time and promised to look at the issue. So today my question is: has the Minister perhaps finished looking into an action plan? Or should we continue to allow physically disabled people, above all, to have less and less opportunity to get a job at Samhall?
i-CjtxF78wE688xx138pf5M3	Madam President, I would like I thank Michael Anefur for his important commitment to this target group. I would like to stress that the persons assigned to Samhall by the Employment Service should have such reduced working capacity that they cannot be helped through other labour market policies. As I have also explained in the Labour Market Committee, the Government has given a number of assignments to the Public Employment Service regarding Samhall to review instructions, target groups and the application of the rules. We are now at the stage that we have received the reports from Arbetsförmedlingen to the Ministry of Labour, and we are currently working on analysing this. I will read the reports carefully myself. On this basis, I look forward to coming back to the Committee on Employment, at the invitation or at its own request, to explain this. It is important that disabled people have better opportunities in the Swedish labour market.
i-Wa3UrWQpeAFn8GC37i3xWP	Madam President, I would like The climate crisis and the war in Ukraine have the same basis, fossil fuels. That is what the U.N. Ambassador of Ukraine said. No barrels of Russian oil, Zelenskyj asked us here in Parliament today. When the Minister for Rural Development was asked by TT how she views those in the EU who want to slow down or pause climate action as a result of the measures we need to take because of the war, her response was unclear. The Green Party is clear. We want to stop all fossil imports from Russia; the EU should not fatten Putin's war fund. The EU should not pause climate action, either, but change. Will the Social Democrats stand up for an offensive policy within the EU against the climate crisis?
i-TT7vk3vtJrgMHtAYCoPZhi	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Camilla Hansén, for the question! The government has not changed its opinion on tackling the climate threat that we face with all sorts of measures. The question I answered in the media that day concerned some measures that the Commission wanted to implement on a temporary basis and which it had asked the Member States what they liked. Among other things, it was about opening up to cultivation the ecological focus areas that have been set aside to ensure that food security is strengthened within the EU. I answered yes to that question. The Committee on Environment, Agriculture and the EU Council had also supported this. It was about something temporary in order to strengthen the food supply that we need now.
i-5sTNKr5XeRAfdzJDbjYpjP	Madam President, I would like The war currently raging in Ukraine has forced millions of people to flee. It is Ukrainians who have just worked, worried about their family and tried to put together everyday life just like everyone else who has now seen their lives in ruins in a short time. Some of these people have gone to Sweden for protection, and more continue to come. We know how important it is for people to have a job to go to, and many of those who now come to Sweden want to get to work and support themselves and their family as soon as possible. The mass-refugee directive is based on ensuring that the person receiving protection is able to provide for himself as much as possible.
i-NTmZJv6wsJTiKUXnsxAkwM	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Johanna Haraldsson, for this important question! Those who come under the mass refugee directive receive protection and can start working at once when they come to Sweden. Of course it's important. A lot of people who will now want to work. I think it will primarily be a matter of getting food and shelter, as it has been a tough flight for many, but then the questions of work come. What is important is that those who come from Ukraine should contact the Public Employment Service. You do skills mappings, and you match the available vacancies. Today we have over 218 000 vacancies in the Swedish labour market. Further efforts can be made, such as an internship if necessary. Our assessment is that many people can get directly into work. The starting point is, just like everyone else, that everyone who can work should work. We hope, of course, that the war will soon end. Many of the people who come to our country want to go back, but they can use the time in Sweden to contribute and support themselves.
i-DhaNpNuFQ4wTHVmj5WShfF	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Eva Nordmark.
i-NrRTsW9EqVC6cphBvu65Rm	Today, in this House, we could both see and hear the President of Ukraine live from Kiev telling us about Russia's illegal attack on Ukraine. Yesterday morning we heard SVT's Moscow correspondent tell us that from now on he will only report on the Russian position and name the war in Ukraine as a special operation. Today, we heard the President of Ukraine tell us how Russia in state-controlled media is discussing and showing maps on how to occupy Gotland to protect a special operation against the Baltic states. Behind the word special surgery lies genocide, ethnic cleansing, murder, rape, war crimes and millions of people on the run. How would Swedish public service call it? The question is therefore about the government and public services reporting on war.
i-G3qBKVgLtAxgSvUc8nKsQL	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mats Sander, for the urgent question! We all appreciated the important speech that Zelenskyj gave here in the Swedish Parliament earlier this morning. Of course, public service plays a very important role. Public service needs to be objective, and the independence of public service companies needs to characterise the mission of impartiality and objectivity that is a central part of the Swedish media landscape. I would like to emphasise that the journalistic activities of companies will be needed in case of increased preparedness, in case we end up there. They have therefore been part of the total defense for some time. This means that the business should be maintained. I cannot stress enough the importance of the scrutiny and reports that we receive being factual and independent and that Putin and his invasion are really being examined. Causes of High Fuel Prices
i-PAUsF5dEw8TVno48Eu8KWB	Madam President, I would like The Swedish fuel price is one of the highest in the world, which hits the countryside hard, not least. In Sweden we pay tax on the tax, which means that the tax cost represents just over 60 per cent of the fuel price. On this, the government has also introduced the reduction obligation, which increases prices even more. That is why we have the world's highest fuel prices, nothing else. Blaming Putin is misleading and lying. The reason is rather that the government, on an ideological and climate-active basis, has taken these decisions. It is a policy that is far removed from my policy and that of the Swedish Democrats. To stand for your decisions is important, especially if you're a leader. We teach that to our children; at least I teach it to my children. My question goes to Minister for Rural Affairs Anna-Caren Sätherberg: Why does the government not stand for its climate ambitions and bad decisions instead of drawing the Putin card? Wouldn't that be more honest?
i-9sTz1P7bGDNoRjWddJnbbZ	Madam President, I would like I have to start by saying something about pulling the Putin card. I believe that this whole House is aware that Putin has invaded Ukraine in an illegal and indefensible manner. I think that is the first thing that we in this House need to understand, and then we have a few things that we have to do in that situation. We can see that energy prices rose even before Putin invaded Ukraine, because of Putin's gas. Putin, I'm not gonna draw like a card. What he is doing right now we heard all about in the speech from Ukraine this morning. The honourable Member asked about the reduction obligation, and at the moment a check is taking place at the Swedish Energy Agency to see how it works. If the honourable Member asks me to replace the dependence on Putin's fuel, the answer is yes.
i-VNvPxWZCfDMHba4gSuXEbG	Madam President, I would like South East Sweden and Kalmar County are one of the areas where much of Sweden's food is produced. It is a very difficult and difficult piece of land, but it is nevertheless an important part of the Swedish household. The County Administrative Board of Kalmar County has asked the Government for an exemption from the so-called biotopes protection legislation in order to facilitate and enable continued use. In the shadow of what many questioners have raised, namely the crisis facing the world following the illegal invasion of neighbouring Ukraine by Putin, the situation is acute.
i-LsZ6XvKAQSk7Rwgz29q9rd	Madam President, I would like I am well aware of this issue, and I will go down to the municipality of Borgholm. I have been invited by, among others, the Chairman of the Municipal Executive Board, Ilko Corkovic, who has drawn my attention to this issue. This concerns an amendment of the environmental code. I know that the Minister for Climate and the Environment will come back with answers to this question shortly, because it is in her area. However, if the honourable Member asks me about the government's assessment of increased food production, the answer is that we have a food strategy and want to see increased food production in Sweden. And Kalmar County makes a big contribution to this food production.
i-DdVFnF6D5XJ9kZGsHMfjAJ	Madam President, I would like Most of the refugees from Vladimir Putin's attack wars against Ukraine are women and children, as the children's fathers stay at the front to defend their country. This means that very many children will soon be able to start school in Sweden. In the past, the Minister of Education has not been able to explain which scenarios the government is working on to strengthen preparedness for receiving Ukrainian children. At yesterday's press conference with the government, it was reaffirmed that the government is looking at various scenarios. But what scenarios are looked at, and how do government action plans differ depending on which scenario becomes a reality?
i-TJQjDPm3VH6ag6EmRL6uUo	Madam President, I would like I thank Christian Carlsson for the question. I've been asked a hundred questions about the prognosis. And I say that I do not work with the forecast; other authorities do. However, I work with many different scenarios. And I'm gonna be ready for everyone. We know that there are 7,600 children, aged 0 - 18, who have arrived. Some people have started school. Some belong to preschool, some belong to comprehensive school and some belong to upper secondary school. But we do not know at all about the reception because not everyone has made themselves known. You have to be enrolled after a month. But I'm going to work on all the scenarios. When I meet school leaders, we work on all the scenarios. So we max out all kinds of scenarios we can see. We are trying to have legislation ready and prepare for anything that can happen. And if we need to make more decisions, we will make them.
i-XRwWQx331iUS1hKH4Jzd5E	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister for Employment and Gender Equality Eva Nordmark. The refugee crisis in Ukraine that we are witnessing is the fastest growing in Europe since the Second World War. According to the United Nations Refugee Agency, more than 10 million people have been forced to flee their homes from the illegal and disgusting wars of Putin. Some of these people have already taken refuge in Sweden. The International Rescue Committee warns that women and children forced to flee Putin's illegal war are at risk of violence, exploitation and abuse.
i-7nA7YKkYUkJrGXoa8hxBJs	Madam President, I would like I thank Mr Serkan for the question. I must say that it is absolutely disgusting that women and children fleeing a war are at risk of falling into the clutches of these people who exploit children and women. They are exposed to human trafficking, prostitution and other shit. It's quite gross, to say the least. We need to do everything in our power to ensure that women in this whole chain, from fleeing to coming to Sweden, are safe and secure. Much is done by the UN. And I have also spoken to Ylva Johansson, European Commissioner. What we have done in Sweden is to provide funds – a couple of million to the Equality Agency to strengthen the work against human trafficking and prostitution. We ensure that there is now information in the languages that women speak for them to know where to call and what to think about when they come to Sweden. For example, there should be an interpreter for the Kvinnofridslinjen. The police's work is of course also absolutely central, and the effort that is currently being made in Stockholm – Accepto – is absolutely crucial.
i-PdW2H2pB1iZpXy7FrpFatR	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Education Lina Axelsson Kihlblom. There are many thoughts and questions concerning Russia's dealings with Ukraine. We are all very affected after President Zelenskyj's speech to us today. It was incredibly emotional. This unpleasant war affects the civilian population in particular. Daily we get pictures of how people are affected when the targets are constantly civilian. It's horrible and despicable. A very large number of women and children are on the run to Sweden, among others, and many have already arrived. Unfortunately, we can count on many of these children being physically injured. But many of these children will also suffer from posttraumatic stress disorder. Unfortunately, it is something that we almost have to count on after the abominable events that these children have been involved in, things that one should not have to experience in a lifetime. Many of these children will attend Swedish school. It will require a great change and a great effort for student health, but also for all teachers and educators present at the school. Unfortunately, we already have problems both with recruiting teachers and with student health, which has a very heavy burden.
i-5WtoxjW5hJDqZbnxzKgXK1	Madam President, I would like I thank Mrs Marie-Louise Sandström for the question. This is something we work with on a daily basis. The Swedish National Agency for Education has been given two assignments to support schools in relation to all the issues related to the reception of newly arrived students, hence also the question of pupil health. My experience from the 2015 Syria crisis is that children's expressions of trauma could sometimes come much later. We must therefore be prepared, we must have a strong society and we must have resources. That is why I am pleased that we have actually put forward the proposal to strengthen pupil health so that no school can save on the particular professions of pupil health.
i-5h1MWhE2YRDTkwAHcpZuYv	Madam President, I would like The employment agency has long flagged that the agency is being used by criminals who have put in systems to lure money into their hands. A weak regulatory framework means that the same people recurring in different guises and company constructions cannot be denied support. This is nothing new, and the government has been alerted to this on several occasions. The government will set up an investigation after an investigation, but nothing happens. As early as 2019, the Government urged the Swedish Public Employment Service in its regulation letter for the financial year to develop an action plan to combat fraud, which the agency immediately did in an exemplary way. Since then, the government has set up various investigations that have not yet come to an end in any decision. Madam President, I would like Now it is 2022, and this meekness is distressing. But when the government is standing and stomping and referring to ongoing investigations, the criminals fill their pockets with Swedish taxpayers' money in an unsettling stream. My question goes to Minister for Employment Eva Nordmark. When will the government begin to take welfare crime seriously and act quickly to provide the relevant authorities with the necessary tools?
i-AedRwzZbsjg1vzk5xC7bdP	Madam President, I would like I thank Magnus Persson for the question. I do not know if he has missed that the government has one of its main priorities to break welfare crime and crime at all and take back control of welfare. Of course, not a single crown should go to criminal actors. It is also for this reason that the government has given authorities both more resources and more tools to enable them to ensure that criminal gangs, networks and actors do not in different ways skim on our tax money. We have allocated SEK 45 million in the budget for this year to Arbetsförmedlingen in order to be able to work with these issues. I would also like to highlight the great effort that we are making at the labour market crisis centres around Sweden to really push back the criminal actors. We are about to start establishing regional ones too. The first will be established in Malmö.
i-8gvWTSt3VKU1MqgyTqtGVW	Madam President, I would like Putin's indefensible invasion of Ukraine causes enormous suffering in many different ways, but also major problems for trade, for logistics chains and for the rest of the business community. The fact that the West has quickly come together and, among other things, agreed on sharp sanctions packages is incredibly good, important and effective. But voices are now also being raised in favour of increased protectionism as a strategy to make oneself less dependent on other countries. My question goes to Minister of Commerce Anna Hallberg. Is this the right way to go?
i-8iMdqobCA4V3JM3QuBKu8b	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking, Åsa Eriksson! It is indeed highly topical. Russia's terrible aggression shows that it is not a trading partner. Does this mean that we should turn back the clock and not affirm globalisation and global value chains? No. On the contrary, we are now going to ensure that we get trade agreements and establish closer links with democratically developed countries and countries that we trust. We're gonna get more trading partners. In Europe, only 40% of our trade is covered by trade agreements, for example, so it is incredibly important that we do this. It is also important that we continue to trade with countries that are not democratically developed and countries that are not fully economically developed, that is, developing countries, so that we get them into the right context and so that they are not dependent on Russia or other non-democratic countries. So my answer is: on the contrary! Unfortunately, protectionism has received oxygen at the moment, which is why Sweden's voice is more important than ever in global trade policy and in EU trade policy.
i-7yv4nucbeCM8XcpwQ2hz1x	Madam President, I would like Last week, the Minister for Labour announced that almost half a billion people are investing in making the Public Employment Service more present in vulnerable areas. Anyone who follows this can rightly ask what result the government expects an additional half a billion to achieve. The answer to that question must, of course, depend to some extent on how much money the government has ploughed into similar projects in these areas in the past, given the meagre result that has come from it. I would therefore like to ask whether the Minister for Labour can tell us about how many hundreds of millions the government has spent so far in the last two terms of office on various projects in these so-called vulnerable areas.
i-M4e7HsvtmN61oH6agkVirw	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question, Ludvig Aspling! I would like to start by saying that the 470 million I referred to in that interview concerns the effort we are making this year, 2022, to ensure that Arbetsförmedlingen can expand its local presence. What I have signaled is the importance of Arbetsförmedlingen taking the next step. We need to ensure that the agency is located in the areas where the needs are greatest, that is, where long-term unemployment is at its highest and where people have the greatest need to get matching and support. Very many of those who are becoming unemployed today are doing well with the digital tools, so it is important that Arbetsförmedlingen has expanded the digital infrastructure. Many sign up that way, and you get different types of digital support. However, for those who, for example, have language difficulties and in areas where we see long-term unemployment as high, more effort is needed. It is about efforts that the Public Employment Service is doing together with the municipalities and together with civil society. It is important that people get to work and be able to support themselves. The state should be there and support this by investing in everyone who can work.
i-LtZJDddzUa4ebVse1ha8DY	Madam President, I would like I have a question for the Minister for Rural Affairs. We Social Democrats believe that the whole country should live and grow. Good access to commercial services is a prerequisite for creating attractive environments for people and businesses throughout the country. Mackas in sparsely populated areas, in addition to fuel, often contribute with important service functions, for example by acting as postal and pharmacy agents.
i-AyKE73N5CvZ8YcehFEdA32	Madam President, I would like I thank Malin Larsson for the question. Just as Malin Larsson says, it is hugely important that there are country stores and fuel stations in rural and rural areas, because they often offer so much more than food and fuel. They perform a greater function than that. What the government has just decided on and which is finally clear is the investment that we announced in the budget and which means that 150 million over two years goes to protecting the pipelines of fuel stations underground, so that it is safe to refuel. The smallest stations have not been able to afford that investment, but now we have a new regulation which means that they can receive advance payments for 80%. In addition, they receive 85% of the investment – plus that they can obtain an exemption if the time is not sufficient. This is an important decision that ensures that we have fuel stations and can refuel throughout the country.
i-8kneLDF6e71zySrxYuSSMC	Madam President, I would like I understand that as many people as possible want to remain in the Chamber when we are debating the most important bill of the parliamentary term, which has also formed the basis for three government formations. The forest bears a lot, not only Sweden's prosperity, but it is also a cornerstone of Swedish politics. We will debate the Government proposal Strengthened ownership, flexible forms of protection and increased incentives for forest conservation on a voluntary basis. This is something that has involved a lot. There are 60 motion requests on the bill. Moreover, there are 170 requests from the general period of exercise and also 83 reservations, so the political parties want a lot. We Social Democrats ensure that the most important elements go further, so that we actually continue to cultivate the forest. The questions are not new. Since 1993, we have had the issues of freedom under responsibility and equal objectives. There have been questions and discussions about the division of responsibilities between the individual forest owner and society. The EU's entry, and not least the Species Protection Regulation, has raised new questions. In the meantime, the disputed key biotop inventories, originally conceived as a basis for advice for the individual forest owner, have developed into something quite different. The bill also regulates the phasing out of key biotope inventories. It was after the so-called Änokdomet in the Administrative Court of Appeal in 2015, that the Swedish Forest Board began to deny logging permits in the mountain forest. Shortly thereafter, the question of compensation for landowners denied authorisation and how to calculate it was raised. The forestry board was also sued in court. At the same time, the Swedish Forest Agency and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency asked the Government to review and clarify the parts of the Swedish Forest Protection Act that relate to mountain forest. In total, there have been more than twenty processes in which forest owners sued the state for compensation. Madam President, I would like This bill has been very much awaited. In that perspective, we are proud that we are now delivering. We can also put question marks because the right opposition has so many reservations. The Social Democratic Government has, ever since it took office, agreed with the January Contract Parties to address these issues with a long-term ambition to find the right solutions for the forest. We have also looked with concern at the escalating climate of debate on issues relating to the forest. That is why we Social Democrats made a strong contribution to setting up the Forest Investigation, led by Agneta Ögren, which produced the report "Strengthening property rights, flexible forms of protection and nature conservation in the forest". The term of office may be remembered for the pandemic, war threats and then war, but there have also been a great many negotiations. As I mentioned, the forest has been a supporting part of three government formations. Strengthened ownership and use rights are the basis for increasing the potential of forests for the economy, climate and the environment. In order to safeguard the ability to strengthen forest owners to continue forestry, the Government proposes that new replacement land and a new land sales programme from Sveaskog should form the basis for the protection of valuable forests. Although we do not like that Sveaskog is defoliated, we believe that this is a reasonable balance. Formal protection shall be the basis, the starting point and the main working method for the authorities. This is a good and balanced proposal that stipulates that ownership rights should be strengthened, that voluntary activity should be the basis and that we should support the growth of forestry while taking a large environmental responsibility. The proposal also authorises the transfer of properties with a total area of 25 000 hectares of productive forest land from Sveaskog to the state during the period 2022 to 2023 in order to subsequently be used as replacement land, and the Swedish Parliament approves that Sveaskog sells a total of up to 60 000 hectares, which can be used as replacement land to individual forest owners who choose to voluntarily protect their areas. This shows that we Social Democrats can be trusted. We promised to present a bill that strengthens ownership and promotes sustainable growth. Here we take responsibility for the environment. This is what we're doing now. The many types of diversity of forests are also about such things as the economy, sustainable products, growth, climate responsibility, biodiversity, hunting, fishing, outdoor life and functioning ecosystem services. All these great values must be contained in the forest and must be reflected in forestry policy. Forests should be managed, but when we need to protect it, it should be protected on a voluntary basis. We are now doing this by strengthening property rights and using new and developed forms of protection and compensation. We see the forest sector as the great resource it is for climate change, for jobs and for sustainable growth throughout Sweden. The forest has great values: the forest industry, biodiversity, recreation and natural interest. Madam President, I would like The forest grows more than we take out. Growth is estimated to be up to 120 million cubic metres each year. Forests are therefore well placed to cope with both future jobs and climate change. It should not be underestimated. It is about increasing wood construction, but also about producing renewable and recyclable disposables, chemicals, plastics and textiles, and renewable biofuels from the forest. Fuels are a topical issue. The duty of reduction is being discussed. For us, it is absolutely crucial to ensure that the major investments that are underway for biofuels with forest residues are actually carried out, so that we can use them. Do I need to say that we think the reduction obligation is good? Do I need to say that we are looking with great concern at those parties that want to damage the transition to using more sustainable products from the forest? The forest industries have their own vision that the production in Swedish forestry will double by 2035 and that half of the growth will come from bio-based products. We think that's a good thing. We announce support for that ambition. We announce political support with improved corporate regulations, managed legislation and research and innovation programmes. The fact that we are legislating fossil products is equally important. Madam President, I would like As I said, there is a great deal of exercise under discussion in this report. It's been rendered in a few announcements. We have reserved for three of them, largely because we believe that these issues are already being worked on and that we believe that the government is taking a holistic approach. We are behind the reservation on the bioeconomy. When it comes to formally protected areas and the possibility of change, we have a reservation together with MP and V. We present our positions on the basis of our specific opinion. There's a lot of bottoms in this. We believe that there is reason to look at more flexible forms of protection and forms of lease. That means that the announcement is too narrow, and we therefore have reservations. I request the approval of reservation 34. We believe, as one reservation says, that the forest damage is very important and must be addressed. All forest damage, pests and fungal infestations must be prevented, as well as storm and drought, even in protected areas. We also believe that the issue of compensation is central to individuals. Of course, the spruce bark drills should also be addressed. Research, development, effort and money in the budget are needed for this to be implemented. That is why we have reservations; this is something narrow. Madam President, I would like We have begun the transition towards a fossil-free society. It now provides investment, jobs, new products, renewable fuels and increased wood construction, while at the same time heavily allocating replacement land for the protection of nature. This is a common product from us in the Social Democrats as well as the Center Party and the Green Party. I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for your constructive work. If we Social Democrats had presented this in isolation, those parts would also have been included, but then the industrial perspective would probably have been more visible. For us, jobs, businesses, climate change, current account balances and all the values of forests are very important in this work. Madam President, I would like The forest is both the star and the locomotive in the climate transition. But to ensure together the full potential of the forest, we all have a responsibility to ensure that the benefits produced by the forest will also exist for future generations.
i-9KhUnzYyk8nyzzHbo7wPh8	Madam President, I would like When it comes to the forest, forest policy and forest management, it is the forest owner who is in focus for the Moderates. Ownership, use and property protection are the most important parts of Swedish forests. We believe in forest owners. We believe that forest owners can actually deliver what we decided on in the 1993 Forest Protection Act, which meant more freedom under responsibility. Since then, we have harvested about 1 million more cubic metres a year, which means that we have increased productivity. At the same time, a number of biological values have gone in the right direction. There is no talk about the fact that there are things to do in the work with biodiversity and so on, but forest owners have repeatedly shown that they can reconcile production with biological values. That is the basis for the Moderates when it comes to forestry policy. When, with the January agreement, it was decided to conduct a property or forest investigation, which in fact became a nature conservation investigation in the end, I was just like the industry cautiously positive. But, Madam President, it was unfortunately a thumbnote. There are a lot of nice words and lyrics in the bill, but there are no sharp suggestions. This is more or less a letter – a letter that allows the Center Party and the Green Party to rely on a Social Democratic government to live up to this from April until the September elections. It's quite a lot to live up to. I understand the Center's entrance here – absolutely. But if you sit down and negotiate ownership and forest together with the Environmental Party, you never win, if you think about the best interests of the forest owner. It's boring. Public ownership and ownership are under great threat despite the fact that we have the forestry law we have and despite the government form we have. In some way, the environmental code always trumps the forestry law, property protection, forestry and land use. This is unfortunate, because it means that even after this product is delivered, the forest owners remain in the same uncertainty as they were in the past. There are no answers here; there is only good will and good words. I said earlier that it feels like the final product is more of a conservation product than a forest investigation or a letter of enhanced ownership. And that's actually the way it is. It is said in the bill most of all about how to protect more land. The Moderates have made it clear that we do not think we should protect more land. We do not need to increase the percentage of protected land or land that is removed from production, because we can do it anyway. If we increase the money to handle the high natural values of what is already taken out of production, we can also manage what we are supposed to do according to international and Swedish goals. There is much talk of volunteering in the bill. And volunteering is good. When talking about possible protection and other things, I think it should always be a dialogue between the landowner and the authority. It should be voluntary at the last end that leads to the decision, and it should always be compensation – always. The forest owner shall not have to go to a court to obtain compensation when he is not allowed to carry out his forestry activities on the land he owns. It is rather the case in the product before us that voluntary activity is something we are just talking about. It's about volunteering to die out, sometimes. But that's when the state decides it's voluntary; then it's voluntary. It even says in the text, where justified, which means that we are once again leaving scope for interpretation to our authorities. That is the big problem with the bill. We say a lot of good, kind and good words, but they will only lead to new government missions and new investigations. There are no sharp proposals in the bill, except for those concerning Sveaskog and to set aside some land from Sveaskog to have to forest owners who are no longer allowed to carry out forestry on their land. And it is good to sell land from Sveaskog to private forest owners. We think so too, and we would like to do so on a much larger scale. We want more Swedish citizens to become forest owners – more people than today. More people should experience the feeling of going out into their own forest, feeling the peace that emerges and getting the feeling it means to decide how to use the forest over long orbits, produce for the conversion and create high natural values without a tricky public sector coming and saying: Stop and prove, now we decide! Therefore, the Moderates want to sell a larger part of Sveaskog. There are other proposals mentioned in the bill, such as the key biotopes. The Moderates and Christian Democrats made sure that that inventory disappeared as early as autumn 2018, when our budget won. Then it has been back and danced a little in some interlude, and now they are talking about removing it again. That's good. We believe, however, that the register should be kept confidential in some way as well. It should only be available to the forest owner and the Forests Board as it has been proven time and again that forest owners have not been given legal certainty in the process of key biotopes. Therefore, the register should be available to forest owners and the Swedish Forest Agency. Madam President, I would like We often talk about how we report protected nature to the EU from Sweden, and we have stated on several occasions that we do not do so in a particularly beneficial way for Swedish forests. It is therefore a good thing that there is now a new announcement on how to report to the EU. We must stop the form of self-harm that has been going on for a long time, where we say that we are worse than we really are. In fact, Sweden is among the very best when it comes to protecting nature. Madam President, I would like The final product before us now could have been much more. What the Centre Party saw as one of its great profits in the January agreement would probably have been a huge win if they had chosen to negotiate with Moderates, Christian Democrats and others. That's not what happened. My idea is that, if we have a change of government in the autumn, it is not incredible that we can start over with forestry issues once more in order to get right. Then we can find proposals that actually strengthen ownership, because they are missing here. Unfortunately, Madam President, these proposals are missing. We only get more of what we have had before: what we can call forest socialism.
i-RQwQcMtPw3hGxvic31aJpJ	Madam President, I would like I was going to give John Widegren a line so he could develop his positions. He can also comment on my speech on the view of biofuels and where they really are in Moderate politics. Is it an important product to be produced from the forest – a residual product? I welcome John Widegren in this House because I see a shift in Moderate politics. During the alliance years, the forest was also a special interest, and the industry was a special interest. But I see a new awakening. It has been constructive and has just pushed the reduction obligation and biofuels issues, but now it seems to have changed its attitude. I think it is unfortunate, and it sends unfortunate signals to the market and industry, which are actually now investing. I can see in the committee's thick lunta-- it's a gracious lunta that we've put together--that the Moderates have a bunch of reservations. As John Widegren says, we think this could have been a little better. However, we note that we are moving from one regulatory framework to another. This is a paradigm shift, where politics ensures and makes clear that it is voluntary. We also set aside exchange land so that this can be done. We think it is more important to deliver on what we have said. I think, John Widegren, that we are right to agree that it is now the rules on species protection that the government should give priority to. There is reason to do so.
i-39jMvoAtnbhA17DgFjUwpg	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Isak, for interesting posts! This is interesting to debate in every way, and in many ways I would say that the Moderates and the Social Democrats are not very far apart. But why should you have a product that is not sharper than this? You, together with your partners, with whom you have worked out the bill, could have produced fifty sharp proposals and put them before the Riksdag. Instead, you are presenting a form of letter or directional proposal which means that the proposals will be implemented until the next elections in September. Biofuels are very important. Nor is it that we Moderates no longer consider the reduction obligation and the question of reduction to be important. We see great potential for increased domestic production of biofuels. The Moderates are also the party that – if we go back to our own budget before we got a combined budget – had the most money for green fuels. An entire billion had the Moderates, so we think this is an important issue. But what is happening right now around the world has a tremendous impact. This means that in every way we can find ways to strengthen competitiveness and maintain production in Sweden. Then I think primarily of food, for example. I am absolutely convinced that the Swedish forest industry and other industries will be good at producing biofuels, but I do not believe that we will be able to produce all the biofuels that we need. However, it is still an important issue, we think moderates. When it comes to exchange land, it is a good thing that it exists, absolutely! But I am quite opposed to the strong continuation of taking land out of production in order to protect nature that is understood to result. It's not a good idea, we think from the Moderates' side.
i-LswsEU6UiKPvRr4WBULJiZ	Madam President, I would like I thank John Widegren for the clarification. I think it is quite important that the two major parties here agree relatively on the way forward. However, I think we are going a little too far. Consider that it was during the alliance government that the legislative process came up that specifically concerns the mountain forest. This was when it was concluded that the mountain forest has a special protection value and also tightened the environmental objectives. They have also been continuously tightened up with a great deal of consensus in this House. Here we are told that we should ensure that we go ahead, while accusing the government of doing too little. Now we are delivering a product that actually makes a difference on the land for those forest owners who have not previously been protected. I am absolutely sure that the Green Party will also take a line and ask about money in the budget. In any case, I think they will raise that issue. I'm referring to them and I'm not lifting it. I think the product that we are now putting on the table makes a big difference. For the government Party of Social Democrats, the work to ensure a species protection regulation that actually works in the forest will now be the priority.
i-TY9fkXtZdTF1B1CK2iThyu	Madam President, I would like The environmental objectives are very important. However, it is not reasonable that we have environmental objectives that cannot be achieved regardless of whether we are engaged in forestry or not. The Swedish Forest Agency and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency have both been clear that we will not achieve the environmental objective of living forests however we do. Then it's misworded. Then it is also reasonable for us to look at it. Why should we have a goal that we cannot achieve? When it comes to the mountain forest it is quite clear that we have different entrances. As we from the Moderates believe that we do not need to take more land out of production, we are sceptical about this strong continuation. The compensation for people who are denied felling in mountain forest will increase sharply, as I understand. But we don't want that increase. We need to review it in the Forest Protection Act concerning the mountain forest. Mountain forest are the areas where we have already protected the most forest in percentage terms. One might wonder what will happen, Madam President, if we continue to take so much land out of production in these areas. When forest owners lose ownership of their land, they also lose the opportunity to borrow money on their land, which is an incredibly important incentive today. We will then lose the opportunity for rural development in these areas. We will lose entrepreneurs who carry out forestry contracts in these areas, and a number of other different business groups, when we stop producing here. I'm worried about that. That the government now intends to take a strong stance on species protection issues is very important. I want to believe that the Moderates and the Center Party had a finger in that game. We put pressure on it. This issue has had to be resolved since 2016. Now maybe the government will finally fix it.
i-V1ASmYiZorPVbeBWEiAreM	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to endorse our reservation 18 so that I do not forget it. Of course, we support all our requests and reservations. We are now debating the Government proposal on property rights and flexible forms of protection and a wide range of other forestry issues that have not been discussed in other debates. To begin with the bill, in the January agreement, the Center Party requested an investigation into how forest owners could regain the freedom under their responsibility which they were supposed to be guaranteed by the 1993 Forest Protection Act but which had become increasingly flinched. At the same time, the Green Party requested that the investigation deal with methods for increasing the exclusion of forest from farming. When you read the investigation it is clear that this perspective had a much greater impact than the increased freedom to forest owners. There were, probably therefore, long negotiations between the Center and the Government before a bill was finally submitted to the Riksdag. In the proposal, the investigation's proposal for an area of over 500 000 hectares with protected forest near the mountains has been deleted. We think that was wise, because precisely in those parts of Sweden we have by far the most formally protected forest already, in terms of both percent and hectares. New nature conservation should always be put where it is most useful. Nature conservation should also strive for interaction between use and protection in order to produce as much positive effects as possible. It is worth noting that in many European countries national parks often include agricultural villages as well as protected and used forests. The Government proposal resulted in four proposals for announcements from the Riksdag. We were from the Swedish Democrats involved in all of these. The first is that Sweden must stop sub-reporting areas of protected forest to the EU. Apart from the fact that the underreporting is a slap in the face of all committed individual forest owners who voluntarily exempt forests from farming that are never reported, it risks unnecessarily restricting Sweden's freedom of action. The second means that the total area of Swedish forests excluded from forestry should not increase further. The proportion is already around 30%. When new areas need protection, for example and in particular in order to protect acutely threatened species, other protected areas that no longer fulfil equally important functions should be re-established. The third proposed announcement is that it is unreasonable for harmful organisms to be spread within protected areas and then out to nearby forest sites because the protected areas sometimes have management directives that say that trees must not be felled or timber carried out. The State must have the same responsibility as everyone else to do what is possible to prevent the spread of harmful organisms, whether in the case of spruce bark or forest fires. I will talk a little more about the fourth proposed announcement. It is about further developing the production of sustainable products from the forest, what is commonly called forest-based bioeconomy. The sum of carbon in growing trees and in products from the forest with different life spans, together with the ability of these products to substitute products that lead to more carbon dioxide emissions, can make Sweden carbon neutral within a very short period of time, while at the same time we get more renewable products. In addition, these products can show the way forward for the rest of the world, and this is absolutely essential if there are to be any real, substantial changes in the world's CO2 emissions. We ourselves are only a small part. Therefore, the government and parliament should contribute to strengthening the role of the bioeconomy in the climate transition, to further increasing the growth of the used forest, to promoting innovation and to creating long-term conditions for investors – both investors in forest plants or clearing and investors in new industries. Madam President, I would like Sweden has the conditions to have the world's best forestry from a wide range of perspectives. We have forests that are exceptionally well suited for long-term care. Our tree species are relatively easy to rejuvenate, and most species in our flora and fauna are adapted to recolonise after major changes, be it ice ages, forest fires or fellings. Half of Sweden's forests are owned by individual owners, both knowledgeable and committed private forest owners. The good tradition of long-term forestry by individual forest owners was also encouraged throughout the 20th century by the state with education, help with planning, state nurseries and sometimes with targeted contributions to such things as roads and drainage. Individual forestry makes a very important contribution to farmers' economies. At a time when at last all parties seem to agree that Swedish food production needs to increase, we should also be able to agree to support, not discourage, private forestry so that its contribution to the agricultural economy can do the greatest possible benefit. Madam President, I would like The products from the Swedish forest industry have shifted over the centuries. In the 17th century, tar was the most important export product from the forest. During the 19th century it was mostly about sawn wood products and in the 20th century about increasingly advanced products based on paper pulp. The question is what the great forest product of our century will be. The 20th century paper has now been replaced by computer screens. The forestry sector is in the midst of a vital change. As I said before, the world needs more environmentally friendly and fossil-independent building materials, textiles, plastics and fuels. All of this can be made from forest raw materials, but it requires forest owners, industry and investors to feel that they have the support of society to dare to invest in the new. On the other hand, a forest industry without confidence in the future and investment soon becomes unprofitable, with forests that are not managed and industries where it is not reinvested. There is now a need for a clear state strategy that firstly supports measures to increase forest growth and thus also the possibility of felling more, not less, in our forests, and secondly plans and supports further development and production within our sustainable forest industry. There is an opposite strategy. There are those who believe that we should significantly reduce forest fellings by 2030. Then we could increase the carbon storage in growing trees for a very short time and reach the Paris targets more easily. But this is a short-term, incorrect and destructive strategy. Coal is stored not only in trees but also in forest products, but above all forest products replace other products – the substitution. If we now significantly reduce fellings, what will it look like in 2031, 2050, 2070 or 2090? The fact that the forest binds more carbon dioxide than it releases is only true as long as the growth of the forest increases. And it only does so long as forest owners plant and care for plant young forests. If we put away the bones of forests and create insecurity by not knowing whether or not they are allowed to harvest their forests, they will not manage the forests in such a way that we will have increased growth. Nor will we get investors to the forest industries, who need to develop the successor to our paper industry as well as our bioeconomy. Those who think that this strategy is right will not receive any support from the Swedish Democrats and should reasonably not receive support from any other party either. Madam President, I would like The EU has not directly encouraged Sweden's efforts to develop the forest-based bioeconomy. First of all, it was decided that increased carbon storage in forests would not count as a national measure but would form part of some kind of common EU pot. However, the price of any reduction in the impact would be paid with Swedish jobs. Then, in the longest class of forest fuel, the EU tried to be non-sustainable in taxonomics. I think, given how Russia has proved to be a strong lobby in Germany in favour of its exports of gas and oil, that perhaps it is right for the European Commission now to ensure that it has not also been subject to the influence of combating biofuels. They also compete with Russian fossil fuels. The European Commission has also tried to decouple the amount of carbon stored in growing trees from the substitution that forest products can provide. This leads to an underestimation of the positive climate effects of the forest sector. Finally, the EU is greatly increasing red tape around forestry in a way that does not work in conjunction with our private forestry and that violates the principle that forestry should be national competence, as well as the principles of proportionality and subsidiarity. We note that the government does not seem to have managed to explain or defend Swedish interests sufficiently against the European Commission on these issues. Sweden does not seem to have sufficiently interacted with other forest countries in the dialogue with the European Commission. We hope that the present socialist one-party government will, in any case, succeed better in doing so now, up to the elections, than has been the case so far during the term of office. Madam President, I would like The way forward does not go by complicating or phasing out Swedish forestry, but by developing it.
i-AkMVtn2x2muodpYWEtFvsH	Madam President, I would like We have a war in Europe, and today in this House we have heard the President of the affected country, Zelenskyj, and his cry for help in defending himself against Putin and Russia's attack on a free and democratic country. Of course, the things we are debating today cannot in any way compare with what is happening in Ukraine. The events in Ukraine affect the whole world and of course Sweden and also the issues for today's debate. How do we ensure that Swedish forests can reduce dependence on fossil products and thus create a better security policy situation? I and the Center Party believe that the forest must be used to produce all climate-smart products. If we use forest resources well, we will be able to create a better security policy climate while reducing the climate threat, but we will also be able to create jobs in Sweden. Who could be against this? Madam President, I would like After the 2018 election, Sweden experienced a record time with difficulties in obtaining a government. Finally, an agreement was reached on the table between C, L and the government parties on a 73-point programme of what the Center Party considered to be many important bourgeois political proposals. Paragraphs 26 and 27 concerned forests. These are not really two points, but when I count I can see that there are eight different proposals that fit under these two points. Why did the Center Party want to include wording that we need to protect and strengthen private property rights in the January agreement? The Center Party believes that the 1993 forestry legislation, with what is called freedom under responsibility, has worked well. The previous forestry legislation was very detailed and very focused on production. I and perhaps several of you remember that Swedish forests were sprayed with hormoslyr to kill deciduous trees in the forest. Forest legislation in 1993 marked a shift in approach. Production and the environment would now be balanced, and the forestry sector assumed a great responsibility for this. In return, much of the detailed regulation was removed. Since 1993, most of the forest has improved from a conservation point of view. Today we have much more dead wood, more older trees, more deciduous trees, and more coarse deciduous trees. Cultural trees are saved as well as protective curtains around water and sensitive environments, and a general consideration is taken in the case of fellings. Despite this positive development, something happened in our authorities dealing with forest issues around 2012 – 2013, I would say. More and more cases were being brought to court against landowners, where landowners perceived that the authorities wanted to move borders into legislation. Madam President, I would like The key biotope concept, originally designed to protect smaller areas, could suddenly be used for entire forests. On the contrary, key biotop inventories, intended to be a tool for forest owners, became a hit for many. The State authorities pointed out key biotopes without proceeding with formal protection, which meant that the forest owner could not receive any financial compensation. Since a key biotop inventory is not an official decision, the forest owner could not appeal the assessment made by an official of the Swedish Forest Board or the County Administrative Board. The key biotop inventory was surrounded by a large portion of legal uncertainty, as also noted by courts and the Forest investigation. The proposal in this report makes it clear that the key biotop inventory carried out by the state authorities is to end. This does not mean that the key biotopes are removed from forests, but in future this will be dealt with between forest buyers and forest sellers through the two certification systems in the forest market. Madam President, I would like Other things that we in the Center Party could see had happened was that the Forest Board lost in several court proceedings that they had run. This involved, among other things, the bomb wall judgment, the richness of lichens and perhaps above all, the ruling on ongoing land use in mountain-side forests. A family in Norrland moves to a village in sparsely populated areas and buys a farm with a little forest. To finance this, of course, they are taking out a loan like any other young family that is going to get a new home. They bring with them a forestry plan from the Swedish Forest Agency, which has produced proposals on when certain parcels should be harvested. After a few years, the family submits an application for a logging permit but is rejected. The Board of Forests considers that felling would have a significant impact on the values of the natural and cultural environment, which had not emerged when the forestry plan was drawn up some year earlier. Now it is strange that the Swedish Forest Agency believes that the forest for which the permit application was made is not subject to ongoing land use, so the family has no right to compensation. Of course, the Bank has no point of view on this; they demand their interest and repayments each month. Finally, it went so far that the family could sue the state, and after four years the family got right and the state wrong. I personally may think that this was a shameful way of dealing with Swedish authorities. Now the court practice that exists will be clarified in legislation so that forestry in mountain forests is considered to be ongoing land use. In order not to delay the bill in today's report, this will be made clear in another bill that will land on Parliament's table in a few weeks' time. Madam President, I would like This proposal is a policy proposal, which means that it does not deal with any new legislation, but it will govern how the authorities will work in the future. When the Center Party negotiated the bill, we had a number of entrances. Of course, we wanted to strengthen ownership and use rights and make the administration more legally secure. Restrictions on ownership and use must be compensated financially. Environmental protection must have a much clearer landowner's perspective. We also felt that there were a number of unfortunate proposals in the forest investigation that had to be stopped. The Center Party looked at both Norway and Finland and saw how they worked there. The conflicts between forest management authorities and forest owners are there at a much lower level than in Sweden. Our neighbours have a greater element of voluntaryism in formal protection than Sweden has, and that was the starting point of our work. I have stated several times in my work that the purpose of this proposal is not to tick off a number of proposals, but the aim is to restore trust and trust between forest owners and the forestry authorities. Surely no one can believe that we can have a good balance between use and protection or, for that matter, participation in the construction of society if there is no trust and trust between citizens and state authorities? Therefore, the Center Party in the bill has highlighted the importance of voluntary forestry in terms of forest protection. You always achieve much more if you bring people with you than by trying to force change. This is shown in the bill by the wording that voluntary formal protection should be the starting point and the main way of working for the authorities. In addition, it states that formal protection should mainly take place through landowners' initiatives and on a voluntary basis. There is also a text stating that the payment of compensation should be made as a matter of urgency when protection is agreed. Authorities should not be able to protect more land than the budgetary space allows. For the individual landowner, there shall also be greater flexibility and choice in the case of protection measures. In our negotiations we called it a toolbox with different possibilities for the forest owner to use. If we look at the continent and the European Union, we can see that the protected land in these countries is largely used. In Sweden too, we should be able to do more in this way. Often, it is also farming that creates protected natural environments. Here too, of course, all restrictions on use should be replaced. Madam President, I would like One of the more important wordings of the bill is that the implementation of formal protection by coercion should be more restrictive than today and only when justified. This means that the authorities cannot proceed by coercion in the way they have done in recent years. It should also mean that the authorities should stop trying to move legislative boundaries through the courts. The bill for e also states that the tax rules should be reviewed in order to be more favourable in the event of infringement compensation or settlement. What we discussed before the bill and which is closest at hand is some form of forest fund where the landowner can withdraw funds if necessary. It is a similar model to a forest account, which forest owners know well. It is also proposed to introduce a new Sveaskog programme aimed at individual landowners, commons and commons. In previous Sveaskog programmes, investigations have found that there was very little land that went to family forestry but the more to forest companies. The Center Party wants to steer towards individual forest owners to enable both continued and extended forestry. Madam President, I would like The title of the major forest point in the January agreement was to safeguard and strengthen private ownership of the forest. One sentence in the January agreement became 20 pages in a directive which then became 1 267 pages in an investigation. On a few points the Forest investigation ended up completely wrong, we think. Our entrance was to protect and strengthen private property rights. The forestry investigation, on the other hand, wanted to resolve all the conflicts in one battle, and so the proposal that went completely against the intentions of the Center Party came. For example, the forest investigation proposed the largest single withdrawal of the right of use to forests in a package, called the mountain forest package, which involved a 100 km long area involving 7,300 forest owners and comprises 525 000 hectares. Of course, the Center Party could not agree to this. There is therefore no mountain forest package in the bill, nor any particular initiative or programme. Voluntaryity for formal protection should be a starting point also for the mountain forest, just like for all other forests in Sweden. Today, 52% of the mountain forest is already protected, especially in the northern part. In the southern part of the so-called mountain forest – down towards Jämtland, Härjedalen and Dalarna – are large parts of the forest managed forest and not sheltered. In brackets, several investigations have pointed out that the borderline of the mountain forest in Jämtland is incorrect, but no one has been able to deal with this issue. The mountain forest has its own legislation where, for example, logging notification is not enough, but a logging permit is required. Even prejudicing judgments like the judgment of the Widows. Having said that, the Center Party believes that each change of forest or felling must be assessed separately, and then the Swedish Forest Board generally cannot give a negative decision on the grounds that the felling would significantly affect natural and cultural environments. The link with what I said earlier that formal protection should take place more restrictively than today and only when justified means that the authorities must be more moderate. Madam President, I would like The report contains more than the proposal on property rights. The Centre Party has had a large number of claims during the general period of exercise that we do not support today. When we wrote the motions, we did not know whether there would be any bill or negotiations. That explains why we do not support most of our movements today. However, there are four proposals for announcements in the report that I would like to raise. The first concerns the calculation methods for the protection of nature, which the Environmental Protection Agency reports to the European Environment Agency. Sweden has its own method that makes us completely wrong in the statistics when we compare ourselves with other countries. If we were to report like Germany, for example, we might go from being the worst in Europe to being the best. This poor reporting also leads the Commission to get a completely incorrect picture of Swedish forestry. This needs to be corrected. The next announcement is on the need to follow up on the progress of those areas that are already formally protected. If it turns out that there is no need for protection, it must of course be possible to remove the protection. The third announcement deals with forestry policy in relation to the role of the bioeconomy in climate change and how it can be strengthened. There are still too many who believe that the tree is most useful as a carbon sink when it stands in the forest. It ignores the great benefits a tree can make for the climate through the substitution effect. Here, too, I would say that the European Commission was thinking wrong and missing the substitution effect, which is a bit frightening. The last announcement is about the absurdity that we cannot combat spruce bark in protected areas. If a landowner gets his forest destroyed by spruce bark drilling attacks coming from protected areas, the landowner must be replaced. Madam President, I would like Of course, I support all of the Centre Party's reservations in the report, but for the benefit of time, I only ask for reservation 38.
i-896cPzHKApLYfQLYqD9PnU	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the Left Party's reservation number 68 to be approved. Of course, I support all our reservations in this great report, but for the benefit of time, I only call for it. If you listen to the previous speakers in this debate, from the Social Democrats, the Moderates, the Swedish Democrats and the Center Party, you easily get the impression that this is a debate on the conditions of forest owners and industry. There is much less about public and natural rights to living forests with biodiversity. Of course, participation and the interests of the forest industry are important. But the forest is so much more than this very limited perspective. I would say that the forest is the foundation of our lives as we feel it in this country. A large part of our biodiversity – a wealth of species, plants, animals and multifaceted ecosystems – we find precisely in Swedish forests. Or at least we should be able to find that. Unfortunately, however, much of our natural forests are transformed into plantations. Unfortunately, they are no longer very living forests with a high biodiversity. It is important that our ecosystems function. If they don't work, there may be collapses in the entire ecosystem, and it could endanger the lives of us and of the species living in our nature. In addition, forests play a very important role as carbon sinks, in that they bind our greenhouse gases. When forests are harvested, huge amounts of greenhouse gases are released. I'm not just talking about carbon dioxide, I'm also talking about methane and nitrous oxide, which are much more potent greenhouse gases than carbon dioxide. We simply have to live our lives with nature, not with it, as we do to a large extent today. In other words, the forest is more than the forest of forest companies. The forest is the place where we pick berries and mushrooms, where we walk the dog, where we jog, where we camp and where we orient. The forest is also the place where animals live. With today's forestry policy, these places can easily be turned into unrecognizable with a simple caliph notification. Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, the proposals we now have to deal with will not solve the major problems we have in the Swedish forest. Unfortunately, we will get more of the unilateral exploitation model that we have had in Swedish forests since the post-war period. We see this in the bill, as the then Social Democratic and Environmental Party government wrote. We also see it in the proposals of the bourgeois parties plus the Swedish Democrats that have been incorporated in this report. In short, it is very much about making it even easier to fell Swedish forests, to strengthen forest owners' rights at the expense of the public interest and to further impair the protection of Swedish forests. We can see that the bill starts with the words a strengthening of property rights. It says something about what the bill is about. We in the Left Party cannot support these proposals. Let me further develop this. In the bill, it remains a focus on voluntaryity and strengthened ownership in forestry. This actually means continuing the liberalisation of Swedish forestry policy in the early 1990s. It is this policy that has put us in a great deal of the position we are in today – it is a one-sided focus on production, and ecological and social considerations are always subordinated to the interests of production. We do not reach our national climate targets, such as the objective of living forests. Even less do we meet the international commitments we have in this area. What I welcome in the proposal, however, is the proposal for replacement land from Sveaskog in order to protect more mountainous forests, but otherwise there are no concrete proposals for how Sweden could get more sustainable forestry and how we could achieve our environmental objectives. For example, the government could have proposed more sustainable forestry methods with the aim of abandoning the conventional bare-cut method, which is increasingly questioned by ever wider circles. We could also see temporary support for clean-cut practices, i.e. financial support for those forest owners who want to switch to continuum forestry. We in the Left Party believe that it may be necessary in a start-up phase in order to get work on such methods started. The key biotop inventory has been mentioned before. I'm afraid it's interrupted. If you do not inventory and do not map what is in our forests, what natural values are there, it will be very much more difficult to protect the important natural values. So it is incredibly bad that that inventory has been interrupted. Here the government could have made proposals if it had wanted to strengthen environmental considerations in Swedish forestry. Proposals could also have been made to strengthen consultation on logging notifications. Today, a forest owner submits a logging report, and if the Swedish Forest Board does not give a reminder of anything within six weeks, you have to cut down the forest. This means that it is really very easy to fell in Sweden. We also see this in the tens of thousands of logging notifications made every year in Sweden. A logging notification then means not only a notification, but, of course, a concrete felling thereafter. We could also have had proposals for better regulation of the so-called production-enhancing measures that we can see in forestry, such as fertilisation, ditching, stub mining or alien species. It needs to be regulated much more clearly. Unfortunately, we do not see this today. We would need a general review of the Forest Protection Act in order to strengthen ecological and social considerations, which almost always draw the shortest straw today when there is a balance between production and other interests. Madam President, I would like In previous speeches it has been mentioned – there is also a concrete announcement about this – that the best thing for climate change is to cut down the forest and turn the growing trees into paper, cartons, biofuels or whatever it may be. I would like to recommend my colleagues here in the last annual report of the Konjunkturinstitutet, Environment, Economics and Politics 2021. There the Institute of Economics just takes up the importance of the forest as a carbon sink. It is said that there is new research that points to the incredible value of forests as carbon sinks. It is about ensuring that greenhouse gases are not released, as they do during felling. But it is also about the importance of long-lasting wood products. If the forest is cut down, it should not be used for disposables and biofuels, which have a very short effect on us. Let us find opportunities to use the forest in a much more sustainable way! This is fully in line with the compilations of international research carried out by the UN Panels of Experts on Biological Diversity, IPBES, and the IPCC on Climate Change. With this, I would like to conclude my speech.
i-CsPebDwrfFZq3p6WuVUbZd	Madam President, I would like Welcome back to the Environment and Agriculture Committee, Jens Holm! It is always fun to stand here in the speaker's chair and discuss with Jens Holm. The Left Party is a party with many faces. Much depends on who's talking for the Left Party right now. This can range from taxes and biofuels to vehicle taxation and forestry. Economic sustainability is something that tends to fall away when Jens Holm debates. Jens Holm is certainly behind the Left Party Congress's decision to phase out the hordes, or what he calls the scallop, because Jens Holm usually describes it as gigantic areas of over 100 hectares. Madam President, I would like to point out that today, an average piece of wood is 4.3 hectares. It is also about transport, i.e. getting economic profitability, especially in northern Sweden, where transport is usually a little too long. Is it not true that it should actually pay to further refine the stock as much as possible? For each saw blade that saws the log, the economic value increases. For each saw blade, sawdust can also be made from biofuels, plastics or other useful materials. I think that Jens Holm misses much of the forest's sustainability.
i-V6PKdPTNxqibwvDynLLywK	Madam President, I would like It was a rather long speech to be a question, and there was no question. There was a false claim that I would have meant that the fellings in Sweden could be 100 hectares. I have never said a number, but I thank you for the figure that Isak From gave us. Isak From is on the issue of biofuels. We in the Left Party think that it is a good idea to use residues from the forest industry and agriculture for biofuels, because you may not be able to use them for so much else. However, we simply believe that if you embark on a path where you put almost all the eggs in the same basket as regards the transport sector's conversion, namely that a great deal of the reduction in emissions is to be achieved by the so-called reduction obligation, i.e. the compulsory incorporation of biofuels, we will be extremely dependent on biofuels in particular. We will simply not have enough biomaterial to produce all these biofuels in a sustainable way – I think. My question to Isak From is therefore: How much biofuels do we need to produce in Sweden to achieve the reduction target? Do we really have biomaterials so that we can produce this in a sustainable way without jeopardising biodiversity? I certainly hope that the Social Democrats do not want that either.
i-J1uLTGDkTpZPERW7gjj3nF	Madam President, I would like Thanks to Jens Holm! I think it is important that we are many parties behind the reduction obligation and the need for biofuels. The industry itself says that it will double to 2024 – 2025 and then be able to double further by 2030. What is then needed remains to be seen. Gradually, we will also phase out traditional fuels, as electric cars are becoming increasingly common in the vehicle fleet. For heavy transport, aviation and tractors, biofuels and also fossil fuels will be very necessary for the foreseeable future. I may not have asked a question, but I am doing so now: why has the Left Party made any reservations in paragraph 3 about replacement land and land sales programmes? The only thing I can read out in the Left Party's reservation is that the government should present a strategy with replacement land from Sveaskog to ensure that the nature and cultural values of the mountains can be preserved in the long term. Madam President, I would like That's actually what we're doing, so from that point of view, it's a little weird that the Left Party has reserved. But on the other hand, they have also written a long harang about why you should not use Sveaskog for this, because you should build up Sveaskog further. However, that is a bit of a different matter.
i-4HXq8TzYeFpkALFWJpKVx9	Madam President, I would like Isak From himself gave the answer when he referred to our reservation. We want the government to take responsibility for this replacement land. To the extent that this work is going on, it is only good, so we thank you for that. However, we are not entirely sure that it will be exactly what we want, and that is why we think it might be a good point to raise it in this report, for example. It is the case with the reduction obligation that we import by far the largest part of the biofuels consumed in Sweden today, about 20 terawatt hours. Almost everything we import. In short, we are vacuuming a large part of the world to meet our need for biofuels today. If the reduction obligation for road transport is met as intended, we need 40 terawatt hours, twice as much as the little produced today and which Isak From believes can be doubled. Yes, it can double, but it is about very small volumes, and what is needed is twice as much as all that we import. We in the Left Party do not believe that this can be done in a sustainable way with less than cutting down living forests to produce biofuels. Then it is better to spend investment on electrification of the transport sector. We see that it works, and we see that it also goes faster in combination with transport efficiency efforts, namely more money for public transport and for sustainable freight transport so that we can move transport from road to rail and shipping. That we should take our forests and make biofuels out of them, we are not up for it.
i-9b5SXqFGB3nzEg92WyweZT	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 9, and I have got it done. I do not really agree with the history described by Jens Holm in his speech. He talks about how, in principle, everything has deteriorated since the postwar period. It was definitely a time when it wasn't great in the woods. Then we actually tried continuity forestry in old continuumed areas where there were trees left. It didn't work out very well, and the state decided that we should have big greens and a single tree species. As we did this, we got a lot of ideas about things that we didn't want to wear on these big huts and therefore began to use hormoslyr and DDT for control. Those who did not do as the state said during this time were the individual forest owners who thought they had better thoughts and wanted to use the forest in their way. It is these forest owners who have ensured that we have built up high natural values – natural values that the public then wanted to seize, because it is believed that the individual forest owner cannot manage these natural values himself. There's talk of rejuvenating surfaces, the scallops, or whatever we're going to call them. As in the case of farmers, who themselves decide on ecologically or conventionally, I mean that forest owners should be allowed to decide for themselves whether they want to carry out cropping or continuum forestry. Madam President, I would like Does the Left Party not believe that forest owners can handle timber production along with high biological values?
i-BN8eCX3A1HEN1tuuGbLNkz	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking John Widegren for addressing the historical perspective. To some extent, Widegren is in fact quite right – it was not at all better in the past. The post-war forest policy was associated with hormosolls, giant scallops and other things. That's absolutely true. Then came the Forest Protection Act 1993. All developments are usually progressing; I can also agree with that. There are lots of dedicated forest owners out there doing a fantastic job. My objection was a little more principled but also based on what it actually looks like in Swedish forestry today, and that is that we have a forestry law based on freedom under responsibility. If you then have the one-sided focus on precisely the forest owner's freedom in principle to carry out the forestry that you want, we in the Left Party do not think it will be good. We can see that. Every day there is a huge impact without the involvement of stakeholders – residents in the area, environmental organisations, orienteering clubs, ecotourism companies and others – in any way. Here we have a clear conflict between private participation and the public interest, and it needs to be resolved. We have not solved it in a good way in Sweden. What I said in my speech is that there are a lot of things we can do to balance this conflict so that the general interest, the social and ecological interest, can be valued a little at the expense of the production interest.
i-6eV5fzieqdrE4frWqszMWD	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jens Holm, for the reasoning, which is interesting and which lifts up the big difference between the Moderates and the Left Party in this debate. We put individual ownership first and are convinced that strong individual ownership when it comes to forests also means that we can deliver environmental and climate benefits. I also know a lot of good examples of forest owners who collaborate with the local orienteering club and so on so as not to ruin them. Of course we will have bad examples there too, just as we do in all other economic activities. But we do believe in the individual forest owner. When it comes to rejuvenating surfaces and the leakages that were raised in the speech, up to nitrous oxide, Linnaeus University presented an interesting research report in autumn 2021. It showed that it is much faster to end up on net plus again after a felling at a rejuvenating surface. I think it was in the order of eight years to be on the net again. This means that active use will also be good for the climate because there are substitution effects and so on. I thought it was a little strange in the previous speech when the honourable Member highlighted a number of one-off items. It's the residual product from the sawmill industry. First, the best parts of the tree go to the sawmill industry. There will be timber, we can build, and carbon dioxide will be locked in for a long time. Then we can do other things with the forest, and that gives the real substitution effects that the forest actually contributes. I therefore get worried when I listen to Jens Holm. Does Jens Holm want us to grow the forest less than we do today?
i-9C5TeNksQYyzJDezBFwNNw	Madam President, I would like It is good that John Widegren talks about cooperation and consultation with local organisations. That is precisely the good practice that we in the Left Party want as a standard. We want to legislate on some form of mandatory consultation; it should always work that way in the face of repercussions. It is a pity that the Moderates think it is good when it happens, but they do not want it to happen at all the 50 000 – 60 000 fellings in Sweden every year. There is a clear conflict of interest. We Swedes love the forest, and we love our right of public access. M a private forest owner has the right to transform the living forest into a plantation, really any day he or she wants, and remove all the trees – except for a few, who become so-called environmental considerations. We in the Left Party believe that there is not a good balance in that relationship. We think that the Swedish forest industry is important, but we want to regulate it more clearly so that we can weigh up the general interest and environmental considerations. I will not be able to comment on the issue of one-off articles so well, but you can certainly use a lot of residual products from the paper industry. But if a buyer pays well for one-off articles, then also prime wood raw materials can go entirely to produce one-off articles. In fact, it is the law of the market that governs. There is no form of planned economy in this, and perhaps none of us want it.
i-DxmKXUqrJkku96q1CXeGja	Madam President, I would like There were a few things in Jens Holm's speech that prompted me to ask a few questions. Jens Holm said it started with the Forest Protection Act in the 1990s. It was a deregulated forestry law. Before that, we had the 1978 Forest Protection Act, which was really just a further development of the 1948 Forest Protection Act. The Forest Protection Act 1948 was the law that prohibited continuity forestry in Sweden. For a very long time there had been discussions about the continuity of forestry or not being in Sweden. Trakthyggesbruk started on a rather large scale in the early 1800s. This book I am holding dates back to 1826, and it discusses the benefits of local or continuum forestry. It is concluded that continuum forestry where pick chops benefit almost only spruce, but it gradually reduces the wood supply. This book from 1903 came to the same conclusion, but it still took to 1923 when they made national forest staxing that could measure what the picking actually led to, i.e. that it became slowly smaller and smaller timber stores. Therefore, the Forest Conservation Act of 1948 was introduced with the aim of renting the land by trees. They would grow as much as the ground could. There are two things that do not really make sense in Jens Holm's speech. He wants more continuity forestry, but he thinks that the law that banned this, before the 1990s law, was positive. Here I would like to hear more. It was in fact during the 1990s that it became freer again and thus possible to start with continuity forestry again. When we increase the timber supply – thanks to forest cultivation and our committed forest owners – the forest stores a lot of carbon dioxide net.
i-6V9X1f9GGe4fnKMy99NTXJ	Madam President, I would like I never said the 1948 Forest Protection Act was better than the one that came in 1993. But as I said to Widegren earlier, thank you for the historical perspective. Perhaps I should have been more nuanced, namely that it was not better before. Now it's said – again! Just because you have two very old books, which address this interesting discussion, which came to a conclusion, does not mean that we 100 years later, with a little more facts on the table, with a little more data collection, cannot come to other conclusions. I base my conclusions on a broad collection of facts and concrete examples of good forestry workers, who obviously carry out continuous forestry. I would like to ask Mats Nordberg why the Swedish Democrats seem to be such passionate opponents of a particular forestry model that does not cut down the entire forest. What's the problem with that? Isn't it a good idea to have some diversity in the woods? Do the Swedish Democrats really think that it is a sustainable forestry policy to have a forest and then turn it into a rejuvenating space in a week? Shouldn't it be good to have more variation?
i-B7dMRsuKC12GLDU6tjSLCc	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question. We do not just want bare surfaces, and we are not entirely against continuity forestry. For example, we do not want to reduce Sveaskog's holdings because we want Sveaskog, and also Fastighetsverket, to show that it is possible to achieve continuity forestry. It's a good complement. However, since the tracks from 200 years ago terrify, there is reason to want a good example. Book and tree are shadowing tree species. They're working fine. Other species of trees don't work well. It is sometimes a bit strange when you hear from people who think that there is too much spruce in the forest that we should still have a forestry form that benefits the tree. What I would prefer to see when we do what the honourable Member calls the greenery is that more trees are left behind. It is now a tendency for more representatives of the old stock to be left behind so that it does not become completely bare areas but rather more varied forests. We believe this. We also believe that there is an intrinsic value in that the forest owners themselves have to decide when and how to manage their forest. The mosaic then formed is in itself beneficial to biodiversity. I would like to ask Jens Holm another question. The honourable Member said that we should only make boards, things that live long and store coal for a long time. In Africa there is the problem that there is a market for almost only timber, and there is no market for chips or treetops. There will be some income from this, and therefore there will be poor forest management. Of a log tree, only half becomes boards. The rest we have to do something of. That's the whole idea of cascade thinking. It is fantastic if we can also produce products that replace carbon dioxide-emitting products.
i-KWAtWvD5F4LQB7zL93g3yk	Madam President, I would like Africa is large, and I guess forestry is carried out in a slightly different way on this large continent. It may not be the best parallel if you want to discourage. Let me take on the positive. We think quite equally about Sveaskog's role, namely that Sveaskog should be a forerunner. Here the government could give Sveaskog new instructions every day of the week to work more with so-called alternative methods of use. I find it a little interesting that Nordberg in his answer opens up because it is good to have variation in forestry, but at the same time the Swedish Democrats, as I understand it, do not want us to take any steps to get this variation but want it to be up to the forest owner himself to decide. Then I think it's easy to continue in the same old track even though the forest owners themselves can be souled by doing good, but also they have to get plus and minus to go together in the end. Therefore, targeted support could be useful in helping with this transition. A better regulated forestry policy in general would also be good for strengthening the general interest and environmental considerations. It could also strengthen other forest methods. I'll stay there. Thank you for the questions.
i-Vun2B6nDuBUpjVShXmP2bV	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jens Holm, for that blood pressure went up a little earlier! ( Jens Holm ( V): It's mutual! ) I recognize the arguments that everything is getting worse, that it is only on lanster in Sweden, that it is predatory on the forest and so on. We've heard these arguments before. But I who live in the countryside and near the forest do not recognize the description of that we have plantations in Sweden. We harvest less than 1 per cent per year of our huge forest area covering 70 per cent of Sweden's country. When you stand and look straight down at the ground on a felling can of course get the impression that it is very bad, but if you raise your eyes a little and look out over the landscape there is not this problem that the forest would be a plantation, but the forest is incredibly diversified and has become it since 1993. We have many more tree species, much more leaves, much more old forest and much more dead wood now. More can be done, absolutely, and that is what the forest industry and the forest industry say they can do. What scares me a little is the image of cutting down the forest that is a carbon sink. One of my questions to Mr Holm is: how do you increase growth in the forest, and how do you ensure that the carbon sink increases? So how does it go in practical terms? When one then fells a tree and uses it, does the honourable Member Jens Holm believe that we use prime wood to make toilet paper? Or how do you use the whole tree to make it really useful? I'd like to know.
i-XhT4tqL6gkTsm1hVjmKuiR	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank you once again for the historical perspective, and I say once again that it was not better before, so it has been said. However, we in the Left Party are still seeing major problems in the Forest Protection Act, which was amended in 1993, precisely because it is based on freedom under responsibility. That freedom is in the hands of the owner of the forest. At the same time, we have so many others who have an interest in being able to stay in the forest. You can't just see the forest as a potential rejuvenating surface. When you know your fellow Members on the pulse, I think that many say tentatively that alternative methods of use and consultation can be useful, that you should strengthen environmental considerations and so on, but very few think that we in politics have some concrete responsibility for that. Why shouldn't we have it? This is one of our basic industries, and we need to take responsibility for it. How do we strengthen the carbon sink? I referred to the latest report by the Institute of Economic Development, which said that in the past a little bit has been overlooked the large carbon sink that is actually found in growing forests and that huge amounts of greenhouse gases are released precisely in the event of a rejuvenation, a caulca. Of course, more careful use methods are needed. Bleeding was mentioned in the old days, and it may say so in one of the books that Nordberg showed here. This means that you don't have to transform the growing, living forest that binds so much greenhouse gases into a bare house. It's one way, but there are many others too.
i-97zr5fz5xdBjWwzZaYsB55	Madam President, I would like It may take seven eight years before we have a balance again after we have removed a tree. But again: Look at the landscape level and not at the individual tree! What does the carbon sink look like at the landscape level? It's increasing, and the growth is increasing because we use the forest. We are clearing and culling the forest to increase growth, perhaps for a commercial purpose, but this also means that carbon sequestration is increasing. Then the next question will be: How do Jens Holm and the Left Party view the substitution effect that is so much larger if we use the trees to replace fossil processes and products? There are several calculations that say that we could increase to 59 terawatt hours of liquid biofuels with the investments already in place and planned. In fact, that is a large part, perhaps two thirds, of the fossil fuel production that we have today. Doesn't the Left Party see any use in being able to do that? If we do not take advantage of the residual products, in ten years they will decompose and emit carbon dioxide to the environment and the air. Would it not then be better for us to make really good products like biofuels and bioenergy over the ten years?
i-AyNpxng2tnR9aKS3sJtYqx	Madam President, I would like Well, there is a huge potential in the substitution, and there is a huge potential in using residual products from the forest industry and agriculture. But if we put all the eggs in the same basket and say that it is biofuels that will make us reach our climate target by 2030, we will need huge amounts of biofuels. I mentioned the number from the Energy Agency in 40 terawatt hours. That is twice as much as the biofuels we use today, and almost everything is imported. I cannot see that we can produce such enormous amounts of less than that we have to cut down more forest than we do today to support this production with the necessary bio-raw material. I note that Helander says an even larger figure, 59 terawatt hours. In normal forestry, you are clearing and culling, as Helander was on. Of course it is. There's a lot of stuff you can take there. But in a conventional practice where you cut down the entire forest and leave a bare surface for seven to eight or perhaps up to ten years, as Helander is in it, that surface emits greenhouse gases instead of tying them as the forest did before. It is a major problem from a climate perspective, and thankfully, more and more researchers have now become aware of it. I believe that a balance can be found in this, but then we need to have more careful and better methods of use, and we cannot expect to be able to lie perhaps on the volumes that we are on today, because there are extremely high felling volumes today.
i-2JE5ru2Xcaooc4SHdKAGoj	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 21. Today we are debating a report on, among other things, strengthening property rights. The basis for this is the S kog investigation, which was one of the flagships of the January parties. Much was said about this and debated at numerous seminars that many of us attended, but the final product was not as clear about ownership as many forest owners had hoped and believed. On the contrary, I have met several forest owners who are more worried today than before the investigation was completed. Madam President, I would like Forest owners who had hoped for a great deal of ownership say to me today this: When both the Green Party and the Center Party say that it is a great victory, then something is not right. There are some good proposals, for example that the Swedish Forest Agency should end with the key biotop inventory. But the clarity of ownership and the strengthening of the main mission shines with their absence. Instead, there is a disproportionate focus on biodiversity, how much forest should be excluded from use and the scope for interpretation to be given to the authorities. Madam President, I would like It cannot have escaped anyone that there is a battle going on about our country's forests and how forest owners can use them. There are several very serious examples of this being the case. We have activist EU Commissioners who have far-reaching plans to access Sweden's forests and threaten our country's forestry. We have the Swedish Forest Agency, which recently decided on a literal application of the Species Protection Regulation that would stop much of Swedish forestry and be the end of the Swedish forestry model. It is a lack of political leadership not to follow the 1993 forestry policy guideline, which has been so important and crucial for Swedish forestry: freedom under responsibility. Madam President, I would like What many of Sweden's 320 000 forest owners want is clear information about ownership and to feel secure in the use of their own forest. I can say this: if we get a new government after the next elections, it is a promise from us and the Moderates – us Christian Democrats, let me tell you who are listening – that there will be a new forest investigation focusing on ownership and security in forestry.
i-KZH7AYp9bPNdDbK3Sqv2Tu	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation number 1. Of course, we support all our reservations, but for time winning we do not demand approval for the others. The forest is a common room for outdoor activities, hunting and nature experiences. The forest regulates water, cleans air, counteracts climate change and is crucial to biodiversity. In the forest there are unique biotopes and ecosystems that are the basis for the survival of many species. At the same time, the forest industry is one of our most important industries. It is absolutely crucial for Swedish exports. Without a competitive forest industry, Sweden would be a much poorer country. It would affect all of us, whether we own forests or not or wherever we live. Swedish forestry policy is based on two equal objectives: the production target and the environmental objective. It is a policy that we defend, but it is objectives that we feel that other parties find it difficult to balance. That is why we feel that the debate is all too often, unfortunately, polarised. Forestry must take account of ecosystems and biodiversity. Both the state and the forest industry have a great responsibility to protect nature conservation and environmental concerns. There's still a lot of work to be done here. Many forest owners are also committed and make great efforts. Madam President, I would like Half of the endangered species in Sweden are found in the forest. We need to use known methods to reduce pressure on ecosystems, and further research is needed on how alternative farming and felling methods can make forestry more gentle and varied. The forest needs us to manage, take care of, protect, use or whatever we put it. It is no longer just a matter of protecting areas where there are high natural values. Species also need to be better able to spread longer distances as the climate changes. The forestry policy we have had has been based on coercion. In fact, the state has the property of people who have been forced to do so, often without reasonable compensation. There is a great deal of commitment among landowners to help preserve and preserve natural values for future generations, but this cannot and must not happen over their heads. Many landowners feel that they are being run over by the state. We need to take this into account and listen to it from the political side. Insensitive handling creates contradictions and polarisation instead of finding and creating solutions. As a result, conservation measures, such as logging bans and biotopinventory measures, have been opposed to individual landowners' willingness to make long-term decisions about their own forest. It doesn't make sense in the woods today. We believe that the coercion exercised in forestry policy has been counterproductive for nature conservation. That's why we're here today. In order for forest policy's environmental and production objectives to work together and be equal, forest owners themselves need to be able to work towards both goals. And landowners want to take responsibility for the forest to produce economic returns and for the forest's ecosystem to function. Families who have carefully nurtured their forests for generations and created an environment conducive to biodiversity, an environment in which the high environmental values that politics wants to see have been able to develop, are now being penalised in different ways. Indirectly, the policy has been an invitation to try to prevent high natural values from emerging in the forest. Madam President, I would like What I'm going to try to say now, I want to sum up like this: It's special to take care of nature and manage your forest. That's the way it's always been. When you own a forest, you can describe it as a responsibility on your shoulders. I'd like to say that it's like there was someone up there putting that responsibility on your shoulders. It's as if the forest you own still somehow belongs to someone else. You're just sitting on this earth for a short time, as the forest grows, to take care of and manage the forest. After you there will be someone else – the next generation, our children and grandchildren. Then it is obvious that you want to own the forest and protect, use and preserve nature. Tell me someone would force you, say no and take away the responsibility put on your shoulders by him up there. Then something happens in a man who owns his forest. I wish that everyone who does not own a forest, who has not experienced the management and use of a forest, would be allowed to do so. Otherwise, it's hard to understand what's on your shoulders. It's hard, I think, to think and believe and rely on it being shot. Forests therefore need to be protected, and protection needs to be voluntary. Forest owners shall receive compensation when refraining from felling important forests. Several types of agreement are possible based on the need for protection. There is also a need for a model where forests close to densely populated areas can be managed, used and preserved for remuneration so that you can promote outdoor life and have walking paths in the forest. The intention of the current proposal is that forest protection should be voluntary. We think that's a good thing. Unfortunately, the proposal is too unclear in terms of guaranteeing voluntary activity. My colleagues have been into what that means. A control post is therefore needed to evaluate forest protection in cooperation with forest owners and on a voluntary basis. We Liberals have proposed that protection be evaluated at a control station in 2026 in order to ensure that it really is voluntary. It is, of course, free for all parties to agree with our proposal for a control post. Volunteering must be guaranteed. The Government proposes two programmes to replace landowners who set aside all or part of their land as protected areas with state forest land. But the proposal is unclear. There is no need to establish two parallel systems. Instead, we propose that the land change programme be extended so that it can be used to provide replacement land to individual forest owners. Local ownership of the forest is beneficial for a living countryside. Smaller forest owners are often more successful in terms of environmental objectives than large forest owners. We believe that there are opportunities to further increase the ambition to transfer production forest from state forest to privately owned forest. Farming your forest is a responsibility, Madam President. It is a responsibility that the state does not take away from people, but the state should encourage, support, help and support. Owners should take their responsibility for the next generation to be able to assume their responsibilities. It is liberal forestry policy.
i-GSUfK8dM1Eqb4fHGzF5Rbc	Madam President, I would like I request the approval of reservation 72. The forest is not an industry. The forest is an ecosystem. The forests are different biotopes, dense forests, clearings, wetlands, hills and valleys. The forest is home to many plants, animals and mushrooms. The mushrooms are a large part of the forest land. Many do not see the forest for all trees. Forest is culture. The brutal forestry threatens the Swedish people's soul, exclaimed author Thomas Tidholm. He wrote that the country we live in is deprived of its ecosystems. Sometimes I also wonder why ecosystems are so much ignored in the debate here in Parliament. I am pleased with the thousands of forest owners who are now at the forefront of decent forestry and nature-related forestry methods. They should be given more attention in the debate. The Lobbyists have great power. They had a good eye in mid-February. DN reported that seven initiatives against the protection of forest species were taken on the same day. DN has also shown how the campaign was synchronised between a state authority, which should be independent, business actors and two political parties. This undermines trust in the Authority. Unfortunately, this is not the first time that the Director General of the Forest Board has been in windstorms. Now e-mails and text messages are kept secret from the media. Unfortunately, the fact that our Minister for the Environment Annika Strandhäll gives way to this lobbyist pressure does not surprise. It's weak. The Social Democrats need closer cooperation with the Green Party in order not to fall into this kind of trap in the future. When we talk to professors of environmental law and other competent actors, it is quite clear that there is no Bofink ban in forestry. Nor is it a four-month break for all forestry, which was the starting point in Skogforsk's report. There may be other reasons for an individual landowner or forest owner not to fell when birds breed in early summer. This could be a risk of damage to the soil. There's a risk of root rot. If the timber is laid for a long time, it can become a place where insects multiply. It can also be economically crazy to fell because you miss the growth season; this is what many individual forest owners say to me. Still, it may not be bad to consider bird life. Madam President, I would like Our generation is going to solve the climate crisis. Climate policy is a policy area that we have left to the EU to manage. Climate policy affects all sectors of society, including forestry. They do not want to know about this here in the Swedish parliament. Species protection is also part of EU policy. Environmental and biodiversity policy is also an area that we have handed over to the European Union. We must retain the knowledge requirements, as laid down in the European directive and in the environmental code. We must ensure that all forest owners have an up-to-date forestry plan that can be complemented by natural value inventory and cultural memory inventory. In this way, it is not necessary to take on the serious role of forest owners in each individual felling. The forest is of course important for the forest industry. I visited Umeå on Friday. I visited Komatsu, which manufactures forestry machinery. It's an incredibly interesting new factory. From Sweden we sell forestry machines to harvest the forest in the Amazon – did you know that? I also visited SLU, met the Forest Board in Norrland and was at SCA's new paper factory in Obbola. Forests are important for the forest industry, but they are also important for the tourism industry and the reindeer industry. In the forest, as in all nature, there is the right of public access. The forest is the forest owner's, but the forest is also our everyone's. I have a forest that I call mine, in Adak, North Västerbotten. But, Madam President, it is also your forest. You can go into the forest I own and pick the blueberries without asking permission. You can take a look at the box that wants the sausage on your sandwich. You can look at the moose calves that were pushed away by their mother and are a little unnecessarily curious. You can take stock of lichens, mosses and plants on my land if you're interested in it. You can report the unusual findings you make to the flora guardian or to the Art Portal. The right of public access must be protected from the Moderates. The Moderates are today putting forward a proposal that restricts the right of public access. What the Moderates want is for a bird watcher, a botanist, a mycologist, a lantern or a person looking at insects to be banned from inventorying species in the forest without the landowner having approved it. This proposal is being voted down by Parliament today. Earlier this year another proposal from the Moderates has been voted down. It was about systematically going through and cancelling nature reserves that are not considered sufficiently safe to release more forest raw materials to the industry. Today, the Moderates have managed to gather a majority around their moderate proposal, known as flexible forms of protection. I would like to address a word of caution to you in the environmental movement: if anyone starts talking about flexible forms of protection, do not tie your fist in your pocket! Write a sender and a tweet! The Moderates say they do not want to see more protected forests in Sweden. They say that if a new nature reserve is to be created, another must be removed. The ambition of the Moderates is not to protect larger areas. Madam President, I would like In its latest report, the UN Panel on Climate Change focused on the effects of climate change. In order for forest ecosystems to cope with climate change, ecological resilience needs to be increased. It is very important that we prepare ourselves, so that we do not get forest fires, droughts and damage attacks to a greater extent. The use of forests must therefore be adapted to climate change, so that the forest continues to produce a good yield while maintaining and strengthening biodiversity. The Swedish Forest Agency has a report on climate adaptation where it writes: ..................................................... The Green Party also wants to limit the number and size of skins. It is necessary to cope with the adaptation of forests to climate change, to protect carbon storage, biodiversity and outdoor life. Sweden needs more varied forestry, and more active forest owners are needed. Non-precise methods can be an important business, environmental and climate adaptation strategy. Both Skogsstyrelsen and MSB have advocated a review of the Forest Protection Act based on the need for climate adaptation. The authorities note that in principle all forestry measures have an impact on the risk of erosion, collapse and flooding. It can damage railways, block roads and destroy electricity lines and fibre networks. There are about half a million acres of such areas in the country, and knowledge of the risks is generally too poor. We would like to see stronger efforts on climate adaptation of the forest. There is also a need for a greener forestry law that leads to greater consideration of the nature of forestry and to the achievement of environmental objectives. Conservation of biodiversity is in itself an important tool for coping with the climate challenge. The better the climate-friendly forest becomes, the less the future fellings need to be affected by various damage and infestations. According to the EU Biodiversity Strategy, 30% of Europe's seas and land will be protected by 2030. It is a goal that the Green Party is behind. Several parts of the bill that we are debating are linked to the efforts contained in the Government's proposal for a budget proposal for 2022. Now that bill did not go through, because the Center Party joined forces with the Moderates, Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats. If there are no budgetary resources for the proposal we have before us, it is, of course, difficult to implement the main elements of the proposal. That is why we have a reservation from the Green Party in which we believe that the government must come back with a proposal on how the measures should be financed. This is not just about the 2 billion extra needed for forest owners to protect their land. 700 forest owners in Sweden have agreements with the state but do not receive the money. It is a problem for ownership that the owners are not paid when they have entered into an agreement with the state. The Moderates have made sure that's the case. It is also a problem that the proposals contained in the proposal for advice, both advice for increased growth and advice for decent forestry, cannot go through because the money is removed from the budget. Madam President, I would like The proposals in the forest bill cannot be implemented with the financial framework adopted by the Riksdag. This means that enhanced ownership and compensation for landowners, increased knowledge, opportunities for protection of natural values, more favourable tax conditions, waiting agreements, biotop protection, national park initiatives, advice for sustainable growth, advice on grazing damage, compensation for nature conservation agreements and management of nature reserves cannot be implemented. The big issue of increasing the rights of forest owners is not that they would voluntarily choose between protecting valuable nature and not doing so. The big question of ownership is whether forest owners should be able to get paid when doing conservation measures and whether they should be given the right to advice. The big question is about the small forest owners who now stand between themselves when the Moderates have taken the money out of the budget. Madam President, I would like The bill is negotiated between the Social Democrats, the Center Party and the Environmental Party. We're behind what's being said. But we are very sorry that the money is missing when we are now going to strengthen the ownership of forestry.
i-Wq3b652kWSPhkDfovVxxVN	Madam President, I would like It is amazing that the Green Party chooses to spend half its speaking time talking about the Moderates. This shows that the Moderates have influence in Swedish forestry policy. It was said that the Social Democrats would listen more to the Green Party. I don't think so. But I fear that this may unfortunately be the case again after the autumn elections if the Social Democrats become so large that it can approach a government situation. However, I do not think that will be the case. The Center Party joined forces with the Moderates, Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats. Yeah, and it was great that they did it. They should have done so much more often, especially in forestry matters. Strengthened ownership, Madam President, is not about the state having money to redeem private landowners' forests. Moreover, if the state does not have money in its budget, private forest owners' land cannot be seized. That is exactly what we Moderates want to achieve when we remove extra money. It was wrongly said, Madam President, that there is a lack of money for those who have already entered into agreements. There was money for them in the budget, just as much as the Forest Board wanted. We took away money to avoid extra land being taken out of production. In the Moderates' individual budget, which we presented before the negotiations with the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats, we have a great deal of money to manage just protected nature. It is also strange to make an attack on the Moderates. I wonder how we can increase forest production with the way the Green Party is reasoning in this House.
i-URHewsPQDWQHQo4BeRrMsx	Madam President, I would like I thank John Widegren for these important issues. The Moderates have promised that the forest will be an important issue in the 2022 elections. When the elections have been won, as John Widegren wishes, the whole forest policy should be re-established – despite the fact that we have now broadly agreed on a forestry policy. To a large extent, the opposition has also agreed to it and has not voted in favour of rejection. Where there is valuable nature, it is to be protected, you have even signed that you want to. You have not voted against this today. As far as the money for forest owners is concerned, it was not at all the case that the money was in the budget since before. Yes, there was a small part that the Forest Board had wanted. But the Swedish Forest Agency also agreed that a large part of the money for forest owners would be in the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's budget pool – 2 billion, to be exact, and 700 forest owners throughout the country are waiting to receive compensation and have entered into agreements on a voluntary basis. This voluntary formal protection may sound like something new, but it is really just a description of what it has been like in the past. No one from the state is forcing a landowner to make a deal. On the other hand, landowners with key biotopes have not been able to harvest them because the market imposes this requirement. Then the state has said that you can go in and make nature reserves, but now there is no money.
i-XCvxD6mzCV17jrGK4Qth6e	Madam President, I would like Forest policy will not have to be re-established if we comply with the forestry policy we actually adopted in 1993. It is based on equal parts of nature conservation and production, something that Swedish forest owners do excellently well, as we have said several times today. They combine high production with biodiversity. Moderates can protect new nature when there are high natural values, but, as we say in the announcement, we also believe that protection can be removed if the high natural values do not exist. We do not want to increase the proportion of land taken out of production, because then Swedish forests will not be able to deliver what is required. When it comes to voluntary activity and the protection of forests, we have different views. Volunteering is, of course, often about the fact that it is not possible to fell if you do not enter into this agreement on the protection of nature. But if you do, you get a penny. It is, therefore, rather voluntary under the gallows where the state decides. Madam President, I would like It is unfortunate that you make such a big deal out of environmental and climate issues, because they handle Swedish forest owners well. Of course, improvements can be made, but what the Green Party really wants is individual ownership and use, and this is done in the name of the environment and climate. You don't like ownership and private forest owners are allowed to make these decisions themselves.
i-3zbkNNpxK72dLiFYx5uwaP	Madam President, I would like I'm not just a politician; I'm a forest owner too. So it would be weird if I didn't like forest owners and property rights. Ownership rights are also constitutionally protected. But so is the right of public access. John Widegren and the Moderates are proposing in this House today that the right of public access be restricted, and I think that is a bad thing. Why shouldn't an ornithologist or botanist take inventory of my land and report it to the Art Portal? Why would the Moderates forbid it? That's completely unreasonable. The Green Party sees that there is a great opportunity with the future bioeconomy strategy. But it has to be circular. We need to have more long-lasting products that can circulate and be used more before they become residual products and, for example, biofuels. But both the Moderates and the Social Democrats stand in the way of the bioeconomy strategy because the Social Democrats pause the change of fuel and the Moderates want to stop it. I think it's sad. It is difficult to understand that politicians from parliamentary parties other than the Green Party do not fully support the bioeconomy strategy. You have even addressed an announcement to the government about the bioeconomy strategy, and yet you want to stop the possibility of a change in climate policy. It's a scandal.
i-B4bGRvKub4YAfyjVQm5SbZ	Madam President, I would like I'm in favour of the reservation. Climate change is one of the greatest challenges of our time. We must work hard to bring down the temperature rise and to achieve a more sustainable society. Energy resources are limited. Russia's invasion of Ukraine and Putin's brutality against the Ukrainian people have made it clear that we must make ourselves independent of Russian gas and oil. It is therefore welcome that the EU is taking initiatives to improve the energy performance of buildings. The European Commission's proposal contains some good proposals on how to achieve a more climate-smart society, but also some other proposals that we think are too far-reaching. However, it is not the proposals as such that we should decide on here today, but where the decisions should be taken. Is it the EU that is best placed to decide on the rate of renovation of Swedish buildings, or is it a national matter? Decisions at EU level shall be taken when necessary to achieve the desired result. We Moderates believe that this is not the case here. The proposals put forward by the Commission go too far to be at EU level. These proposals should be dealt with at national level. Europe's countries have come at different levels in terms of energy efficiency in their buildings. We should be proud that Sweden is at the forefront. Other countries have a long way to go before they get to where we are today. Madam President, I would like We therefore welcome proposals for increasing the rate of renovation, and we also believe that targets are needed for zero energy buildings. But, Madam President, these renovation plans and targets are to be decided by the countries where the work is to be done with respect for the different conditions of different countries and not least for property owners' property rights. The part of the proposal we are particularly critical of is the harmonised energy classification for buildings. In that part, the proposal is too detailed. We believe that each Member State should be allowed to draw up its own energy performance calculations to a greater extent. The requirements for renovations of homes and existing buildings to be carried out at a certain rate are linked to the new energy classification. In our opinion, these requirements are too far-reaching. In principle, it should be up to each Member State to determine the rate of renovation of the national building stock itself. Once again, as conditions differ in our various Member States, it is important that decisions are taken in the country where the work is to be done. To try to push all the Member States into one and the same plan that does not take into account our national differences can, to put it bluntly, be counterproductive. Madam President, I would like In view of the above, we believe that the proposal goes beyond what is necessary in order to achieve the objectives and is therefore contrary to the principle of proportionality. As the proposal has now been drafted, we also see a risk that it could do more harm than good in relation to its purpose. This means that we believe that the proposal does not comply with the principle of subsidiarity either. We therefore propose that Parliament give a reasoned opinion to the Presidents of the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission to that effect.
i-2pTUVsQkgV4b32vmz9qm2x	Madam President, I would like Subsidiarity testing is a test of whether an issue is at the lowest possible level to achieve the objectives and whether the intervention is proportionate to the benefits of having legislation at European level. I think this is a textbook example of when the intervention in national governance is too large and far-reaching. The operation applies not only to new buildings but also to all existing buildings. Thus, a huge bureaucratic register of existing buildings will be established and how these will be renovated in the future to achieve zero emissions by 28 years. If the aim is to reduce emissions from the entire construction sector so that the environmental impact of all buildings is equal to zero by 2050, there should be better ways. This is to be achieved by making all buildings what is called zero emission buildings, which is therefore buildings that do not emit emissions during their life cycle. The Swedish Energy Agency describes a zero emission building as a building that during its lifetime compensates for the energy input during the construction phase by providing energy itself. In order for this to be realistic, according to the Swedish Energy Agency, the building needs to have extremely low own energy consumption and that the building in some way creates energy itself. These are extremely far-reaching measures, especially in view of the fact that it is not only residential buildings that are included but all buildings and that each building should achieve at least zero emissions. This therefore requires a detailed register of all buildings and a longer plan for each existing building. Many buildings will need to be renovated in several steps in order to achieve the objectives. Since renovations of existing buildings are to take place after national renovation plans, the whole idea of doing so falls to the EU level. The principle of proportionality should therefore have entered into force, as the EU's intervention is too far-reaching and the measures are disproportionate to the intervention. The objective of reducing emissions can be achieved at least in part in a different way and, above all, in a better way. It is we politicians who are supposed to assess proportionality and subsidiarity regarding the intervention, but a majority, led by the government, seems to think that this extreme bureaucracy of the entire construction sector is a positive thing. The proposal for a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the energy performance of buildings explicitly states that zero emission buildings should not emit greenhouse gases, and elsewhere it states that buildings should be heated without direct emissions. The question is how all Sweden's wood heated buildings will then be affected. Another target concerns particles that come into the air. It is of course a problem if it happens in metropolitan areas, but buildings in the interior of Norrland and in Småland's densest forests suffer from exactly the same regulations from the EU. Will the rules finally decided by EU bureaucracy-loving politicians take account of Swedish conditions and our tradition of wood-fired stoves and tile ovens? Sweden has a large and rich cultural heritage in our buildings. According to the directive, these very old and fine buildings will therefore be renovated into zero emission houses within 28 years, including K-labelled and other unique buildings. It may be possible to make some minor exceptions, but the experience is that the government rarely makes use of that possibility. And if they do so, they will be very sparing, unlike other countries, which are happy to draw the exception to its head. If it were justified to do so at EU level, it should of course have been based on the entire EU's building stock, and the worst buildings in the EU should have been fixed first. According to the current proposal, each country is required to address 15% of its worst buildings from an energy point of view. This means that those countries that have the best starting point and have already done much will be punished. They will address the same proportion of the housing stock as the countries with the lowest starting point. So it is not the best environmental benefit that governs, and so the very point of the EU being a horizontal body falls. Our view is that this can be done by any country itself, without the bureaucratic route through Europe. The extreme bureaucracy that will arise when all buildings are to be classified into an energy class system and assessed from A to G makes me think of the nightmare bureaucracy that the European Union has previously created in the field of agriculture. Now we want to destroy the construction sector with similar extreme bureaucratic solutions. The classification A to G is also very different from one Member State to another, and what is the point of a common regulatory framework if the classification is not the same? Class G is therefore the 15 worst in every country, not the 15 worst in the EU. Thus, Sweden's buildings in class G may very well correspond to a much higher classification in another country. Yet they will be renovated. This removes the full potential benefits of dealing with the proposal at EU level. What will happen, on the other hand, is that people are reluctant to do renovations when bureaucracy causes the costs to slip. At the turn of the year, climate declarations were introduced for new buildings, and this is, of course, a way of getting used to the industry. The mission to investigate the extension of climate declarations and introduce limit values has already been sent to Boverket. Johan Danielsson and the government are in such a hurry to get to this bureaucracy that they do not even wait for democratic management. How the government and the EU are going to get people to actually carry out energy-saving renovations when they become considerably more expensive and bureaucratically complicated remains to be seen. What is very clear from the reading of the proposal for a directive, however, is that it could have been implemented at national level with great benefit. By then, each country would have been able to use its preconditions to reduce the climate impact of the construction sector to zero by 2050, completely without the extreme bureaucracy that is now being imposed on us from the European Union. Finally, Madam President, it must be noted that there is a broad misunderstanding that a subsidiarity test should determine whether an issue is appropriate at European level. This is not the case, but the test is to see if it is the lowest possible level. And it is very clear to me that this is not the lowest possible level, especially when each country is to be classified nationally. I'm in favour of the reservation.
i-2cRt9PMqCMBidX5yu3q4Np	Madam President, I would like Reducing energy consumption in buildings is important from a climate perspective. Buildings account for 40% of the energy used in the EU, and heating and cooling of hot water accounts for 80% of it. I think we all agree on the basics here. But that is not what we are going to discuss today, but the debate is about the subsidiarity review of the directive on the energy performance of buildings. It is very little about the very ambition or the proposals in the directive itself, but it is about whether the decision should be at national or European level. It is important to me where it is most practical and effective to decide on a matter. That's the level that should decide on it. The proposal requires Member States to introduce minimum energy performance levels for existing buildings as well. These shall be achieved by requiring the renovation of buildings with the lowest energy and climate performance. So far, we agree. It also states that the proposal will have an impact on planning and construction legislation and the regulatory framework for energy declarations. For us Christian Democrats, the Planning and Construction Act is a national competence and should be decided at national level. We believe that this directive imposes quite a lot of costs in connection with renovations that are not sufficiently analysed to be able to be decided at European level and should be weighed against other costs in a budget that might end up in a national budget. Linked to the new energy classification, the Commission also proposes to introduce requirements for renovations of existing buildings and homes at a certain rate. We believe that it should in principle be up to each Member State to determine the pace of renovation of the national building stock itself and the way in which the funding is to be made and distributed. With reference to the above, we believe that the proposal goes beyond what is necessary in order to achieve the objectives and is therefore contrary to the principle of proportionality. I therefore support this reservation.
i-HV4AwWT3MbsuyUAfe23KdG	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the proposal in the committee's opinion CU34 not to submit a reasoned opinion and to add it to the file. We Social Democrats support the committee's examination of the Commission's proposal for a revised directive on the energy performance of buildings. We believe that the proposal does not run counter to the principle of subsidiarity. We believe that the committee's review is well justified. I will read from the committee's position. In order to ensure that buildings can contribute to a climate-neutral EU by 2050, it is necessary to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from buildings and the final use of energy. Buildings account for 40% of energy used in the EU and 36% of energy-related direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions. In the EU, heating, cooling and hot water account for 80% of the energy consumed by households. The committee therefore welcomes the updating of the regulatory framework on the energy performance of buildings. ..................................................... As you can hear, this is an EU-related issue. It is not just a matter for the nations. In order to achieve the objectives we have set ourselves, we also need joint commitments. The committee continues: This is a necessary contribution to achieving the objectives of the EU's Green Paper on making the EU's economy and society climate neutral by 2050. Energy is an area of shared competence between the EU and the Member States, which means that the Union and the Member States share the right to legislate. ..................................................... I think that the previous speaker only raised the competence of the nation, the Member State. But we have a shared competence on this issue. And climate and energy transition are not just a national issue. Joint efforts are needed here. I will continue to read what the committee says: The Commission's proposal builds on existing EU policies. It is necessary to update the regulatory framework and requirements regarding the energy performance of buildings in order to achieve the EU's overall climate and energy objectives. The committee therefore considers that the Commission's proposal does not conflict with the principle of subsidiarity. There is therefore no reason to submit a reasoned opinion to the Presidents of the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission. Parliament should add the committee's opinion to the record. ..................................................... I share this view, and the majority of committee members and parties support it.
i-8mPWK8C9DAM1xEwVYSAzGc	Madam President, I would like In fact, I would like to ask how much more expensive it will be to renovate eventually when all these rules on the classification of buildings will apply. You're supposed to set up a plan, prepare for future renovation steps, and so on. But perhaps we should stick to the subsidiarity test itself. With the justification that we have just heard here from Leif Nysmed, one could in principle justify that anything should be at European level. Is it really completely impossible for the Swedish Government to decide on its own classification of buildings from A to G without the extreme bureaucratisation of the entire construction sector that this directive will actually entail? I find it very difficult to see why it would be so hugely difficult when you think that this includes a lot of renovation plans and reclassifications along with constantly new upgrades of limit values to eventually achieve the target of zero emissions from the building sector. Wouldn't it be enough just to set the target zero emissions for buildings? Then we in Sweden could find out for ourselves how to achieve zero emissions. If all countries did so, we should achieve zero emissions in the EU, too, right?
i-QyMWfmFnWhTFxTPgW81TwC	Madam President, I would like Mikael Eskilandersson asks if it would have been enough to do this only in Sweden. Certainly we could have introduced our own system in Sweden. But we will not solve the problems and we will not reach the EU's climate targets if we do so only here in Sweden. We have gone ahead in Sweden, and we are way ahead in Sweden in terms of buildings. There are several who highlight it, and I highlighted it last time we had a discussion about the Swedish National Audit Office's study on energy declarations. We have done a lot in Sweden, and we are very far ahead of other countries. The point is that we are doing this together in Europe to achieve these goals. I think this is a good way to do it to get to grips with it. The path of volunteering may not have been the best way to have the best homes and properties in Europe today. Today we see the need for natural gas from Russia. It has not been news for some countries that it is risky to be so dependent on a country such as Russia, for example. But what has been done about it? Actually, nothing has been done. We can look at Italy today where one is really afraid of what the consequences might be. We from the Social Democrats believe that it is smart to do things like this together in Europe. The classes are called the same thing, but they are based on national stocks. If we had exactly the same rating across Europe, we would not have to do anything in Sweden. Then we let the worst homes in Sweden be untouched. But they also need to be improved. I see many homeowners who have high costs due to heating costs that could have been reduced if they had been helped to improve this. I think this is a good proposal that we can discuss further when we get to that point.
i-U2dTiZHTpJ9aqWHseKiSXW	Madam President, I would like At the very end Leif Nysmed came into this with the common classes called the same but which will still be completely different classes, where our class G means a different type of building than class G in other countries. Perhaps that is the strangest and most problematic of the whole proposal. One wonders why the proposal needs to go up at European level when we are going to produce our own rating. In that case, each country should only have the task of drawing up a plan for achieving zero emissions by 2050 and following that plan. In this way, we should achieve exactly the same thing without having to do the extreme bureaucracy that Europe is laying the foundations for and which means that exactly all the buildings in the country should be classified. They will then be raised, starting with the worst 15% in each country – instead of starting with the worst 15% in the EU, which should be a much more reasonable way forward if you want to do this at European level. I understand the objective fundamentally, and I have no objection to trying to get the construction sector much more energy efficient than it is today. But perhaps you do not have to do so with such an extremely bureaucratic system as what Europe is laying the foundations for.
i-Gvsh6Q9QMbSzdFShGEE6RA	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the questions, Mikael Eskilandersson! Unfortunately, we are now discussing the issues and not whether this should be a shared competence or not. I still believe that this is a shared competence that we have between the Member States and the European Union, and that is why I believe that it does not run counter to the principle of subsidiarity. You can call it bureaucracy, but you can also call it control stations to see that we actually get where we are going. Simply setting a target by 2050, far away, may not make us take the necessary steps that we need to take right here and now. This is, in fact, a system of follow-ups to see that the Member States assume their responsibilities and do what they are required to do. It's a matter of not being surprised in 2049... well, you haven't done this? Now we stand here, and now you must hurry – one more year! ..................................................... It is not the case that everything should happen by 2050, but the important thing in the transition to cope with the climate is to take big steps now to get where we are going. Waiting until 2050 with the whole thing and hoping that most people have done their homework during the journey will not save the climate. The climate issue is a bigger issue than the nations, so the EU is a good way to go there.
i-NqRsdFoBtgPajsY2q2oBvG	Thank you very much. I would like to welcome you, Mr President. It is an honor for me to have this opportunity to speak before you. I would also like to welcome the Prime Minister, Members of Parliament and representatives of the Government. The blue and yellow flag is now perhaps the most popular in the world because it is associated with freedom for people in different countries and in different parts of the world. The blue and the yellow are not only Ukraine's colours but also Sweden's, and that is of course not a coincidence. It's fate. We stand united for freedom, for people's peaceful lives and the dignity of all people, for justice and a gentle view of the world in which we live. It is therefore not at all illogical that Sweden is one of the countries that has given Ukraine the most support in the current situation. We are very grateful for that. A month has passed since the full-scale war that Russia started against our country began. It is a black month unprecedented since World War II with such destruction and war crimes. The list of dead counts in thousands. Dozens of communities and cities have been destroyed. The Russian military makes no distinction between military and civilian targets. They destroy residential areas, houses, hospitals. They even bomb preschools with rocket artillery. They have destroyed hundreds of educational buildings and schools. They bombed universities and colleges. You can imagine. They simply destroy all the infrastructure that is important support for us – including warehouses with food and medicines. They've taken over two nuclear power plants. For the second time now, they have gone to chemical production facilities. They've been using phosphorus bombs. Adults and children die. Why is Russia doing this? Why this terrorist attack on us? Why do they have to push down and enslave another country and its people? Ladies and gentlemen, the Swedish people! Europe of today, which has been peaceful for so many years, is based on very clear principles. Violence or coercion must not be allowed to revise borders. All countries have the right to choose their own future without coercion or pressure from dictatorships. Based on these two principles, we have had an era of cooperation and peace. We have seen this before, until the Russian leadership decided that they can move things in time and completely depreciate the developments we have seen in the last century, in accordance with other totalitarian ideologies. If Ukraine did not defend and try to protect itself, all this would be lost – all that we value, all that your people value and that people in all free countries value. That would mean that all Russia's neighbours, including you, are in danger. It is only water that separates you from these thoughts. It has already been discussed in the media and in broadcasts from the Russian side how to occupy Gotland – your island – and control it for decades. It's been shown on Russian television. It shows what it would look like if the Russian army brought in defence facilities to cover for further attacks on the Baltic Sea. They could move on. They want to restrict freedom in Europe. This is a fundamental challenge for European defence systems and other systems. Look what the Russian army is doing in our country! Eight years of war in the East, with the occupation of Crimea, with repression, torture and abuse that suppresses all expressions of freedom and diversity. A month of full-scale war, vicious bombings like what we saw in Syria. Children and adults are kidnapped and taken to Russia. It is rape in residential areas and looting that the Russian soldiers engage in. Thousands of homes have been destroyed. 10 million are on the run, and several million have already made it to the rest of Europe. However, I know that they will return as soon as Russia leaves our country, once we have restored peace in our country. Ladies and gentlemen! The Swedish nation was one of the first to provide support to Ukraine. Your support is wholehearted, based on values and love of freedom and based on symbols around the blue and the yellow. Everyone knows what Sweden is aiming for. This whole month has also shown clearly what Ukraine is prepared to do. We fight the war together. We must do everything we can to make Russia seek peace. It was a historic decision when Sweden decided to send weapons to Ukraine. We are very grateful for that. We are grateful for your reasonable approach and your perspective on the matter. Sweden supports sanctions, a policy that is necessary to bring about peace. There is no language but effective sanctions to make the Russian leadership understand. But in order for peace to come faster, sanctions packages must be approved every week: not a single barrel of Russian oil, no ships coming from Russia in your ports, no business from your companies in Russia. We must take advantage of the opportunities available. Conscious acts committed by the Russian army aim to destroy our cities and attack our citizens. Everyone must respond to this from a European point of view, with great seriousness and responsibility. The free world must act. The Russian army has made it its mark to completely destroy cities, kill the civilian population and use phosphorus bombs. We must ensure that this is not a victory strategy. War crimes must be punished. Those who ordered the killing of people must be brought before the General Court so that we can ensure that no other country has any idea that it can go unpunished from such acts and completely destroy neighbouring countries. I am convinced that we will jointly restore peace. That's why we need to think about how to rebuild and rebuild Ukraine again after the war, because that day will come. I want Swedish companies, Swedish architects, the Swedish state and the Swedish people to participate in this. Ukraine was beautiful. It's going to be a big country. We will build it – for the sake of people, for the sake of our country's development and for the sake of Europe. We would like to welcome you to show the world and future generations that war does not produce any results. It is peace that brings good results. Sweden is the first country for which we propose this project. You can have twin towns and friend industries and help with reconstruction. I am convinced that your country, your activities, your love for your country and the way in which you organise society could be of great benefit to us. All our citizens, all those defending our country, have already done so much to safeguard our common European values, our common European home. We are fighting not only for the people of Ukraine but for the security of Europe. We have proved that we deserve to be a full member of the European Union. The decision already exists. It's time to move on with that. I am sure that you will support us in this regard too. Thank you, Sweden! Slava Ukraine – honour Ukraine!
i-WJzBr8WzhEWjJ56LypnAYp	Thank you very much.
i-NfMuJXE3LHfju3oquyGiU2	Thank you, Mr President, for your sincere and important words and for taking the time to speak to us during burning wars! Thank you also for your leadership at this crucial time! I can assure you that support for Ukraine is strong in this House. Our Parliament has previously, as you mentioned, decided on comprehensive support for Ukraine and will vote unanimously for further support later today – including arms, which we hope will help you defend your country and, in the longer term, the European security regime. We are united with you in this struggle because freedom is important. Peace is important. Ukraine is important. Thank you!
i-BHQrJTXPTjrTp2qNvPAiug	Causes of High Fuel Prices
