i-SiJRF3iJe3TFDykSvsi5Uc	Madam President, I would like We are in a dark period of European history. Russia's illegal war against Ukraine has fundamentally shaken Sweden, Europe and the world and redesigned the economic conditions for a long time to come. In a rapidly deteriorating security policy situation, the government is presenting a budget to strengthen Sweden. The spring budget I now present to the Riksdag together with previously presented measures amounts to SEK 35 billion to increase the pace of defence expansion, continue to support Ukraine, alleviate the consequences of the war for Swedish households and companies and continue the fight against social problems. The necessary investments in welfare, for jobs and for the climate should not be postponed. This is how we strengthen Sweden in a troubled time. Since the war began, the government has worked on three clear priorities: sanctions against Russia, supporting Ukraine and strengthening Sweden. The war and sanctions are judged to be well on the way to forcing the Russian economy into recession. Now it is the end of the party for the Russian oligarchs, whose yachts and luxury apartments in the West are seized and assets freeze inside. Many companies have left the Russian market, and inflation is high and financial uncertainty is high. For what? For Putin's desire for power and ideological dogmas. Let it be a reminder of why we in this House are sitting here by free and universal elections. Let it be a reminder of the danger of authoritarian nationalism and of why we should stand up for democracy every day. Putin and the Russian government started this war, and those responsible will be investigated, held accountable and convicted of war crimes committed in this war. We and the international community will see to that. Madam President, I would like In the uncertainty that Europe has been thrown into, it is important not to lose focus on other societal problems. In the shadow of the war, 21 people have been shot to death so far this year in our country. During the Easter weekend violent riots took place in Linköping, Norrköping, Örebro and Malmö. 26 policemen have been injured, and some 20 police cars have either been damaged or destroyed. Any attack on a police officer is an attack on our democracy. No opinion, however distasteful, legitimizes violence. The scenes of the weekend are playing right into the hands of the extremists who want to polarize and divide our society. But Sweden can do better than go on that bait. All those who resort to violence should be held accountable for their actions and the harm they do to both their fellow citizens and local communities. Society must be strengthened. Therefore, this government has consistently and systematically invested in strengthening the entire legal chain. The penalties will continue to be tightened up and the police will be even more numerous, and they will have better tools to fight serious crime. Organised crime and the violence that terrifies residential areas should be broken. The greatest security for ordinary people is to have a job of your own with decent conditions. Thanks to the government's employment policy and historical package of measures, more people are working in Sweden now than before the pandemic. And despite the deteriorating world situation, unemployment continues to fall. It is a strength for the Swedish economy and for our ability to break the segregation. When young people grow up without seeing their parents go to work or feeling hope for the future, the soil gangs need to recruit is created. In the spring budget, the government continues to push back unemployment by investing in start-up jobs so that those who are the furthest from the labour market can get into work – so that more people can take that step towards self-sufficiency. The green industrial revolution that is taking place not least in northern Sweden is creating jobs now and in the future while speeding up our independence from fossil fuels. This is how Sweden can also help Europe to break free from Russian gas and oil. Sweden will continue to be at the forefront of the climate change transition. It benefits both growth, our climate goals and our security policy interests. The other week I listened together with my European Finance Minister colleagues to Mr Mar t j enko, the Ukrainian Minister of Finance. He put it this way: we fight the war on all fronts. My front is the economic. Together with the EU, the Swedish Government has worked intensively to support Ukraine financially, humanitarianly and militarily. For the first time since the Soviet Union attacked Finland in 1939, Sweden has sent defensive weapons to another country – because it is right. But supporting Ukraine is also a matter of Sweden's security. A defence of Ukraine's borders is a defence of the borders of all countries. Madam President, I would like My grandfather fought and died in the Finnish Winter War. My mother came to Sweden as a war child. My family and I know all too well what it's like to live with the concerns about how Russia can act. There are many in our country who have fled war, persecution and oppression and who carry similar experiences. Our response to this whole House is clear: Europe and Sweden are with Ukraine.
i-EGcdeQjbo1KJV6AxpHaeND	Madam President, I would like The government has for several years been carrying out a major strengthening of our country's total defence in broad political unity. Let's pick up the pace. The military defence appropriations will reach 2% of GDP as soon as practicable, i.e. when it is possible to effectively translate the increases into enhanced defence capabilities. With this, the government is implementing the largest expansion of Sweden's military defence since the Second World War. Our military and civilian preparedness is mutually reinforcing. In the spring budget we strengthen Sweden's civil preparedness in the form of security of supply and population protection. We also strengthen the municipalities' important work on crisis preparedness. In order to strengthen Sweden in the long term, we need to continue building on the lessons also from the pandemic. Therefore, the government in the spring budget presents an additional half a billion to increase the health care capacity to open up more care places. Although we wish that the pandemic was behind us, there is still a risk of increased spread of infection and mutations. That is why it is still important for us to get more people to vaccinate at the same time as we do health care. We already set aside money for a possible fourth dose for the entire Swedish people. In Sweden you should be able to trust that the care is there when you need it. Madam President, I would like Russia's invasion of Ukraine but also Russia's pre-war action has affected us both in terms of security policy and economics. Swedish households have felt this through higher fuel prices, higher electricity prices and higher food prices. Inflation is, as a consequence, significantly higher than normal. The Government has already presented measures to curb the price shock for Swedish households and companies through electricity price compensation, special fuel compensation and by temporarily reducing the diesel tax by SEK 1.80 to the EU minimum level. These are measures that do not require us to take the long decision-making route through Brussels, but decisions can be made with a club team in the Swedish Parliament's own chamber. For there are households and businesses that cannot afford to wait. Agriculture, in particular, is currently struggling with high costs linked to fuel and manure. It is in Sweden's interest that we have a viable agriculture and our own food supply that can contribute to our preparedness. The government has also advanced with a modernised and improved travel allowance that benefits commuters. However, no politician can promise to compensate for everything in such an exceptional situation that we find ourselves in. It is neither serious nor financially sustainable. Sweden and the Swedish people will be affected by the consequences of the war for a long time to come. The government takes responsibility for alleviating the consequences of the war for both companies and Swedish households. In times of crisis, economic gaps are at risk of deepening. We saw it during the pandemic, and we see it now. Price increases affect everyone, but they mainly affect low-income households. It may be workers who depend on the car to get to work, shop for food or drive the children to leisure activities. Single parents may not be able to afford to replace worn - out winter shoes because basic goods have become more expensive. The government has therefore presented targeted measures with a temporary increase in housing allowance for the most vulnerable families with children. At this point, we will not fail the country's pensioners. In recent years, the government has made a wide range of improvements in the area of pensions, but there is still a need to strengthen the economy of the most deprived pensioners. The government is therefore proposing in the spring budget a new tax-free benefit called a guarantee supplement. It is to be introduced for low-income pensioners. The reform means that a total of one million pensioners will have a strengthened economy with an average of SEK 750 per month. This makes a real difference in everyday life. The Swedish Parliament's right-wing parties now owe the answer to Sweden's pensioners. In a situation where food prices are rising, will you vote in favour or against the pensioner's guarantee supplement? For us Social Democrats, the answer is, of course, yes. Our ability to stand strong in crisis, and ultimately war, is based on the strong society. Today's budget complements the reform package of over 70 billion that we presented in the autumn budget to, among other things, take back democratic control of welfare, break segregation and speed up climate change. During the pandemic, all parties seemed to agree on the need to invest in elderly care and medical care. All parties now want to strengthen Sweden's defence capabilities. I say we have to do both. There is apparently a dividing line in Swedish politics here. Since 2014, the Government has carried out a permanent strengthening of the general state grants by over SEK 30 billion. For us Social Democrats, spending on welfare does not depend on what is on the headlines. Our welfare will work in peace and in wartime, in everyday life and during a pandemic. In times of uncertainty, we should not cut back on welfare and our general readiness. Our resilience to crises is largely based on strong public finances. Thanks to the fact that we once again cleaned up large budget deficits and saved in good times, we were able to face the pandemic with the lowest public debt since 1977. Now we are in a new crisis. Sweden is well equipped in comparison with other countries, but the war creates great uncertainty for economic development in the future. All parties must take their responsibility to ensure Sweden's economic sustainability. Broad unfunded reforms run the risk of boosting inflation and creating budget deficits. This is not how we strengthen Sweden. Our resilience is not a natural law, but is ultimately based on the political direction. Madam President, I would like Like my mother, the Ukrainian people have been forced to flee the Russian bombs. Most people seek shelter in other parts of Ukraine or in neighbouring countries, but some also go to Sweden. Sweden should take its share of responsibility in the EU, but we are not going back to 2015. All Swedish municipalities must assume their responsibility for the Swedish reception. The efforts of civil society cannot be overemphasised. It is in the inter-human meeting that we show what solidarity means in practice. It may be people who open an extra room for a family seeking security. It can be anyone who raises a hand and says: I want to help. When we stand together in crisis, we are also strong. That is the solidarity we showed each other during the pandemic, and it is that solidarity that we should continue to show each other in this crisis too. Our ability to stand strong together is based on a strong defence, a strong well-being, strong public finances and a future belief in the labour market. In this spring budget, the government is increasing the pace of defence expansion. We continue to support Ukraine. We alleviate the consequences of the war for Swedish households and companies, and we continue to fight against social problems. With this, I hand over the 2022 Spring Budget to the Riksdag.
i-CEZSzbu6B7CZ7JWP9tARnZ	Madam President, I would like I think that many, like me, have been very upset and angry this weekend. We have seen what has taken place around Swedish cities. In Örebro at the Sports House, where my children played both ping-pong and floorball, there were riots. People threw large stones and aggressors at the police — for the purpose of killing. There are many of us who have seen the picture of the broken helmet with blood on it. It's a broken helmet belonging to an outside officer. There was a cop running straight for danger. Madam President, I would like The deed is carried out by people who violate Swedish laws and regulations, over the legal society itself. Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson called protestors and said they should go home. I'm saying they're domestic terrorists who shouldn't go home, but they're going to jail.
i-CcfLCMeRixqrdkCek1qF96	Above all, Madam President, the police and the judiciary need to have all the resources and all the tools now needed to maintain security. That is the responsibility of politics. Madam President, I would like It is a government's most important task to ensure that a country is safe and upholds law and order. But here the Social Democrats have broken. I believe that this is the greatest failure that the Social Democrats have shown in these eight years. Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the last budget of the Social Democrats for this term of office. Then it may also be appropriate to sum up and make financial statements over the eight years. Sweden is no longer known for being one of the safest and best countries in the world. We have also fought for completely different things. During these eight years, Sweden has repeatedly broken a record in shootings. Whole areas have been taken over by criminal gangs. The insecurity that has taken root in recent years means that parents no longer dare to let their children go home from school. Girls and women don't dare go out in their own neighborhood at night. Another part of the financial statements is that Sweden has one of the highest unemployment rates in the EU as a whole; in the same league as Italy and Greece. Record numbers of people are long-term unemployed and completely forgotten by the Social Democrats. In Sweden, after these eight years, there is a great alienation, which shuts people out from work community and their own salary. Another part of the financial statements is about tax increases. It is also a record in terms of tax increases: plastic bag tax, airline tax, increased vehicle tax, increased electronics tax, increased fuel tax, increased energy tax, and so on. I did a quick check before the debate and could see that the government has introduced at least 46 tax increases or new taxes. One thing I know for sure is that many of the tax increases affect ordinary people. Madam President, I would like This is one of the accounts we can see after eight years with this government. I would like to highlight three areas linked to the budget where we need a different focus on policy next year. It is also about the spring bill. But I want to see a different direction than that government shows. There are three things that I see are important. The first is that households' finances, both families with children and pensioners, should be strengthened. The second is that we need to re-establish the work line so that everyone who can also contribute. The third, Madam President, is that Sweden will be safe again. First of all, these are troubled times. Inflation is increasing, interest rates are rising and growth is slowing down. It has become expensive to be Swedish, not least to be Swedish and depend on your car, but also very expensive to pay the electricity bill – especially if you live in Skåne – and nowadays expensive to pay the food bag. But this isn't a law of nature. It is largely the result of political decisions. Inflation does not just come from outside and is not imported. It is policies that have led to this, and it is also policies that can reverse developments. My promise to the Swedish people is that the Moderates will pursue a policy that can actually fill the wallet instead of, as now, prying out of it. We need to bring down the gas price at the gas station to reasonable levels. That is why the Moderates put forward the 5 SEK proposal at the pump that was voted through by a large majority here in Parliament. As early as 1 May, the price of both diesel and petrol will be reduced. We need to build new nuclear power, not only to cope with climate change, but also to bring down electricity prices so that Swedes' electricity bills are no longer dictated by Putin's gas prices. Instead of increasing subsidies and sending out small compensations so that you can afford to pay the high taxes, I think it is a better way to simply reduce taxes. Secondly, Madam President, I would like to see a re-established line of work in which everyone who can contribute rather than be dependent on subsidies. Today, too many people don't work who are supported by those who work, and we can't have that. It is neither right nor fair, and it does not build a strong society. We know that when more people are involved, there will be more money for more police officers, more nurses and more places in engineering and defence. Here's a little tip for the Minister of Finance. Welcome to the first debate! If more people work and pay taxes, there is no need for new, high taxes. Thirdly, Madam President, if it is something we have been reminded of in recent months, it is that freedom and security cannot be taken for granted. Since Russia invaded Ukraine, we have seen a new security policy situation in Europe. Let us be clear about what is at stake, namely a free Europe in which each country can choose its own path and future. That is why Ukraine's cause is also very much ours. At home, we need to adapt our readiness to a new era. That is why, in every budget, we will give priority to the security of the Swedish people. Security and freedom will cost, and this may mean that others may stand back. But it is also about security within the borders of the country. More money for the police, for the whole justice system, so that the gangs can be put in jail. We're going to have more severe punishment so that the criminals are in jail for as long as they deserve. And off with the penalty discounts! I don't want to read about one more rapist who gets more compensation than the victim he raped. Not one more time, Madam President. It's a mockery of the victims. Finally, I can promise that in the Moderates' budget now and in the years to come we will invest in this, because that is the most important task of the state. In five months, Madam President, Sweden can have a new government. In fact, there is a lot that is gloomy now, but I see with hope for the future. It is not easy to reverse this trend, but it is quite possible. And it is time, to say the least, to change course if we want to get order on Sweden.
i-HyHtLKsUn49V1SizdiMXoe	Madam President, I would like The threat of inflation has sailed up as probably the biggest threat to the Swedish economy. Inflation is somewhere around or even just over 6 per cent, that is, far from the target of a stable price development of 2 per cent. This, of course, undermines the purchasing power of ordinary people. It undermines pensions, and wages are sufficient for less and less. In the long run, it threatens the whole recovery after covid-19, which is, instead, at risk of developing into a huge anticlimax. Some of this is, of course, explained by external factors, not least war, that is, the brutal, unjust, morally and legally reprehensible war of aggression that the dictator, the kleptocrat and now also the war criminal Putin have chosen to start against a sovereign and independent state in the heart of Europe. However, this development is not a black swan, as the Lebanese-American Nassim Nassim Nicholas Taleb would describe it, that is, an event so unlikely that no one could really predict it. It was absolutely possible to predict this, to see it coming. The rise in the prices of petrol, diesel and electricity is a direct result of the government's political decisions. In fact, Sweden had the highest fuel prices not only in the EU but throughout the world before the war in Ukraine – not only high but highest and not by chance, but because the government wants it that way. We have a bizarre so-called reduction obligation in Sweden. We mix a lot of sludge into the diesel that we then refuel our cars, trucks, tractors and forest machines and other machines with. This involvement drives prices up by several crowns per litre. In addition to this, we pay excise duty when we think. On top of that, at the top of all this, we are paying a VAT that is the second highest in the whole of the European Union. High prices of fuel and electricity undermine the purchasing power of ordinary people. But these are also inputs in almost all other production of both goods and services, that is to say, it drives up the prices of virtually everything else that we consume. So the situation is that the government feels obliged to distribute subsidies to people so that they can afford to pay their taxes. You understand what a circular reasoning this is, don't you? The state imposes such high taxes on us that we cannot afford to pay them. Then subsidies are distributed so that we can afford to pay tax back to the state, which in turn can afford to give us subsidies to pay the tax. This cannot reasonably be a sound economic policy. Madam President, I would like We didn't see it coming, they say about things that were pretty obvious that they were coming. If you shut down fully functioning, stable and fossil-free nuclear power to invest instead in weather-dependent, environmentally harmful, expensive and above all unreliable wind power, then the supply of electricity will decrease and the price will rise. It's not seven or eight steps away, so to speak. It's a step away. You should be able to see it coming. Reduces the supply increases the price. If you first have sky-high excise duties on electricity – for me absolutely incomprehensible reasons – and then VAT and turnover taxes, yes, then the price of electricity for the individual company or for the individual household will be significantly higher than necessary. High taxes lead to high prices for the end customer. It's kind of not rocket science. A leads to B. Madam President, I would like One would like to believe that the government can think a step forward, a step forward. What distinguishes a good chess player is the ability to think several steps forward – maybe seven or eight, what do I know? Then the number of combinations becomes almost infinite; then it becomes too difficult. Sure, I guess it's too much to ask the government's minister to be a good chess player. But it would be fun if they could at least think a step forward. I am not asking the government to consist of Bobby Fischer or Capablanca or Garri Kasparov. I am not asking you to think seven eight steps forward in what is a complex process. But, seriously, if you are going to have a minister's fee of 145 000 a month, is it too much to ask the Swedish taxpayer to think one step forward and see that A leads to B? Does it? We didn't see that coming! Well, it's usually said. It's amazing – amazingly tragic. Madam President, I would like The reduction obligation and significantly high taxes have led to Sweden having the world's highest diesel and petrol prices. And again, this is important; I would like to come back to it: these are conscious decisions made by this government. There are conscious political decisions made by this government. You want it this way. It is not just households that are affected. This, of course, has an impact on agriculture and on farmers, to the extent that they can no longer achieve profitability but are forced to close down. The effect of the government's policy is therefore that it risks destroying large parts of Swedish food production. This can be a particularly brusque awakening for all those who – what do I know? – lives on Södermalm in Stockholm, for example, and votes left and believes they are self-sufficient because they have an organic tomato plant on their balcony. This is a major problem. There are political solutions, but if we are to achieve them, we will first have to win an election and change the government.
i-E5xSr4do6zgHL8a3g5NG8e	Madam President, I would like These are serious times. It can even feel like a side-show to discuss Sweden's spring change budget when the great Russian offensive in Donbass, Ukraine, has just begun after almost two months of suffering and of unspeakable war crimes and human rights crimes, but also of heroic resistance when Ukraine fights for our freedom for all. But if it's a side-show, it's an important one. It is not just about the importance of this budget – that we are sending support to Ukraine and that we are now receiving the refugees from Ukraine because Sweden was never full and ensures that these children, mothers, grandparents, sisters and brothers are safe in our country while the people of Ukraine are fighting. It is not just a question of strengthening our defence, as the Center Party has been pushing for too long, and, specifically in this budget, of total defence, which so many have so long ignored and which is now finally, in line with what we have been demanding for so long, being greatly expanded. It is also about the fact that, in the wake of the war, we face great trials for our Swedish economy as well. We see inflation rising, not only in Sweden but worldwide, to the highest levels since the 70s and 80s. I have not seen these figures since the very beginning of my economics education. Interest rates are rising, as are nominal interest rates. There are great risks in the Swedish economy. And unemployment is still 7% – higher than in countries like France. Then we must dare to focus. The era of populism in Swedish economic policy is over. And one focus must be to defend Ukraine and Europe on the front that President Zelenskyj has pointed out to us: rapidly reduce dependence on Russian oil and gas. Every week, the EU sends money to the Kremlin for gas and oil that exceeds what the West has given Ukraine since the war began. We're feeding more money into the war machine than we're giving to Ukraine. And here two of our great challenges are united: our struggle to save the climate and for Sweden to shine as a fossil-free example and a technology-friendly force and independence from Russian fossil gas and oil. Sweden is here a big player. We can accelerate, fast-forward, the expansion of Swedish energy. And nothing is faster at the moment than travelling wind turbines, or more profitable and safe. Over 150 terawatts of offshore wind are already planned in Swedish waters. Here we are talking about years, not decades. Consider that all German electricity production from Russian gas is 50 terawatt hours. Here, too, there is enormous potential for cheap Swedish biofuels, Madam President – billions of litres that can replace diesel from dictatorships around the world, what the Swedish Democrats have called mourning, but which I would call green, domestic biofuel production. This does not happen because we are always prepared to change the rules of the game and do not provide stable rules for this industry, such as tax exemption, as the Center Party has proposed. While mitigating the terrible price shock of electricity for Swedish consumers, we also need to invest in reducing electricity dependence with green deductions. And while mitigating the terrible price shock for car-dependent people in rural areas with strong tax cuts, we must also invest in the options that can be produced at prices lower than those that we pay for fossil diesel. And at the same time – this is not a side-show – we need to secure Swedish food production. It's part of our total defense. Here one has suffered a quadruple bang on the Swedish countryside. It is not only fuel and electricity costs, but also feed prices that have skyrocketed and manure prices have multiplied. Swedish livestock farmers see their life's work crushed. Swedish self-sufficiency, which should rise, is going down below 50 percent of all food we consume in the country. It must increase, and there the Center Party has contributed to the fact that there is at least 1 billion in emergency aid in the budget on the table of Parliament. But it was before the war. There's a lot more to be done. We must reduce, remove, all taxes on the diesel used in green industries retroactively from 1 January 2022. We must target a powerful multi-billion-dollar package to Sweden's livestock farmers so that they survive the crisis and dare to fight on with spring farming, so that we retain our producers. Finally, in a situation where criminals, mindless vandals burn down suburbs, where so many people are fighting for their jobs and security, and the self-destructive perpetrators are attacking the police officers who are supposed to protect us and those who live in the areas, the presence of the police in everyday life must, of course, be much stronger than it is today. But we must also lift these parts of Sweden out of exclusion. It does not work with well over 150 000 long-term unemployed. The job engine needs to get back on track now, after the crisis. It is true that the Center Party has achieved major tax cuts on jobs and entrepreneurship and major structural reforms of the labour market that will make it easier to employ. But small businesses must have the chance, with lower taxes, not least employers' contributions, to continue creating four out of five jobs, so that we can make integration work and reward and highlight those who create jobs and who work – not those who hate and ravage, burn and destroy. Then we must also get the job engine started for all the tens of thousands of newly arrived refugees who come to our country, all these mothers you meet at the homes, who just want to show what they can do with their profession and their skills. Then we must open up the labour market to them, even with things like new start jobs, and give them instruction in Swedish. All of this and more must be done, but it is worrying in Swedish fiscal policy now. We have seen 15 budgets in 2020, 11 in 2021 and 7 only in 2022. It is a question of half-dussinet committee initiatives. ( ANDRE VICE TALMANN: Thank you very much! ) Excuse me, Madam President? ( ANDRE VICE TALMANN: Unfortunately, time is up. ) Well, okay. May I finish, Madam President?
i-8Lh2yA8F3zacFvFw6jv2GJ	There is usually a slight variation in the application of the rules in relation to these time frames. (Andre VICE TALMANN: This is the very debate. ) I'm going to finish, if that's allowed.
i-c1HfajMsND8SFFr5DY1Hy	We need to prioritise. We must invest in basics in Swedish economic policy. It is about Ukraine, defence, total defence, the core of welfare, care, school, care and food production. It is about green energy and small businesses as a job engine, integration engine and growth engine so that resources for welfare continue to be created. What we're doing now is not a side show. It is crucial if we are able to focus and look beyond short-term populism for the good of Sweden.
i-7bguTpKH3sZFBeFD3LDhQs	(Andre VICE TALMANNEN: I would like to remind you that these are new rules for this debate, so they are maximum eight minutes for the first speech and two minutes for the second. )
i-HBjaXmt447Sg4hyhH41yT2	Madam President, I would like Russia's invasion of Ukraine has changed the conditions for our social debate. The brutal attack makes and must make deep impressions in our understanding of our own social community, of our cross-border dependencies as people of the both broad and profound importance of security and security. Our country's freedom and self-determination rest ultimately on a combination of our own defence will and ability, on the one hand, and an international order with respect for international law – that which Russia is so flagrantly violating with its war of aggression, on the other. Additional funds have been made available to the Swedish Armed Forces during the current financial year. That's good. It is also reasonable and important that Swedish defence capabilities are built up more long-term. All parties in Parliament have supported such an ambition. That's good, too. Of course, such an increase in ambition must be borne and financed in solidarity. The best people in our country must be involved in contributing more. If there are emotional difficulties in calling such taxes military tax in parts of the Riksdag, we can certainly discuss ourselves up to other concepts. What is important is that teachers and nurses, long-term ills and short-term workers – all those who have for many years drawn a heavy load when a few have leaned back and seen their bank accounts and stock portfolios grow – should know that the necessary increases in defence spending should be borne according to their ability. Madam President, I would like Sweden is in many ways a fantastic country. Our forces have been built up through decades of common pursuits of wise decisions taken after struggles and considerations – systems, knowledge and values that are supported every day by people living and working in this country. But the very forces that have made Sweden such a good country to live in have also been under severe attack and in many respects actually suffered enormous damage. Sweden is today a country with a uniquely marketed school. Commercial school groups see the tax-funded Swedish school as an object of return to milk money out. The results are seen in the form of lower levels of knowledge, socio-economic segregation and desperation in the faculty, while owners can cork up new vintage wines. In other welfare services, we in Sweden have also made public service transactions. The result is that it pops up online doctors who serve healthy inner city residents while health centres close down in our vulnerable suburbs and BB disappear from rural areas. Older care companies carve gold with a butter knife while those who do the work in healthcare and care are forced to run faster. The result is also unhealthy, corruption-like conditions with swing doors between decision-making political assemblies and those companies whose profits depend on political decisions. Today, Sweden is something of a tax haven for those who have accumulated large capital income, increasingly through property speculation and inheritance. Sweden is almost unique in the industrialized world in having neither property tax, inheritance tax and gift tax nor property tax based on the value of the property. The concentration of wealth in the very small group of super-rich people today has hardly any counterpart among democratic industrialised countries. To quote the financial journalist and author Andreas Cervenka: In the class of welfare societies in the West we play in our own league. Our Nordic neighbours appear in comparison as a kind of socialist hippie collective. This, Madam President, does something to a society. It's pulling apart. It creates mistrust and abandonment. It pushes back creativity, industrial innovation and economic growth. We know this through decades of research and statistics, but we also see it if we are interested in ordinary people's everyday problems. It is a question of seeing the working conditions of those who are toiling in health care, the desperation of those who are trying to enter the housing market without having parents who can throw in a few hundred thousand and the frustration of those who are being pressured by the Employment Service, the Social Security Agency or the Social Services because the political leaders have been led to believe that it is precisely the unemployed, the sick and the poor who need to be pushed down with undermined support and with systematic suspicion. Do we see these fundamental problems in the Swedish economy, which, in conjunction with the climate threat, are crucial to our future living conditions, and do we see them reflected in the Government's economic spring bill? No, not really. It is a serious shortcoming with the whole economic-political debate in Sweden today and something that we in the Left Party promise to fight every day to change. On one point, however, a sharp proposal is put on the table of the Riksdag to start doing something about a serious injustice in Swedish society. It is the proposal for a guarantee supplement contained in the spring amendment budget, which the Left Party has pushed through in negotiations with the Social Democrats and the Green Party. Sweden is the country in the Nordic region that has the largest proportion of poor pensioners. Approximately 300 000 have what is defined as a low economic standard in Sweden. This is because we have a pension system that cannot solve this injustice but, on the contrary, deepens it. So we have hundreds of thousands of old-age pensioners, most of them women, who have it so badly that they have no margin to avoid the stress every month for bills to be paid and food to be purchased. They have no margins to enjoy a sunny spring day out at a coffee shop or buy gifts for grandchildren and perhaps even plan a small excursion sometime. The increase that it is now up to Parliament's parties to deliver goes to all those who have a guarantee pension and give up to SEK 1 000 per month tax-free to those who have the least. On average, about SEK 750 per month for the million pensioners affected. These are people who have built this country and worked hard for long years. A lot of people have worked pretty much their whole lives, but under bad conditions. They have had low wages and small part-time jobs combined with homework and care for children. Others have been worn out early because of heavy work and because of the burdens that weigh hardest on the most vulnerable layers of the class society. Every other female old-age pensioner in Sweden must rely in whole or in part on a guarantee pension. Among the municipalities, those responsible for childcare and care for the elderly, 70 percent – seven out of ten – are there. The common thing is that they have too low a pension and that they really deserve an increase. Finally, it is a key point here, in addition to the reform itself, that it is an economic policy that sees large groups of people who repeatedly become invisible when decisions on aid are to be taken. We have reduced and abolished capital taxes, as I mentioned earlier. We have billions and billions in depreciation and interest deductions. We have the 3:12 rules, which have made a group of high-income earners a tax gain. There have been huge amounts of business support during the pandemic, but it was a long way off to start patching up unemployment funds and health insurance. Now is the battle over the conditions of the poor pensioners. If there is something that really is a promise from me and the Left Party in the run-up to the elections and after the elections, it is that it must be the turn of ordinary people in economic policy.
i-CbmXcxncDAnAqS9KWzMmA1	Madam President, I would like Putin aggression, Russia's invasion and the Kremlin's war crimes have changed the world and the challenges we face. It is about security and security and about values such as democracy and the right to live and seek happiness. It is about civilization in our part of the world and what has built our societies strong. What is happening now is a terrible abuse of the Ukrainian people, and it also has far-reaching consequences for us – for the financial prospects of Swedish households, for public spending on what we have to do in terms of defence and to support Ukraine in various ways and in terms of contributing to remedying the disasters that are at risk of occurring elsewhere in the world as well. It has implications for prices and production when value chains and raw materials are affected. It is about food and food security. The Pandemin shook our societies and our way of life. Now we are again in a new political reality. But it is also the case that we are going out of the pandemic and into the new security situation with major social problems in our country. It concerns security, health care, energy, care for the elderly, long-term unemployment and the possibility of living and living in the whole of Sweden. These are problems that are now partly reinforced by the war but which are also, of course, obscured by its dark presence. With regard to these problems, a government is needed which not only blames the problems on external circumstances but also sees the causes and is prepared to do something about them. Here the government has its greatest weakness, which is also manifested in today's spring bill. It becomes clear to me that Sweden needs a new political leadership. Instead of concrete and comprehensive reforms and a plan for how to deal with these problems, we are getting more and more of a point of order. The government says Coronaköer about the care queues. But the statistics show that the queues more than doubled between 2014 and 2019, i.e. before the pandemic. It increased from 40 000 to 90 000 people in excessive waiting for treatment. Today there are 160 000 people. Health care is so unequal in Sweden today that people move between regions to get the care they cannot get in their own region. And it was only when the budget that the Christian Democrats and the Moderates negotiated with the Swedish Democrats won in this House that we got an investment in more care places, despite the fact that Sweden has the lowest number of care places per capita throughout the EU. Now the government is making reinforcements with regard to nurses in the spring change budget. I think that's good. But one can also note something and read aloud from the spring change budget. The government writes: The health care capacity has in recent years become increasingly strained, resulting in less accessibility for patients. This has also resulted in an increased occupancy rate and a higher load on the health departments, including emergency departments. It's as if this has just happened. It has happened with seven years of Social Democratic government. It is a description of what has happened in the area of care under current management. The electricity and fuel prices that plague households and cause farmers to stop, now that we need food production most, are to blame for Russia. Putin prices, they say. Certainly there is such an effect, but at the same time the statistics show that spot prices of electricity increased by almost 300 percent before Putin's war. And a large part of the increase in electricity prices can be attributed to the closure of functioning nuclear power. Energiforsk, for example, has shown this. And once the government is driven to act, it will be with proposals with some rather strange effects, such as the electricity price compensation or the proposed car-owner money. There will be subsidies to pay too high taxes. It is not possible to stand here without taking up the riots that have been during the Easter weekend. Violents have attacked Swedish police. 26 policemen have been injured. Democratic values have been challenged. Urban areas and people living in those districts have been affected in a very tangible way. This is, of course, an acute problem, but it is also a structural problem. The police are not dimensioned for this task. The government has not done enough when 3,000 police officers have left the force since 2014 for reasons other than retirement. The working conditions have not been good enough. The police have not received the tools they have requested or the tools to deal with this type of riot. It took a new budget from the Moderates and Christian Democrats, together with the Swedish Democrats, to ensure that the wage investment of not least police officers in external service would return in the budgetary context. It is important that we tackle the structural problems in order to have a police and a whole judicial system that meets the challenge. Madam President, I would like Long-term unemployment seems to be almost forgotten by this government. It is true that we are not trying to blame anyone else but to cover up the problems when we have simply abolished the goal of having Europe's lowest unemployment. Now the statistics show that long-term unemployment has grown, almost regardless of the economic cycle. Now it includes 176,865 people who are not allowed to show their worth or become part of a working community. The long-term unemployed continue to increase both as a proportion and in numbers in the Swedish labour market. It's a huge failure. The price of political passivity is tangible. Now the government promises to be active. Now you have to turn every stone, after these failures. Madam President, I would like This is not good enough. Now we need to put in place reforms that support households and ensure that the police get what they are asking for in order to crack gang crime and serious organised crime. We must have an energy policy in place that creates confidence in the future and willingness to invest in order to ensure good conditions for industry but also for households. And we need to reform employment policy so that it pays to work and so that we break passivity and exclusion that is permanent in Sweden. Madam President, I would like I note the positive words of the Minister for Finance about civil society's efforts, and I share them. I think it is extremely nice and good to see that civil society is reaching out a helping hand, despite its own problems. They have actually had a rough time after the pandemic, but now they are standing there and stretching out a helping hand. But I think we also need to do more here, Madam President: make sure that civil society can both manage its regular activities and continue to stretch out a hand tirelessly to those who need it, not least to those who are fleeing to our country right now. Madam President, I would like There's a lot to do. There is much to do in Sweden. There is hope for a better future. But my conclusion is that Sweden needs a new government in order for it to be possible to solve the major societal problems. We Christian Democrats are ready. We have politics. We are ready for such a change of government.
i-ReStK5bzw4hSa2E5RhX75b	Madam President, I would like Vladimir Putin horrifying invasion of Ukraine is the most terrible event of our time. It presents our continent with completely new questions, and it poses completely new problems for us to deal with. I am very proud of Sweden. I am very proud of our country and of our democracy, and it is worth defending. Action is now required. Now it is necessary that we rearrange the Swedish defence. We now need to join the transatlantic link and NATO. And we need to make ourselves less dependent or not at all dependent on Russian gas. Madam President, I would like I am also very proud of the policemen who defended our democracy this weekend, the policemen who took responsibility in the service to stand up for our democratic rights and for our country and who, when thugs, criminal maniacs, attacked them, stood firm and resisted the horrendous violence they were subjected to. My confidence in the police is very great. My confidence in this government and in Morgan Johansson, who has been Minister of Justice for eight years, is non-existent. Morgan Johansson should have resigned a long time ago. The police don't have the powers you need. The horrifying events of the weekend show just that. There have been too few resources but, above all, too little powers to act on these kinds of events. The penalty needs to be raised. The tools and powers of the police need to be much greater. But, Madam President, we do not just need to have a tough hold on the crimes. We must also have a tough hold on the causes of crime. Anyone who can get through school won't be gang-criminal. But there are children and young people who do not pass school, who grow up without parents who support themselves and who do not see the connection between Mom and Dad working and there being food on the table at night. This creates a breeding ground for crime and exclusion, which is the basis for the terrible gang crime that is now growing strong in our country. 17,000 children and young people leave school every year without being able enough to enter high school. There are 17 000 children and young people every year – after eight years of Social Democratic rule in Sweden. The connection – the connection – is very clear. In the political debate, proposals are now being made to remove parents' right to choose free school, to bus pupils and to do lottery work when, in fact, there is more order in school that we need. Teachers need better powers, and we need to focus on knowledge in the Swedish school. That is the big problem, not that parents at the kitchen table can choose which school they want their children to attend. Left political dogmatism, where the class struggle goes too far, now cuts right into the kitchen table of Swedish families with children. They should no longer be allowed to decide which school their children should attend, but should be drawn and bused – when the problem is that the children do not learn enough. Madam President, I would like People live in a dependency on benefits, and politics does not have the high expectations of people that we are supposed to have. People passively accept benefits year after year, children grow up in horrendous environments and unemployment risks inheriting. It is a very serious development and a breeding ground for the gang crime that we see. It needs to be easier and cheaper to hire. We must have higher demands on people. People who are able to work should work, and society, which today has abdicated in this area, must be much clearer in that we should have high expectations of people supporting themselves. Done. End of story. Madam President, I would like Before Putin's invasion of Ukraine, many of us were very concerned and worried about the galloping electricity prices. In southern Sweden, where I live, we have had an electric crisis for four five years. It has long been enough to open up a newspaper in southern Sweden to understand that something is crazy about Swedish energy policy. The basic problem is that, firstly, we do not want to become dependent on Russian gas and, secondly, we have closed down Swedish, fine nuclear power. Active political decisions in this House have meant that Ringhals 1 and 2 are now closed. The consequence is very clear: people get higher electricity prices. The electricity bill becomes something that you are worried about when it comes in the mailbox and you open it, and you wonder how you can afford to pay it. Instead of distributing subsidies to pay high taxes or to compensate for a fatally failed energy policy, we should, of course, reduce electricity taxes and, above all, ensure that we expand nuclear power so that electricity prices can be low. For a person like myself, who lives in Lund, the price for electricity is 400 – 500 percent higher than for a villa owner in Luleå, even though the villa is equal. What is the justice in this – that someone who lives in southern Sweden should pay 100 percent more than anyone who lives in northern Sweden for the same thing? It's not fair. It is unfair, and it is a consequence of the closure of Swedish, fine nuclear power. Madam President, I would like Sweden is going the wrong way. Sweden is becoming increasingly segregated, and after eight years of Social Democratic rule, my conclusion is very clear: Sweden needs a new, liberal, bourgeois government. Sweden needs a change of power. We need a new start for Sweden so that we can deal with many of the major problems that Sweden has right now and will have in the future. The gang crime, the school and the electricity crisis are three major problems which today are something that concerns us all and which makes us many, including myself, who no longer feel the pride of Sweden that we did in the past. It was used to low electricity prices. One could rely on the state and on that we have relatively low electricity prices in Sweden. You could trust that you can choose school yourself and that the children learned quite a lot in school – enough for most people. You could rely on the police to come when you called, and you could feel safe in your everyday environment. We can no longer trust all of this. Much of the responsibility for this rests with the Social Democratic Government, which, after eight years in power, now leaves behind an inheritance that is very heavy to bear for a great many, not least for future generations. Madam President, I would like Sweden needs a liberal bourgeois government. We need to bet on the school. We need to deal with the electricity crisis. We need to take a strong stand against gang crime. If we do this, we can make Sweden a much better country, a country that we can all be proud of.
i-M4zNWtYnEJe6R4A7RqrXTD	Madam President, I would like It's been a dark Easter weekend. In several Swedish cities riots have caused chaos, and people have brutally beaten and threatened the police officers who are set to protect us and our open society. That's not supposed to happen. As riots spread, Putin has escalated the war in Ukraine, and a natural disaster has swept over South Africa with hundreds of deaths as a result. The war and the climate crisis are reaping their victims, and more will be if we do not act now. The development looks bleak, but we know that it is possible to fight back, to change direction. There is nothing that can justify the violence that people have taken the right to exercise both against the police and against each other in the days that have passed. Where the police are attacked, the whole community is attacked, and where the community is attacked, you and I are also attacked. Unfortunately, riots and riots are just the tip of an iceberg of the violence that people face every day, both on the street and at home. Hundreds of young guys go heavily armed every day and put terror in residential areas. Thousands of women are beaten every day, threatened and raped. This is Sweden today, but it does not have to be Sweden tomorrow. Because we can do better. There is no room whatsoever for violence in a green society. Those who carry guns, shoot, threaten and put terror in entire areas will be removed from the street and into prison. The men who rape, threaten and strike, even within the walls of the home, shall be punished for it. The police and the judiciary will have the resources to reverse developments and stop criminals and riots before violence escalates. Then police officers must also be allowed to be police officers and not like now have to be in prison on passport expeditions. More civilians need to be employed. However, we must not delude ourselves into thinking that we can stop at just increased penalties and increased resources to the police, even if we have made historically great efforts to do so. In order to create a green folk home, there is also no room for a society that fails or gives up on people. A fair Sweden, an equal school and a society where everyone is truly equal is not built by itself. It is we who need to build it together, and we must dare to realise that it will cost money and take time. A strong well-being is needed to create faith in the future. People need to be able to feel safe and have a job to go to. Poverty does not generate jobs, and it does not improve integration or Sweden's development. We have therefore now presented proposals to help the most vulnerable households. We have a guarantee supplement for Swedish pensioners. We have electricity price compensation for more and weaker households. We have reduced taxes in sparsely populated areas, reduced VAT on food, increased study grants and much more, because we need to build Sweden strongly. Madam President, I would like It has been almost two months since Putin began his brutal war against Ukraine. Since then, millions of people have been driven away from their homes. A small part of those who have fled Ukraine have come here. Now it is up to us not only to receive them with open arms but also to lay the foundations for a life here, no matter how long they are forced to stay. The generosity and solidarity of the Swedish people and civil society are extremely impressive and gratifying, but when more people arrive, we must ensure that there is an even distribution between the country's municipalities. Those who now come must be subject to the same rules and rights as those who have been granted a residence permit on grounds of protection. This means that they must have the right to start-up benefits, training measures and help to find jobs and that they must have access to Swedish for immigrants. Those who have turned 18 but have not yet completed their studies at upper secondary school should be allowed to complete their education here in Sweden. This is costly, but it is also the only justifiable thing to do. But it is also an expense that is an investment. To have the world's poorest people pay this bill and make Sweden's municipalities our largest recipients of aid is nothing but shameful. We receive daily new reports on the spread of hunger, how gender equality goes back, how democracy is weakened and how climate change makes it difficult for people to manage their lives and livelihoods. Then it is time for increased international support and cooperation and not less. Madam President, I would like A few weeks ago, Ukrainian President Zelenskyj spoke to us in this House. It was a speech that really crawled under the skin and that felt very special because it is also really bloody serious. He also asked for help from Sweden. And we do a lot of things. We're sending equipment and imposing severe sanctions. But he also asked us to stop buying Russian gas and oil. A lot of parties said no. I hope that we now see a greater consensus on this. For we are not powerless in the face of the terror of war, but if we want and dare, we can do our part to stop the invasion. We in the Green Party know that we do not have to choose between supporting Russia's war and protecting the climate. Madam President, I would like In the political debate, too many seem to make both the environmental and climate issue optional – something we can choose to act on or not. In reality, it is exactly the opposite. Anyone who chooses not only to expose future generations to great dangers, but also those of us who live here and now. We are no longer living at a time when we could talk about climate change and its consequences in abstract terms or as something that will affect children and grandchildren. Climate action must go on with full force. But biodiversity is also strongly threatened and crucial to the planet's ability to recover. We want the money for the protection of forests and valuable nature to increase and not decrease. Now Sweden has to cope with multiple crises and instead build the green folk home. We have the knowledge, the resources and the will. But then we must also dare to invest in sustainability and not, as now, reduce climate taxes and fuel the climate crisis. We need to strengthen climate work, welfare and equality. Only then can we build Sweden and the world better.
i-Fn3jwGrDbFYdX3uzWpqwXe	Madam President, I would like Elisabeth Svantesson, the Moderates, wanted to make a statement. I thought I'd start a little bit at that end, too. We've just been through a pandemic. And how to handle a crisis says a lot about one's political priorities and one's values. I also think we should learn something from this pandemic. We entered this pandemic of strong public finances. We had turned deficits into surpluses, so we had economic muscles to go in with very extensive support for companies, to households, to municipalities and to regions to deal with the pandemic's effects on the economy. This was important. We introduced short-term work that allowed 600 000 people to go down in working hours. The government took part of the costs, but people did not lose their job during the pandemic. During the pandemic, we went in and raised the caging levels, so that those who, after all, became unemployed would not become poor during the pandemic. We went in with support for individuals and companies to deal with the costs of sickness, so that you could be at home when you got sick, so that together we would be borne through the crisis. We chose to overcompensate municipalities and regions. For every tax chandelier that fell away, the three received so that we would not put a welfare crisis on the pandemic crisis. This is a huge difference from the 2008-2009 financial crisis. Then the unemployment fund was lowered, and then there was no short-term support. Outsiders grew, and we did not get the labour market started after the crisis. Now we see that unemployment is lower than before the pandemic. We still have problems with long-term unemployment. This is why new efforts are being made with the start-up jobs. We still see great needs in health care. But we see that we were able to defend health care in the middle of a situation where there were major problems. These experiences, putting ordinary people first also in crisis situations, is something we should carry with us now that we have a war in our environment that creates very great uncertainty.
i-7UcrB4snqcjYXFdJV9De3X	Madam President, I would like The riots of the last few days, the many deadly shootings of recent years – 20 just the first 100 days of this year – the criminality of recent years that has spread out in a way that we have never seen its like – bears Mikael Damberg a great responsibility for. He and the government in which he is sitting have not been able to reverse developments. On the contrary, it has escalated. My fairly simple and brief questions to the Minister for Finance now that he has left a budget on Parliament's table are: What in this budget will make the Swedish police get more colleagues? What in this budget gives the police more and more effective tools? And what of this budget puts more criminals in prison for a long time?
i-YJM2SmN4G3XbzEpmm9CZv7	Madam President, I would like I am in a government that has taken responsibility for reversing developments and investing a lot more in the police. We've started two new police training courses. This year alone, the police are receiving about SEK 2.85 billion more in resources. By summer, 700 police students will graduate and start taking employment around Sweden. We've tightened up over 60 sentences-- I think it's up to 70 sentences. There's more coming, not least the major gang crime investigation. We will go further and also hit the funding, where we look at how we can confiscate the assets of these gangs to a much greater extent than before. Compact work is needed to achieve this. It is a work that is important. In fact, this work is being done to a large extent in cooperation in this House to implement these efforts. But the Moderates have to be a little careful about being too loud. You're the one who cut the police training rate by 90%. This did not increase the number of police officers in Sweden for a long time. I think it is better that we agree to do this in the real and long term. And we've started to do that.
i-P6nfbYKHsicvueEm1sTvNJ	Madam President, I would like I believe that many people long for and wish responsible politicians also to take responsibility. If you've been in charge for eight years-- it's been 1 700 policemen during this time-- you have to take responsibility for it. So it was 2,700 during the alliance years. Madam President, I would like You know, I think people want to know what's next. What, then, of this budget will give the police more colleagues and will ensure that more criminals can be put in prison? And what tools will be paid for in this budget? Madam President, I would like It's a bleak financial statement. It's a dark ending. And I hear a finance minister who seems quite happy, who uses many words but who again and again does not act. Progress has gone the wrong way. It's escalating. And what is it in the budget that will change that development?
i-CAqHx6PeGzzj9tqbTmfteu	Madam President, I would like Our efforts are long-term and structural. I believe that our funding for the Police Authority is twice as large as that of the moderate-led government. The next step in the expansion of the Police Authority will be in the summer, when over 700 police officers will take office across Sweden. We'll continue the extension. I think the latest figure showed that we now have 6 000 more employees in the Police Department. We've never had so many cops, and we've never had so many civilian employees. But am I happy? No, because we see that we have problems with security. We need to strengthen society. Then we must also set aside money, tighten the penalties and ensure that we prevent and prevent new recruitment to the gangs. Unfortunately, the opposition, and not least the Moderates, has very few suggestions on how to reduce recruitment to the gangs. Both parts must be completed in order to increase security in Sweden in the long term.
i-EXXhhXA6ZwSt3ScHEiSstH	Madam President, I would like This is a rather peculiar road the Social Democrats have taken in economic policy. When electricity prices rush, a cash grant is sent to households so that they can afford to pay the electricity bill, instead of reducing the tax. I received the facile sum of SEK 224 and 24 cents myself. When fuel prices rush, you send out a cash grant to car owners that is not even enough to fill the tank, instead of lowering the tax. When pensioners slip after employees, they send out a pension allowance to the elderly, instead of strengthening the pension system in the long term. This is, of course, how you can work, Madam President, but I do not feel that it is entirely trustworthy. My question to the Minister for Finance is therefore: is this what we are to expect from the Social Democrats in the future? So should the tax burden, for all the butter in Småland, be maintained at sky-high levels – and then when people can't afford to pay the tax, they send out a cash grant to them?
i-VaQvshetrjCuSSmLjjLhTe	Madam President, I would like This government is certainly making it a priority for ordinary people, as I mentioned in my speech. We are now seeing exceptional electricity prices. They rose even before the invasion, but also as a result of Putin beginning to reduce gas supplies to Europe; he pushed up prices. Then we must act to protect Swedish households, and we did so in the way that gave the fastest results. We discussed a lot if it was possible to reduce the tax retroactively, but that was not possible. It would have had completely unreasonable consequences. Ideology cannot go before reality for ordinary people, but there is more money in the wallet for those who have had the expensive electricity bills that have to come first. It is the same now: now we are lowering the price of petrol and diesel to the EU minimum level of diesel tax from 1 May. We do, and because there are European rules that make it impossible for us to go any further, we are also preparing for fuel compensation. It is quite reasonable to do what is necessary to support households, but the problem is that the Swedish Democrats have no environmental policy whatsoever in all of this. It will be both short-term and costly for Sweden.
i-WzW9XN5AiHMDZDVdQ2D5LH	Madam President, I would like That, in itself, was the answer to the question: this is how we should conduct economic policy from now on. I don't think it's trustworthy. I can also note that before the release of the Spring Economic Bill, the Minister of Finance had an article in Dagens Nyheter in which he said, on the one hand, that a lot of incentives are important, but on the other hand the whole debate article rounded up by stating that it is very dangerous for inflation if you just stimulate the economy and send out a lot of cash contributions to the right and left. So he goes a little into polemics with himself there. The next question is therefore: how does this type of cash contribution affect inflation? How will they affect inflation? It must reasonably be more sensible to reduce taxes. If it is not possible to lower them retroactively, lower them from now on – starting tomorrow or the day after tomorrow and the future – instead of having such high taxes that people cannot afford to pay them!
i-LtbGFYPTdDJpQjmpkwgxjM	Madam President, I would like We have very high pump prices today, which is why we are reducing the tax on diesel to the EU minimum from 1 May. On the other hand, a government that is responsible cannot choose which laws it should break and which not. If there is a regulatory framework, a government must comply with it, including when the regulatory framework applies at European level. It is not reassuring to stand and talk about mourning when we talk about Swedish forest products that can be used as biofuels, that drive new jobs around Sweden, that can push the price of biofuels and make us less dependent on Russian oil and gas – and that enable the Swedish people to actually continue to refuel their diesel car without releasing fossil fuels that contribute to the greenhouse effect. This goes hand in hand, but the Swedish Democrats have never understood environmental policy and still do not. It would be a huge problem for Sweden if Sweden's democrats gained influence over Swedish economic policy or environmental policy in the future.
i-Y91MMBKS2C8vDmzyex8EgF	Madam President, I would like I noted that neither the spring amending budget nor the Minister for Finance's speech had a greater focus on exactly what we should do to enable small businesses to employ more people. Unfortunately, it is not always with the opposition either. My question is simply: does the Minister of Finance think it is important to continue reducing the costs for Swedish small businesses to hire, and why is this not included in the budget? Why do start-ups no longer go to small, non-collective enterprises? Why does it remove the job stimulus, which would mean that the person who goes from subsistence support into employment would have to keep a larger part of the salary – which would have made it more profitable to switch from allowance to work?
i-BMUhxai7uTgNBN7MRz7Xcq	Madam President, I would like It is important that we get more jobs in Sweden and that not least small and medium-sized companies can be the job engine they often are by giving the first job to someone who has come here or by creating a lot of new jobs in the service industry. That's what we've seen. They have been held back during the pandemic, but we are now seeing an increase in demand. We have a shortage of labour, in principle, in all sectors. When a budget is presented, the priority is to give priority to the right actions, and my priorities have been to the long-term unemployed – to ensure that the creation of jobs that can actually reach those who are long-term unemployed and newcomers and who have been working out by the parties are stimulated. They mean that the employer has to pay quite little to hire a person in the long term, and I think that is one way of bringing down unemployment and doing so under stable conditions. Then I have heard demands for new tax cuts, more money for civil society, more money for agriculture, more money for school and more money for health care. There are many ideas in this House, but somewhere you have to weigh it together and put it together into a budget. That responsibility rests not least with me as Minister of Finance.
i-H4rXw3YbqHGkTn7eNKdZ16	Madam President, I would like I believe that the Minister for Finance and I both share the desire to have stable and secure public finances. I hope so! But this requires revenue, and this requires increased employment, lower unemployment and more jobs in growing small businesses. I therefore did not quite understand the answer to the question why, as the Center Party wanted to do when we cooperated, it is not possible to broaden the start-up jobs to include small, non-collective enterprises. Nor do I understand why the government has now abandoned what the Center Party has been pushing for, namely to have a job stimulus and a subsistence allowance that makes it easier and more profitable to go into work as a beneficiary. We really do need that at this point, when we have a great alienation.
i-EEBf6yiZTD2cJJb9ADp94u	Madam President, I would like I share many of the Center Party's views on how important it is that we continue to create job growth in Sweden and have a high level of employment. After all, we have the second highest level of employment in the EU, but more needs to be done. Above all, we must reach groups that are very far removed from the labour market. I'm prepared to look at several different variants to make sure that more people can move from support to work – I'm not closing that door – but it wasn't possible to move on with the proposal that was on the table. It wasn't finished and didn't work completely. On the other hand, we will continue to work for the labour market to grow and to take advantage of the opportunities to give people a job. I believe that the start-up job, which the parties have been working on, is an important further step in providing both long-term unemployed and newly arrived jobs in our country.
i-TU3Hu1mrKXd3RAwgyrzJpx	Madam President, I would like During the pandemic, it became clear who could not stay at home. Society doesn't work without nurses, preschool teachers and bus drivers going to work, and anyone who has to be in place can't flex out or work from home. It is therefore difficult to understand why a Social Democratic government in Sweden does not abolish the withdrawal. In many of our Nordic neighbours, it is obvious that employees should not bear the full cost of illness. The Left Party has already put forward proposals in this year's draft budget for the permanent abolition of the withdrawal, but S did not succeed in any more than presenting a kind of lengthy investigation. Other pandemic measures are still in place, such as support and subsidies to already profitable companies, but low- and middle-income carers' compensation was the faster to roll back. Do the Social Democrats not think that nurses, preschool teachers and bus drivers should have the right to financial security if they fall ill? If so, why did S vote against the Left Party's proposal to extend the compensation until the investigation is completed?
i-HarporYcAoorvJ6d58DsAC	Madam President, I would like When we no longer classify covid-19 as a social disease, we have basically scaled down and phased out the various subsidies and additional subsidies that have existed during this time. However, as Ali Esbati says, it is reasonable for us to think a lot about the experiences of the pandemic. We have set up an investigation precisely in order to look at how this beats and what it means in the contact professions, where staff work close to people, to actually be able to afford to go home when the pandemic strikes. What are the conclusions on how today's system can become more solidarity-based and burden-bearing? This is certainly an important issue for us, but we want a proper basis to show how this can be done without the risk of distorting consequences. We know that different groups today have very different conditions for staying at home, and that is why I think it is reasonable that the investigation should also look at it. We've set up the investigation, and I'm waiting with great interest for the answers.
i-EmXmQBc6upUF2mW97Pk3FU	Madam President, I would like For those who fall ill, it is not a big difference whether the disease is classified as a social hazard or not; it is that you have to stay at home that is the problem. We know that these conditions are very different. We also have a few decades of experience of this, so this with the Karen is not a new issue in itself. What happened during the pandemic was that we got this in lightning – we got it extra clear. We also saw that giving better support to those who are sick does not mean that all sorts of people start staying home unwittingly. We already have it so that you pay when you are sick, because you do not get full compensation for the cost. What is the problem for Mikael Damberg, the Social Democrats, by saying that you want to remove this and have a more reasonable health insurance? This is really the question.
i-Bvz9gEgmniruueATzuFScD	Madam President, I would like During the pandemic, the Socialist-led government has shown that it is possible to increase compensation. We did it temporarily to make it easier for people to stay at home with illness and to reduce the spread of infection when we had a social disease and an exceptional situation where we had to work specifically on this issue. I think that experience has shown that there is something to be done here. We need to increase security. I understand that the Left Party has now skipped the investigation and is going straight into a solution that means that this will be completely removed. I think it is reasonable to wait for the results of the investigation before deciding exactly how to proceed. To increase security and make it fairer is the direction of the Social Democratic Government.
i-RCyJtNZRaAXEMNze12uc3R	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Finance, for your speech. Long-term unemployment is a scourge. It has a fundamental impact on human health. It affects public finances. It puts pressure on people's social situation. The Minister of Finance says that in this spring budget he gives priority to the long-term unemployed. What exists is a four-year-old proposal agreed by the parties. However, the government still cannot say when it will be introduced. This is about an investment of 50 million for Arbetsförmedlingen and start-up jobs. Is this what the Minister for Finance means by the fact that it is now being invested in the long-term unemployed? That's extremely weak. It is also the case that one is afraid that the Minister of Finance will give priority to other areas in the same way, with the weakness that this catalogue of measures entails.
i-P95RkyKuo6hFvaKFF8FA7S	Madam President, I would like No, that's not the way it is. There are dedicated resources at Arbetsförmedlingen to work with the start-up jobs. This is an extra effort to boost the start-up jobs and make sure they are spread. We expect you to be able to start working at the end of the six months or before that. This is an important reform that the parties have been involved in working towards, reaching the long-term unemployed and newcomers and significantly reducing the employer's cost of making a job. I am disappointed that it has taken so long before the reform is in place, but now that it is in place, we are going to use it to the maximum for the groups for which the reform is intended. I can only regret that, when the previous budget passed through Parliament was adjusted, efforts were clinically removed precisely for additional services. They could go to the group of long-term unemployed who have the most difficulty in getting a job in the Swedish labour market. But now Forssmed took that money away, not me.
i-5EYWNk4xzbpazSN1dTcsXU	Madam President, I would like The reason for this is that we focus on what works. We know from the past that strengthening subsidies in the field of new start-ups will have a greater impact. This has worked in the past. That is also what we chose to focus on in our budget, because we cannot passively watch the government leave the long-term unemployed behind and give up on them. The same measures are being tried that have not worked – extra services that too few people pass into permanent employment. I also think that the creation jobs are good and well-lawed, but it has taken four years to get it in place. The Minister of Finance still cannot say exactly when it will come; it will perhaps come at the mid-year or possibly earlier. When exactly will this happen, and what does the Minister of Finance think will be the impact on the labour market?
i-BYhykigPNDXSEiDVMvqcmD	Madam President, I would like After all, it is not we who approve the creation of jobs, it is the Commission. That is why we are in the hands of a European process, and that is why it is very difficult to set an exact date. However, we are receiving positive signals, and we are counting on this to be implemented. When this was developed, the parties calculated to include about 10 000 individuals of those who have very difficult access to the labour market, which I think is a good thing. Forssmed says that long-term unemployment is increasing, but this is not consistent with the usual definition of long-term unemployment. It is decreasing somewhat now – too slowly, but it is decreasing. On the other hand, the number of unemployed over two years continues to increase, and for that group I have seen very little statistics that new start jobs work. Another package of measures is needed to bring these people back into the labour market. The additional services were such a tool.
i-EgP7vsNqLXX95YtVja7aPv	Madam President, I would like Swedish energy policy is entering a new stage, I would say, in view of Putin's invasion of Ukraine. It must be that security policy is now becoming more important. We must ensure that we do not become dependent on Russian gas. Sweden needs to take greater responsibility for energy policy. The high electricity prices we have now are due to the fact that we have closed down nuclear power. On three occasions in 2019 – 2020, the Social Democrats, the Left Party, the Green Party and the Center Party have voted against initiatives in this House to stop the closure of nuclear power in Ringhals outside Varberg. Why do the Social Democrats vote against nuclear power in Sweden?
i-RQ3T4ansWrjStZZ6ThFczg	Madam President, I would like There are no obstacles to building new nuclear power in Sweden today. I welcome those who want to do so. I am in favour of any technological development. The closures of nuclear power plants in Sweden have, of course, had to do with market assessments and that it has not been profitable to make the necessary investments. In the budget movements and the budget reservation that went through Parliament, there was not a crown on the part of the opposition to stimulate or subsidise new nuclear power. The fact is that the major interests in building new energy in Sweden and greatly increase the supply of electricity at competitive prices are on the wind side. We see huge amounts of expressions of interest in building new wind power. The big industry in Sweden wants the energy now – not in 15 to 20 years. Swedish households also want lower prices soon – not in 10 – 15 years. I have nothing against nuclear power, but it will not solve the issue here and now. Then you have to be open to different types of energy that can quickly contribute to more energy and decent prices.
i-RXdbrrYNXeiUXevnbHFXU6	Madam President, I would like It is a fundamental responsibility of the Social Democrats for the electricity prices we have at the moment. It's an incredible responsibility. The Social Democrats voted against the three initiatives that existed in this House to ensure that we could have kept Mr Ringhals at this stage. This would have meant lower electricity prices and an annual consumption equivalent to 2.4 million apartments. It would have made a great deal easier for consumers at this stage if we had kept that nuclear power in Sweden, but active political decisions, for which the Social Democrats are responsible, have prevented this. The way forward must be marked by the fact that we are expanding electricity production very strongly. It may be about wind power, but it will not happen unless we also have nuclear power. It doesn't always blow. There is not always wind in Sweden, and then there must be nuclear power that can ensure that households can have cheap and reliable electricity. Once again, why did the Social Democrats vote against Swedish nuclear power?
i-JthsnDePp37v8tBU3tgMLr	Madam President, I would like We have not voted to close any nuclear power plants. On the other hand, the market has assessed that it was not profitable to make new investments and thus to phase out old nuclear power in Sweden. We have a fundamental responsibility for electricity prices," says the Liberals. Was this the case last year, when Sweden had among the lowest electricity prices in Europe? Do we have a fundamental responsibility for having much lower electricity prices in Sweden than in France, which has much more nuclear power? To put so much into your argumentation becomes counterproductive. Instead, let us agree that it is open to building nuclear power in Sweden if you want to. In addition, we will make sure to use the great interest that exists to build wind power around Sweden, which here and now can deliver more electricity at pressed prices and provide both households and industry with the green electricity that is really needed to make us even less dependent on Russian oil and gas in Europe. It could also be Sweden's contribution to the security policy situation in Europe.
i-J2tmUiCYWvPppZmuVJiJxJ	Madam President, I would like The consequences of Putin's attack war against Ukraine affect not only our neighbourhoods but large parts of the world. There is already an alarm, as I said, about increased world hunger and the risk of increasing conflicts and escalating wars around the world. The Socialist Government's response to this is to make massive bills on aid, which will hit the world's most vulnerable hard and also make the world even more uncertain. I would like to ask the Minister for Finance which groups it is really the Socialist Government wants to leave behind. Is it female small farmers in developing countries who finally have a sustainable agriculture that provides income and food security opportunities for more people? Is it the women's peace networks, which contribute to sustainable conflict resolution? Or are they brave human rights and democracy activists?
i-MnRmE5RfoYZCgyv6ACy3oZ	Madam President, I would like The pandemic has taken the world perhaps decades back into development, with greater gaps, more poverty and food prices now increasing globally. That is why I am proud that Sweden is one of the few countries in the world that is behind the 1% target. We deliver huge amounts of money to the world's poorest countries to develop their economies and contribute to gender equality, democracy and humanity. According to international regulations, it is possible to offset costs in aid policy when receiving women and children who are currently fleeing Ukraine. That is exactly what we intend to do to a large extent this autumn, because Sweden is currently taking heavy costs and a great responsibility, which we want to do for the women and children fleeing Ukraine. It is fully in line with the international regulatory framework dealing with aid issues.
i-QCWwsSUvPB2kQnEy5Ua1Kg	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. However, I note that this is not really an answer. I am, of course, pleased that together we are supporting the 1% target for aid. It is incredibly important and something that we can quite rightly be very proud of. Just because it is possible to deduct aid for reception of refugees, it is not an obligation. Sweden can afford to do both: both receive the people who are fleeing Ukraine today and must have protection and support and continue to support the world as developments in so many areas are now moving in the opposite direction. I would like to repeat my question. Is it the women small farmers, the women peace networks or the courageous democracy, the human rights and environmentalists, who are at risk of persecution, imprisonment and torture, to whom the Social Democratic Government wants to strangle funding?
i-VqJ9S9EngFXb2zXguNVnR8	Madam President, I would like It is true that there is no international regulatory framework that forces us to make these calculations, but it is quite possible to make them according to the Dac regulatory framework that exists. This was also done in 2015 in connection with the large refugee wave. At that time Sweden made the same balance. We took some costs on the aid because we took on a major humanitarian responsibility. I think it is perfectly reasonable that we should do the same now. However, we have been clear that this will not be easy. There will be consequences. However, we will not give priority to humanitarian aid, but will continue to be at a high level. This will have consequences. But we do so according to an international regulatory framework, and Sweden will continue to take a great humanitarian and democratic responsibility in the world.
i-TG1bNDeuoKAnc9xk11Uvx2	Madam President, I would like At the moment, many Swedish households are struggling to make their finances go together. This is about pensioners who have had a tough winter with high electricity bills. I spoke last winter with a pensioner from Skåne who had spent half his pension on the electricity bill because of the high electricity prices, which are an effect of political decisions. But many also struggle to make ends meet because you are totally dependent on your car. You have a long way to commute to work. You have to take the kids to school. Today, diesel prices are breaking almost record again. It is about $1 (U.S.) from today. This makes it very tough and difficult for many people. That's why the Moderates have been pushing for years to lower the tax on fuel. In particular, in recent months we have been pushing to reduce the price at pump by SEK 5. That would make a difference to a lot of people. This decision has been endorsed by the Parliament. It contains three parts. The first is that the fuel tax will be reduced by SEK 1 and SEK 80 as of 1 May. This was not the government entirely willing to do, but in the end we forced them to do just that. The second part is that Sweden must take an active role in the EU and demand an exemption in order to reduce the tax even further. It is quite possible to do so, and I expect the Minister of Finance to submit that application so that there can be a discussion. The third part is that the reduction obligation must change this year in order to bring down the price at the pump. Madam President, I would like Political decisions have led to Sweden having the world's highest diesel price. Political decisions can also help people so that they can afford to refuel their car when they are completely dependent on it.
i-Emzy2N8UEmATruY4jGGhKj	Madam President, I would like What Svantesson says is correct – the war affects us through higher food prices, electricity prices and petrol prices. That's what I was going to ask you about now. I have listened very carefully during the day to what the Moderates say about supporting the most deprived pensioners, but I do not get any real clarity as to what that means. One of the groups most affected now by higher food prices is the poor pensioners, especially women who have worked their entire working lives and have low pensions. Are they supposed to be left in the lurch now? Now there is a suggestion on the table that half a million of the poorest pensioners receive more than $1,000 a month. Will the Moderates vote in favour or against that proposal?
i-JoGmEigpQKJXA81Ha6ahaR	Madam President, I would like The Minister of Finance can rest assured that the Moderates will continue to fight for the poorest pensioners. Already in the budget in force this year, we reduced the tax considerably. We have also strengthened the housing supplement. We will continue to push the issue of better access for the most deprived pensioners. It is nevertheless remarkable that we have a Minister of Finance in such a weak government that he puts forward a proposal on the table of Parliament without having established it. Has it ever happened before? I do not know, Madam President. It may also be useful to remind Sweden's pensioners that the reason why a great deal has become expensive is political decisions taken by the same Minister of Finance who now claims to be protecting pensioners. Madam President, I would like As I said, the most deprived of Sweden's pensioners can absolutely rely on the Moderates to put forward proposals that will make their daily lives easier.
i-CdZSL1gyc5mNWvj2ws72GM	Madam President, I would like I am not reassured by this answer: that the Moderates should put forward some other proposal that will affect pensioners at some point in the future. It's all about right now. Food prices are now increasing, for example on bread and coffee, and many pensioners soon cannot afford to pay their bills because of the developments we see. That's why the answer doesn't calm me. Reduced taxes are not always enough, which often benefits those with higher incomes. It is about improving for the most deprived pensioners. Now there is a proposal for that on the table, and it would be very exciting if the Moderates voted down this proposal just before the elections. It would be an exciting message to the country's pensioners that this is how the Moderates choose to prioritise. It will be a good thing to prioritise tax reductions rather than improvements for the most deprived pensioners. That's the way things usually end up with moderate politics.
i-4JMt2PM9cVBHg5tVTPtT6m	Madam President, I would like I think that many pensioners are pleased that we have reduced the tax on them, including the most deprived. What I am perplexed about and really do not understand with the Social Democrats' proposals is why it is so important for the Social Democrats that a person who has moved here in the middle of his life, never worked and has not lived here for long should get more in addition than a person who has worked as a carer for example a whole life and has low income and low pension. Why should the latter be given a slightly lower supplement? It's not fair. Madam President, I would like That's why I'm thinking about how we can do it even better, especially for those who have worked an entire working life. Madam President, I would like Again, it is remarkable that we have such a weak government that it comes to Parliament with a budget that it has no idea at all whether it will go through. It is not skilful craft, and it is not responsible politics. The Moderates with several opposition parties will take responsibility for Sweden's best interests and for Sweden's pensioners.
i-5KoZtV9ubejK4JjnhdjhFA	Madam President, I would like The Moderates are often a consistent party. In this case, it is a question of voting very consistently against proposals that provide stronger and more secure employees. It voted against improved rules in health insurance day 180 – 365 when it was up, and now rejects the security pension, which the Left Party pushed through in connection with the autumn budget – thus that workers who after a long working life in heavy occupations have worn themselves out should be tested against jobs in the industry in which they work and not required to switch to all jobs in the labour market. This has been called a deeply unfortunate proposal, and I think it gives an indication of the priorities of the Moderates. I remember when the Moderates wanted to give SEK 100 billion a month in grants to companies when the pandemic broke out. The left-wing party and now the government's proposal to raise the pensions of 1 million pensioners costs a total of 9 billion a year. Will the Moderates Again Vote No? Do the Moderates not think that Sweden's pensioners are worth up to SEK 1 000 more a month?
i-98wPsQj42LQMXuGXkojKYp	Madam President, I would like That's a strange reasoning. Ali Esbati must have heard me say just now that the poorest pensioners will certainly be better off. My mother and my big sister have very low pensions, and I know how they struggle with their finances. I think that women and men who have worked hard their whole lives should have a better pension. I think that people who have small margins should be better off. Ali Esbati can be absolutely convinced of this. As far as the pandemic is concerned, I am very pleased that we in Parliament together saved a great many jobs and businesses so that unemployment did not rise and many people could keep a salary. This was also Minister of Finance Mikael Damberg in his speech. I think that we in Parliament should take responsibility for the most deprived pensioners together. But that does not mean that there is only one way to do this. There could be two, even.
i-4dLBs1FAf9pPA3wZZoCLPU	Madam President, I would like Now we end up in almost philosophical discussions about how Elisabeth Svantesson feels. I look at the suggestions made by the Moderates. Should we compare a real and existing proposal with that in many different dimensions there may be other proposals that would be better? I'm sure it can, but that's not what we're dealing with in Parliament. The question therefore remains. Will the Moderates vote in favour or against a proposal giving the most deprived pensioners up to SEK 1 000 per month? I did not get an answer to that question and I have some concerns about it, but there is still the possibility of explaining how the Moderates could give the most deprived pensioners up to SEK 1 000 a month so that they can live a better life.
i-WCbDpzbBV4LETwNJiB9KMt	Madam President, I would like Let me remind you of the budgetary process in Parliament because neither the Minister for Finance nor Ali Esbati have been in it before. First, the government makes a proposal, then the other parties will put forward our proposals and then we will vote on it sometime in June. Let me emphasise that the Moderates will strengthen the finances of pensioners. Ali Esbati, Mikael Damberg and especially the country's pensioners can feel safe with this. We'll get back to you. We are now debating and discussing the Government's proposal, and I believe that this particular addition, which you requested to release Magdalena Andersson as Prime Minister, is not really fair. I think you can do better, and we'll get back to you with that.
i-Uo4Mz8LdnLHqeX4qxHqh97	Madam President, I would like Climate change is going on here and now and will if we do not put an end to them lead to human suffering of enormous proportions. At the same time Elisabeth Svantesson's party competes with the others to lower the price of emissions. Climate ambitions are falling steadily, although we all seem to agree that we need to change. How will Elisabeth Svantesson ensure that we reach the objectives of the Paris Agreement when the Moderates constantly make decisions that increase Sweden's emissions instead of reducing them?
i-KGhA4sroyiYEsFK4b61pyj	Madam President, I would like I share the view that emissions must be reduced. That is why I am pleased that the budget that won the floor in Parliament last autumn was the largest environmental and climate budget ever. Among other things, we strengthened the resources for charging infrastructure, which is important for electrifying the vehicle fleet. We also spent a great deal of resources on capturing and encapsulating carbon dioxide, which is also important for reducing emissions. Effective policies can do much to reduce emissions. When it comes to cars, I think environmentalists need to go around Sweden a little more and talk to people about how they have it in their everyday lives and ask how many of them can afford to buy an electric car. Right now, there's not even a secondary market for electric cars. I believe that progress will be rapid and that much more people will be able to afford electric cars, but until then it is our responsibility to ensure that people manage their everyday lives, their lives. I meet people now who quit their jobs because the price is too high.
i-LEAQCbeZF8fzuBEW3Rv8jC	Madam President, I would like That sounds exactly the same as usual. It is said that it is important to invest in this, but the proposals put forward on the table go in a completely different direction. We agree that charging infrastructure is important, but just as Elisabeth Svantesson says, not everyone can afford an electric car. The Green Party has therefore put forward proposals to strengthen the economy of families, including in rural areas where there is a need to drive a lot, but which do not mean that we subsidise fossil fuels but keep up the pressure in the transition. We cannot choose between being able to go to work today or having a future to live in. We cannot live on a destroyed planet, because then there will certainly be no jobs. The Green Party's proposals are needed both for people in rural areas to be able to come to work and have a good life now and for us to be able to meet the climate challenge.
i-BEdN4TR44C75BV7AP92fEK	Madam President, I would like The Green Party is quite lonely about its proposal, and there may be a reason for that. I think you should make it quite simple. Dieseln currently costs 25 crowns a litre in Sweden, and already before the war we had the world's highest diesel price. There's something you can do about it. When it hits people so hard, it's easy to pursue a policy that lowers the price at the pump. However, it will still be very high. I don't know if the Green Party thinks it's cheap with 20 crowns a gallon. I think it's still expensive, and I'm pretty sure that people won't drive their cars off the road because the diesel costs $20 instead of $25. We must ensure that people can be on this journey, live their lives, work in everyday life, do their job and make the choices they want to make, such as driving more climate-wise and buying an electric car. But now many cannot afford it, and until they do, they must be able to live.
i-7ypn5kyW3oR5ij7NncjRPj	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats have previously presented a thorough, comprehensive and ambitious plan to strengthen the Swedish pension system and thereby raise pensions for everyone who has a standard income pension, i.e. everyone who has worked in their lives. For an average pensioner, this means SEK 1,000 a month. The government's proposal is far less ambitious and benefits only a minority of the country's pensioners, that is, far from everyone. At the same time, it is unnecessarily complicated as well as associated with other types of problems. This applies, in particular, to the effects of pomperipose, marginal effects exceeding 100%, Madam President. Nor has a single inch been made to anchor its proposal here in the Swedish Parliament. It is, Madam President, to say the least, rather casual of a small one-party government that governs the empire in a minority. If you sit on a little more than a quarter of the Parliament's mandate, you would find a certain amount of humility in front of the highest decision-making body in the kingdom, that is to say, this House. Madam President, I would like Whatever the outcome of the government's proposal, we will pursue our own proposal both into the electoral movement which is approaching shortly and into the negotiations which will then wait on the other side of the election day. To be continued, in other words.
i-7FbSX8KPsyEjGEjBwP1DKt	Madam President, I would like I listened to the speech. Maybe it didn't give a lot of concreteness. You will first and foremost pursue your own proposal, and the continuation will follow. That's obvious, isn't it? I know you said earlier that the Swedish Democrats would be some kind of right-wing conscience when it comes to social security and that the Moderates would not be allowed to dominate too much. However, when the previous budget was adjusted, the FTT was voted through. Chronically ill and those who have worn themselves out in hazardous work must pay higher taxes than other employees. It wasn't exactly in line with this conscience. Now Sjöström says: We will pursue our proposal. You're welcome to do that. But there is a proposal on Parliament's table that gives an average of SEK 750 per month to 1 million pensioners in August, that is, now that we have the price shock and when bread prices, coffee prices and the prices of everything else are high. It will be very interesting to see how the Swedish Democrats choose to make the end. Nevertheless, we must vote and take a position on the proposals on the table.
i-MZc3MschGNBmNFRSxhAgc3	Madam President, I would like Oscar Sjöstedt's name is Oscar Sjöstedt, Madam President, and not Sjöström or anything like that. But we can leave that behind. There has been no vote on any funkis tax. I don't understand where that concept comes from. A disabled person on the labour market pays exactly the same tax as everyone else on the labour market. Of course it is that way. Everything else is just bullshit and nonsense. There's a suggestion. Today it is the Minister for Finance's turn. Today it is for the sake of the Minister for Finance that we are debating. The Minister of Finance and the Government have put their proposal on the table today. Let's take over the process. Now we shall present our proposals. It's no stranger than that. Something else would be strange. In fact, it may be that we in this House's boundless wisdom land in a proposal that is actually better. As far as the Swedish Democrats are concerned, we will not say no to the Government's proposal for a guarantee supplement, but that there is a proposal on the table that is more attractive to the country's pensioners.
i-SztJNwZn7AmcAJtuQhvBQ4	Madam President, I would like Then I hope it will not be like the 2014 elections. You said you'd get rid of the profits in school. After the election, you had some lunch and changed your mind. You said you'd be the social conscience against the Moderates. Yet you accepted a funkis tax. It is now a little up to the evidence of what is happening to the poorest pensioners in Sweden. That process will be important to follow. As Sjöstedt himself said: Continued will follow.
i-HDgz8f2hYeqNgbtCEKY858	Madam President, I would like Now we're back in the funkis tax thing. It is a completely bizarre claim that someone would have voted through a higher tax for people with different types of functional variations. Of course, that is not the case. It doesn't work that way. Even if it says yes and no on our buttons in the benches here, you don't vote yes or no. They vote in favour of one proposal or in favour of another. If we are to vote on a proposal other than the Government's guarantee supplement, it is essential that it is more appetising for the country's pensioners, that it is more ambitious, more thought-out and that it addresses the shortcomings of the Pomperiposis effects. These are marginal effects – not at 100%, but at 105% in certain income ranges. You get a lower pension if you work more. It doesn't make sense. If we can address those shortcomings, it is clear that we are voting on an alternative proposal that is better.
i-TFYupgFrd5WhkQimDM67P2	Madam President, I would like This debate is really about the government's spring change budget. However, it was in a previous speech by Oscar Sjöstedt that I think requires some explanation. It mentioned biodiesel or ethanol that is mixed into Sweden in Swedish tanks. It was described as some kind of grief. I just wonder what it is that the Swedish Democrats mean by calling Swedish and other biofuels mourning.
i-TvMnwrLYKt78Q7djto63xa	Madam President, I would like I suppose I can admit that the choice of words can be discussed in itself. It alludes to what we mix in our tanks in diesel cars and, by all means, also in petrol cars. It's a little bit more in diesel for trucks, tractors and stuff. It is processed slaughterhouse waste that we have imported from countries on the other side of the world. It comes, for example, from Australia and Indonesia. Then they drive it here in large tankers, and then we press it in the tank of our cars. I don't really know how else to describe it. Processed slaughterhouse waste imported from across the globe is probably some kind of mourning. Of what we use, 94% are imported and 6% domestically produced. Sweden alone has this extreme view of the reduction obligation. We're vacuuming the entire market globally on this mound, or whatever we're gonna call it. There can be no wise policy anywhere. It drives up prices by several crowns per litre.
i-Gp3mkTh2WxyDWr3VqepeJ7	Madam President, I would like Now there were even more questions here. Among other things, it is about why biofuels should be seen as mourning and why it is something bad for the environment or for anything at all that waste is used to make functioning biofuels for cars. There are also questions about how to reduce the price of fuel by excluding biofuels only when they cost less to produce in Sweden today than diesel does. SD claims that it wants to safeguard Swedish independence, self-sufficiency and independence. But how can it benefit if you remove the Swedish biofuel and the possibility of mixing it and generally call it mourning in a debate in the Swedish parliament?
i-XCgf7y2qhsGrnJvQpBQVhX	Madam President, I would like Okay, let's call it something else. We do not need to dwell on the specific concept. Why is that bad? The point is that it is not indigenously produced. It's imported. It is not 100 percent, but 90 - 95 percent are imported from other countries on the other side of the world. You have to see the whole value chain. What if this were to be scaled up globally, Madam President, and if all countries had this extreme focus on quota obligations and policies? All countries are down here, and then Sweden comes up here. It is absolutely extreme in international comparison. What if all countries were to adopt Sweden's policy in this area? Then the whole market would have collapsed; then it wouldn't have worked. This is not the way forward... not in any way. It only causes problems for haulage, agriculture and others.
i-MsgRaCw3DVD75bAfXWE9jo	Madam President, I would like It is often said from the Swedish Democrats that they care about the security of Sweden's pensioners. But when it comes to it, it often appears that one folds down as soon as the Moderates call – or sometimes others, who may offer fine brandy. In connection with the autumn budget, you put forward a proposal which gave pensioners barely one hundred a month. That is what you managed to achieve in negotiations, about which you talk so big and nice. That's all it was. The demands of the Left Party to raise the pensions of the same group, which we have pushed through, are on the table of the Riksdag. This means that half a million pensioners receive SEK 1 000 more per month tax-free. The Moderates say the proposal is in danger of breaking up the Pensions Group. One wonders: Will the Swedish Democrats, when the vote takes place, contribute to helping the country's pensioners? Or will you once again blow your constituents and save the Pensions Group together with M and KD?
i-7iSFYVn8Vs1NvFu1rfYWRq	Madam President, I would like I can't care less about the retirement group, to be honest with you. If anything, it would be a bonus if it was cracked. It's completely dysfunctional. The only thing you've agreed on is to force people to work longer. If the retirement group can crack, no one's happier than me. It should have buried itself and been left behind, because it appears to be inside some sort of drawn-out harakiri. The answer to the question is yes, that is to say that we will either vote on the proposal presented by the government, despite the shortcomings it has experienced, or on a proposal that is better for the country's pensioners. We will not vote against the Government's proposal and then do nothing at all. Either we vote on the government's proposal, with its shortcomings, or we vote for a better proposal – that is, better for the country's pensioners.
i-SncgMPqmRadpF4Bjgmq9E3	Madam President, I would like My question was, in itself, whether the Swedish democrats would blow their voters. I guess that's not what Oscar Sjöstedt meant when he said yes. I hear the message but still do not really understand the content, because there is no real content here. There is a promise to somehow try to put together a better proposal. Then it would be interesting to know: In what way better, then? There is a very concrete and thorough proposal here. It's not easy to go in and screw these systems. Now, however, there is a proposal that takes up a variety of complexity, which means that those who receive the most receive 1000 kroner a month. There is also a group that does not get 1 000 kroner but still some. On average, it is SEK 750 to the million pensioners who are the most deprived.
i-7YkcZcoxMap7p2ETXLJwpT	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ali Esbati, for correcting me so I didn't have to do it myself! No, it's not easy. No one has said that, and I don't know if I've said that either. But again: the debate we are having today is due to the fact that the government has left its option. Then other parties, including the Left Party, the Swedish Democrats and everyone else, are allowed to leave their counter-options. That's how we work in the budget process. It is not the case that the government is leaving its option and that we in this House, which is the highest decision-making body, should sit still in the boat and just listen to the government. As parties, individually or together with others, we have every opportunity to put forward counter-options. And that process is taking place now. The Riksdag now owns the question and takes charge. The Minister of Finance has done his bit – that is, in this process. Now the Riksdag takes over. All parties, including the Left Party, are free to submit counter-proposals to the Government's proposal. That is the budgetary order we have. It would be unreasonable for there to be clear answers today.
i-4xE4Gyiz8SV7u5zUhuMy9T	Madam President, I would like I will be brief, because we have had a long debate. First of all, we cannot continue to give everything to everyone in Swedish fiscal policy. We need to start sorting. If you look at Table 8.6 of the budget, you can see that we have spent well over 50 billion outside the ordinary budget only recently. It's several times the size of a normal budget. I do not know how many, other than ourselves, follow the debate. But everyone should understand that Swedish public finances will not tolerate this in the long term. Then we have to start sorting: this has to do with the crisis. This has to do with the crisis and is also acute. This is, for example, like Swedish food production in rural areas, a question of people who can be knocked out tomorrow or companies affected by the pandemic and something that needs to be done now. This is more like the givers of all good gifts. One thing we need to focus on is how we generate resources and how we create growth and jobs in Sweden at all. I mentioned this in my last speech: we must reduce the costs of hiring small businesses, not least employers' contributions and not least those who are most vulnerable. We must open up to the newly arrived refugees, the Ukrainian refugees, and give them the opportunity to enter the labour market quickly – even if it includes new start jobs. We need to broaden the start-up jobs and the jobs that many get as their first job to the small businesses that create four out of five jobs and many of which do not have collective agreements. We need to make it easier to move from grants to jobs. Then we can lift the exposed areas. Then we can get the resources into the well-being. Small businesses can then help the whole of Sweden to grow.
i-Q1j9EYtiGHqSmcvDokBbDT	Madam President, I would like Then we're here again. I thought we would extend the debate a little bit, Mr Ådahl, because the Centre Party's obsession with the current design of the so-called reduction obligation is something of a mystery to me. Environmental benefits are essentially non-existent, and at worst this is directly counterproductive. At the same time, we know that the reduction obligation drives up prices, primarily on diesel but also on petrol. Every motorist, every trucker, every farmer and every forester would be happy to see a reduced reduction obligation and a reduced diesel price. But the Center Party resists for unclear reasons. Again, why this obsession with importing this—we don't call it mourning; we say well fuel– from the other side of the world that we then have to mix into the thought of our cars, trucks, log cars, tractors and machines? Of which was this obsession?
i-EAVmLJrkJkCtNY1HcGJ34e	Madam President, I would like Once again, we note that biofuels, for example of waste, are in mourning. I can inform you that we share this obsession with all those who want Sweden to be able to produce our own fuels from our own raw materials. There's billions of investments, which I'm guessing SD doesn't care a bit about, in the starting blocks. But they're frozen by this kind of rhetoric, which calls what can benefit the environment and our independence from Putin and his oil and gas--if you care about it--for greasing. This is slowed down when you mean to stop, break down and remove it. And for what? As expensive as the diesel is today, I wonder how it can create these enormous effects on 10 crowns that SD makes up to mix in domestic biofuels and to steer it up like that. I wonder: what clear proposals does the SD itself have to promote the production of Swedish biofuels?
i-VihNCqtJfmvhDW1kJPHgEU	Madam President, I would like Who are all those who want this? When you listen to the haulage industry, forestry, LRF and farmers you hear that they say: Lower the reduction obligation! I don't know who wants to raise it. Preem may want to, but I haven't heard anyone else, except the Center Party, who thinks this is a great idea. If it is to be 10 crowns you probably have to labor with the taxes too, but that this drives up the prices with quite a lot of crowns is quite obvious. And again: it is not produced domestically, and it is part of the problem. If we had been able to satisfy our own market with domestic production, the equation would have changed somewhat. But this is well over 90% imported. Sweden is therefore sitting alone and vacuuming the entire market globally just to get up in our own quotas. What if other countries introduced the same extreme politics? This isn't scalable. Then the system collapses.
i-KcvGAzBfozn1SSciVFU88d	Madam President, I would like In one minute I do not have time to go through the whole question of how to reduce emissions from fuels. But it is actually positive that slaughterhouse waste does not rot and contributes to the greenhouse effect, but can be used to bring exactly the same atoms into the tank as any other diesel. There is absolutely no mourning in this way, and it is completely wrong to spread this kind of disinformation on the subject. Then I note that SD only has proposals to stop, break down and find different profits to stop this interference. There is not a single proposal that the Center Party has pushed to increase Swedish fuel production, where there are now projects at 14 or even 11 SEK cost with Swedish raw material to replace imported oil from Putin and other dictators.
i-XtPXb5f57f5W4DdVfwSRtC	Madam President, I would like Long-term unemployment persists for many people. The need for social responsibility in the form of a strong labour market policy is clear. Unfortunately, however, the Center Party in general and also Martin Ådahl personally for a few years have devoted themselves to destroying labour market policy with blind confidence in the magic of market mechanisms. What is called reform of the Public Employment Service is rolling on. I note some of the latest headlines on this reform: New problems with the Arbetsförmedlingen's service Rusta and match. Concerns within Sweden's Municipalities and Regions for new AF. Therefore, criminals can be supported by the Employment Service. In Kommunsverige, where many of Martin Ådahl's party colleagues are responsible, only 10 per cent of the municipalities surveyed considered that Arbetsförmedlingen fulfils the task of assisting those who are far from the labour market. In view of this, I have to ask Martin Ådahl: How do you think it goes?
i-SuH8yzMm9EjXyjWmkf4ioA	Madam President, I would like To begin with, unfortunately, during all these years when the Public Employment Service spent enormous resources on the unemployed, I think that the municipalities and county councils that had to put the equivalent of 6 – 7 billion instead – they had to do it long before we tried to do something about it – never thought that the Public Employment Service has done its job. Instead, they have felt that it has unfortunately withdrawn on many different points, shut down offices and retreated. Now that we were going to reform it, it was you, along with the Moderates, KD, SD and so on, who stopped and postponed it. Wow, that's a little piece of paper on the floor-- at least it wasn't my case. With regard to the small part where it has started, the 50 000 – 60 000 of the 450 000 unemployed, they now have jobs at 50 – 60 percent. It is absolutely surprising how much it delivers, despite the pandemic and all the crises. But it reaches too few because you have delayed and stopped it, because you are so deeply conservative in helping the unemployed in Sweden.
i-7sjQ5gCiPpXn686ynBGY7c	Madam President, I would like I wish Martin Ådahl could get more of the Fälldinska in his work here. Maybe we have different entrances. If you perceive that something works badly, such as the Public Employment Service in the municipalities, you can imagine that you should try to do it better, not that you should work very actively to do more of what is bad, that is, that the state withdraws. That's the case. Almost everyone, with the possible exception of the commercial operators who are preparing to put the straws in even more barrels filled with tax money, has warned that this is exactly what is happening. Is there not something that is awakened in Martin Ådahl, such as the idea that perhaps we should have done things differently, that we should perhaps have thought that it will not work out in this way without a strong and coherent state labour market policy?
i-7zL9etuANfYLkF2iYJg1wk	Madam President, I would like Imagine, that's exactly what we've been thinking! If we are to spend 50 000 per year and per unemployed on various forms of intervention, they must produce results, heads for heads. We have to replace it with results. We must have pressure on the fact that it is those who are furthest from the labour market who receive the most benefit when they get a job in the long term. That is precisely why we wanted to make this change. But the conservative forces within the Employment Service and actors like the Left Party have worked extremely hard to slow this down and push it ahead. They do not care about the results that did not exist at all before or the results that are slowly beginning to be achieved. Then what do I regret? Imagine, I regret that we could not have started this earlier so that we could have got out on the other side and get results for all these unemployed, so that the efforts really led to jobs and so that we could have sorted employers and workers together much stronger.
i-ucRvR6QLKng8Q9XwRezuf	Madam President, I would like Climate change is happening here and now. They will, if we do not put an end to them, lead to human suffering of enormous proportions. At the same time, Martin Ådahl's party is now competing with the others to lower the price of emissions. Climate ambitions are falling steadily, although we all in this House seem to agree that we need to change. I would therefore like to ask how the Center Party intends to ensure that we can achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement when you are involved in taking decisions following decisions that will increase Sweden's emissions.
i-6dAnsyGQbFDx1aK25nivSG	Madam President, I would like Actually, I don't recognize this picture at all. The Green Party and the Center Party have worked together to raise the price of emissions. The most important thing is the European Union, where we have stopped coal power, reduced emissions and reduced the impact of climate change. I guess what it refers to here is the extreme price shock in terms of fuel prices that has come in connection with the war and Russia's invasion of Ukraine. There we have said that for a period of time people must, for God's sake, have a chance to adapt to this and an opportunity to face this shock until hopefully it is mitigated. I have had a hard fight with the Swedish democrats about the reduction obligation, which does not seem to be quite understood here in the speaker's chair. I don't understand what kind of undone weather you are on this issue.
i-cejsNuoEXWAtQzAmdLCPX	Madam President, I would like It is precisely because in many cases the Green Party and the Center Party have gone hand in hand in actually having climate ambitions that it is particularly sad to see the development that is taking place right now. As far as the reduction obligation is concerned, we fully agree that it must continue to exist. It also creates jobs in Sweden and makes us even less dependent on Putin's oil and gas. We also fully agree that, in the event of a price shock such as the one we see now, households must be supported and helped. However, we have put forward proposals that do not mean a reduction in conversion ambitions, but instead help in other ways – a reduction in taxes on rural areas, a reduction in VAT on food and other measures, such as an electricity price compensation that applies to more people throughout the country. I still wonder what the Center Party's plan is to achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement after all.
i-WUK7vsdEgZsKzu3e91RjFt	Madam President, I would like I know that the Member of the Green Party listened to my speech that we must double the production of renewable, offshore wind power, thereby pushing away the impact of Putin's gas and oil from Europe. I am sure she listened to what I said about the great energy savings we have to give people a chance to do, in parallel with temporarily helping them with their electricity bills in the extreme shock we are in right now, and about bringing down the energy price by building these great assets on renewable power. I am sure the Green Party Member listened when I talked about the need for agriculture to survive in order to contribute to green production as part of the transition. I am also sure that she understands that the countryside wants to change, want to be green and want to contribute to the climate change change. But then it must also be given a chance to deal with the challenges we face today.
i-UE7MQYGHHgzagBuekwj3AS	Madam President, I would like Responsible economic policy is an economic policy geared towards climate change. Climate policy cannot simply be about telling difficult facts about the situation of the planet, setting targets and then finding them difficult to achieve; we need to redeploy large parts of our society. This is something that requires political action and broad popular support. If this is to be possible, substantial investment is needed. Then we need to have a fiscal framework that facilitates this and does not make it difficult or hinder it, a framework that is adapted to deal with today's and tomorrow's problems on the basis of the actual conditions and not on the basis of notions and fears 20-30 years ago. The Left Party has proposed a ten-year moratorium on the current surplus target. During that period, we should be able to release around SEK 700 billion of government loan financing in investments to switch to a fair and climate neutral Sweden. This is a major state commitment to new investments in transport infrastructure, electricity transmission and climate change adaptation of new and existing housing – the areas where territorial emissions are greatest. Such a 10-year investment would continue to mean a Swedish public debt of about 40% of GDP, well below the EU average, which is currently around 90%. But that would mean that we are starting to do something about the neglect that we have accumulated by allowing the infrastructure to decay, not to expand the rail network, not to build more and better homes that are climate-smart and not to expand the electricity transmission capacity required for climate-smart new industrialisation. We in the Left Party have done our homework and will continue to present proposals for investment and conversion. Now the question becomes to the other parties in the debate that follows in society also later on how to justify sticking to a framework that actually makes Sweden poorer and less equipped to cope with the future.
i-XhGpPBMoh7Bys1hmVKG8R4	Madam President, I would like Thank you to Ali Esbati, who mentioned the need for strong action on climate change, as we have already noted, is going on here and now and will lead to incredible human suffering if we do nothing about it. While Mr Ali is standing in the speaker's seat saying that we must take strong action for the climate, however, his party is also competing to lower the price of emissions and is therefore demonstrating in reality a reduction in climate ambitions. I would therefore like to ask Ali Esbati how the Left Party wishes to ensure that we can achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement. It is not just about what we are going to do then and in the future, as the honourable Member has just talked about, but it is also about what we are doing right here and now. On this issue, the Left Party speaks, to say the least, with a split tongue.
i-Y1tfpEnEExwJhtygrMKqKN	Madam President, I would like It's a good thing I got this question. As such, I also made it clear in my brief speech just now that political action and broad popular support are important. If you are to have it, it requires that you do the systematic transformation of society in those parts that require it in a way that is effective, that works long-term and that can have a reasonable social impact. Then the long-term perspective sometimes requires that you act on short-term shocks and do things to deal with a situation that pops up there and then in order not to lose momentum and not lose the necessary support for climate policy. We do not think it is financial shock therapy that is needed to build a strong climate policy, but it is large, massive investment. It will also cost the individual, but you have to deal with it together in the best way.
i-CUCu31QpdkJaaqcjjiQVPx	Madam President, I would like As far as major investments are concerned, we are in complete agreement. They're absolutely necessary in the coming years if we're going to get through this. However, it is not just about investment in the future, it is also about what we are doing here and now. Then there must be political leadership for ideas that actually lead to change. As I have said before, it is also obvious to the Green Party that we should support people in the price shock that comes from both the war and the pandemic. However, we have proposals that do so without lowering the ambitions of climate change. It is about reducing taxes in rural areas, reducing food VAT, and compensation for electricity prices – which was a proposal that we had together. This means that we can keep up the pressure in the transition that needs to be made, because we need to act both here and now and in the future. Unfortunately, we see that the Left Party is failing.
i-pycGtZe7MnPYVVAHssyLx	Madam President, I would like Janine Alm Ericson himself said that several of the proposals she mentioned have been made together. Our ambition is to have a strong climate change policy that works in a number of areas in society. Political leadership is precisely this: to bring people together around that policy and ambition and to spread the effects it has in a reasonable way in society. We should not just tell people that this is going to cost, and it turns out that it affects some much, much more because they have much, much less margins. For example, if we succeed in halting imports of fossil fuels from Russia, it will cost. How is that shock to be spread out in society? We believe that it is a joint responsibility that is also required there so that people do not lose support.
i-ACWTMMbcJJb3pgKJkUGbsq	Madam President, I would like We need a new start in Sweden. We need a new start for Sweden. We need a change of watch in power. We need it, among other things, for the patients' sake. Because it is not a natural law that 160 000 people should have to stand in excessive care queues and wait illegally for a long time for care or have to move to another region in order to benefit from a certain treatment or aid. That is why we need to reform the untimely system of care. We need to ensure that care places are expanded and resources made available, but we also need to be able to take hold of the structures that do not deliver the care that people are entitled to. We need it for the long-term unemployed to be able to get better matching with matching positions. We need to reform so that people are not hidden in passive benefit systems. It will pay to work, and it will be cheaper and easier to hire people who have been away from the labour market for a long time. We need to do this for the victims of crime, for those who today do not get redress when the law enforcement authorities do not fully fulfil their mandate. We do this by dimensioning the police and the entire legal chain, but also by working preventively not least to support parents in their important role. We need a new energy policy to bring in fossil-free electricity that is stable and that helps Swedish households and industries to make it through the important transformation that Sweden is facing. We need reforms for community so that after the pandemic people will once again find communities and back to contexts where one is seen, respected and actually gets a place where one finds joy and perhaps even love in existence. We need to work on this, and we need to work on it as soon as possible. My conviction is that it requires a new government.
i-DpADfBoHPzQdjetF8h9fW3	Madam President, I would like It may come as no surprise to anyone that I would like to note once again that climate change is going on here and now, and if we do not put an end to them, it will lead to human suffering of enormous proportions. At the same time, Jakob Forssmed's party competes with the others to lower the price of emissions. Climate ambitions are constantly falling, even though the Christian Democrats, like the rest of us, seem to agree that we need to change. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to ask Jakob Forssmed how the Christian Democrats will ensure that we are able to achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement when the Christian Democrats are also involved in making decisions that will increase Sweden's emissions, rather than reducing them.
i-W2uDTzPk3TZcKRF3NE8BmQ	Madam President, I would like We've had a complete cost explosion on fuel. That's what Janine Alm Ericson is talking about. These are prices that I think even the Green Party has not been able to dream of in its wildest dreams. It now affects people in their nightmares. There have been extreme price effects, which we need to deal with. I think it is reasonable to do so and at the same time to invest in other things in order to speed up the transition. We need to speed up electrification and ensure that the fossil-free electricity that can make that electrification possible. A further tightening of the EU ETS by cancelling allowances is another way to drive emission reductions where they are most effective. We proposed part of the budget that went through. This applies, among other things, to bio-CCS, i.e. to capture and store carbon dioxide. It is very important to increase our ambitions there. However, price signals continue to exist in the case of fuels. These are high prices even with the changes that we have proposed.
i-KkAo65XYFGAAGSjaWnfMDH	Madam President, I would like It's one thing to talk about things you want to do that are pretty far ahead of time. There is another thing about the policies that affect here and now. It is therefore serious to reduce the prices of emissions when we need a change instead. There are other ways to compensate households for this price shock. We have put forward other proposals to help alleviate the shock but still keep up the pace of change. I note that there are many responses to measures, but as yet no party other than the Green Party has presented enough efforts on the climate to achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement. When will the Christian Democrats take climate policy seriously and really ensure that we reach the targets?
i-JgkEDHotx4H9GRzquRhFfE	Madam President, I would like Janine Alm Ericson is right that we need to do more to achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement and the climate goals we have set ourselves. But we cannot do that by simply accepting shock-raised fuel prices here and now. I have a question for Janine Alm Ericson. How does the Green Party view its responsibility for pushing forward the closure of two reactors? This has led to dramatic price effects in southern Sweden, and now we have to go in and compensate for it. That electricity had come in handy in the transition we need to make. I agree that we need to do more. We Christian Democrats need to come up with more and more proposals to do this. Perhaps even the Green Party needs to come up with further proposals in order for us to meet our common ambitions. But the price shocks that are now affecting households need to be dealt with. Our proposals are about being able to do so.
i-HvqRUC3epWdoSmpQ4g4XJA	Madam President, I would like Ladies and gentlemen! When you listen to this debate it becomes clear that there is a clear conflict in Swedish politics. On the one hand, there are those who believe that jobs and welfare are created by politicians in political spaces. On the other hand, there are those of us who believe that it is created by people who work hard and by companies and small businesses who create new jobs and thus drive new tax revenues into our common treasury. There is a conflict between those who believe that the biggest problem in Swedish school is that parents themselves, at the kitchen table, can choose school for their children and who want to prevent them from doing so and we liberals who believe that the biggest problem is that there is too little order. Teachers' powers must be increased, and we must focus more on knowledge than on flum in Swedish schools. There is a conflict between those who believe that we are building Sweden strongly through increased contributions and passivity and those of us who believe that it is about having high expectations of people and making sure that people are looking for jobs. People cannot passively accept grants without performing a counter-performance. The stickers do your duty, demand your right still applies. Madam President, I would like We have a very weak government. Sweden is going the wrong way. Sweden is becoming more and more segregated. Sweden needs a fresh start with a new liberal bourgeois government. It is important on this occasion to also talk about the future and the most important future investments we can make for our country. When it comes to reducing exclusion and crime, nothing is more important than investing in school, to ensure that all children learn enough, that the school works for all children and to give all children the same opportunities forward. Madam President, I would like A change of power is needed for this. A new start is needed for Sweden.
i-4gZziRtRi9eg5ENaTBA5PQ	Madam President, I would like Despite what the other parties have said in this debate, this spring has shown some kind of Swedish championship in bad climate policy. Party after party has declared that you want to make it cheaper to let out here at home. And at the same time, the decision to strangle the influx of Putin's oil and gas has so far shone with its absence. I hope we will soon see a change to that. It is nothing more than a brutal betrayal of every Swede who does his part every day to live climate smart. It is also a betrayal of future generations and Ukraine. Climate change is happening here and now and is not halted by a global corona crisis or by war in Europe. During our time in the government, work on the environment and climate change was scaled up considerably. We have had an industrial leap and steel production independent of coal. We have found new green jobs in battery factories, and we have reduced emissions from both electricity and the vehicle fleet. But we cannot be satisfied with that. We must act decisively now and continue the transition. Then the moderate municipalities' no to more wind power is a real threat. Wind power is the least costly option to reduce emissions in Sweden, but mainly to help Europe change. We must be free from Putin's coal, oil and uranium. We want the municipalities to receive a substantial resource supplement for the kilowatt hours they produce. It is time to scale up the climate ambitions further and completely phase out fossil fuels. And that can't happen fast enough.
i-AzxVG4qy2YYu91EtGfyKVT	Madam President, I would like Björn Söder has asked me why the government did not invite Taiwan to participate in the Leaders Network. Furthermore, Björn Söder has asked me to exemplify in what concrete ways it is working to get Taiwan into international cooperation and organisations and what progress it has made in getting Taiwan into these. Björn Söder has also asked me if the government has a strategy to involve Taiwan in international cooperation and organisations and what it looks like in that case. Björn Söder has also asked me whether I believe that the strategy, if any, has been successful, and whether a strategy does not exist if I intend to develop such a strategy. Finally, Björn Söder has asked me what the practical solutions to which I refer, to which the EU and Sweden are seeking to find out how Taiwan is to be incorporated into the work of the WHO, look like. Markus Wiechel has asked me what is preventing me from enabling the Taipei mission to operate diplomatically in Sweden, as in other countries. Markus Wiechel has also asked me why Taiwan has not been invited to the Leaders Network if it wishes to develop relations with Taiwan. Finally, Markus Wiechel has asked me if I could imagine working for a House of Sweden in Taipei, and if not, why not? I'll answer the two interpellations together. I have often presented the agenda for the so-called 'one China' policy, which means that Sweden, like all EU countries, today has diplomatic relations with China and does not see any chance of recognising Taiwan as a state. It also follows that Taiwan's representation office in Stockholm cannot be equated with an embassy. Nevertheless, the Council supports Taiwan's participation in international contexts where participation is meaningful and does not require state status. In Geneva, where the WHO is based, Sweden has regular contacts on WHO issues with Taiwan's representative offices, and we exchange ongoing information with other countries that also support Taiwan's participation in the work of the WHO. Sweden, together with these countries, has repeatedly called on the WHO to include Taiwan in the work of the WHO, for example in technical bodies such as the International Agency for Research on Cancer. Unfortunately, however, the consensus is lacking in the World Health Assembly. The Prime Minister's informal network the Leaders Network brings together a dozen countries committed to multilateral cooperation and has a representative geographical spread. However, the network is only one of many channels for international cooperation and is an addition to other contact areas. Sweden and Taiwan are at the forefront of innovation and high-tech products. Our trade office in Taipei is doing an excellent job in taking on the opportunities that exist, for example with newly launched cooperation initiatives in the semiconductor field as well as in green conversion. These issues are also discussed in the annual trade talks at State secretarial level. The already extensive exchange currently takes place within the framework of Business Sweden's office in Taipei, and currently there are no plans for a House of Sweden in Taipei. The government will continue its wide-ranging exchange with Taiwan.
i-7gq64xA4L5QHPcMrZ5ih4D	Madam President, I would like Taiwan, or the Republic of China as it is formally called, is an example to the rest of the world in a great many areas. Unlike its great neighbour in the West, the People's Republic of China or Communist China as we call it, Taiwan is a self-governing democracy that fully respects the rule of law and human rights. In a variety of areas, Sweden and Taiwan share key values. Taiwan has a stable economy and a high level of education in the population, which has brought extensive prosperity to the population. In health care, they are world leaders. Throughout the pandemic, Taiwan has been a great example. When Sweden had thousands of deaths in covid-19, Taiwan, with its 23 million inhabitants, had only a handful of deaths. Today there have been over 800 deaths, compared to 18 000 in Sweden. When Sweden was without protective equipment, Taiwan donated masks to Sweden, among others, but also to the rest of the world. We have a lot to thank Taiwan for. Despite their extensive knowledge, they are not allowed to participate in, for example, the WHO or its decision-making assembly WHA. They are excluded from the UN system. As one of the founders of the UN, the Republic of China, i.e. Taiwan, until 1971 was the country representing China in the UN. In 1971, however, Communist China was allowed to take over the site and thus excluded Taiwan. Since 1991 Taiwan has tried to re-enter the UN as a representative of the people of Taiwan alone, but this has been denied. There is every reason to involve Taiwan in the various sub-organisations of the United Nations and other international cooperation, partly because it is morally right and partly because we otherwise lose Taiwan's knowledge and experience in many different areas. The government is happy to talk about how to welcome Taiwan and support Taiwan's participation in international contexts. I have asked written questions about this several times. In one of the replies, the Minister for Foreign Affairs writes that, as I said earlier, international work against the Corona virus is an example of an area in which Taiwan's participation is reasonable and desirable. In reply to my interpellation today, she replies that the Government is supporting Taiwan's participation in international contexts where participation is meaningful and does not require state status. Similarly, in an interpellation debate on 25 March this year, she replied as follows: ..................................................... Unfortunately, however, there is a lot of talk and a little workshop. Once you have the opportunity to invite Taiwan into international cooperation, you do not do so, even when the purpose of the cooperation is to discuss, among other things, how to meet challenges such as pandemics. There Taiwan, perhaps more than anyone else, could have contributed a great deal of knowledge. When Stefan Löfven started an informal network called the Leaders Network in November 2020, with political leaders from different countries and all continents, the government actively chose not to include Taiwan. Of course, I have also asked questions about this in the past but have not received any proper answers. That is why it was also one of seven questions in this interpellation. I note that the Minister for Foreign Affairs believes that the network is only one of many channels of international cooperation and is an addition to other contact points. But why on earth is Taiwan not invited to its own network if we now claim to safeguard its participation in international cooperation? Taiwan also has valuable insights and knowledge relevant to the network. The Minister for Foreign Affairs will not respond to this. Nor does she answer my questions if the government has at all a strategy to integrate Taiwan into international cooperation. I take the lack of answers as confirmation that you do not have one. But even then, the Minister cannot answer whether or not he intends to develop a strategy. Nor does she answer the question of what progress has been made in involving Taiwan in international cooperation and organisations. If Taiwan is not included in its own international network, it becomes clear that there is no progress of any kind. I would like the Foreign Minister to answer my questions.
i-9U24BbBBJHXNXUne9VUwpv	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for your answer. The Minister for Foreign Affairs pretends that there is no difference between Sweden's one-China policy and other countries' one-China policy or how to interpret this policy. This is not true. The fact that the government claims to be incapable of influencing the way in which it acts diplomatically is quite ridiculous. There are a number of ways of promoting diplomatic relations, both by enabling diplomatic missions to act as embassies and by means of purely symbolic acts. This can be done by official visits, either by Taiwanese visitors coming to Sweden or by the Government representative, such as the Minister for Foreign Affairs, visiting Taipei. Furthermore, it may be worth reminding the Minister for Foreign Affairs that it is Sweden that defines its one-China policy, not mainland China or Communist China. I would like to mention a number of positive examples of what other countries that also have a one-China policy have done in order to promote their diplomatic relations. In April 2021, the US Department of Foreign Affairs announced that it will be easier for US representatives to meet their counterparts in Taiwan. They allow open contacts with Taiwanese diplomats. The U.S. Foreign Affairs spokesperson Ned Price said that the new guidelines underline that Taiwan is a living democracy and an important partner in security and economic issues, and is also a good force in the international community. The US approach to strengthened diplomatic relations with Taiwan is supported by both the current democrats and the former Republican administration. Madam President, I would like If the United States can also know Sweden. In May 2021, Denmark's Foreign Minister Jeppe Kofod and Taiwan's President Tsai Ing-Ing-wen chose to stand side by side in Copenhagen to defend democratic values at an international democracy seminar. Minister for Foreign Affairs Kofod, who also happens to belong to Minister for Foreign Affairs Ann Linde's sister party, that is to say the Danish Social Democrats, said that he is preparing a Danish foreign policy based on values. He went on to say that, when universal values such as human rights and freedom of expression are threatened, we must stand stronger, respond more quickly and forcefully. Madam President, I would like If Denmark can also know Sweden. In July 2021, Taiwan announced the opening of a diplomatic mission, called the Taiwanese Representation Office, which in practice is an embassy, in Lithuania. This took place after Lithuania announced earlier in the same year that it was planning to open an official representative office in Taiwan. The trend has been that more and more countries, not least in Central and Eastern Europe, have sought closer relations with Taiwan. Furthermore, the United States has welcomed the announcement by Lithuania of the Taiwanese Mission, which in turn should be seen as plain language. Once again, Madam President, if Lithuania can do so, then Sweden can. In particular, given that the government claims to want to focus in particular on promoting democracy through its alleged pro-democracy offensive, the lame Swedish handling of diplomatic relations with Taiwan is to be regarded as a complete betrayal. Against this background, like Björn Söder, I would like a clearer answer from the Foreign Minister.
i-G4ZQcjUaiv9Yg6ZSmP3LK	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. And thank you, Markus Wiechel and Björn Söder, for these important interpellations! The Minister for Foreign Affairs says in his reply that there are no plans currently at the House of Sweden in Taiwan. That is very worrying. In fact, a majority in the Foreign Affairs Committee a few weeks ago supported the proposal for the opening of the House of Sweden in Taiwan. The debate in this House will take place next week. Could it be that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is not following what is happening in the Foreign Affairs Committee? Or worse, that the State Department doesn't care what the elected representatives want? Russia's war in Ukraine has redesigned the foreign policy map. It is a frightening example of what can happen when a power-crazed dictator is driven by ambitions for reunification and when the outside world is not acting with force and in time because it has become dependent on Putin's natural gas. The outside world must prevent something similar from happening in Taiwan. Xi Jinping has promised a reunion, with violence if necessary. It must be clear to China that the outside world will never accept a reunification that is taking place against the will of the Taiwanese people. It must be clear that the outside world will act and that it will be very expensive for China to attack Taiwan. Over the past year, China has increased its military presence in the Taiwan Strait. The violations of Taiwan's airspace have escalated. The EU strategy for cooperation in the Indian Ocean and the Pacific states that the increased tensions in the Strait of Taiwan may have a direct impact on the security and prosperity of Europe. An upgrade of the Swedish representation will send strong signals that Taiwan has friends in Sweden. It will send strong signals that it costs to attack Taiwan. The choice is simple. On one side there is a communist dictatorship that violates the rights of its citizens, imprisones and tortures innocent people and has re-education camps for millions of people. On the other side there is a liberal democracy. World developments call for cooperation between liberal democracies to be strengthened so that the dictatorship of China cannot play us out one by one. There is one more aspect to the upgrading of the Swedish representation in Taiwan, namely the service for Swedish citizens there. These people rightly feel forgotten and abandoned by the Swedish Government. When the Swedish authorities send letters with the address Taiwan, Province of China, the letters end up in the People's Republic of China, where the interest in forwarding the letters to the recipients on the other side of the Strait is zero. For the simplest consular services, Swedish citizens must go to Bangkok.
i-FiFp97f1PPTQndrB4jduea	Madam President, I would like In international cooperation, Sweden and the EU have continued an interest in supporting Taiwan's participation in international organisations. The Government supports Taiwan's participation in all international contexts where participation is meaningful and does not require state status. Sweden, the EU and Taiwan share a common belief in democracy, human rights and the rule of law. Taiwan is a well-developed democracy with good respect for human rights. There are exchanges on issues such as human rights, trade, climate and innovation. As an example of these exchanges, Minister Ernkrans has received his Taiwanese colleague when he visited Stockholm. State Secretary Strandås has also participated in a virtual seminar on gender equality with the Taiwanese Minister Audrey Tang. Through contacts such as these, Taiwan can meaningfully share and share valuable knowledge. As I have mentioned before, Sweden is the country that has had the most trade talks with Taiwan at state secretarial level: 37 since the mid-80s. In the field of economic exchange, Sweden and the EU have extensive links with Taiwan, such as investment agreements. The government supports this intention and wishes to continue developing relations with Taiwan. Of course, we are listening very carefully to what the Committee on Foreign Affairs says. As far as the question of representation in Taiwan is concerned, the Swedish Export Council opened an office in Taipei in 1991, where Business Sweden is currently engaged in important work for Swedish trade interests. The already extensive exchange currently takes place within the framework of Business Sweden's office in Taipei.
i-2qLMs7kvAH4b8Edx4pYsiP	Madam President, I would like I asked the Foreign Minister a number of questions, seven in number, because I have not been satisfied with the answers I have received in the past to a plethora of written questions. I note and note that the Minister for Foreign Affairs chooses not to answer my questions. In her answer, she spends more than half the time telling me what I have asked, and in the second half came an answer that does not answer all the questions. I would therefore like to repeat some of the questions. One is: Does the government intend to develop a strategy to involve Taiwan in international cooperation and organisations? The second is: has the government made any progress in involving Taiwan in international cooperation and organisations? I would like the Foreign Minister to justify why the government did not include Taiwan in the Leaders Network. On the government's website, it is written that the network is united in the view that more international cooperation and effective international organisations are needed to enable the world to meet challenges such as pandemics, the climate crisis and increasing inequalities in the world. Given the experience and knowledge of Taiwan in combating pandemics, this would be excellent for Sweden to invite Taiwan, especially when the Minister for Foreign Affairs says that the government supports Taiwan's participation in international contexts where participation is meaningful and does not require state status. This was an excellent example of such a context where State status was not required and participation was meaningful, given the knowledge and expertise they possess. I would like to ask once again why the government, once it has the chance to invite Taiwan, does not do this, despite the fact that the government otherwise has quite a high tail on this subject. I would like the Foreign Minister to answer the questions I have asked and also to justify why Taiwan was not included in the Leaders Network.
i-FE6PEFkmHBYyUBQKGM52tF	Madam President, I would like Like Björn Söder, I am a little perplexed about why the Minister for Foreign Affairs does not answer the many questions that both me and Mr Björn Söder have asked in our interpellations. The questions have been put time and again to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, but the answers are missing. I may find this rather boring given that the answers should be there. I read out a wide range of countries that have a one-China policy but have acted differently. So if the Foreign Minister wants to do what he says he wants, that is to promote democracy around the world, then we should also be able to take a completely different approach to Taiwan. Diplomatic relations should be strengthened by enabling Taiwan's diplomats to operate diplomatically, but also by making official visits to Taiwan, which I hope the Foreign Minister will choose to carry out, or to receive diplomats from Taiwan. It's quite possible. What is it, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, that makes it impossible for Sweden to deal with this when other countries, such as Lithuania, Denmark and so on, can do so? Boriana Åberg also mentioned something important that we have touched on in written matters and that the Committee on Foreign Affairs has highlighted before, namely House of Sweden. It is an excellent opportunity to strengthen the relationships that we need when it comes to education, entrepreneurship and trade. It's a great way to strengthen relationships between ordinary people, Taiwanese and Swedes as well. For this reason, I wonder whether we are now prepared to defy Parliament's will on this issue, which I am at least interpreting the Foreign Minister. Is it at least willing to develop the current offices in Taipei to try to promote entrepreneurship and bilateral relations? When it comes to the Leaders Network, I would like to return to what Björn Söder said, namely that this is actually about an initiative that came from Sweden and does not require other states. Like Björn Söder, I therefore hope that the Minister for Foreign Affairs will be able to answer these questions. Now it is quite clear that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is paralysed by the fact that it is the Chinese dictatorship that is allowed to dictate the terms of the Swedish Government's diplomatic relations with Taiwan. I may find that to say the least distressing but unsurprising. Last but not least, I would like to know how the Minister for Foreign Affairs thinks it has acted on the government's so-called democracy offensive towards relations with Taiwan. How do you see that a democracy offensive has been implemented in these relations before and after one had this declared ambition?
i-MDGeSNEW2atwJpGB1sy1Ko	Madam President, I would like The Foreign Minister spoke about some examples of cooperation between our two countries. That's a good thing, but it's not enough. Sweden must make more efforts and, above all, support Taiwan's participation in the annual meetings of the World Health Organisation. In the past, Taiwan has had an observer status. They'd love to have it again. You usually listen to Sweden's words in the UN. I would therefore urge the Foreign Minister to make an effort to ensure that Taiwan receives an invitation to the next meeting. Madam President, I would like During the week, a delegation of MPs from four parties visited Taiwan. One of the questions that was repeatedly highlighted at the meetings with Swedish companies and Swedish citizens living in the country was the question of Sweden's representation. Why does Sweden not have a full-time representative in Taipei? It became crystal clear during these meetings that the Stockholm-based representation is not working properly. Attendance in Taipei is a prerequisite for success in the monitoring of Swedish interests in trade, export promotion and investment promotion. A full-time representative has much more opportunities to organise regular Swedish promotion activities than a representative who is present in Stockholm most of the year. It is important for Sweden that our representative in Taiwan participates actively in any context that may be relevant to Swedish interests.
i-DLp8Cfi4UryHikxp7FiyJb	Madam President, I would like Let me start with Boriana Åberg's last question about the absence of a representative. Of course we have a representative in place. As I have said to Boriana Åberg in response to previous parliamentary questions, the current Swedish representative, due to the pandemic and quarantine rules, has not been able to reach as much as was intended from the beginning. But the Swedish representative is, as I said, in Taipei now, and there has been no downgrading of Sweden's representation in Taiwan. I believe that neither Björn Söder nor Markus Wiechel like the answers I give. Therefore, they keep saying that I do not answer their questions. I have described a lot of activities that Sweden has together with Taipei, including that Sweden can. We are the country that has had the most trade negotiations with Taiwan. In addition, there are cooperation initiatives in the area of semiconductors, in the area of green conversion and so on. As far as strategy is concerned, Taiwan is mentioned several times in the China strategy adopted by the whole Parliament. With regard to what Björn Söder said about the Leaders Network, I would like to say the following. I do not believe that the Swedish Democrats will ever enter a government. But if they come into a government at some point, it is known that there are a lot of networks that are organised, often involving a number of countries from the different regions. Here there are twelve countries, and it is South Korea that represents the region and is doing an incredibly good job. It is not that 198 countries are involved in everything. Different countries are chosen in different networks, and this is where South Korea is chosen. But, as I said, that's what you do in a government.
i-9uE2Z5QhLXPfwSmiZCnFo5	Madam President, I would like No, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, this is not because we do not like the Foreign Minister's answer, but because the answers to our questions are missing. These may be answers to other questions but not to the questions we have asked. I have asked whether Sweden has a strategy to include Taiwan in the international organisations. The answer to it has not been answered. I take it that there is no such strategy. Then perhaps she can answer the second question that I asked, if one has an ambition to develop such a strategy in that case. I also asked whether progress has been made on including Taiwan. I have not been told that either. Furthermore, the Minister for Foreign Affairs says that the Leaders Network is only one of all other networks and cooperation organisations that exist and so on. But if Sweden has created a network, why do you not include Taiwan if you now claim to be at the forefront or want to work to include Taiwan in international cooperation? I'm sure South Korea's doing a great job there. But why does Taiwan not also be included to show that it really takes this issue seriously? I can also ask the question: what other networks has the government set up that have included Taiwan when it has not done so in the Leaders Network? I would also like to agree with what Boriana Åberg said about representation. When we were in Taiwan last week, it was clear that the Swedish representation is not working. It is not that this representation is always in place. We were confirmed by our representative there that he goes from and to Stockholm all the time. He stays in Stockholm for a period, then he is in Taipei for a period. So it is not that we always have representation there. It's causing trouble. There's a lot to do there. One of the measures that can be taken is to do what the Riksdag will decide on in the future with a House of Sweden as we show that we really take this seriously and are represented on a much larger level.
i-EC1JPZSogdd7yTYvXwSarD	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to say that I have great respect for the Foreign Minister. That is why I am surprised when she does not answer the very clear questions we have asked. Just as Björn Söder said: She may answer questions, but they are not our questions. I would therefore try to keep myself very brief here, so that it becomes very clear what it is I want answers to. I'm just bringing up a few things. As far as democracy is concerned, how have we seen the declared pro-democracy offensive in the government's Taiwan policy? How has relations with the principal democracy in Asia been strengthened? What sets us apart from other countries when it comes to one-China policy? As I and others have said before, there are no obstacles to strengthening diplomatic relations in different ways or to trying to promote existing cooperation. I have not denied the existence of trade cooperation. On the contrary – I think it is good that there is developed trade cooperation. But it can get better, not least through, for example, a House of Sweden and by developing the office that is there, which today works poorly. Again, the Minister for Foreign Affairs is welcome to present a ready-made script, but that is not the answer to the questions. I sincerely hope, for the sake of the government, that these issues are taken seriously. This is about standing on the right side when it comes to different values and about standing on the side of democracy against a dictatorship.
i-15xLc28HhTqcvNZg7W3taP	Madam President, I would like First of all, I have to ask Markus Wiechel what he means by Taiwan being Asia's foremost democracy. I wonder what South Korea and a number of other democracies in Asia think about this. The important thing is that the government has a fruitful and regular exchange with Taiwan, both in Sweden and in Taiwan. The contacts between Sweden and Taiwan are extensive, despite the lack of diplomatic relations. As I have already mentioned, the trade office in Taipei works, although of course we can always discuss how it could be done better. It is no problem to have such discussions. Above all, trade is very important in this cooperation, but it is also cultural exchange, academic cooperation and parliamentary contacts. We will continue with the broad exchange with Taiwan. Sweden will continue to support Taiwan's participation in international contexts that do not require state status. You don't have land strategies for every country in the world; it's nothing you have. But if anyone wants to develop a strategy for Taiwan, it is of course entirely up to each party to do so itself. Many global challenges require full participation in various international collaborations and so on. The Swedish Parliament has adopted a strategy for the whole of China – Sweden is one of only two countries where this has happened – where the issue of Taiwan is also addressed. Thus, the government does not intend to change its one-China policy. Work on developing strategies with Taiwan will continue with existing relations, and no specific strategy is needed for this.
i-2CB23TrpYkFbsWZXA1wJXi	Madam President, I would like Markus Wiechel has asked me whether I have taken any steps to promote the accession of China and more countries to the Santiago Convention or in other ways to stop Chinese organ harvesting. Furthermore, Markus Wiechel has asked me whether I have lifted the organ harvest in international contexts as well as with Chinese representatives or whether this can be expected to happen in the future. Finally, Markus Wiechel has asked me whether I agree that what is happening to Uighurs in Xinjiang province in China is to be regarded as genocide and, if so, what initiatives I am prepared to take in this regard. The government strongly condemns all forms of trafficking in human organs, wherever they occur in the world. A Convention against Trade in Human Bodies, the so-called Santiago Convention, was adopted by the Council of Europe in 2015. Sweden actively participated in the negotiations and adoption of the Convention and supports the continued accession of other countries. Proposals for measures necessary to enable Sweden to fully comply with the requirements of the Convention were submitted in 2019 in the Santiago Convention against the Trafficking of Organs (SOU 2019:1). The report has been referred. The government takes seriously the allegations made about trafficking in human organs in China. This is also an issue that the EU community is following closely. The EU has highlighted the issue of trafficking in human organs on several occasions in the regular dialogue between the EU and China on human rights. The government takes the human rights situation in Xinjiang very seriously. The Ministry for Foreign Affairs' recent report on the situation of human rights, democracy and the rule of law in China from 2019 stated that restrictions on the enjoyment of human rights by individuals are particularly common in Xinjiang. Several UN Special Rapporteurs on Human Rights have also commented on developments. It is of great importance that the international community should have access to Xinjiang in order to obtain detailed information on developments on the ground. The UN High Commissioner for Human Rights has announced his intention to travel to Xinjiang. Sweden continues to support the EU's request to China to give the High Commissioner meaningful and unhindered access to the region. Given the gravity of the situation, the EU imposed sanctions on four individuals and one entity on 22 March 2021 in response to the human rights violations in Xinjiang. It is important that the EU continues to act in a united manner. The maintenance of international law, including human rights, affects the entire international community. Therefore, Sweden and the EU have repeatedly addressed the situation in Xinjiang at meetings with Chinese representatives. Both Sweden and the EU have repeatedly expressed concerns about the human rights situation in Xinjiang, including at the last meeting of the UN Human Rights Council in March 2022.
i-JhzR6XxcXGuGRgnzYxiiPt	Madam President, I would like This interpellation raises fundamental human rights issues that we could only hope would not have to be lifted in 2022. It is particularly distressing that the abuses that take place are not barbarous abuses by the terrorist cult IS, but abuses that are state-sanctioned – sanctioned by the leadership of one of the world's most powerful countries. In addition, it is about a country with which Sweden and the whole of the West have frequent relations in different ways, both trade and diplomatic relations. The reports of the organ harvest in China are, to put it mildly, terrible. What we see bears witness to such incomprehensible cruelty that we cannot even get into the horror in which people are suffering right now. People are literally slaughtered, with or without stunning, for the sake of their organs. If they are not murdered just before this theft, they die during or after the theft itself. In order for the organs to be preserved fresh, future victims are forced to sit in prison, often in direct proximity to the operating room. Madam President, I would like I want to make it clear that I am convinced that both the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the rest of the government share the horror that I feel when I take note of these data and read about what is happening in China. However, I am somewhat disappointed by the fact that the Minister for Foreign Affairs says in his reply that he takes seriously the allegations made against the Chinese state about the trade in human organs. In fact, what we are discussing is not a question of accusations, but there is widespread support for the reality of this barbarism. Just a few weeks ago, on April 4, we were able to read a study published in the American Journal of Transplantation, one of the most prestigious medical journals in the United States. In this, 348 health workers and researchers from 56 different Chinese hospitals have gone through over 120,000 Chinese publications on organ transplants. The group has identified at least 71 scientific articles in which doctors have cut out of the heart and lungs of donors without establishing in advance that the donors were brain-dead. This is also proof that they have murdered solely for the sake of the organs. The Communist dictatorship's respect for human life and understanding of the suffering to which people are subjected is almost non-existent. The only thing that matters in their world is to crush the ideological resistance that might exist, that is, people who advocate democracy or have a different way of life. In addition, they see an excellent opportunity to make money, in this case by stealing human organs. In his reply, the Minister for Foreign Affairs mentions that the EU community is serious about this. I have no reason to doubt that. I believe that the European community also wants to do the right thing. But one of the questions I asked is whether it is the case that the Foreign Minister himself or the Swedish Government has acted specifically on this particular issue. What personal contacts have been made? How successful have these contacts been? Furthermore, I wonder whether the Minister believes that there may be reason to take other measures, national measures, such as Swedish legislation against this.
i-BLwXhqEK98f5qJzEL5kg5Y	Madam President, I would like Let me emphasise once again that the government condemns all forms of trafficking in human organs wherever they occur. Therefore, Sweden participated actively in the negotiations on the adoption of the Santiago Convention – the Council of Europe Convention against Trade in Human Bodies, as one might say. Combating trafficking in human organs is a cross-border challenge. The government therefore supports the continued accession of more countries to the Convention. This Convention was adopted in March 2015. It has three main objectives. The first is to prevent, prevent and combat trafficking in human organs by providing for certain acts to be punished. The second is to protect the rights of victims of crime in respect of offences punishable under the Convention. The third is to promote national and international cooperation in the fight against trafficking in human organs, including in China and elsewhere. Both Member States of the Council of Europe and non-Member States may accede to the Convention. If more states choose to join, that is a very positive thing. The Santiago Convention proposes how to deal with this in the country referred to by Markus Wiechel and in other countries. Now the investigation is out for consultation, but unfortunately it has been a little delayed because a lot of legislative work had to be postponed due to all legislative work related to the pandemic. But the issue is still topical and important.
i-VJKSGBDs8rcRC2opJHzGZQ	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for a clear response to this process. I did not understand, however, that the Minister was addressing the issue of Swedish legislation. Several countries have introduced national legislations, including Israel, Spain and Italy. The US Congress in 2020 developed the law Stop Forced Organ Harvesting Act of 2020. The British Parliament adopted similar legislation, and just a few weeks ago it raised the need to strengthen domestic legislation in Britain, precisely in view of the terrible barbarism that this is. My interpellation, however, is about more than organ theft. The aim of the Chinese dictatorship is to eliminate certain ethnic groups. According to Beijing's own calculations, the falungong movement had about 70 million practitioners in 1999 but today may have as few as 7 million. The Secretary General of the Chinese Communist Party explicitly said that their elimination was a stated goal. This also applies to other ethnic groups such as Tibetans, Uighurs and others that you literally want to get rid of. They should not have their own identity, religion or way of life, and they should definitely not like the way the Communist Party governs China. Several parliaments around the world have recognised what is happening in Xinjiang as a genocide. The testimony we get from there is terrible. It is a matter of pure concentration camps – a phenomenon many hoped would be passé in 2022, but that is not the case. How does the Minister of Foreign Affairs view this? Unfortunately, the wording of the answer is somewhat unclear on the question of genocide. Does the Foreign Minister think that genocide is being committed in Xinjiang and other parts of China or not? Return to the question of Swedish legislation. Is it conceivable that Sweden, like other countries, such as the United Kingdom, Italy and Spain, will adopt national legislation?
i-8SkD8Zq8uFaDjdpDpUyjSL	Madam President, I would like The government, of course, takes the human rights situation very seriously in China in general, and we are following the situation closely, not least in Xinjiang. Whether these abuses and violations are to be judged as genocide must be determined after a thorough and thorough examination of facts and evidence. Another important but not decisive aspect of such an assessment is whether a national or international court or tribunal has examined the matter. The question of how to label the abuses committed does not affect our immediate position: that Sweden continues to be totally opposed to what is happening in Xinjiang and continues to act against it. However, we want this to be controlled, among other things, by the UN Commissioner for Human Rights. Both Sweden and the EU have addressed the situation in Xinjiang in several international contexts in meetings with Chinese representatives, most recently at the EU-China Summit on 1 April. Both Sweden and the EU have repeatedly expressed their concern about this human rights situation in Xinjiang. We also raised the situation at the UN Human Rights Council in March. As I said in the response, the EU has also adopted sanctions against both individuals and entities in relation to human rights violations in Xinjiang. At the same time, it was done by the EU, the United Kingdom, the United States and Canada as a strong indication that this is unacceptable. As far as organ harvesting and possible legislation are concerned, we will first see what emerges from the consultation document on the Santiago Convention and whether to proceed with legislation or anything else.
i-Lqu5PwNHPfpc8BZ6rBQcpC	Madam President, I would like I have great respect for wanting to wait for referrals, but some of me have a little question about the fact that as a government you cannot say more directly that it is wrong to be involved in this type of activity. In the parliaments I mentioned, the support for condemning this has been compact. In Britain, which is now about to pass another law on this, there is no opposition to this law. I don't see what you need to discuss. In the UK, it goes without saying that all British citizens should be convicted of crimes if they are involved in or involved in such activities. I don't understand why you have to wait for referrals. This is happening right now, and then you need to act right now. If the Minister thinks that what is happening in Xinjiang is genocide, what measures can we expect the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Government to take? Can we expect the government to push to investigate what is happening in order in some way to redress all the victims who are suffering from this oppression today?
i-KBHru9oxRu4ZFDydnsUhPN	Madam President, I would like The human rights situation in China remains serious, and the efforts of Sweden and the EU to bring this issue to the fore in all the different contexts continue. As I said earlier, the government condemns all forms of trafficking in human organs wherever in the world it takes place. It goes without saying that it is wrong; Markus Wiechel does not have to doubt that. It's not just wrong, it's totally reprehensible. That is why Sweden has been so active in the negotiations to bring about the Santiago Convention, or the Council of Europe Convention against Trade in Human Bodies. This cross-border work must continue. With regard to reports of irregularities in organ transplantation in China, the EU has addressed this with China in the human rights dialogue. The worrying developments in Xinjiang have been addressed both in Sweden bilaterally and in the EU bilaterally. As I said earlier, the genocide convention is very specific, and evidence must be collected. That is why the first step is for the UN Commissioner for Human Rights to have access to Xinjiang, which she has not received. We will continue to demand this and to raise these issues, and I share Markus Wiechels's outrage at the horrors that are taking place.
i-FXkpCdzN9X2mxzqPhY2J52	Madam President, I would like Maria Gardfjell has asked me whether I intend to present a proposal to Parliament on the basis of the report by the State Protection of Species – our joint responsibility. Maria Gardfjell has also asked me whether I intend to proceed with proposals on species protection crime and proposals to strengthen the work against illegal trafficking in animals and plants and to include these proposals in the bill. Finally, Maria Gardfjell has asked me whether I intend to work to ensure that the proposal complies with EU legislation on species protection, which includes the necessary adaptation of species protection in Swedish legislation and application. First of all, I would like to say that I share Maria Gardfjell's view that the situation of biodiversity is serious. The current regulatory framework for species protection has been criticised for not being sufficiently applicable, effective and legally secure. A review of species protection was therefore included as a point in the January Agreement, and in May 2020 the Government set up an investigation into such a review. As Maria Gardfjell mentions, the Species Protection Investigation submitted its report to the Government last June. The report contains extensive analyses and several proposals to make species protection more applicable, effective and legally secure. The report has also been referred, and a large number of referrals have been received. The government is now actively working on what needs to be done on the basis of the proposals in the Swedish Species Protection Investigation and the referral document. This is a work that the government gives high priority. In recent months, discussions on species protection have intensified, and much has been about the uncertainty that has arisen about what constitutes sufficient consideration in relation to forestry. It is the government's starting point that it should be possible to achieve both the objectives of forestry policy and the Parliament's environmental objectives on Living forests and a rich plant and animal life, and at the same time to meet our EU and international obligations. In this context, the protection of species and the conservation of biodiversity are also important interests of society. In the short term, the Government intends to review the Species Protection Regulation as regards how the species protection provisions of the Birds Directive and the Species and Habitats Directive are to be incorporated into the Regulation. The Government has also commissioned the relevant authorities to develop guidance and strategies on how those who work in and with the forest can work practically with species protection issues. In the slightly longer term, we also intend to review the environmental code in the parts that the Swedish Environmental Protection Investigation and the referrals give rise to. However, it is too early at this stage to give information on when such a review may be completed or what proposals the government will then make.
i-KujLRx2hL2f75r35bu6mQ7	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Climate and Environment, for answering my questions! It is extremely important that the government submits a proposal to the Riksdag based on the report of the Species Protection Investigation and goes ahead with the issues of species protection crime. These are proposals that need to be implemented as a matter of urgency. It is also extremely important that the proposals put forward by the government linked to the protection of species should comply with EU legislation on species protection. Perhaps it is a strange question that it should comply with EU legislation on species protection. Sweden has been a member of the EU for 27 years. The strange thing is that there are more and more people in the forest industry and lobbyists who think that the climate and environmental policy that we have jointly developed within the EU should not apply to Swedish forestry. The Express recently wrote bitterly in its leader: a Bofinken got Strandhäll to reveal his ignorance. It was a leader who raised the subject that the Swedish Forest Agency has now created panic among some forest owners in Sweden. The Swedish Forest Board has expressed itself in what Dagens Nyheter describes as a coordinated campaign coordinated from LRF's offices. The LRF contacted me in writing. We had a meeting. But the memos do not say that we have agreed on anything. But obviously there was a meeting. A few days later came a report from Skogforsk, an article from the Swedish Forest Board, two committee initiatives and an article from the Forest Industries. They came the same day, and they all had the same wrong starting point: each bofink should be protected. The forest board has a little bit of a panic among forest owners. Can forest owners even report their forest? What did the Board of Forests want with their play? Was it getting the government to make a quick change in species protection? Obviously, the Government fell as a furo to the lobbyists from the forest industry, and it went quickly. The LRF calls it that the Swedish Forest Board is launching a new order in the forest. I wonder if the Government never considered why the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, which previously always coordinated its activities with the Swedish Forest Board on these issues, did not agree with the Swedish Forest Board and Herman Sundqvist. Did the Minister for the Environment and Climate Ministers consider why environmental organisations said: This is not true? In the judgments referred to by the Swedish Forest Agency, there is no support for individual protection to be interpreted as strictly as the Swedish Forest Agency claims. Perhaps Mr Herman Sundqvist in the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture has recently given himself up. He wanted to put his foot down. He wanted to react to the proposal of the Species Protection Investigation before the proposals were prepared by the Government Office. Does the Minister for the Environment agree that it is the so-called cow owners and industry that are now the winners of the Social Democrats' policy?
i-HGfzZjDwouqxs6gKAXh6XS	Madam President, I would like The problematic situation that is the reason why the government is now acting very quickly is not new. We agreed in the January agreement, Maria Gardfjell, on the need for an investigation to review species protection issues. It was precisely because the situation was unclear. Now we have a number of proposals on the table of the Government Office which we are preparing. Of course, we will do so with all due respect. Of course, my mission as Minister for Climate and the Environment is not to sit and think about whether the authorities – that is, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency or the Swedish Forest Agency – I am responsible for sitting and playing some game behind the curtains. That's not my job. My task is to relate to the communication that our authorities, my authorities, have with me and the Ministry according to the models that we have for dialogue and communication with our authorities. Anything else would be absolutely astounding, Maria Gardfjell, as if I should sit and have to think about whether the Director General of the Forest Board means anything other than what the authority chooses to communicate with the Government Office. The Swedish Forest Agency published a press release that has quite rightly caused both major debate and criticism of how the species protection rules are designed. The background to the press release, according to the Authority itself, is indicative judgements both nationally and in the EU Court of Justice. Does Maria Gardfjell mean that I should not take the authority at its word in this regard? Should I instead consider whether the Director-General has another fox behind his ear? The changes that the judges are leading to, even according to my officials at the Ministry of the Environment, are precisely about the fact that the forest owner is obliged to show respect for all wild bird species at individual level, because all wild birds are protected under the Species Protection Regulation. It is also obliged to take into account a number of other protected plants and animals in forestry measures. I know that Maria Gardfjell is really very well aware of these issues and why we set up the investigation we set up. I hope that we will be able to come forward there with a number of important proposals to strengthen species protection in Sweden, because that is needed. But my job as Minister is not to listen to what the authorities say and to sit in the Chamber and think about whether the Director-General of the Forestry Board means anything other than what he says. Furthermore, the criticism, Maria Gardfjell, has been immensely sprawling. It has been over-implementing the Birds Directive, that the national peace-seeking rules should not apply to ongoing land use, that the knowledge requirement is too high for forest owners and that landowners should be entitled to financial compensation when ongoing land use is significantly hampered without having to sue the state. It has also been about the European Court of Justice ruling in the Protecting Forest case providing protection for each individual bird. The government is now taking urgent action to deal with the situation. That's what we do.
i-DvSQn3MR8bwupJkgCGgxaD	Madam President, I would like This is not about new legislation. It's not about watching every bird. It is about adapting forestry so that species can remain in their natural environments. Each operator must have knowledge of what is in the natural environment. This applies to those who are going to build a road and those who are going to start a mine or do forestry. But forestry has had a free pass for many, many years in the years that Sweden has been in the EU. In recent years, the forest owners' movement has worked very actively to remove the key biotop inventories – the state aid to forest owners. This has been eliminated, and now demands are being made that forest owners do not have to pay for inventories. What's it supposed to be like? In an interview in Sweden's Television, the Minister for the Environment and Climate Action said that there are now extremely strict demands on forest owners, and that therefore the Species Protection Regulation needs to be amended. The strict application must be changed as a matter of urgency so that no account is taken of each bofink, it was said. It has become a bit of a upside-down world, Madam President. The Director General of the Forest Board threatens forest owners with not being able to harvest their forests, and environmental organisations say that this is excessive. The Swedish Forest Board interprets the judgment in its own way, and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency does not interpret it or the county administrative boards. Nor do the environmental law experts at Uppsala University, not environmental analysis specialists at SLU and not the environmental organisations WWF, Bird Life or the Nature Protection Association. Should the Minister for the Environment and Climate Change consider whether the Authority has an agenda on this issue? I think that the Minister for the Environment and Climate Action should consider whether the authorities are right in relation to the requirements of the Administrative Act to coordinate their activities properly. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency interpreted the judgment as meaning that the practice was not changed but that it was a clarification of what was already in force: that continuous ecological functionality should be taken into account for species that require special consideration, i.e. not every bofink but species that require consideration. The EU Court of Justice has guided the Swedish courts, and they have not been based on the Species Protection Regulation but on the EU Nature Conservation Directive. There is talk of the uncertainty to be removed by the Minister for the Environment by sharing the Birds Directive and the Habitats Directive. There may be a point in this, but it will not remove the uncertainty. A change of regulation does not solve the whole problem. Or does Annika Strandhäll think that a change of regulation that divides the prohibition rule on birds and habitat species solves the problem? The government, as the Minister for the Environment said, gave the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the Swedish Forest Agency a mission last week to investigate this. The government also said that after the autumn of 2023 it will come back with further proposals. What kind of proposal is that?
i-X8GuYGBT7i9FsZDmWAqsuo	Madam President, I would like In order to respond quickly to what the government is intending to do at the moment: we naturally want to eliminate the uncertainty that has arisen. Above all, there is great concern and uncertainty about what is sufficient consideration in relation to forestry. We've been discussing this for a long time. The background to this, as Maria Gardfjell knows, is not any change in Swedish legislation but just new legal cases concerning EU rules on species protection. The government's starting point is that it should be possible to achieve both the objectives of forest policy and the Parliament's goals of living forests and a rich plant and animal life and, at the same time, be able to meet our EU and international commitments. The protection of species and the preservation of biodiversity are, of course, also an incredibly important public interest in this context, not least as the situation has developed. We will, as soon as possible, change the way in which the species protection provisions of the Birds Directive and the Species and Habitats Directive are incorporated into the Species Protection Regulation. That's correct, Maria Gardfjell. But we have also given the relevant authorities the task, in this case, in relation to their task of coordinating their activities according to the administrative court's requirements, to develop precisely guidelines and strategies for how those who work in and with the forest can also work on species protection issues. We have also already announced that one of the measures we intend to take in the longer term is to review the environmental code and the species protection regulation in the parts to which the report and the outcome of the opinion give rise, in relation to Maria Gardfjell's final question. However, it is not easy at present to tell us when such a review will be completed or exactly what proposals we will be making. What we can see is that there is a good basis in the Species Protection Investigation to proceed with a number of proposals. Basically, Sweden is a forest country. The forest is the backbone of our society too much. It is about both the economy and climate change. This is why it is so important to reduce the uncertainty that has now arisen. That is why, as I said, this was included as a point in the January agreement. I think it is very good that we have now given the assignment to go forward with a number of guides and strategies to support those who are actors in different ways in the forest. According to the Government commission, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the Swedish Forest Agency will collaborate widely with society's stakeholders – forest owners and county boards, as well as environmental organisations. The intention is, of course, that the results of the authorities' work on the mission will facilitate both forest owners and operators to take appropriate account of protected species and their habitats in forestry measures. I will also be inviting you to a broader meeting in the spring with both the forestry industry and representatives of the non-profit sector.
i-DHrHLFcekRhA3YVJRCeDUJ	Madam President, I would like Sweden is a forest country, absolutely. The forest should be sufficient – for forestry and for anyone who wants to visit the forest. After all, we have the right of public access. The forest is also important for the reindeer industry, for berries and mushrooms and for other types of housekeeping. The economy is a very important issue. We must recognise that climate change, biodiversity and loss of nature are equally important, not only for the environment but also for food and the economy. The way we produce and use our forests is of great importance to biodiversity. Protecting nature is a very important climate solution. We have a negative development in Sweden when it comes to biodiversity. Species protection is one of the most important ways we have to protect biodiversity. Then it is very sad that Annika Strandhäll, our Minister for Climate and the Environment, does not actually see that the assignment she has given to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the Swedish Forest Agency is impossible to carry out for the authorities unless you also point out which interpretation is correct regarding these judges. An amendment to the regulation, which divides the prohibition clause into different parts, will not solve the problem. When it comes to species protection, the entire species protection investigation needs to come up on the table, not just a small part.
i-A529xMqykZ9DCZHZpnNriZ	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Maria Gardfjell, for a basically very important interpellation! We fully agree with the concerns we share about the development of biodiversity. The government – I think Maria Gardfjell also knows – works in several ways to preserve biodiversity. The work on the species protection investigation is one. We have a clear ambition that protected forests should not be harvested but should be preserved, either through formal protection or through voluntary provisions, and that environmental considerations in forestry should increase. Of course it can get better. We fully agree on that. Among other things, we are working on this by implementing the proposals in the forest bill. We also set aside significant sums of money for the management of valuable nature in order to preserve biodiversity. We have efforts to build and restore wetlands. We have efforts to strengthen the conditions for wild pollinators. We have worked with action programmes for endangered species and to prevent and prevent the introduction and spread of invasive alien species in our environment. We shall also live up to our international commitments, both in terms of CBD and our EU legal obligations – in particular, I would say, the Species and Habitats Directive and the Birds Directive. The focus should certainly be on these issues ahead. This is absolutely necessary given how negative the development has been and how much faster this unfortunately goes.
i-Q9xMSS5k1F6L5ZNXVrieFV	Madam President, I would like Kjell Jansson has asked me whether I think it is reasonable to deal with processing times of between 12 and 15 years or whether I intend to act to shorten them, whether I intend to raise a matter to Parliament regarding simplifications in the environmental code and whether I have plans to promote the introduction of service guarantees for the examination of cases by state bodies. I would like to begin by agreeing with Kjell Jansson that 12 – 15 years is not a reasonable time to test whether a permit should be granted for an operation. The Government's ambition is that Sweden should be at the forefront of the climate change transition. This presupposes modern and effective state-of-the-art processes. The government has worked for several years to improve the effectiveness of environmental testing. Some examples of measures taken include the collection of statistics on testing, the development of forms of interaction and changes in legislation such as the Environmental Code. As regards the trial of mines – which is a responsibility I share with the Minister for Economic Affairs – the government has in recent years initiated, among other things, a special investigation that will review trial processes and regulations in order to ensure a sustainable supply of innovation-critical metals and minerals. The report will be presented on 31 October 2022. During the spring, the government will receive several reports from investigations and authorities. The statistics so far collected and available show that most applicants for environmental permits actually do. This also applies to mining activities that have received processing concessions and then apply for environmental permits. The statistics also show that environmental testing in most cases takes around a year. However, as Kjell Jansson has noted, the trial may in some cases take a long time. Some cases simply take longer than others, and this may be due to difficult scientific or legal balances. In mine trials there are often strong interests against each other, which may affect the length of individual cases. Having said that, I would also like to question the fact that no mine has been authorised since the environmental code was introduced. Unlike research permits, processing concessions are applied for in a few individual cases per year. I would like to point out, for example, that processing concessions have been announced by both the Berg State and the Government and that several environmental permits have been issued in the 2020s. The government will handle the proposed changes proposed by ongoing investigations in the spring quickly. What will be presented to Parliament today is too early to say, but I am hopeful. Service guarantees for the examination of cases by state bodies have not been considered at present. However, as I have said, we are working broadly on efficiency, where increased funding by the review authorities is also a priority for the government.
i-D6qo8occWTRSidJQQRwWNA	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister for the Environment. The question is whether the environmental code's regulations are reasonable. When I grew up in the 60s and 70s, I learned both at school and at home that Sweden's base is the forest and mines. The forest delivers timber for everything to be built in wood, and paper is made out of the leftover that is not used by furan. In the mines they mined ore that we both exported and had to our strong car industry that has built a large part of Sweden's wealth. About 20 percent of bnp is made up of the automotive industry, with Scania and Volvo that have built up Sweden's wealth. Today, I and a number of people with me are very concerned about a rigid piece of legislation that tries to limit these activities and question those that already exist. For example, cement has been broken in Slite on Gotland for over a hundred years. Here you are now dividing whether it is environmentally friendly or not. Something can be released into the water, so instead it is considered to take cement from China. Taking cement from China can of course friend of order figure out right away means transport costs and transport emissions, first of all. Everyone talks about climate change – this would be an extremely negative factor. I think you have to use sense and balance. The mission of politics is to weigh different interests and not let the authorities do this. There are elements of adult ethos activism in some parts. I was pleased to hear that the Minister for the Environment shares my view that 12 – 15 years is a long time, for example, when it comes to testing mines. If someone wanted to build a new nuclear power plant, it would certainly be a test at least at that time if only to limit the possibility of doing so, even though there are plans for several works both in Ringhals and Forsmark. I wonder why the Minister for the Environment does not want to reform the environmental code and develop service guarantees. When I was a municipal councillor in Norrtälje, we introduced a service guarantee to handle both environmental and building permit matters, with limited time. The customer must know how long it takes to obtain a permit or not. I think that is a hygiene factor, otherwise the authorities can go on year after year and say that it is complicated and that it wants that and someone else wants something else. It's a lot like that now. In addition, I would argue that the environmental code often runs counter to the Plan and Construction Act when matters are to be examined. The environmental code says that it is not possible to build here, although it is perfectly possible to build. At least the Minister for the Environment does not want to reform the law. That's remarkable. We've actually put in a system to complicate everything. Our old fine country of export and entrepreneurship is beginning to have trouble producing goods and services – if you don't do it. Then we're good. Now it is a test according to the environmental code even when the defense will fly. They received an answer from the County Administrative Board in one day, and the answer was no. They were not allowed to fly with reference to the environmental code. If we cannot maintain the security of the country, with reference to rigid legislation, then it is a bad thing.
i-VXsGrutwwJqhhvJFj3jZAN	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Kjell Jansson, for the interpellation, which I basically think is very important! At the same time, we must be extremely agreed that we know a lot more today about how both forestry and mines affect our environment and climate than we did a hundred years ago. Thankfully, a little has happened in a hundred years, which to me is completely obvious. Just as Sweden was one of the countries that managed to stay far ahead of the transition in connection with industrialisation, it is also quite obvious to me that Sweden should be one of the countries in the world that can be at the forefront of the transition to what is now a completely new, green society. We will be able to take advantage of the opportunities of the green industrial revolution in the form of new technologies and new knowledge that can be implemented to ensure that we can seize all the potential that lies in the Swedish forest. I had an interpellation debate just before with Maria Gardfjell from the Green Party. We will be able to utilise the now innovative metals and minerals needed for Sweden to be at the forefront of the green transition. That's where we're supposed to be. We should not look with romantic eyes at how it used to be, but now we should focus on the green industrial revolution. We are now seeing how we are reaping new jobs with new technologies that there is a huge demand from the outside world to take part in. I also think, as Kjell Jansson says, that it is incredibly important that we have facts on the table so that business, or for that matter politics, does not stand and discuss the wrong things. I am just as keen as the opposition that we should have effective and rapid environmental tests – but without compromising the requirements, because it is not 1902 but 202 2, and we know much, much more today. We often hear information that environmental testing permits take tens of years. But now there are actually national statistics on this. The statistics are also important for us to be able to identify appropriate efficiency measures. These statistics show that environmental testing in most cases takes around a year. Both county administrative boards and individual land and environmental courts have their own handling cases, and the statistics show a reduction in processing time. In 2020, approximately 75 per cent of the cases reached the targets set for processing time at the county administrative boards. As I said in my answer, some trials take longer than others, and that is when there are exceptional difficulties. In trials of mining activities, strong interests often stand against each other. We have all been able to follow Kallak, for example. According to the information I have, some ten environmental permits have been issued in the 21st century. Only one who had received a processing concession has been refused an environmental permit, and it is on Billinge pasture in Skåne. Two applications have been rejected on formal grounds. I would be happy to come back in my next speech.
i-MJoE1vabY9Mk41zXwim6wL	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of the Environment Strandhäll! V at the start of the green transition. That sounds good, but as you invest so hard in wind power that only covers the supply of electricity to 50 percent of this year's hours, you have to have other energy to cover it, especially in southern Sweden where there is no hydropower. Then you sometimes get started Karlshamnsverket, which draws 140 cubic meters of oil. You can also buy coal power from both Poland and Germany. This has been done on several occasions during the winter. I'd like to know if the Minister for the Environment thinks it's a green transition. In my world, it is brown conversion, Madam President! Let's go to the woods. The forest has been managed fantastically by all private land-owners and forest owners. Over the last 50 years we have had double growth in the forest against what we had 50 years ago. The forest grows twice as fast, and why does it? It's for a number of reasons. First of all, it is cared for by talented private forest owners who take care of their forests as well as their children. Secondly, if I may swear in the church, emissions of carbon dioxide are pure manure for the forest. The forest is sucking this up and growing stronger. As far as the mines are concerned, I agree with the Minister for the Environment: there can be problems with groundwater and everything. I'll buy that. But when it comes to the forest, I don't buy it. I heard the debate before about protecting the birds in the trees when you start felling. But it is understood by every normal person that if you come with a chainsaw and start clearing the forest, the birds fly away. They're not still up there! They're moving. There are no birds suffering from the forest industry. These are fake troubles that don't exist. This is exactly what this is all about. Reason has disappeared. There are also parties here in Parliament that are completely without reason. Once again – these are long processing times. This also applies to simpler questions. We were going to dredder at home in Roslagen. We prepared the permit application and brought in an environmental consultant who made everything ready, took the bottom samples and everything. Yet it took two years and eight months for us to get the permit. Two years and eight months is completely absurd, I think. It should have been five or six months. The hydroelectric power in Norrland is an extremely important energy source, next to nuclear power. Now it has been made up to be reconsidered. Is the hydropower dirty? It's there. It has been there for 150 years and was a large base for the entire Norrland industry before nuclear power started in the 80s. The Moderates and the Social Democrats have always agreed on energy policy and made sure that industry works. Now it's completely fallen. Now, I would argue, parties with special interests have had a negative impact on the Social Democrats. Sweden is the world's most export-dependent country. 52% of GDP contributes to the export industry. Buying milk and loafing off each other is not what contributes to bnp. We have to have it to survive. But it is the export industry that bears all of Sweden's wealth, everything. Then we must ensure that licences and systems are in place that simplify, do not make things more difficult for those companies. The fact that we agree on that would be very reasonable.
i-PJ8qnNJSMtLQN3peSgSMPv	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Kjell Jansson, for the post and the commitment! It is clear that we fully agree that Sweden is a small and export-dependent nation. We are extremely proud of the resources we have in this country, not least in the form of natural resources. Of course, we want to ensure that our forest landowners and mine owners who will contribute significant parts in terms of coping with the green transition will have the conditions to do so. They should have the opportunity to do so, and at the same time we will live up to modern environmental conditions. I am convinced that this can be combined. No one wants to stress more than I do the importance of a broad political consensus in the Swedish parliament on energy issues in order to give not least the companies, industries and landowners who are out there the opportunity to make the investments that they know are right. It is a major problem – I will have a few more interpellation debates here today – that politics is currently giving very ambiguous signals to them out there about what is political. They stand and stutter to contribute to the green transition; they have the technology. Is it okay for the biofuels industry to make the billion-dollar investments they have in mind? Or is it what Oscar Sjöstedt said in the budget debate here today? He called biofuels a mound. This is not a good signal from Swedish politics. We have an energy agreement from 2016. I'm sorry the Moderates aren't behind it. There we balanced the debate that we have had for so long – for God's sake – on how much nuclear power we should have, how much wind power we should have and how much hydropower we should have. I cannot do more than emphasise the importance of having a good energy mix in Sweden and that it will consist of several parts. We are incredibly happy about the hydropower we have. It is one of the most important elements of our energy mix. It is also adjustable. I'm incredibly happy about it. I also see that nuclear power will be part of the Swedish energy mix for a number of decades to come. But we're also going to switch to the new technologies. What I can see now is an enormous interest in investing in wind power, not least offshore wind. When I look at what I have been able to present, it is only a fraction of the interest that exists today, and it corresponds to a doubling of the energy we use per year. It is clear that we should welcome it while investing in network capacity from north to south so that we can transfer more and have a strong system. But then we must agree that it is an energy mix we should have. It consists of different parts. If Skåne wants a lot of energy, you should perhaps stop saying no to all wind power, for example. Then the new green industries can see that it is possible to put their business in Skåne, for example. I really appreciate the commitment. We also have a lot of different studies to improve the efficiency of the environmental testing processes to be presented in the coming months. I look forward to a dialogue with the Moderates on this.
i-W3RoKYRgwNB1VJpCSR4j6q	Madam President, I would like Now we have come to energy policy, and it is really connected with this. I would like to say that nuclear power is the solution. If some companies then want to build wind power, you can let them. But you cannot build Sweden's energy supply on wind power. That's impossible. It is a source that provides only 50 to 60 percent of this year's hours. To think that it will solve the problem is highly naive. It's just naivety to say that. We have room to build two new works in Forsmark. At present, a new work is needed there. Two new works need to be built in Ringhals, or start one of them. One thing you can start. That is what needs to be done so that we do not have to burn oil in Karlshamn and do not have to bring in lignite from Germany. From both Ringhals and Forsmark there are wiring networks. They may need to be strengthened. I think so. But if you build offshore wind power, there's not a pipeline out in the ocean. It's absolutely empty. I wrote a question to the Minister's colleague, and he replied that the transmission lines from offshore wind power should be paid for by consumers, that is, by electricity bill. It will according to fairly safe sources I have to cost each household 5 000 kroner more a month – speaking of high electricity prices. On my latest bill for electricity, the network charges were higher than the cost of the power I've spent. We are in trouble in Sweden when it is that way. We need reasonable prices of energy for our households and for our export industry. It is crucial if we are to manage to maintain our prosperity in the long term. Otherwise, Sweden will become a country that is in dekiss. Much is currently going in the wrong direction and needs to be reversed. It's not too late, but it needs to be turned around. Thank you for the debate.
i-3f7mqYmnKiCVqXyTJeYoqV	Madam President, I would like I just have one comment to make. In fact, we would not be discussing energy policy here. But again – Sweden will need to have a suitable energy mix in the future, as in the past. We are so happy up here in the Nordic countries and Sweden that we have very good conditions to deliver a lot of energy. We have an amazing resource in our hydropower. We also have some nuclear power. There is no ban on building new nuclear power in places where we have shut it down. But there is no such willingness to invest today. However, it exists to a very large extent in terms of wind power. I was just recently meeting with the White House Climate Advisor. I also met politicians from both the Republicans and the Democrats. In the United States, wind power is currently being built on a rather large scale. We have a coast in Sweden that gives fantastic opportunities to do this. It will be in place quickly, and it will be relatively cheap compared to nuclear power. The time taken to build new nuclear power elsewhere has been a problem. We still have to have it with us here. I know that we fundamentally disagree on this. But what has meant a lot to Sweden is when we have had the opportunity to reach broad agreement on these issues, to compromise and coordinate our views in order to give companies and investors the conditions that need to be long-term given the major investments involved. At the end of May, we will receive the Environmental Review Report. I look forward to discussing it further with you too.
i-AWp7fJxigYN2LZ4sPMvS44	Madam President, I would like Jörgen Berglund has asked me why the government has not given priority to research into how we can clean up fibre banks and what I, as a minister, intend to do to overcome this underfunding. Jörgen Berglund has also asked me what other measures I intend to take as a minister to address the problem of fibre banks along the Norrland coast. There are many contaminated areas and sediments in Sweden that can pose a threat to human health and the environment. Examples of polluting sediments are the so-called fibre banks. Decontamination of environmental toxins both on land and at sea has been a priority for the government for several years, and major efforts have been made to speed up the clean-up work. For 2021, the clean-up premium amounted to over SEK 1.1 billion. There are generally high levels of organic environmental pollution and metals in bottom sediments in the paper and wood industries in Norrland. The responsible authorities have done a first characterisation and risk classification of some forty fibre banks in Norrland. This also serves as a basis for the county administrative boards' continued priorities and planning of measures for contaminated and fibre-containing sediments. Knowledge of contaminated sediments including fibre banks in Sweden is generally lower compared to contaminated areas on land. There is also a lack of action methods for some types of sediment at present. Therefore, the Government decided on a mission to several authorities to work during the period 2019 – 2022 with a total budget of SEK 70 million to develop more knowledge to be able to handle contaminated sediments in Sweden. The metalgase issue and the role of the fibre banks' emissions in a climate perspective is an important aspect in the work to gain better knowledge of the fibre banks in Sweden. In the framework of the mandate, the authorities shall, inter alia, carry out pilot projects that test and evaluate different methods in order to develop situational methods for contaminated sediments. Some of the pilot projects concern fibre banks. I share Jörgen Berglund's view on the importance of research in the field. Research is crucial in order to increase knowledge of the problem and to examine which measures are appropriate. Formas and Vinnova have in recent years financed several projects on contaminated sediments and the problems with the fibre banks. Since 2018, the Government has also allocated special funds to the State Geotechnical Institute to strengthen applied research and development as well as the dissemination of knowledge about contaminated sediments and fibre sediments. Within the framework of the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's work with environmental research, the Agency has also allocated SEK 29 million in 2021 – 2023 from the Swedish Environmental Research Agency for six research projects to strengthen knowledge about the risk and spread of contaminated sediments and hazardous substances from contaminated sediments. For me and the government, of course, clean seas and waters are an important issue. The government has therefore since 2018 allocated special funds to the clean-up facility to reduce the spread of pollutants and increase knowledge to be able to deal with problems with contaminated sediments such as fibre banks. J ag notes, however, that the budget of the M oderatians, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats decided by the Parliament in 2022 does not propose any increase in funding in relation to the government's proposals on clean-up and research in this area.
i-YUpFAa3oMawcqL7SoGhF8v	Madam President, I would like Fiberbankar is a concept that may lead to the idea of broadband, fibre wire and internet connection, but I can assure those who listen that the fibre banks we are now talking about are something quite different. Here we are talking about residues of wood fibres. For a very long time the pulp industry has released large amounts of wood fibres and process chemicals in the sea and in rivers from various plants mainly along the Norrland coast. Worth saying, this was done entirely according to the rules and laws in force at the time. My interest is in no way in pointing the finger at anyone but trying to overcome problems, because there are problems with these fibre banks. Fibres and pollutants that are bound to or in them are currently present in the sea outside or downstream of the various sources of emissions, forming so-called fibre banks or fibre-rich sediments. The amount and volume are difficult to estimate, but we are talking about several thousand square kilometers of the seabed covered by this. In some places they are several meters deep. Fibre banks contain large amounts of environmental toxins, including PCBs, mercury and dioxides, which threaten the habitats of our seas. It is common knowledge that these environmental toxins are transported in the food chain and can reach people when we eat fish, for example. Madam President, I would like New research from Sweden's University of Agricultural Sciences, SLU, has shown that large amounts of methane gas are formed and leaked into the atmosphere. Methanegas contributes many times to a warmer climate compared to carbon dioxide. Emissions are roughly estimated to account for up to 7 per cent of Sweden's total greenhouse gas emissions. The knowledge of these fibre banks has been around for a long time, but the knowledge of how and what to do with them has been low. At Mittuniversitetet in Sundsvall, which I come from, it is researched on, among other things, monitoring of fibre banks. Monitoring can be used to monitor the spread of toxic substances. It is, of course, important to monitor this in order, among other things, to determine which fibre banks should be given priority in the case of remediation or whether protective measures should be taken to better reduce the spread of toxic substances. Mittuniversitetet is also researching ways to take up, clean up and take advantage of important topics in the fibre banks. They contain heavy metals, among other things, and they can now be recycled. With today's commodity prices, it can also be profitable. The university also tests whether mushrooms, i.e. those we eat, can be part of taking up the toxic substances. If you can eat this particular fungus, I'll leave it unsaid. This is incredibly interesting and exciting. I can really recommend the Minister for Environment and Climate Change a visit to Mittuniversitetet to take part in this interesting research. I can promise that I will personally book the visit and come with you, if you wish. I think the question is incredibly important. Madam President, I would like This is important research that will be crucial for us to be able to clean up these environmental sins. Unfortunately, the amount of research resources has not been sufficient. I would like to see the state take greater responsibility, including targeted research efforts in this area. And they must not only be distributed to the major universities. I'll get back to what mistakes I think they've made. My first question remains a little bit.
i-BhRXyyT57AEZax4DDSgwfY	Madam President, I would like I think, Jörgen Berglund, that this is a very important interpellation. It is such an interpellation that is also knowledge-raising. We know that the fibre banks, as Jörgen Berglund says, contain dangerous organic pollutants, such as DDT and PCBs, but also heavy metals such as mercury and cadmium. It is toxins that are very persistent in our environment and that in fibre banks are at risk of spreading to their environment. We are keeping an eye on this, and that is one of the reasons behind parts of our efforts in the clean sea. As Jörgen Berglund points out, the coast of Norrland, based on today's knowledge, certainly seems to have the most such fibre banks. It is, as we were at, about large collections of cellulose-rich sediments that are a residue from the pulp industry. It is toxins that can spread upward in ecosystems, where they pose a threat to both man and the environment, just to underline the seriousness of this and the importance of further efforts. The interpellant also raised the issue of methane gas and pointed out that researchers at SLU and Uppsala University, among others, have discovered that methane can leak from the fibre banks. It really only shows that there is another incredibly important reason for gaining more knowledge. There are, as far as I understand, a number of research projects funded by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's research grants. At least one of these projects, managed by SGI, looks at the leakage of methane gases or the quantity of methane gases from fibre banks and how this affects the transport of pollutants. We have also commissioned the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and others to improve knowledge that contaminated sediments should also cover the problem of methane emissions. This is a mission that will be reported in January 2023. As I said, we have made and are making a number of efforts on this. However, knowledge needs to be increased, and we need to hold on. I very gratefully welcome an invitation to Mid Sweden University, if we can find a common opportunity, to deepen our work and research on these issues that is going on there. We know only a fraction of this so far, as far as I understand.
i-3r4aN93FsrpgQfnAxEUnJW	Madam President, I would like Thank you again for your answer, Minister. It's always a little hard to know when you're interpelling how the reception of an interpellation will be. Sometimes a minister or, for that matter, an interpellant can attack and try to score political points. My purpose with the interpellation is to raise the level of knowledge and spread knowledge about this area, which is relatively unknown to the public. I will therefore give some priority to what I have written. There's one thing I'm curious about that I noticed when I was doing some research, or collecting information– I'm not going to involve English here. Then I saw a written question from a colleague of mine about the marine environment bill, which, if I understood correctly, will not be delivered to Parliament as planned. Now I do not know what it was supposed to contain, but I hope that such issues will also be addressed, because this is incredibly central. Although the fibre banks are regional or local in scope, we should remember that the toxins they contain are spread with the water. It is a major problem with precisely the methane gas and carbon dioxide that leaks, which attract heavy metals and other toxins from the fibre sediments. These then spread with wind and waves out in the sea and end up in seabirds, fishes and, as I have said, in humans. I would therefore be grateful if the Minister for the Environment could comment on something about the marine environment bill. I hope that will come with something on these issues. As an opposition, one should be critical, and I do not think that the government has scratched or pinked the market in terms of environmental and climate action in the water sector. There have been very little things. This is indeed a call and an appeal to the government: bring it with you – water is our most important food! Our inland seas, the Bothnian Sea and the Baltic Sea, are experiencing major problems. This is a problem, but there are many more. I think we should have the courage to discuss and do things, just as the Government mentioned, that a number of directives have come to various authorities. I'd like to see results. I know that in Finland, for example, an attempt has been made in one of the ports. I don't remember what it was or what city it was, and I don't want to say it wrong. I think you should look internationally, because there are fibre banks in Sweden, Finland and Canada. Countries that have or have had mass industries are suffering from the same problems, and I think it would be very nice if Sweden could be a leading country when it comes to how to take up the sediment. The question to the Government is: Can she say anything about the marine environment bill linked to this?
i-DwkaFEFwwL3WDGQQ7EAHMP	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jörgen Berglund, for the post! As far as the marine environment bill is concerned, I would like to make the point of ensuring that this kind of perspective is included. I'm sure it does. A clear priority of the government in the marine and water sector has been to prioritise measures to reduce environmental pollution in the seas and waters. We have a comparatively large remediation grant right now. It has increased by just over 400 million from 2014 to nearly 1.2 billion in 2022. It is needed, and it is also something to watch for the future. We have tried to allocate increased funds to the clean-up effort every year since 2018 as part of the clean sea investment. This, as the interpellier says, has included several different parts. It has been about remediation of contaminated sediments but also environmentally hazardous wrecks, reduction of plastic and advanced purification techniques to be able to separate, for example, pharmaceutical residues and other harmful substances. It is about better ensuring the water quality and ecosystem of the Baltic Sea, which is incredibly important. As the interpellant pointed out in his interpellation, we still do not know how many fibre banks there are, although we have a better knowledge of the Norrland coast. As far as the coast of Norrland is concerned, this is because the authorities concerned have been working there for several years on the inventory and risk classification of a number of fibre banks. This is something that has really led to increased knowledge and evidence that can be used in the further work. It is important that we get a better overview of the whole of Sweden when it comes to the fibre banks we have and that we get a better idea of who can pose the greatest risk. As I said in the interpellation response, it is about taking the right action. As the interpellant has done, there are many different things, and Mittuniversitetet was mentioned earlier. This may involve monitoring of natural recovery processes, dredging and over-coverage, but it needs to be determined in each case. Otherwise, the risk is that a measure will be more damaging than simply allowing a natural recovery process to continue. However, I would like to emphasise that a great deal is going on. At least there's more going on than it's done in the past. In my interpellation response, I referred to a mission to increase knowledge of contaminated sediments that the authorities are working to investigate. And in autumn 2021 and until spring 2022 sediments are examined in some seventy areas of Swedish lakes, watercourses and coastal waters to fill the knowledge gaps about where contaminated sediments occur and what they contain. It will be an important basis for how to proceed with the different parts.
i-RWyR1xUrWXvUJQtPvsK1Ez	Madam President, I would like Sometimes, as a vote of confidence, you are surprised at how many people around our country actually share in different ways the questions, motions and interpellations that you write. I tried to search the Parliament's website, but I don't think that fibre banks have been mentioned in any interpellation before. Therefore, I was particularly surprised that there were several who contacted me and who are working on these issues. It was both companies and researchers who had ideas about how to do it. I can't judge what's right and what's right. Just as the Government says, the right measures need not necessarily be the same everywhere. But I think what we should focus on is taking action. By starting the clean-up of a fibre bank, the knowledge situation will also be increased so that you know what you can do. I really want to underline what I said about the research from Mid Sweden University to which I referred. There the starting point was to make this commercially viable. This is expensive, it's not a secret. We have not discussed the costs here today, and we do not need to do that. But the starting point at Mittuniversitetet was how to get profitability in terms of also cleaning up old environmental sins. I think it is incredibly exciting perspectives that can surely spread to more sectors where you need to clean up in different ways. As I said, the purpose of this interpellation was to highlight a problem and spread knowledge, and I hope I have contributed to it. I hope that the Minister for Climate and the Environment will take this issue with him in his future work. Now, of course, I hope that it will not be so long and that we will have a new Minister for Climate and the Environment. But it's something else.
i-4rDxK4wgPJJfZhen5TwmXs	Madam President, I would like It is the condition of politics that we are on borrowed time. But I hope, no matter what happens, that this may be an issue that either lives on or is carried on. It deserves it. Again, I thank you for a very good and important interpellation. With a little time left to speak, I would like to say something more about methane emissions. Basically, methane gas emissions from fibre banks today are not really included in Sweden's greenhouse gas inventory. It is built on the requirements of the UNFCCC and the Paris Agreement. These methodological guidelines do not currently include calculation methods for methane discharges from fibre banks. Nor has the IPCC allocated these emissions to any specific sector. I was thinking about what the interpeller said earlier about old environmental sins. This inventory is based on 1990 as a base year. And here we are talking about fibre banks that were created in the 1960s and in the early 70s. However, even if these emissions are not included in the greenhouse gas inventory, the responsible authorities have the task of also taking stock of these emissions, which is nevertheless an important contribution. I look forward to more discussions – in this area I am asking for results – and a pleasant study visit to Mittuniversitetet.
i-Kwdw8MjkWEnQZ5V5GW3s3u	Madam President, I would like Mattias Bäckström Johansson has asked the Minister for Energy and Digitalization if the Government intends to work to modernise the regulations for new nuclear power and make it possible to build new nuclear power throughout the country. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. I would like to begin by emphasising that phasing out fossil fuels is a self-evident priority for the government, not least in view of the need to break the EU's dependence on Russian energy. It is both a matter of security and strengthening Sweden by creating new good jobs and leading the way in the climate transition. This presupposes that the electricity system can evolve in line with the needs of powerful electrification and the green industrial revolution. Nuclear power is an important component of our electricity mix. There are currently no obstacles to the construction of new nuclear power, either with traditional technology or with the new technology known as small modular reactors, SMR, which are still at the development stage. The industry is asking for cheap electricity that can be rapidly expanded, a need that today can best be met by wind power. The government believes that an issue as important as our energy supply requires long-term and stable conditions and that the legislation in this case is based on broad political agreements. The generational shift in the Swedish nuclear power stock is regulated in the Environmental Code and the Act( 1984:3) on nuclear activities. The regulations in the Environmental Code were developed in 2010 to create the conditions for a controlled generation shift in Swedish nuclear power. The principles underlying a moderate-led government's energy settlement in 2009 were confirmed in the party-wide energy agreement concluded in 2016. An alternative to the latest agreement, which has broad political support, has not yet been presented. On 29 June 2017, the Government appointed a special investigator to review the Nuclear Activities Act. On 1 April 2019, the investigator left the report New Nuclear Technology Act – with clarified responsibilities. The report has been referred to and implemented in some parts. The remaining proposals are now being prepared in the Government Office. Having said that, it is also important to follow developments. The responsible authority, the Radiation Safety Authority, must, according to its instructions, maintain competence in order to anticipate and meet future issues. The Authority shall also contribute to the development of national competences for current and future needs in the Agency's field of activity.
i-FGgTkYcQE6vXHKNG16CvVP	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by thanking the Government for the answer to my interpellation. However, I have to say that I am quite surprised at parts of the answer that has been given, especially when the Government says in its answer: there are currently no obstacles to the construction of new nuclear power. If it really is the government's view, it is quite astounding, and it is quite difficult to discuss the question of whether we cannot even agree on what the conditions are for new power generation to be put in place. Madam President, I would like I would therefore like to ask a question before continuing the debate. How many reactors can you build in southern Sweden in electricity price zone 4 if there are no obstacles to building new nuclear power in Sweden?
i-Jm7KqpWcNbRMZxEZGFoKbL	Madam President, I would like I thank the interpellant for the interpellation and for it, I would say, the common ambition to ensure that we have a good energy supply in Sweden. I think the interpeller knows very well that new reactors may be built at the three existing sites of nuclear reactors, namely Forsmark, Ringhals and Oskarshamn. In addition, a reactor may only be constructed if it replaces another reactor that is permanently shut down. This, of course, is well - known knowledge. I also know that Mattias Bäckström Johansson has an important background in this area and that he was a committed participant when we got the latest energy agreement in place. Now we are in a situation where we urgently need to expand access to energy around our country. From my perspective as a minister, I can state the following: When I have international contacts and when I look at the interest in investment and the willingness to invest in building conditions for new energy in different ways, it is about wind power. We currently have an explosion at the Ministry of the Environment, with an increase from three applications for seaborne wind power last year to 38 applications this year. There is still no one interested in building new nuclear power – for quite natural reasons, I think. Not least LKAB, but also others, have been out in the debate recently and have been able to note that in order to be able to meet the need now in terms of the green transition and the rapid expansion of important and electricity-intensive industry, which should reasonably be able to come into place during a somewhat reasonable period of time and at a somewhat reasonable cost, wind power is the one that applies. This is also why the government has presented, among other things, the first national sea plans. We have, just a few weeks ago, set up the so-called incentive investigation to hopefully achieve more wind power on land. We have also tried in various ways to present proposals to the Swedish parliament, which means that the licensing processes for those actors who now want to build wind power will be clearer and better.
i-XpTCnDLd7sVHGj7N8ESJtH	Madam President, I would like We can begin by saying that what the Government said first in the interpellation response – that there are no obstacles to the construction of new nuclear power – was clearly not correct. There are obstacles in the form of not being allowed to build anywhere you want. You must also own a reactor to build a new one, and you must not build reactors where electricity is most needed. These should be fairly basic things to get things right if it is to be possible to build new nuclear power in Sweden. This is rather inconvenient with the wording that there are no obstacles. It seems that there are extensive obstacles to building new nuclear power in Sweden. Madam President, I would like This interpellation is written in the light of the interest that exists both in our neighbourhood and globally to build smaller nuclear reactors, which are popularly called small modular reactors, which are abbreviated by SMR. The Swedish Energy Agency has recently allocated funds to build a research reactor in Oskarshamn according to this model. The Swedish Democrats have been the driving force to change the direction of the Swedish energy research project so that it can also be directed towards nuclear energy research. Vattenfall is involved in developing SMR technology. However, this is not happening in Sweden, where the government has given them bans, but they are allowed to do so abroad. Recently, we have seen several actors who want to build SMR reactors in Sweden and who point out that it is a barrier that you cannot build them where the electricity is needed most. They think they can have them in place by 2029. We were only able to read today the news that British Rolls-Royce may already receive the approval of the authorities for its SMR reactor in 2024, which could mean having a commercial reactor in place by 2029. The government and the government say that they are following developments. However, it looks like we are being overlooked by the development of technology, as it is moving very quickly and because we do not intend to take any further measures to enable new nuclear power in Sweden. This inaction also helps to distort competition between the power laws, when at the same time a proposal is being made to phase out, for example, the municipal veto at wind power installations. The question must be asked: Can Sweden afford to close the door so clearly to technological development and to the fossil-free alternatives that still exist? Reasonably, the mission of politics should be to ensure that we have technology-neutral competition between the various power teams instead of politically pointing out which technologies will come out of this. When you say so clearly from the Government that there are other types of energy that will probably have better conditions to build, the question is why you are so afraid to allow the building of nuclear power. Why does it feel obliged to ban it in 287 out of 290 municipalities? Now there are actors who want to build. Madam President, I would like The government is guilty of the answer. Why do people want obstacles to building new nuclear power in Sweden? Why shouldn't it be allowed? Why can we not have technology-neutral competition between the various fossil-free power teams?
i-MoSs3GKwYyeCcQNKJprH4L	Madam President, I would like I have great respect for the fact that Mattias Bäckström Johansson and I have different views on these issues, but in essence, as I am sure the interpellier actually knows, this is an area which is particularly bad for the kind of political conflict that the opposition is now engaged in. It is a question of completely putting away the bones too much of the change that we are currently in the middle of. Some of Sweden's largest companies stand and trample, and we know that we will have an approximately doubled energy demand by 2030. Mattias Bäckström Johansson talks about a technology that has not yet been developed. There is someone who might be able to build something by 2029, but it is highly uncertain. Nor is there an option today that brings together broad political support compared to the latest energy agreement, on which current legislation is based. It was a compromise made after decades of political battle over nuclear power in this country. I am convinced that the interpellier is very well aware of this. It is, of course, the basic requirement – compromises and broad consensus politically are the only thing that will lead to the great investments and stability that are needed for us to be able to take part in these major investments in the future. The uncertainty that the energy debate we currently have in Sweden contributes to is highly counterproductive, not least for Sweden as a nation and for Sweden's growth and opportunities in the future. The Social Democrats are behind the latest energy agreement, where I know that Mattias Bäckström Johansson himself sat with and where the whole history we have with us and different alternatives was weighed. We Social Democrats also say that the existing nuclear power will be an important part of the Swedish energy mix in the future. We also have a parliamentary renewable target of 2040 that we have to relate to. We now have a rapid development of wind power, both offshore and liquid. I was quite recently in the United States and met with the White House climate advisors and others on both sides of American politics. There they invest heavily in offshore wind power and expand it properly. Instead, we are here discussing a technology that does not yet exist and that we are going to build nuclear power everywhere in Sweden. At least as Minister for Climate and Environment, I am not willing to compromise on such key issues as nuclear safety, for example. Sweden has never had a serious nuclear accident. Our safety requirements and our laws should not change lightly in this case either. This is going to be a very strange pseudo-discuss.
i-8ofKrKFwKeNZZfznA1Y1FS	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats were not part of the energy agreement that was concluded in 2016. I was a member of the Energy Commission but not as part of the agreement. The criticism we made from the party against the agreement was that it was not sustainable in the long term and that the compromises it had entered into could lead to its very rapid disintegration, which also proved to be the case three years later. It didn't even hold a term of office before it collapsed from within. We can see that there is very little support for the current approach. There are more parties outside the agreement than are behind it. We have a different mandate in this House. Now the Government chooses to talk a lot about the transition. It is strange, then, that electricity production has been shut down during this term of office. We need more electricity and not less. There are constant needle-sticks to nuclear power and planned power generation. It is about the conditions for cogeneration and hydroelectric power. It is always weather-dependent power generation that they want to concentrate on, which has caused electricity prices to run completely in southern Sweden, where these are now more dependent on the pricing of Russian natural gas and dirty coal power than on fossil-free Swedish nuclear power. This will not be simplified by the fact that this power type is no longer even allowed to be built in SE4, where we have the highest electricity prices. We have had a nuclear site in the past, but it is not prepared to make it possible to build new nuclear power. That is the problem we are seeing here – there are, in fact, obstacles to new nuclear power in Sweden. The Government and the Government are clearly wrong in the answer that they give, saying that there would be no obstacles. If we are to succeed in this electrification, we will be required to have electricity during all hours of the year at reasonable prices. But then we will also have to invest in the planned types of power that are available and that are fossil-free. There nuclear power will continue to be important.
i-6aXNC2bRWBGRRHpfrDHyGK	Madam President, I would like I will certainly not commit the Swedish Democrats to having entered into any broader political agreement. I guess they'd be a stranger. However, I would like to emphasise that the decision to close Ringhals 1 and 2 was taken by Vattenfall's board many years ago. It was based on market assessments, which I am sure the interpeller knows very well. Vattenfall has also been very clear that it is not intended to resume electricity production in Ringhals 1 and 2. Nor has there been any demand for a change of law that would allow the operation to resume. SMR, which we are discussing here today, is a collective concept for different types of smaller reactors that manufacturers are now working on in different parts of the world. They're still in a very early stage. We also know that only a few such licensing tests have been carried out internationally. It's not really a concept that says anything about technology choices, it's just about the reactors being small and being able to be manufactured in modules in the factory according to some kind of assembly line principle. The aim is to place as many reactors as possible in different locations to make a contribution to the energy supply. I wonder what ordinary Swedes would think of it when they realize what it is you are really talking about. It's about having your own small nuclear power plant in the neighborhood. I believe that we have a fairly significant and important regulatory framework that takes into account the safety required for the conduct of nuclear activities and the construction and operation of a nuclear reactor. I hope that we will be able to find a broader consensus on these issues. This is important, not least for the many who depend on increased energy supply. This applies to many companies around Sweden.
i-Tb4ySJpEUiQUWKPWbuR2ve	Madam President, I would like Jörgen Berglund has asked me whether I intend to take the initiative to make the changes to the environmental code and the environmental review regulation that the Swedish Armed Forces are requesting, and if so, when I intend to take the initiative. Jörgen Berglund has also asked if I intend to take any steps to facilitate the operations of the Armed Forces by speeding up the permit process for training and shooting fields. I would like to begin by pointing out that I agree with Jörgen Berglund that it is extremely important that information on the Swedish Armed Forces' storage and handling of fuel can be handled in a way that maintains a high level of confidentiality. The changing security situation means that adjustments to existing legislation can be made and need to be considered continuously. The issue of reviewing the legislation in this section is currently being prepared within the Government Office. However, effective licensing processes are a priority for the government, and the government has taken a number of measures to streamline licensing processes according to the Environmental Code. There is currently no specific process within the Government Office that focuses solely on speeding up the handling of training and shooting fields. Instead, the government has taken a broad approach to the issue. One such example is the Environmental Review Study, which is tasked with reviewing the current environmental review system and proposing measures for a more modern and effective review. The study will present its report by 31 ma j 2022. Defence matters relating to exercise and shooting fields and aircraft fleets generally contain extensive data with complex issues and, not least, conflicting societal interests that are being raised. This makes the preparation time-consuming regardless of which authority deals with the matter. The purpose of the regulation is to set out in Chapter 21. Section 7 of the Environmental Code on the responsibility of the Land and Environmental Courts is that the cases must be ready when they come to the Government. The court is judged to be in a better position to prepare matters and in this way can provide the government with the necessary basis for decisions to be taken by the government. Against this background, no current work is under way to amend Chapter 21. Section 7 of the Environmental Code. At the same time, I would like to emphasise the broad and purposeful work that the government is doing to simplify and streamline environmental permit processes and that it is a work that the government prioritises highly. Finally, on the occasion of Russia's invasion of Ukraine, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the government, if due to the current special circumstances it is necessary to strengthen defence preparedness, is today well placed to make such decisions.
i-A7JxHpSMsYy9qcbkjgVAR2	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by thanking the Government for its answer. At least I got an answer to one question, but there were several questions I asked. I'll have to get back to them. I would like to start by putting these questions in context. The fact that the state of defence and security policy in the world and Sweden has deteriorated is no longer the case. Russia's totally unprovoked and unilateral attack on Ukraine, a war that is still going on as we stand here and talk, is of course crescendo on Russia's aggressive policy. But we should remember that the war in eastern Ukraine has been going on since 2014, not least through activities that we usually call grey zone problems. Other examples are the Russian cyberattack against the Norwegian capital, China's behaviour in the South China Sea and the reactions to Sweden following the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency's decision to exclude Huawei from the forthcoming 5G roll-out. The list can be drawn up on what has made the security policy situation worse and worse. Madam President, I would like The deteriorating international situation has also resulted in the Swedish military defence capabilities now being strengthened with, among other things, more money, new materials and more exercises. It is precisely the possibility of practice that is central to increasing defence capabilities. Exercise is at the very heart of getting capable military units to solve the most difficult of tasks. Without more, larger and longer exercises, new materials and more conscripts are not so much worth. Madam President, I would like It is no coincidence that the Commander-in-Chief, when he was last in the Committee on Defence, believed that political activity must be stepped up in order to remove obstacles to the growth of the armed forces. These include environmental permits for exercise and shooting fields and airfields. This process is time- and resource-intensive and can take between 5 and 20 years, which is absurd. We do not need to discuss the demands; they are what they are. But it takes far too long to get an environmental permit. This is the government's responsibility. There are licence applications that have been waiting for the government's decision since the last parliamentary term, which is far too long. In its response, the Government announces that the Government's efforts to simplify and streamline environmental permit processes are broad and purposeful. The Government is happy to explain to me how two terms of office can mean effective and high priority. Nevertheless, it is matters that are prepared by the Land and Environment Court – something that is important according to the Government but not in my opinion. But we can come back to that. Madam President, I would like It doesn't have to take this long. There are other things you can do. The Swedish Armed Forces have on several occasions for several years proposed to the government how to shorten permit processes. So it is not a question of removing any requirements, but of shortening the processes. The county administrative boards, which are first instance, are to deal with these matters promptly, and the government can decide in its regulatory letter that the county administrative boards will do just that. Today, decisions of this kind lie with the county administrative boards for three to five years.
i-YHCKyCpahbbXwj7uADJD5X	Madam President, I would like In relation to the deteriorating security situation, the government works according to three principles: to support Ukraine, to push for sanctions against Russia and to strengthen Sweden. Basically, it should of course be easy to do the right thing in the Swedish permit process – while maintaining the high environmental standards. The government has therefore taken a number of measures to streamline licensing processes at an overall level, and our assessment is that these will also speed up licensing processes for the Swedish Armed Forces' operations. We often hear information that environmental permit testing can take tens of years, but, as I said in a previous interpellation debate today, there are national statistics, which are also important for identifying appropriate efficiency measures. These statistics show that in the vast majority of cases environmental testing takes around a year. Both county administrative boards and individual land and environmental courts have their own handling cases, and the statistics show, fortunately, a reduction in the processing time. In 2020, approximately 75 per cent of cases reached the set time limit. However, we agree that this needs to work much more smoothly. As I said in my interpellation response, some cases take longer than others. This is due not least to conflicting interests and legal balances. The Environmental Code also introduced a permit requirement for shooting fields, which has meant that the Swedish Armed Forces have needed to apply for a permit for existing shooting fields as well. Therefore, a large number of shooting fields have been tried at the same time. However, it is clear from the transitional provisions of the Environmental Code that shooting field activities may also be carried out during the duration of the examination. Thus, there is really no obstacle for the Swedish Armed Forces to practice on existing shooting fields while the government is examining the permit issue. However, I would like to emphasise that we are now really prioritising the work on the Armed Forces' matters. We are actively working to push these matters forward. I do not know if the honourable Member took note of the decision on Tofta that came just a few weeks ago. However, defence issues regarding exercise and shooting fields and flyflottillas are complex. It is a matter of noise disturbance for local residents and environmental impacts, and there are often a large number of counterparts in these cases, which means that management takes time. But we are now carrying out a broad and determined effort to both simplify and streamline these processes. Our image is that the Environmental Review investigation has been commissioned to look at the rules of the Code of Procedure and the Environmental Code on Process Management and that a more efficient process management can speed up all kinds of permit processes, including the Swedish Armed Forces.
i-QETFSBZ7HcEucGLJMmL97V	Madam President, I would like I hear what the Government says, but there will be a lot of investigations, intentions, ambitions, overall levels and so on. It takes time, says the Government. Yeah, but the problem is it's taking too long. The international situation has deteriorated considerably. That is why we must do something about this, and there are things the government can do quickly. I mentioned the county boards' urgency, but I didn't get any comment on it. The government took up Tofta's shooting field, and that condition has been expected since 2012. It was good that it was decided, but unfortunately it was 20 shooting days less per year than the Swedish Armed Forces requested. Here the government fully agreed to the county board's proposal, which was sad for the Swedish Armed Forces and the defence of Sweden. I asked another question in my interpellation, and it concerned the environmental review regulation, which basically poses a problem for the Swedish Armed Forces when applying for a permit to handle fuels and chemicals. The permit must be applied for from the County Administrative Board, and the permit procedure is public in accordance with the Environmental Code, except for what is classified. It shall also be communicated with any counterparties. If the place where the permit is intended to apply is confidential, it becomes a dilemma, and it is difficult to maintain confidentiality with regard to party transparency. By comparison: The Planning and Construction Act provides for exceptions to covert total defence facilities from, among other things, building permits. The County Administrative Board will then be consulted, which will inform the municipality of the construction in an appropriate manner – all for the sake of confidentiality. This means, Madam President, that the Swedish Armed Forces can today build a secret facility, but if they are to deploy it by having fuel at the plant, for example for reserve power, they can risk being cleared up when applying for a permit for fuel. This is ridiculous, and I very much hope that the Government will take this along with it. The environmental code was created at a time when the security policy situation was completely different. Now that the situation has changed, the environmental code must also be amended. It's gonna take time. I'm well aware of that. That's why the smaller things are so incredibly important to do. It is a matter of removing the review of the Land and Environment Court before the government takes a decision. You save that for years. What I have said so far – and I really want to emphasise this again – is not about changing the requirement for the state itself, but about the process of making it go faster. The Government's response is that adjustments to existing legislation can be considered and need to be considered continuously. These may become topical and need to be considered. With all due respect, Minister, it's very evasive. Can't the government give a straight answer? I would feel much safer if the Government said: It goes without saying that we should trust this. It is not reasonable for us to disclose defence secrets in order to report that you have a number of petrol canisters that should be in a facility. It is not reasonable that it should take several years for a county administrative board to make these decisions. Of course they should do so urgently, because now we have a serious situation. I'd feel much calmer if she said that, but I haven't heard that yet. But there is still a debate round. It may be that we can get to grips with these things by not being subject to a permit but becoming notifiable. It's a lot easier.
i-67id84AU3KF5N9P1hzEgrB	Madam President, I would like Let me start at the end where the interpellant left off when it comes to applying for authorisation for the storage and handling of, among other things, fuel. The government is aware of that problem. We'll prepare the question. I also agree that defence confidentiality issues need to be dealt with as quickly as possible. Today, I will not be able to say exactly how long it will take. But I agree with the problem formulation, and we're working on it. Basically, we agree with the image that the interpellier gives, and we will come back to that. A question was asked about why the government can not only take over the responsibility for the Swedish Armed Forces' operations. The picture I have is that it has been experienced that it is a great advantage that the cases are ready when they come to the government. For example, the government does not have the same possibilities as the Court of Justice to take preparatory measures as, for example, oral preparations and main hearings. That's one reason. I also have sympathy for the fact that sometimes you can get very frustrated over the time that some processes take. But we are currently carrying out a very extensive work to streamline and speed up permit processes, for example through the Environmental Review investigation. It will present its report now on 31 May. There is another example I would like to highlight. I am aware that the interpellant raised the issue of the urgency of county boards. That is why I would like to point out that they are following their own processing time. There are statistics. The example I would like to highlight is the government commission on the authority-wide guidance that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, the Swedish National Courts Authority and the county administrative boards received in their regulatory letters last year. The purpose of these missions is precisely to enable a more uniform review process at national level, thereby increasing both efficiency and predictability. My assessment is that these are measures that will speed up the licensing processes for the Swedish Armed Forces' operations. Again: We are currently working very hard on the matters that have still been in place for a period of time. Then it is important to point out what the government has the potential to strengthen defence preparedness if it is really needed. According to chapter one. Section 5 The Environmental Code may be issued by the Government with regulations for Totalförsvaret that deviate from the Environmental Code if, due to current special circumstances, it is necessary to strengthen defence preparedness. It is precisely a provision which has been justified, among other things, by the fact that war is a serious environmental threat and that, insofar as it is necessary to maintain an effective defence, there must be room to have defence requirements other than those of society. There is a space, and that is more what I wanted to point out. There are examples that have been pointed out here, among other things, recently. But it is still the case that a great many of the environmental review cases go faster than the general debate sometimes gives rise to.
i-Dw4gYS6iqSGjRN8XSNEXmF	Madam President, I would like I'm sure that's what the government says. Statistics don't usually lie. However, you can choose how the statistics are cut. In a large general picture, it is certain that processing times are reduced. But if you look specifically at the condition of training fields, shooting fields and flying exercise areas, I doubt whether there has really been so much, but let it be. The Council referred, among other things, to the derogation contained in the environmental code for specific reasons. It can be difficult to stand here and tell when it might be appropriate to use it. But it is clear that the state we are in now is that we have a growing defence force that needs to practice. Then I think the government should consider whether this is an opportunity for us to change this. Most recently today, Madam President, the leader of the Expressen Group writes about Sa a b. They turned to the County Administrative Board in Västergötland during the month of April for exceptions. They wanted to get increased flight times so that they would dark test their Jas Gripen model Erik that Sweden should have and that Brazil has bought. They didn't have time for all the exercises and wanted to get an hour to a few evenings in May. Here I want to give the Government the right: the County Administrative Board answered the same day, I think. Unfortunately, the answer was no. Then it was said that the possibility is to re-examine the terms. As I said, it takes years. I believe that we cannot have an environmental code that is adapted to a completely different environment. I very much hope that the investigation that is due to come in May also contains the things that we have now discussed. It's necessary. It's the time we don't have. That's what we need to be careful about.
i-NPfkk61ArQqvJNdsQMkEJ	Madam President, I would like That's what we're agreed on. These matters need to be dealt with with with urgency. Generally speaking, the speed of permit processes needs to be increased, while, of course, maintaining environmental considerations. I've mentioned the environmental review investigation. I also mentioned the special mission. In order to be able to immediately improve the efficiency of the permit process, we have added large amounts to the administrative grants for the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the County Administrative Boards in 2021 and 2022. It is, of course, a prerequisite for carrying out one's tasks. As I have mentioned before, the government matters that we have on our table contain very complex issues. They often affect several general interests. Cases which also fall within several departments' areas of activity shall also be prepared in consultation with the other ministers. All of this, of course, can affect the time required in various events of a government matter. But the starting point for the government's administration is that it should be done effectively and without the rule of law being respected. At the same time, of course, we should assess a matter from all aspects so that we know that we have simply done what we are supposed to do. Finally, I would like to thank you for a good and important debate. Basically, I think we have a clear consensus. I look forward to a continued dialogue with the Moderates as we get the results of the investigation, to see how we can move forward quickly.
i-AbRMWovucvrJg7AFK5m4fG	Madam President, I would like Thomas Morell has asked the Minister for Energy and Digitization what measures the Government intends to take to prevent a major stop in the country's logistics flows due to the lack of Adblue. The interpellation has been handed over to me. Adblue, as Thomas Morell writes, is a reducing agent used in selective catalytic reduction to reduce emissions of nitrogen oxides, so-called SCR catalyst. Without administration of Adblue, the SCR catalyst is damaged and the emissions of nitrogen oxides from combustion are then released straight into the air. The SCR system is now a common technology in combustion plants and in larger ships but also in diesel-powered road vehicles, such as buses, trucks and passenger cars. If SCR systems were disconnected from installations and vehicles, emissions would thus increase, with major adverse health effects and thus significant societal costs. In this situation, Sweden would also have major problems meeting the requirements of the EU's air quality and air pollution directives, with the risk of high periodic penalty payments being imposed. The government is closely monitoring access to Adblue on the market as a shortage would have major consequences. However, it is important to be clear that there is currently no shortage of Adblue in Sweden. On the other hand, the price of Adblue has risen sharply throughout the EU in recent months. The main reason is the large increase in the price of natural gas, which has significantly increased production costs. Another reason is that imports of urea, which are used in the production of Adblue, from Russia have ceased. In the EU there are several producers of Adblue, including in Sweden, who are not dependent on imports of urea from Russia. Adblue will thus continue to be available on the EU market, given the continued availability of natural gas. Several of these producers have already started to scale up their production. However, the price of Adblue is expected to remain high as long as we have high natural gas prices. In order to further secure access to Adblue, manufacturers that have so far been dependent on imports from Russia need to find new urea suppliers. According to contacts my department has had with the industry, such work is also ongoing. With regard to the issue of road vehicles, I would like to emphasise that this would require a change in EU legislation in this area, accompanied by extensive work on vehicle reprogramming. From the government's side, we continue to follow up and develop a readiness in the event that a change in access to natural gas in Europe means that a lack of Adblue – despite all the efforts to prevent this – would still be a fact.
i-TyKaMGDCgkh8QWwpxq2v7o	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. When I wrote the interpellation some time ago, the time horizon for the availability of Adblue was four to five weeks. Some things have happened since then. It has largely vacuumed the market to get over raw materials to produce Adblue to such an extent that we can manage. In the conversations I had with the manufacturers in that situation they said that they had in turn been in contact with the authorities to see how we ensure sufficient access to Adblue in Sweden. Then the authorities were taken completely on the bed; they hardly knew what the supplier was talking about. There was no readiness at all and no understanding that you could end up in a position where virtually all vehicles with Euro 6 engines stop. And then we are not just talking about trucks; they are passenger cars, buses, excavators, wheel loaders and equipment for maintaining the railways, that is, rail vehicles. All of these also have engines with Euro 6. Rescue vehicles also have this type of treatment. It would have dramatic consequences for society if access to Adblue were to end them. To be clear about the volumes we are talking about: Only for a single month's consumption you need to store 10,000 tons! And then we're talking about a single month. In Sweden we consume 90 million litres of Adblue a year, and we are far from alone in Europe to need this substance to cope with the purification in our cars. That is the case throughout Europe; they have the same situation. The problem is that Russia was a major supplier of urea. Russia is also a major supplier of natural gas, and so far natural gas is coming to the European manufacturers of Adblue. But if that gas were to be strangled, we would be back quickly in the position where we have a horizon in just a few weeks. So what do we do? Then there is the possibility to turn off the system in the cars. You go in and reprogram. But it has to be the absolute last resort, because it's going to be very complicated. The cars will be back in the purification technology once we get access to Adblue. Here the government must have a dialogue with its responsible authorities so that they in turn have contact with the suppliers that exist. We must ensure that we have good access to Adblue in the country, because if we do not stop the whole social apparatus: buses, trucks, excavators and railways. So what do we do? It's a little scary when authorities have such a bad idea about what the effects are when a substance like Adblue – which most people don't even know what it is – ends. Then the whole body of society stops. Here the government must take a line with the authorities so that we ensure access in the future.
i-UBaS2e9GtYoYvipHudgjL3	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Thomas Morell, for an important interpellation! I can understand the concerns that arise if you have contacts with the manufacturers and suppliers and they point out that there is a problem. Then it is absolutely excellent that you have an opportunity to raise the issue in the way that Thomas Morell is now doing here in the Swedish Parliament and points out the problem. Nevertheless, as things stand at the moment, I can say to some extent that when it comes to the concern in itself that there would be no access to Adblue in the EU market in the future, we can probably feel reasonably calm. We are, of course, in society at all right now, seeing what the consequences of the war between Russia and Ukraine are. One such example revealed to the international community just two months ago is that Ukraine is the world's largest producer of sunflower oil – as we are now trying to secure different types of chains. This is such a chain, and I can assure the interpeller that we are now watching this. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has also taken the initiative to collaborate with the Swedish Agency for Civil Protection and Preparedness (MSB) to map together how the material flows are going and what production options are available to manufacture Adblue. It is an analysis that should be completed well in advance of the coming winter. The interpellant knows for sure that the risk of lack of Adblue is greater in winter as the demand for natural gas increases with colder weather. I appreciate the clarification from the interpellant in this case that you also see the problem of thinking about shutting the SCR systems down. It would, of course, have devastating consequences. I'd almost say that would be impossible. Among other things, we have exhaust gas requirements for road vehicles regulated by EU legislation, and, as the honourable Member points out, in order to shut down the SCR catalytic converter, the vehicle must also be reprogrammed. According to information from Bil Sweden, there are over 600 000 vehicles with SCR technology in Sweden. It would therefore require an enormous effort from the workshops which have the equipment needed to reprogram the vehicles concerned. For example, by comparison, a few years ago, when 200 000 vehicles were recalled in connection with the manipulation of software, we could look at the diesel gate. It took several years to carry out the recall and reprogramming of these 200 000 vehicles. I therefore say that it is almost not feasible. It is now a matter of ensuring that we have suppliers in the EU and in Sweden who are not dependent on imports of urea from Russia. The task that we have after our contacts with the industry is that they are now working hard to ensure that this will work in the future. There is a lot of work going on there.
i-7o4Q1hubD7Wx34v1H3ygBS	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. If there is anything that the war has taught us, it is that we are extremely vulnerable. We have not seen the picture before us of the consequences of this. When a single country, in this case Russia, delivers such a large amount of a substance that is important for us to meet the exhaust requirements and it just disappears, taffy, it primarily creates great concern. We are also far from being alone in Europe in using this subject. All vehicles with Euro 6 engines type-approved in the EU have this cleaning technology. So it's huge volumes. Only in Sweden do we consume 10 000 tonnes a month. Then, when you look at the whole European map, you understand that there is quite a lot of the subject to be raised. You have to have a stand-by here. There must also be a readiness to go in and shut down the technology in at least some vehicles in order to ensure transport. Because how do you deal with the situation if there's a stop? In the answer that I received from the Government – it was in itself a factual error in that – she said that without the addition of Adblue the SCR catalyst is damaged, and the emissions of nitrogen oxide from combustion are then released straight into the air. What happens when the Adblue tank becomes empty-- because it's a separate tank-- is that the wagon controller senses that the tank is empty and then goes down on reduced power. It's just so you can get to a workshop. And then we talk heavy vehicles; passenger cars stop or cannot start. You get a couple of three chances, but then they don't start at all. This makes the cars undriveable. It will be a serious situation if buses, rescue vehicles and other important public transport stops. I've talked to the vehicle manufacturers, and they don't want to put this system off for all the butter in Småland. If you end up in a situation where it is the only option, it is possible, but it requires a huge logistics to then get it back and get working vehicles. It must be the absolute last resort, but that way out must be on the playing field. Otherwise, we'll end up in a position where there's a horse and a wagon that applies. Or we may bring in old vehicles, Euro 2s, Euro 3s and such. That would hardly be a successful path either. As the Government understands, I have a lot of contacts with the automotive industry, the haulage industry, machine contractors and also suppliers of this. Mattias Bergman at Bil Sweden, who the Government has probably also talked to, says that you see a risk of lack of Adblue in the not too long future. But today we do not see it, he says, because it was corrected just a few weeks ago. This is both directly and indirectly linked to the war in Ukraine. But it is also about the high prices of natural gas, which began to rise even before the war. Some suppliers rely on imports of inputs from Russia. Strangled it stops the production. So what do we do? Then you have to have a plan B to handle the situation. We can't just turn it off and turn it all off and wait for better times. We need a plan and an idea of how to get through. We must begin with the fact that our authorities responsible for our preparedness are on track and understand the importance of having emergency stocks of this kind. But there must also be a plan B if even it breaks.
i-5azDgLbtSC6fmU2YLCVuYa	Madam President, I would like I will end with the Adblue asset itself, but in Sweden there are also several combustion plants with SCR systems. Should SCR systems be switched off in these plants, emissions of nitrogen oxides from industry are estimated to increase by up to three times compared to today. One should therefore be clear about the consequences, which, of course, the industry is in different ways. As I said, we have about 600,000 vehicles with SCR systems. Should the systems be switched off in these vehicles, emissions from road vehicles are estimated to increase by about five times. In addition, this is also, as we discussed before, an incredibly arduous process that we hope to avoid. It would, of course, also have major adverse health effects on the general public. At the same time, we simply need to secure access to Adblue. That's what it's all about. That is why we are now also in constant contact with the industry. We have our authorities, where the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, together with the Swedish Civil Protection Agency, has taken a joint initiative to map how material flows are going and what production options are available to manufacture Adblue if needed. It is an analysis that should be ready well before the coming winter, which is important to point out during this interpellation debate. As Thomas Morell says, there is currently no shortage of Adblue. On the other hand, we also have a situation that we have not discussed, namely that the price has pulled away a great deal as a result of the situation with Russia and imports from Russia. We, of course, will continue from the government – that is our task – to monitor developments closely, but also to develop a clear readiness in the event that we have a change in access to natural gas in Europe that will cause us to have a shortage of Adblue, should it become a reality despite all efforts to prevent this. It is part of our work to strengthen Sweden in this situation. But I also agree with the interpellier: The complexity of a number of supply chains in various areas that are now being revealed is very clear. It is also important to have the power to act and to act when you see that this kind of situation can arise. Of course, we should make sure that we do not end up in them.
i-Puy6S6nEFpW4GXja91mhQ7	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. The war has taught us that we cannot depend on a single supplier as much as we have been. The problem at this point is that if natural gas is now being strangled so that you don't get the access you need, the lack of Adblue may be around the corner. It is not possible to scale up a production as quickly as necessary. This is the threat. One comfort in the misery is that we are now heading for warmer times, so there will be gas available. But there'll be a fall and a winter. If we have not started an increase in production on peaceful land, if we say so, we can quickly end up in a shortage situation next winter. Here the government must be very clear about creating a readiness and having a close and close dialogue with the manufacturers to ensure access. There are a few of them in Sweden, quite large as well. Going in and extinguishing and adjusting the vehicle's control systems must be the absolute last resort. You have to find other solutions, because it creates huge problems if you go in and change the software. Restoring the vehicles afterwards also creates large costs for both road hauliers and machine contractors.
i-VhyasmP3Wbn8AoyNFynJ51	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Thomas Morell, for a good and urgent interpellation! This is, of course, a golden opportunity to send the message from Parliament's Chamber that we are on the issue. From our contacts with the industry, we know that several of the manufacturers mentioned here have already started to scale up their production. Of course, we will have to follow this closely, as well as the authorities' mapping of material flows and possible production options to ensure this well before the coming winter, as the interpellier says. Thank you for a good and urgent interpellation and a good debate!
i-NJLU4jF4hRsM5SPLuBoNWA	Madam President, I would like Thomas Morell has once again asked me whether I and the government intend to reduce the reduction obligation to the level that is at stake in the rest of Europe. Thomas Morell has also asked me whether I and the government intend to reduce Sweden's reduction obligation so that it is at least in line with comparable countries in Europe. I choose to answer the questions in a context. It is true that the price picture is different in different countries. We in Sweden have had high climate ambitions for a long time, and these help us to reduce dependence on Putin's and Sheikh's oil in our cars. That's why we mix more biofuels into diesel and petrol, which has some impact on the price. However, the sharp rise in prices that we are now seeing is largely the consequence of Russia's illegal invasion of Ukraine. The government does not intend to reduce the reduction obligation to the levels prevailing in the rest of Europe. The Parliament's climate targets are fixed, including the reduction of transport emissions, and the reduction obligation is one of our most important tools for achieving the climate targets for the transport sector. On the other hand, the Government has referred a proposal to freeze the reduction levels in the reduction obligation below 2023 to 2022 levels. This means that the reduction levels for diesel and petrol will not increase in the coming year, which will hold back the price development of diesel and petrol. The Government has also made a decision to bring forward parts of the assignment to the Swedish Energy Agency for a control station for the reduction obligation, which includes reviewing whether the reduction levels for diesel and petrol should be adjusted from 2024. That part of the assignment shall be reported by 15 September 2022. In addition to freezing reduction levels below 2023 in the reduction obligation to 2022 levels, on Monday 14 March the government presented a package of measures to meet the high prices of electricity and fuel that we are now seeing as a result of the war in Ukraine. Part of the package is a proposal for a temporary reduction in taxes on petrol and diesel. In addition to these tax reductions, the Government intends to propose a major reform of the travel allowance and specific fuel compensation to private individuals by car. One of the government's top priorities remains that Sweden should be at the forefront of the climate change transition. Since the situation we are in has arisen suddenly and as a consequence of Russia's invasion of Ukraine, we also see that we need to support consumers at the acute stage. Sweden will continue to convert to fossil freedom through sustained work to phase out fossil fuels. Therefore, the government will also propose reinforcements of the climate bonus allocation. Thanks to this addition, a person who buys an electric car will continue to be able to receive 70 000 SEK in financial support, and the pace of conversion can continue to be high.
i-EyzGUef4DW6V7f6xraTy8m	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. I'll answer a couple of things that came up in the answer. We're not going to be addicted to Putin's oil or the Sheikh's oil in our cars, they say. But with the high price picture we have in Sweden that is exactly what is happening. Much of the freight traffic is now being transferred to cars that are running with old East-East diesel. If we look at the countries competing with the Swedish haulage companies, we see that the diesel price in Estonia is 18 SEK. In Latvia and Lithuania it is 17 or 18 crowns. In Poland it is 15 kronor per litre. It is strange that these countries are not affected by the war and that the high cost only lands in Sweden. Even in Denmark there is a big difference in relation to Sweden. I looked at the Danish price before I came here, and it was 14,79 Danish crowns. In Swedish kronor it is 19, 45. The price in Sweden today is 25, 32. There is a difference of 5 kroner and 87 øre per litre. Denmark should be as affected by the war as we are. There can't possibly be a difference there, without the difference having to be in something else. For a truck with a tank of 600 litres, the difference is SEK 3,522 per tank. How will Swedish hauliers be able to compete? They come in trucks in the country and have maybe 1 500 liters of diesel with them. So they're driving here, or the diesel is smuggled in. We have mobile filling stations in different places in Sweden that supply fuel to the foreign vehicles. So we move the goods from the Swedish cars to those who are driving illegally in Sweden and who are also smuggling in fuel. Climate targets are bursting. Of course it looks good that we do not sell so much fuel ourselves, but there is just as much fuel here in Sweden anyway. There's no difference. It does not affect the climate for the better, but rather it gets worse. A little bit interesting is that the Government said that the government should not change this with the reduction obligation. On 7 April, however, the Parliament took a decision stating that the Riksdag supports the committee's view that the government should urgently come back with proposals on how the levels of biofuel interference can be temporarily adjusted to lower fuel prices in 2022 and announce this to the government. That decision was taken on 7 April with the votes 251 yes and 39 no. One abstained. The Parliament has thus told the government that it should be lowered now. We must be able to cope with competition with comparable countries. We cannot put ourselves in a situation where we put our own business away. Right now at this moment, five to seven hauliers a week are going down. They're going bankrupt. We can't have that.
i-LiPTE9yFtKtAbSPCiJ6oRK	Madam President, I would like I am fully aware of the announcement. As can be seen from the answer I have given, the situation was before the announcement was made. The government is now reviewing the announcement and has no intention of necessarily obstrusing against the announcement of the Riksdag on this matter. But we will have to come back to this once we have reviewed it and can see how it can be implemented. But let us free ourselves from the oil of Putin and the oil sheiks in our minds. Let us make sure that, while we are doing something that happens to be good for the climate, which the interpellete's party has not always wanted to do, we also increase Sweden's independence. On this point, the reduction obligation and all the other measures taken by the government, all the other measures that this noble House has decided on, are important environmental measures to stick to. I would like to say this in this line so that Thomas Morell will have the opportunity to respond to it. I have previously heard the interpellant take up the contraband tanks that come to Sweden and will refuel. Of course it's illegal. The police will, of course, arrest and prosecute those who commit illegal acts. However, I note that there is still no source. It seems to be some kind of hearsay, an urban legend, that Thomas Morell continues to spread. I haven't seen any source. Thomas Morell will be happy to inform me of both the source and the facts behind this information. I also note that if the hauliers who enter Sweden brought an extra tank, this would mean significantly higher fuel consumption for them, because the extra tank will bring extra weight to the truck. Whether it would be profitable for them to bring an extra tank or not at least I dare not speculate. But I see that, in business terms, it would mean a higher cost for them to bring in an extra tank that means extra weight. What affects the competitiveness of hauliers, on the other hand, are labour market conditions, wages in the labour market. There's the big difference. Åkers who enter Sweden pay the same price at the pump as everyone else. They do not have their own Polish price at Circle K here, but it is the same price that applies. When our hauliers go to Europe, they also pay local prices. They do not bring with them any other price that they pay. What differs, however, even when crossing the border, are wages and conditions. On this point, the interpellant party and their co-operative party The Moderates have a great deal to do in terms of creating a level playing field and giving our hauliers the right conditions on the market in order to compete with others. Nevertheless, we are aware of the announcement, and we are reviewing it.
i-V89bZnHfkXxeov2UDV3kWG	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. I can say the same thing to the Government that I have offered both Damberg and Eneroth: please come out with me one day and look. We can also go up to my office where I can show you pictures. There is an extensive smuggling of fuel into Sweden that illegal shipments use. They have their own workshops. They have their own tire workshops. They have their own fuel depots. They even have their own tow trucks. They do not buy a litre of fuel in Sweden. They don't even buy engine oil. They smuggle it in. And they're under the sky repairing. I have pictures of it, too. You're welcome! We can set a date one day, so I can account for it. We can also go out and see. The problem is, we don't have any cops out on the road that can get to them. At the same time, the government imposes such high costs on fuel that the Swedish haulage companies cannot compete. They're not on the field at all. The Russian diesel was down to 4 kroner per litre last time I looked. Then it is business-wise to fill up a tank for SEK 4 per litre compared to the SEK 25 we pay here. The Swedish haulage companies do not play in the same division. And the political decisions that are being made put away the bones of the serious entrepreneurs. How will Swedish haulage companies, which are far ahead in terms of environmental ambitions, cope with the competition that prevails when they pay such huge sums of money for fuel and also for Adblue? There is also another concern with the reduction obligation: consumption increases by 19 per cent. That has also been noted by haulage companies. It is not enough for consumption to go up – so that fuel filters and engine oil can also be changed more often. It's the engine oil. There is therefore also a cost for maintenance. I was in a trucker about a month ago. They put three glass jars in the window. In one, it was pure HVO. It looked like water. There was nothing strange about that jar. It hadn't changed. There was also a bottle of fuel with a reduction obligation. When you turned it over, it looked like there was pussy butter in the bottom. It was the precipitate. That's what clogs the blankets in the cars. So you get both malfunctions and get to change filters more often. It is not only that fuel is more expensive, but it also increases consumption and service needs. Then we have to ask ourselves the question: is there any environmental benefit in this? An impact assessment must be carried out, we must see what is happening and what the consequences are for entrepreneurship, but also for what we have the ambition to improve: the environment. It will not be better for the environment if we increase consumption at the same time. It'll be like Ebberöd's bank in the end. Once you have established that it did not turn out well, you should not stand and persist. You have to step back and see what you can do to make things better. This isn't good enough. Now we have a situation where five to seven hauliers fail a week. How long will it last? In the end, we don't have any transporters for us.
i-VtLqdhEpjDqgNzbszcAKrz	Madam President, I would like I'll perhaps see some images that God knows who has taken, but I still don't get any facts as to where the source comes from when it comes to contraband thoughts and other claims. But let's leave it at that. What the government does is extremely important. We support consumers in maintaining purchasing power. It goes to pensioners so that they can afford to shop in the shops and so that the hauliers can charge a reasonable price for their deliveries. We provide support for families with children so that they can buy that jacket or those sports shoes that children need. At the same time, the hauliers get a customer, that is, the shops to which they can deliver food, clothing or other things. Madam President, I would like I wonder if Thomas Morell is prepared to support the government in this support. That is ultimately what creates a market for hauliers to survive in. One cannot simply say that the only thing that is good and works is to impair the climate, that it would be the only solution. Of course, that is not the case. There are several solutions. If we have more expensive diesel prices – we do – than Denmark, for example, as the interpeller said, because we have higher climate ambitions is a solution to provide better support for consumers so that they can trade. When it comes to illegality, while it is mentioned that the police do not have time, I would like to point out that the police are doing a great deal. They are doing a very good job, and I am very proud that Sweden today has 6,500 more police officers than when the S-led government under Stefan Löfven took office. Only this year have we got 800 more cops. I note that since 2014, the former S-led government under Stefan Löfven and this government have contributed a total of SEK 12.7 billion in support to the police and given them an enormous number of tools to do their important job. I compare with the bourgeois government which during its eight years contributed less than half, SEK 6 billion, to the police and had 6,500 fewer police officers. I wonder about the parties that Thomas Morell would like to support after the next elections. How does he view the police's opportunity? We have concluded that bourgeois parties have not supplied any more police officers. They made no further efforts to stop the illegal smuggling operations, as Thomas Morell is talking about. But socially-led governments are actually investing in the police. How does he view that future? How does he expect us to stop the illegal smugglers? I think we both agree that we should stop them as well as possible and as much as possible. I'm not gonna let them smuggle a drop. But then the police need more support. For hauliers to have customers, pensioners and families with children must have more money. Today, the spring amending budget was presented. Does Thomas Morell and his party intend to support it so that consumers get more money and can become customers of the haulage companies?
i-JSJuHZK7EE3KEk8WUsz5J3	Madam President, I would like There were a lot of questions at once. I'll take the matter of traffic police right away. I worked there myself. It's basically impoverished today. What has happened in recent years is a great shame. They do not have a chance to get to what is illegal on the road and to support the criminal networks. They create their financial resources by driving illegally. It's about drugs, weapons and explosives and stolen goods coming out of the country. They're free to play, aren't they? As long as I stand up, I will fight for the land that the police have lost out on the road to be reclaimed. This is not where the government should stretch. They have had seven years to do something about this, but they have not. Information has not been missing. I can assure you of that, because I've been one of those who have informed. Then there's the next part. It's great that consumers get more money, but that's not the problem for the hauliers. They're making deals they can't get out of. They can't raise the price, however much they'd like. It's stopping. Some have managed to get fuel supplements that run for one month at a time. But if you have a trucker of 30 - 40 cars, liquidity is affected if you are going to spend a whole month with the money before they come back. You'll realize that pretty soon. I got an e-mail from a trucker. They have over 100 cars. They lose 500 kroner every day they work. You don't have to put five in math to understand it doesn't work. It won't help if the individual gets more money if the transporter can't charge for the job you do. You must wake up on this matter.
i-HBJvVdquCnyfSVjZsWWJhd	Madam President, I would like This government had, of course, consistently five in math, but we leave it at that. We are now seeing Russia's brutal war in Ukraine affecting households, companies and haulage companies. We are concerned, just as the interpellier is. No government can fully compensate for all the effects of the war. No government can credibly claim that it does. But our government is doing a great deal to alleviate the effects. We do this by giving more money to consumers so that, for example, hauliers can push for a tougher renegotiation of their contracts. There should be customers out there who will shop from the stores and suppliers so that they can push for a renegotiation if they want and they need it. This is about support for pensioners and families with children. These are extremely important efforts. I hope that the interpelliers' party cares enough about the hauliers to support this. The interpellant says that what has happened in the police force is a great shame. I'm very proud of the police's work. They have done a great deal, and they will do a great deal more. But I note that it is easier for the police to work now that there are 6,500 more police officers and more than twice as much money added as under the bourgeois government. That makes a difference. The money makes it more colleagues. Only this year will there be 800 more police officers. Of course, I'm not happy, but I'm proud of the police's work. Last weekend we have seen how hard they have worked under difficult conditions. We'll make sure they get better support to be able to work even more. On this point too, I hope that the interpelliers' party will think about who they are allying with and who they support. Those with whom they have allied themselves now are not exactly friends of the police.
i-HukyrYL5RGyfUUJf4Ha1j7	Madam President, I would like Mikael Eskilandersson has asked the Minister for Housing and the Deputy Minister for Labour, in two interpellations, about the proposal to revise the directive on the energy performance of buildings. The first question is how the government intends to allocate the cost of bureaucracy. The second question is how the Minister for Housing and the Deputy Minister for Labour intends to act to preserve the possibility of using wood for heating residential buildings in Sweden. The work within the government is so divided that it is I who should answer the interpellations. I choose to respond to both interpellations in one context. In the first question, Mikael Eskilandersson raises in particular the costs of inventorying the building stock in order to determine which energy class different buildings belong to. Today, the system of energy classes and energy declarations is designed so that the property owner who needs to draw up a declaration can itself finance that cost. Boverket is responsible for supervision, whose activities are financed from the state budget. The framework for the energy performance of buildings is not pre-negotiated. It is therefore not possible today to determine how the cost of administration will be allocated. The government's position, which is in agreement with the Riksdag, is to work towards the provisions of the directive contributing to low administrative costs. The Government also intends to promote greater flexibility in the way the requirements for the renovation of the existing stock are put in place and that Member States should be able to choose for themselves which buildings are to be renovated, in order to achieve the energy and climate objectives in a socially efficient manner. It would also reduce costs. As regards Mikael Eskilandersson's second question, the proposal for a revised directive on the energy performance of buildings does not prohibit wood burning for heating residential buildings. The proposal provides for the energy used for a zero emission building to be covered by renewable energy produced on-site. It may be a local energy community or a district heating or cooling plant. Wood is a form of biomass and biomass is included in the definition of renewable energy under the proposal for a directive on the energy performance of buildings. What is classified as sustainable renewable energy is regulated in the Renewable Energy Directive. In order to meet the proposed requirements for zero emission building, the rules of Article 7 of the future Renewables Directive must also be complied with. But even in that proposal, it is not clear that wood burning for the heating of homes would be prohibited. Finally, I would like to say that the Council intends to work towards provisions in the directive, including the definition of zero emission building, contributing to technologically neutral choices of sustainable fossil-free energy sources.
i-CvnLMzdrr39D1BpkxEzMgU	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Khashayar Farmanbar, for your answer! Let's start with the firewood. I welcome the fact that the Government is now making it clear that the texts saying that CO2 should not be released from buildings after 2050 do not apply if you burn with wood. It explicitly states that CO2 emissions should be reduced from buildings and zero emission buildings should not emit CO2 locally. Even if you burn with wood and wood is biological, you release carbon dioxide. I myself find it a little difficult that it is explicitly written that we are seeking a carbon-free building stock, but that it does not mean that the building stock should be free from carbon dioxide emissions but can very well emit carbon dioxide. But it is typical of the EU bureaucracy to write one thing and mean another. Given that electricity is not free from fossil combustion in Sweden, buildings should in future be forced to switch to more wood burning. Carbon dioxide is released regardless of whether you use electricity from Karlshamn or if you burn with wood, but it is only the electricity you should avoid using in the future, as I interpret the Government. Another thing that is released if you burn wood is particles, but that is not a problem, even though it is specifically mentioned on page 21 of the proposal that we in the Committee on Civil Liberties have taken note of. On page 21, it says that buildings account for half of the emissions of so-called fine particles that cause premature death and disease and that this is expected to decrease in the future. However, reducing these emissions does not really match the fact that wood burning will remain unchanged in the future, if it is not even to increase, given that it is one of very few ways to heat houses completely without fossil interference. Madam President, I would like Then there is the perhaps more interesting question of how bureaucracy should be paid. It will be a bit ugly rhetorical, I might say, when Khashayar Farmanbar says that property owners who need to draw up an energy declaration themselves will finance the cost, because no property owner needs to draw up an energy declaration for himself. If it had been up to the respective property owners, everyone would have opted out of energy declarations – I am absolutely convinced of that. It is the government's call for an energy declaration to be drawn up which requires them to do so. Khashayar Farmanbar makes it sound like it is the owners of the buildings who have asked for more declarations and more unnecessary bureaucracy, but it is the government that is forcing it through legislation. Moreover, this is likely to hamper the construction of the whole country. The government therefore wants the energy performance of buildings to be investigated throughout Sweden and that all buildings should then be classified from A to G, where the worst class G is the worst 15 percent in the country. This 15% will be renovated first, but all the buildings in the whole country will be renovated to A by 2050. What is the whole point of this huge bureaucracy and the huge job that is to be put into classing buildings can really be asked.
i-FfbjUM2SA27K72eEeoBSrv	Madam President, I would like Thank you, interpellant, for the questions! I note that the government is in favour of improving energy performance and reducing emissions from buildings, but we believe that the renovation should be done in a cost-effective way. We also believe that there is a need for more flexibility than the European Union often wants to admit. It should be no surprise to neither the interpeller nor anyone else in this noble House that the Swedish Government often has the view that there should be greater flexibility in how Member States are to implement the requirements of the European Union. At the same time, it is important that we achieve the energy and climate policy objectives that we have. As far as electricity is concerned, I noticed that the interpeller mentioned that all electricity is not fossil-free in Sweden. There may be a single part that is not fossil-free, but electricity in Sweden is mainly fossil-free. 45 percent – almost 50 percent – of our electricity comes from hydropower, which is the backbone of energy production. 27% comes from nuclear power, and 17% comes from wind power today. I usually think 50, 30, 20 as an approximate picture, but it's 45, 27, 17. Solar power accounts for 1 percent and came for the first time ever on the list last year. The fossil-borne part of our electricity generation is extremely small. However, I may think that there is a point in not using electricity to any great extent for heating the houses, this from a climate perspective but also from a commercial cost perspective. It is important for households and their economy both to energy efficiency and to make greater use of district heating systems, which are an extremely smart way to heat households in a good way. As far as EU proposals are concerned, they include stricter requirements related to climate adaptation, indoor climate, fire safety, seismic activity, accessibility for people with functional variations and some other stricter requirements. They also include a ban on support for fossil boilers and an opportunity – an opportunity! – for Member States to prohibit the use of fossil boilers in buildings. As I mentioned earlier, wood, according to the EU directive on renewable energy, is to be classified as biomass, because for the foreseeable future, some 40 years, it is expected to resume the carbon dioxide it has released by allowing new forests to grow up. Thus it is a renewable source, as defined.
i-MFBt3o1c8hYPELFz63HNJP	Madam President, I would like It may be a disappearing small part of electricity produced using fossil fuels, but it is still not zero. Zero emission buildings should add zero carbon dioxide, but they do not, of course, if you use electricity. There are quite a few houses that use heat pumps in different ways. They usually do not have direct-acting electricity because electricity is too expensive. Heat pumps can actually be quite effective ways to heat buildings. The big challenge here must still be to classify all buildings throughout Sweden, i.e. the classification system from A to G. It is not just residential buildings but all buildings that should be included. How many buildings are there in Sweden? I am quite convinced that there is no one who can answer that. I don't even know how many buildings on my own land would count as buildings, because it all depends on where the limit of what is a building goes. Is a roof over a root cellar a building to be classified? Or the shelter for the animals? This is not quite clear from the directives so far, but it may be clear in the meantime. At least the government wants all buildings to be classified from A to G, and a first step is energy declarations. So far they only affect new buildings, where villas and small houses are excluded, but the government has already commissioned Boverket to review how it can be introduced for renovations and how limit values can be used. This is done long before there has even been a demand from the European Union for us to start introducing something. The government's plan seems to be that the energy declarations should develop into the classification that you want to use. The worst 15% should be identified in this way and restored first. However, in order to know which 15% is the worst, all buildings need to be surveyed. When the government now wants to introduce energy declarations with specific limit values for all renovations in Sweden, I think that will lead to one thing, and that is that people will avoid doing renovations because it will be both more complicated and more expensive than before. How much more expensive the government has yet to reflect on, as far as I understand. It is the property owners who pay the energy declarations, so it does not affect the government or the state. At the same time, however, the state must have all properties declared in Class A by 2050. How is this to be done, with Swedish property rights preserved? Only a small fraction of the buildings in Sweden are owned by the public, so in some way you have to force private owners into the bureaucratic system. The Green Party and the Center Party are eagerly cheering for the government when they introduce more and more demands for energy declarations, while the costs are being sent to everyone who owns a building. How expensive this is in the individual case remains to be seen. We know that building permits cost many thousands, and the simpler permits for those houses run off to several thousand. Every official hour costs basically a thousand, and simple headcounts say that the energy declarations will cost a number of thousands for each property owner.
i-5Bk17vLbMeXPktQan7kmMK	Madam President, I would like The proposal includes stricter requirements for installation and cabling of charging infrastructure for electric vehicles, requirements for bicycle parking areas and more. However, these requirements are mainly aimed at new buildings and buildings undergoing major renovations as well as existing non-residential buildings with more than 20 parking spaces. For existing homes, the focus is on removing obstacles to installation of charging points. But when it comes to 2050, we're talking about 30 years. And I think that most people who possibly watch this broadcast have lived for so long, but many in Sweden have not. If we look at this perspective and that every time we renovate a bathroom with the help of the root deduction and every time we change a window with the root deduction has the opportunity to at the same time take the opportunity to energy classify the buildings, then the hump that we have in front of us until 2050 will not be so incredibly insurmountable in the way that Mikael Eskilandersson is trying to assert. There is a long-term perspective, and there are, of course, opportunities to do so with other things. But I'm not going to underscore that it's an effort. We are making an effort to manage climate change. We are making an effort to enable our companies to learn know-how, so that they can be good and best at doing this kind of thing and also so that they can sell this technology around Europe. We are making an effort to have more jobs, greater independence and a strengthened Sweden. At the same time, we are doing something good for the planet on which we live. I think the net with an ambition of 30 years is reasonable. The question is rather why Mikael Eskilandersson is so negative that we are making efforts on the environmental side at all. He doesn't believe in the climate threat? Is he like his party friends in the United States and in other countries rather a climate-denier who doesn't think this is a problem? Climate threats are real.
i-Ds2Lm7Ak6Uy4avtj2Yrwzt	Madam President, I would like Well, I think that's quite the way to renovate our buildings. What I do not believe in is the enormous bureaucracy. It sounded like basically anyone who changes a window will be forced to make an energy declaration. I do not believe that this will lead to more double-glazed windows being replaced by triple-glazed windows in the future. Inventing and classifying all buildings throughout Sweden in a system from A to G is unnecessary bureaucracy that will only lead to large and unnecessary costs for just everyone who owns a building in our country. This whole huge package of bureaucracy, which I am pleased that my party is actually saying no to, but which the government, together with the Center Party, among other things, wants to implement, will only lead to increased costs. Instead, these resources could have been used to actually improve buildings and reduce energy demand in real terms. Regrettably, the overconfidence in the bureaucracy of the government is striking. The important thing is not to classify all buildings throughout the country, but actually to remove energy thieves and improve the buildings that are the easiest to fix. But instead of concentrating our resources on actually fixing buildings, the government is putting all its effort into building a huge bureaucracy around all buildings throughout Sweden. Even if the directive is not negotiated, the government has already started this bureaucracy, not because it must, but because it wants this extremely expensive solution. The task of introducing energy declarations with clear requirements for renovations has been sent. Now we are just waiting for the next step, which will well require that all buildings be energy declared and classified in the system from A to G.
i-BfCyZLCfKVbPvPvzFZEji4	Madam President, I would like I note that over the next 30 years there will be many opportunities to declare the house that needs to be declared. I have not said – let me be clear about that – that it should happen in connection with something else. However, I note that for many this can be done simply. Others may need other measures. The most important thing to include from the Swedish Government's position towards Europe, towards the EU, in this respect is the need for greater flexibility, that is, how the Member States and Sweden themselves will choose to proceed with the declarations, how Sweden itself will proceed with the renovations that would have to take place and that the first step is new buildings, buildings that are not homes, which are large, that are renovated and that have more than 20 parking spaces. It is our solution that is good. It is a question of increased flexibility, so that different Member States can act on their own merits. It can also be some buildings that have cultural historical value and that we do not even want to renovate or declare. I note that what many people, not just me, but the government and most people in Europe, would probably call knowledge, calls Mikael Eskilandersson bureaucracy. It is clear that no one wants unnecessary bureaucracy, but everyone wants knowledge. And to gain knowledge, you sometimes have to do a job. We are prepared to ensure that we have that knowledge to make wise decisions. That is why we think it is important. At the same time, we want more flexibility, so that we do this in a way that suits our country's specific conditions.
i-MLSR4WvrpejqpZ6ugYMbSF	Madam President, I would like Mr Bohlin has asked me what measures I intend to take to increase the amount of planned electricity production in southern Sweden. The government is working to ensure that Sweden has a secure, competitive and sustainable energy supply and has recently published its national electrification strategy with 67 implementation measures during the period 2022 – 2024. One of the measures of the electrification strategy is that energy instruments should be analysed from an impact perspective in order to contribute, if possible, to reduced power requirements in order to facilitate faster electrification. Another example from the electrification strategy concerns the role of cogeneration in enabling rapid electrification, especially in cities that otherwise risk local capacity shortages. The Government intends to commission the Swedish Energy Agency to develop a long-distance and cogeneration strategy for the sustainable development of the district heating sector in interaction with electrification, climate and energy targets. Another example from the electrification strategy concerns demand response and energy storage, which is becoming increasingly important in future electricity systems to balance increasing shares of variable electricity production with increased demand for electricity. The Government intends to commission Svenska Kraftnät to clarify the conditions for promoting flexibility in future electricity systems when connecting electricity-intensive users. Both electricity use and electricity generation should be able to provide more flexibility in the future. One of the measures of the electrification strategy therefore relates to the potential to build in system stabilisation capabilities such as support services, storage and flexibility in investments in new and existing power generation plants and to clarify this. In addition to this, I would like to point out that Swedish power networks are planning extensive reinforcements of the transmission network and are almost tripling their network investments over the next three years compared with the previous three-year period. The Government has also made proposals to shorten lead times and make it easier to expand the Swedish electricity grid and commissioned Swedish power grids to expand the offshore transmission network to facilitate investments in offshore energy production.
i-Ja76CJ89w29CbULhDHg5MS	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I note that the Government's response to how to increase the planned production in southern Sweden mainly revolves around people and companies not being able to use electricity when they want to do so. That is what flexibility means in this context. I also note that he wants us to take heights for a further increase in unplanned electricity production. I would like to ask a rhetorical question, Madam President. Is it a problem that people in Sweden do not know if the next electricity bill will be 1 000 or 10 000 SEK? The clear answer of the Moderates to that question is: Yes, that is a problem. Why are we in this situation? Because it is an increasing proportion of our electricity production that we cannot control today. That's a problem. In an almost astounding Saturday interview, the Government stated in answer to the question how it came about that northern Sweden during the month of March had ten times lower electricity prices than southern Sweden that this is mainly due to the fact that northern Sweden has been friendly about expanding electricity production. It is understood, then, that this attitude has not existed in southern Sweden. This is, to say the least, to come from a government that, during its reign – the last eight years – has overseen the closure of 3,000 megawatts of planned electricity production in southern Sweden. This government is happy to talk about the importance of conversion and about the importance of electrification, but it is clear that electricity generation is being shut down rather than expanded in a way that makes the system more robust and that allows people to actually have a hunch about what the next electricity bill will be on. After all, the answer to how you intend to get back to the order that once existed does not exist. The Government does not provide any answers as to how it intends to increase the share of planned electricity production in southern Sweden. He mentions cogeneration, but then let us remember that the government has in fact been the biggest opponent of cogeneration in the last term of office. Different taxes have ensured that cogeneration has been shut down and that the turbines are not run for electricity generation, but only for the production of district heating – simply because the incentives are removed. The incentives for cogeneration have disappeared during this government, so cogeneration has also decreased during this term of office.
i-Fn7i6HJnvRM2YhjVRuJMSb	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin, for the post! Still, let us stick to the truth. The government has not shut down electricity production in southern Sweden, at least not during this term of office. I can admit that it happened in the early 2000s with Barsebäck. It was a political closure. What has happened since then has taken place in the market. I'm not surprised that the Moderates can't do this with market discipline, but let me explain. This means that it is not profitable to operate anything. It costs more to run and maintain something than you can sell it for, and that means it is no longer profitable. That is why we have seen the closure of nuclear power plants in southern Sweden. At the same time, we have seen an enormous interest in investments in other types of power, not least wind power. My party has made sure to expand and strengthen Sweden. We expanded hydropower, which is the backbone of Swedish energy production by 45 per cent – almost 50 per cent – of Sweden's energy production. We also expanded nuclear power, which today accounts for 27% of energy production. Wind power currently accounts for 17% of energy production. I can, as a friendly tip, say 50, 30, 20– then you get a pretty good idea of how Sweden's electricity production looks from. I am extremely concerned that the nuclear power we have will remain. Unlike the Moderates, the government has been open to all types of energy that people want to invest in and build in Sweden. We have been open to new nuclear power plants, and we are now. We are open to new wind turbines, which the Moderates are campaigning against with fake Photoshop images in southern Sweden for people to say no. We were also in favour of increasing the use of cogeneration in the electrification strategy that I presented two months ago. We are increasing production in Sweden, and we are already seeing the huge long sex of companies that want to invest in Swedish energy production. But let's get to the core. For Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin, technology neutrality, or energy as such, is not an issue. We have noticed that the Moderates only want more nuclear power, no matter what it costs and whether it means a permanent cost to electricity consumers. For me, for the government and for my party, this – that politics goes into the details of what one would like to have – is not the main thing, but we will ensure that there is electricity at all times of the day during every day of the year. You can get that with the energy mix we have today. This can be achieved with an increased focus on energy sources – on cogeneration, on increased wind power and on energy storage in order to balance. I said this in my answer, which the interpeller probably missed. We also see the effects of our present. We see the effects of countries that have not wanted to go the way we are going. We see the effects in the rest of Europe and how their dependence on fossil fuels, such as gas, drags up electricity costs for them and, unfortunately, for us too. The same cooperation that has long made for low electricity prices in Sweden has meant that in recent months we have seen higher electricity prices in Sweden. Although, to be honest, they are considerably lower than in the rest of Europe, they are very high prices for us. This is why the government has taken measures to make it easier for consumers.
i-DHVv7HkXKZ3RDvtEuBUcuE	Madam President, I would like My interpellation was about planned electricity production; then it was the Minister for Energy who chose to drag in the debate on nuclear power. However, if he does want it, we can see that the government is not at all open to the construction of new nuclear power in this country, because today we see legislation that makes this impossible. The legislation makes it impossible to build, for example, SMR reactors, which are ready to order and for which there has been a great deal of interest but which are currently made impossible by purely legislative obstacles. A new reactor must not be built in places other than where existing reactors have been located. This means that today there are two companies that are allowed to build new nuclear power in Sweden. It is therefore not consistent with reality that it is free to build new nuclear power. That is simply not true. What does the expert authority say on the matter? In its power balance report, the Swedish power grid notes that the analysis of the power adequacy in Sweden shows that increased use of electricity without significant volumes of flexibility in the power system can cause major problems with power shortages already up to 2035, especially when the increased use of electricity is combined with a large expansion of unplanned electricity production. The situation becomes untenable for 2045. So it's the government's planned plan. Swedish power grids note that we are heading straight for an unsustainable situation, and instead of seeing this, the Minister for Energy seems to be of the opinion that this is a road map. The problem is that the government seems to be uninterested in the laws of physics. The closure of planned synchronous electricity generation has not only created less active power on site in southern Sweden but also reduced the conditions for transferring power from northern to southern Sweden. What is the problem with this? Well, of course, southern Sweden is hit twice. What is the government's response to people in southern Sweden who today have to pay ten times more for electricity than residents in northern Sweden? The government obviously has no answer, for the government has no plan to replace the power generation that has been overlooked with the closure of. It is true that it is not the government that has formally decided on nuclear decommissioning at a government meeting. But note well what the government's former Green Party cooperation party says when they are interviewed about this. They say that this was done through informal governance of Vattenfall, that is, that the government used its own company to shut down nuclear power. The Minister for Energy then says that this would have been done on a market-based basis. However, when these decisions were made, nuclear power was hit by a record-high tax on the effects that the Social Democrats have been involved in introducing and increasing. What kind of market behaviour is that? The whole electricity market is politically invented. The incentives provided by the policy will also define the outcome of the market. The problem is that the outcome is currently unwanted, and the government bears ultimate responsibility for that.
i-CFha1EcXMw4zAwBeTHReTY	Madam President, I would like I'm glad the interpellant has read a report from the Swedish power grid. But it is a pity that he has not read the electrification strategy, which came after that report, and the reports that show that the electrification strategy is responding to the challenges ahead. But maybe next time we have an interpellation debate, who knows? When it comes to power generation that is planned in Sweden, I mentioned in my previous post district heating solutions, cogeneration solutions, energy flexibility, support services in the system, a new market model and more electricity generation. Wind power in itself is not planable, but 60% of it is produced during the winter months, when we have the greatest need. Smaller wind power is produced during the summer, unlike solar power, which is 80 per cent produced during the summer. When you have enough wind, you will always have access to good energy. In addition, it is compressed together. In the solutions that we see before us, the market works with more storage in everything from batteries to various fuels, so that we get an increased planned electricity generation in southern Sweden. But then we must also work together to get acceptance for increased production in southern Sweden, not like the interpellant's party going around and spreading fake photoshopped pictures to lie together what wind power would have looked like if you were to say yes to it. I'm prepared to talk to my party friends about this. Is the interpellant prepared to talk to his party friends about the absurdity of saying no to increased power generation that for every kilowatt added would lower the prices of electricity here in southern Sweden? It together with flexibility, support services and the power and district heating strategy are solutions to increase sustainable and planned production in Sweden. Something was said about the treasure. Yes, the excise duty on nuclear power was introduced in 2000. It was allowed to remain for eight years by moderate government. In 2015, it was raised. It was then completely removed by Stefan Lövven's government in connection with the 2016 budget bill. In 2018, before any nuclear power plant was removed, that tax disappeared altogether. It is true that one of the decisions had been taken before then, but not a single screw had begun to be removed. Nevertheless, the owners did not consider it reasonable to change their decision. Obviously, it was not the big issue that led them to choose the market solution to close down. You have to admit that there are solutions that are more modern, smarter and cheaper. I usually say that Sweden needs much more electricity, that it needs to get in place quickly and that it needs to be cheap. On this point, we have solutions. We see, for example, in the market how big investments are made in our wind power. Together with flexibility, storage and support services, it is one of the solutions to provide planned electricity. But then we must be able to shake hands and say: Yes, this is a solution for the future. At the same time, there is the opportunity for anyone who would like to invest their money in nuclear power. Then I wonder where these SMRs are available to order. Today, there is not a single electricity consumer around the world who gets their electricity from SMRs. They're still at the research stage. They will certainly be able to be there, and the first to order them will pay a premium price. When I talk to Swedish companies, they clearly say that it is only closer to 2030, perhaps 2035, that you reach a price point where it is reasonable for Swedish consumers to start using electricity from SMRs. But for so long our industries do not have to wait for your favorite energy to become market-wise profitable.
i-K3vJYaNkHXQsWytYzTgTVc	Madam President, I would like I think it might be a good time for a little fact correction. Yesterday, Sweden was able to make 0.9% of the installed power available in our wind power. There was still wind on land and on the sea in all northern Europe. What this does, Madam President, is that it illustrates the problem of unplanned electricity production. We should be very happy that it was 18 degrees last night and not 18 degrees below zero. We had a hunch about what this means in December, when we had some wind, cold and expensive gas on the continent. Why, then, did Sweden become dependent on the price of electricity being set by Russian gas? Because we have defoliated and shut down the electricity production that we ourselves control. Then the last kilowatty will be priced by Russian gas. It is expensive and harmful and contributes to an extremely destructive European dependence on a purely dictatorship. The problem, Madam President, is that the Minister for Energy is not interested in seeing this or talking about it. I ask: how are we going to increase the proportion of planned electricity production? The Minister for Energy says we're going to build more wind power. But wind power is not planable. Wind power does not naturally contribute to the support services required for the system to function. Then you have to procure them separately, and it will be expensive for everyone who gets home electricity bills. It is basically a problem that we are deprived of the ability to control our own electricity production. This government has contributed to this. After the debate, I note that it does not seem very interested in resolving this issue in the future either.
i-3kFT58fw4k4MN9PcZ7ssBP	Madam President, I would like In recent years, Sweden has had exceptionally low electricity prices. We saw a difference in December, as the interpellier pointed out. What then separated December 2021 from December 2020? Yes, one thing: Russia's action on the gas market in Europe. That's the big difference. To use it as leverage to highlight their favorite energy team, I don't call it serious. But it is clear that when we have a built-in energy system with the rest of Europe, we are also becoming more part of that price picture. Even if this price picture is contagious, the more we move through the electricity price zones, we may find ourselves in a situation where these prices are reflected in us. As I said, Sweden still had significantly lower prices than Germany, France, Denmark and even Norway, thanks to our robust electricity system. But it is clear that war in our neighbourhood affects our energy production. I think we can agree that wind power is not planable. However, wind power combined with storage, flexibility solutions, cogeneration and support services are actually planned. Madam President, I would like Planning is not a type of energy but a functionality of energy systems. I am keen that we build a planned energy system in Sweden. The interpellant seems to be most interested in building his favorite energy team, which is certainly planable but not adjustable and which is neither cheap nor in place very quickly. I am keen for our industry to have access to a lot of electricity in place quickly and cheaply, and then we do not have time to wait for the Moderates' favorite energy team. That is the reality.
