i-Qv9nnxyocC1C4QEtonC2Hq	Madam President, I would like Today, we are debating the motion for a resolution on defence policy covering areas such as international defence cooperation, strategic supplies, hybrid threats and the defence economy. We did so last year, Madam President, last year and the year before that. After all, it shows continuity and a normality of defence policy, and that is very much the case. But when it comes to the current security situation, there is neither continuity nor normality to lean against. On the contrary, Europe is in the most serious security situation for many decades. It is not possible to separate today's defence policy debate from the current security policy situation which has profound implications for Europe and Sweden's security. Madam President, I would like Never before have we seen the Russian Federation mobilize the armed forces as much as they are currently. Over 130 000 Russian soldiers are in the immediate vicinity of Ukraine. The Russian warships are threatening to cut off the trade routes in the Black Sea and also expose Ukraine to a military snip. Russia, through its actions, is challenging the very foundations of the European security regime and is trying to take Ukraine's security hostage through a brutal power game. Basically, this is about the Kremlin wanting to see another Europe. It is a Europe governed by buffer zones and the right of the strong and neighbouring countries to be relegated to vassals in a Russian backyard and Russia to exercise dominance in the immediate neighbourhood. But, Madam President, this is also a crisis that affects Sweden more than many other countries in Europe. On 17 December, Russia presented totally unacceptable demands for legally binding agreements that would both make Swedish NATO membership impossible and severely curtail our opportunities for international defence cooperation. The Russian demands strike right at the heart of our defense doctrine. Our counter-move, when Russia is now trying to close the door to Swedish NATO membership, must of course be to ensure that that door is wide open. The question of a Swedish NATO option but also the question of a Swedish NATO membership has never been more topical than today. This applies not least in the light of the very aggressive Russian behaviour that we can see. Madam President, I would like So we are in a new security policy situation. This requires a new security policy analysis, but also new decisions and new financial resources. All of this is in the interest of strengthening and speeding up the defence decision taken by this House on 15 December 2020. We cannot count on having ten years to build a stronger defence and a war-resisting capability, but we must speed up the pace here and now. It is therefore good that the government has now activated the Defense Committee. However, I am concerned about the message we received from the government that financial appropriations should be reprogrammed for 2023 – 2025 and brought forward these efforts. Our view is that new measures will require new financial resources. We cannot contrast the long-term needs of the Armed Forces with the short-term needs. That is why we need to be open to more financial resources. The Moderates announced last week in connection with our amending budget that we will need at least 3 billion to strengthen defence here and now for 15 March when our amending budget is due to be ready. Madam President, I would like As today's report also shows, it is not just the military threats we have to deal with in a more uncertain Europe. We also see that foreign power is trying to influence us by economic and political means. Often it is about China and Russia acting in a grey zone between the total peace and the total war with hidden and indescribable methods, so-called hybrid methods. It can be about disinformation, propaganda and foreign direct investment in critical infrastructure. It could be cyber espionage or cyberattacks. But we have also seen cases where transnational murders are even attempted. We saw a case in Gävle a while ago where there are links to the Russian Federation. This is, of course, extremely serious and totally unacceptable. They say the hybrid threats are as old as the Trojan horse. But it is quite clear that they have increased in strength and extent in recent years. The Moderates have therefore presented a 24-point programme that will try to create a coherent policy in Sweden to increase our resistance to hybrid threats. Madam President, I would like All experience suggests that if you are to be good at dealing with hybrid threats, it must be an effort of the whole community. That's what in English is called whole-of-government or whole-of-society approach. You have to work across a wide spectrum to respond to the hybrid threats. But it also requires someone to lead the work and someone to benefit and prioritise. It requires a central nervous system. In the political environment, the Government Office is the central nervous system to control our authorities. The Government Office as it is organised today has clear shortcomings when it comes to its ability to deal with hybrid threats. That is why we, the Moderates, have proposed the establishment of a National Security Council directly under the Prime Minister. This is not least in order to better link internal and external security. It will be necessary now that we have a clearer exposure to hybrid threats. It is also about the need to review legislation. Here, for example, it may be that both the police and the Swedish Security Service have applied for better support from the Swedish Armed Forces in exceptional events or grey zone situations. That's what we're opening up to. But not least, the police's own organisation must be strengthened. That is why we propose in the motion report to reintroduce what is called the Special Emergency Police. It is an effective tool designed precisely to deal with different types of grey zone situations. Madam President, I would like There are also serious deficiencies in Sweden's cyber security. Here, too, a great deal is about governance, leadership and ultimately stronger political leadership. The Moderates therefore want to give the Defence Radio Institution the main responsibility for the new cybersecurity centre. Today, seven authorities have to negotiate to the lowest common denominator when making decisions. It's slow, and it's slow. It is four years since the proposal for the establishment of the cybersecurity centre was presented. But we still have no identified premises for the centre, and it has not even come out of the starting blocks when it comes to effective collaboration with the business community. It is absolutely crucial for us to have a stronger cybersecurity. I can only regret that it has been slow. Madam President, I would like Finally, I will say a few words about the long-term defence economy. It is also part of the report. The Moderates and Christian Democrats have proposed that during the next defence decision period 2026 – 2030 we add another SEK 45 billion to provide the Swedish Armed Forces with long-term financial planning conditions. Basically, this is about Sweden being the country in northern Europe that spends the least share of its economy on defence, while at the same time having Europe's third largest country to defend and not reinsured in a defence alliance. Sweden will need to invest a lot of money for a long time to strengthen our defence capabilities and ensure that we can continue to live in peace. With this, Madam President, I would like to conclude by saying that I naturally support all moderate reservations. But for the gain of time, I only call for reservation 4 from the Moderates to strengthen resistance to hybrid threats.
i-Km6HMY1Vzt9vStvriePQRA	Madam President, I would like I agree with a great deal of what the previous speaker, Pål Jonson, said here about the tense security policy situation. This has been discussed, and I have no other opinion than that it is a very serious situation. That said, I'm not going to dwell much on those pieces. There are also pressures and difficulties in this country. Sometimes, Madam President, it is felt that the greatest threat to our way of life and our freedom lies within the borders of the country. I will come back to what responsibility I think the government bears in this paragraph. I have received some questions about NATO and the NATO option; no later than today, I have received questions by e-mail. I thought I'd spend some time on this. The clarity is clear: a no to NATO. When we read newspapers, Madam President, we can see that it says in certain headlines that the Swedish Democrats want a referendum – point. But I think you have to think about describing the whole situation. The following applies: If this House and Parliament, Madam President, decide that Sweden should apply for membership of NATO, the Swedish Democrats do not think that that is enough. Then we must go out and ask the Swedish people, and it must be preceded by many debates and so on. So that's it. Only then do we want a referendum. But then there should be a majority in this House. We do not believe that the excess of one vote, for example, in this House should be able to turn the whole security policy system around. That's it. The NATO option has nothing to do with an application to NATO. It's just a mark, just like the one Finland has made. We in the Swedish Democrats have no problem with saying such a thing. That's why we're doing this. As I said, it is a small indication that we in Sweden decide whether we want to join NATO or not. That's up to us here. That is what applies to a referendum. Then we have additional things that come into the Defense Committee, which should be called in. I note, Madam President, that the budget submitted by the Swedish Democrats before Christmas and applicable to, among other things, 2022 contained just over 2.9 billion more than we then agreed to in the agreement with the Christian Democrats and the Moderates. But we felt then, and we now believe, that it was better to make this statement together than to go on the government's draft budget. We did not expect to have got our own budget through if we had been alone. Now I can see that the Moderates want to shoot at 3 billion. But we say to what? When the Defence Committee is now called in, the most important thing is to bring MSB and FOI to the meetings. It is quite easy to ask the Swedish Armed Forces: What can you achieve in the short term to increase your ability in view of the development of the situation? Come back in 14 days and tell me what the price tag is! When it comes to MSB, you should start by giving them orders to take a coordinating role. MSB will coordinate its activities. And ask them the same questions: What can you do in the very short term? And what is the short term? What can you do to increase the capacity and resilience of civil society? Come back and answer the questions! The same applies to FOI and others. It's not harder than that. So you shouldn't spend a lot of money first and then come back and say you need 3 billion or 3 1⁄2 billion. You'll have to take a stand on that then. In the short term, maybe 11⁄2 billion is enough. That is what I think, Madam President, that we should work on this paragraph. I think that priority should be given to civil society. The military and the money we spent before Christmas are based on Värnkraft, the document that moves towards 2030. This money was not given, and so some things were shot at in the future. Is there any of the things you can put back that would fix this? I don't know. But the Armed Forces know and can answer this. The civilians should also be able to respond. How long, Madam President, will there be patients in the corridors of the lasaret – in peacetime? We had a great need for both medical services and medical places long before the so-called pandemic. There was chaos in health care. People died in the surgical queues. We cannot handle this even in peacetime. It is the government that is completely useless in dealing with the difficult social problems. You should do a lot of work on this, and you should take a lot of action here. What's going on? Why don't you introduce civil service? I know that there are some important services that are being placed in war. But why not? It's completely incomprehensible. The government lacks total analytical capacity. It makes it difficult and impossible to build up the resilience of civil society. Fuel prices are running out. Companies may close down. I have a farmer in my close circle. He says, "How are we gonna do this?" He has machines worth millions of dollars to be paid off with 20,000 to 30,000 kronor a month. He says I don't have a penny left over. I don't have a crown over. Over 5.6 billion in price increases have hit farmers in this country, according to the LRF. It takes time for them to be able to get enough for this through price increases. Food prices will rise by 20% to 30%. These are issues that are largely ignored in this country. It's about entrepreneurs who don't get their business going. You can look at electricity supply and fuel. I've been talking to the truck companies. One of them said, "Yeah, let's get this mixed up." It's more expensive. I believe that Sweden has among the highest fuel prices in the world. And suddenly the truck pulls a lot more fuel. What, then, is the environmental benefit? It gets much more expensive and much worse. And how, Madam President, is this to be stored? You can't store the additives because the shelf life is short. Should you fill the mountain rooms with this and change every three months? These are issues that must be dealt with in the chaos that, in my opinion, Sweden is in. These include fuel prices. Now you're going to build wind spinners at sea. Well, who's gonna do it? They're foreign corporations. Well, then, what responsibility do they have for power lines? Nothing at all. I guess we'll pay for that. Then what happens when you make sub-companies for the wind turbines? Well, they go bankrupt, and the bill comes to Swedish taxpayers. Does this have anything to do with defense? Yes, of course it has. Electricity supply is fundamental to society, among other things. It's a welfare issue. These are issues that should be addressed, discussed and put a lot of effort into – rethink and do the right thing so that we have a robust social system to build on. Build new nuclear power plants and restart the old – two concrete measures – now! Lower the price of fuel – that is my private opinion – a ten, Madam President, right away! Rescue schools – if you introduce civil service – we have three. Two are more or less linked to MSB: Revinge and Rosersberg. They are concerned with community protection and preparedness. Recruit! Educating! Move! The obligation of defence applies in Sweden, to Swedish citizens – or to those who live in Sweden. Yeah. These 80,000 who go around somewhere to be deported, do they have a duty to defend themselves? You don't know that. Where are they? You don't know that. But chickens can be counted. All this seems to me to overshadow a great deal of the defence policy we are talking about. The Armed Forces have theirs. They have a long-term perspective. In addition, as the only party in the past, we have wanted to have emergency police, both in 2013 and 2014 – you can go back and check that out. Of course, we support all the proposals which come back to ours in this paragraph. That's excellent. There is much to be said about this in the serious security situation we are in. But do not forget that without a strong civil defence nothing else will work either. I request the approval of reservation 12.
i-HKbDnyJu7CUgaE5voLYhRV	Madam President, I would like We in the Center Party have been involved in taking responsibility for reinforcements to the Swedish total defence both in the 2015 defence decision and by 2020. In between, we have also been involved in supplementing the decisions with further reinforcements. When we have been in negotiations and discussions on economics for both civil and military defence, it is of course possible to think afterwards about what perspectives Swedish politics has on defence policy. When the Defence Committee summarises the situation by stating that an armed attack cannot be ruled out, what is the deepest significance for our priorities? We then follow what happens at home. We can see the links, not least, between the development of energy prices and the dependence on imported goods, important inputs both for agriculture and industry and also for life around the country. One thing we need to do and see is how the Russians have put pressure on European cooperation over the past year, how the supply of Russian gas and also the pricing of gas have had a knock-on effect in various areas. We have been able to see it on electricity prices in the south and on the continent, but we have also seen it on an important import product for Swedish agriculture: Fertilisers have become extremely much more expensive. There is a strong link here with security of supply, import dependency and energy dependence on Russia. To be so clear in this debate about not being able to see that connection, just as the representatives of the Swedish Democrats were, is alarming in the extremely serious security situation we find ourselves in. For the Center Party, it goes without saying that we need to have an overall picture of how we can strengthen our domestic production of renewable fuels and our economy, but also our endurance and robustness and reduce dependence on goods from countries that are currently acting threateningly in our neighbourhood. There is an extremely important link here with security policy. This is also part of building a stronger total defence. It is clear that goods can be kept and imported for nuclear activities and other purposes, but what loyalties are being built in the long term? Madam President, I would like In today's report, the Center Party has focused, among other things, on the further development of the war organisation. We need to continue in the direction that the Defence Committee in the Värnkraft report pointed out. There are still many different elements that need to be implemented in order for the war organisation to be gradually strengthened throughout the country. It is about division management skills, engineering battalion, maintenance activities, liaison companies and liaison and telewar units – many parts that until 2030 need to be put in place. It will require more economy. I am absolutely convinced that we need to revise, analyse and supplement the current defence decision. We need a sense of perseverance from the point of view of being able to face an armed attack. The understanding of what the Defence Committee summed up needs to have an impact on society as a whole so that it becomes a strong link to defence capabilities, defence will and popular attachment. That is why we also highlight the importance of NGOs for a stronger overall defence and the importance of attracting commitment and interest in these issues, but also to educate all generations – for everyone can participate and contribute. We are now seeing in Ukraine how volunteers actively go in with a desire to defend their country. We don't know how Ukraine wakes up tomorrow. The reports that have come in the last few days show that there are indications that Russia could act tomorrow. At the same time, we stand here and have a debate on defence policy and can ask ourselves: how would we look at this question if we were in the same situation? What could happen tomorrow? It is almost eight years since the annexation of Crimea took place. Many were taken on the bed at that time. Eight years ahead we have the final year of the next defence-oriented period. It is the same time interval – eight years back, eight years ahead. From what we, as a nation, could not foresee, we should ask ourselves the question in defence policy terms: what do we need to take up the height for which we cannot anticipate in the near future, in the medium term and in the longer term? It's serious now. Together, we need to find ways to keep our country together, how our country should take the priorities in the near future, but also in the long term. Madam President, I would like Many times I have expressed the wish that more parties should point out targets and express their economic ambitions for the next defence decision, for the years up to 2030, but also for the years before. I now appeal to the Social Democrats and the government to clarify what is required by 2030. These talks, which also begin tomorrow, are extremely important in terms of how we will analyse what further needs to be done. There, the government has a great responsibility to engage in dialogue and to maintain a humility in relation to how we can constructively land a picture that has broad support in this Parliament. We also have lessons from previous processes. It is extremely important to be as clear as possible now that the defence economy is at stake. Madam President, I would like We have heard, and I agree, that we are in the most serious security situation for decades. In Ukraine and outside Ukraine, this is most evident. People are running away from the country. Russian units are approaching the border. Artillery occupies positions that testify to war preparations in a sharp position. Notifications and reports are numerous, and they testify that we really need to take this very seriously. In a motion, the Center Party has also expressed the value of the national security strategy, which is now being developed, being based both on the parliamentary parties and on parliamentary treatment in the future. That is why, on behalf of the Center Party, I would like to support reservation 7 in today's report. Madam President, I would like Strengthening total defence and doing so in a way so that we are prepared and able to act when we need to do so will require full priority in all political contexts in our society. We have a common responsibility to also take leadership on these issues so that a total defence perspective and the importance of a modernised and strong total defence can permeate all society's activities. It is time to look at the whole and understand the connections when the world picture gets darker.
i-MDHWoWMvrqZ41JotBbggSm	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the Defence Committee's report No 6 on defence policy. I think that we cannot talk about this without first looking at the outside world and where we are. We are in a very serious situation. This is a strengthened security policy situation that did not start yesterday. It really started with the war in Georgia, and then we had the situation in Ukraine where the Russian side took Crimea in 2014. Since then there has been a war in which, although for many years it has been low-intensity, all the time. 14 000 people have put their lives to death. We visited Ukraine with the Defence Committee three years ago, and I have said it before here in the speaker's chair that when we visited a military hospital and met soldiers who, for example, had a leg shot off or had a lot of damage when they stepped on mines, it put a very deep trace in me. Now we see that at worst we stand right on the brink of an invasion. We hope for the best, that it will not be so, but it may well be that we have a war in Europe in the near future. We also know now that Ukraine is surrounded by at least 130 000 Russian soldiers, and there is freedom of action and the possibility of major operations. For Swedish people, it is important that we look at this. In the near future, we will have discussions with the Secretary of Defense in the Defense Committee. What I and the Christian Democrats see before us is that we in Sweden need to act in several different ways at the same time. We need to review what we can do in the near future to strengthen our endurance. Among other things, the Supreme Commander has said in an interview that there are deficiencies in endurance. Here we could help each other and add money so that we can get lots of ammunition, review spare parts and maybe make sure there are more exercises. Practicing costs money, but it's also a deterrent. We must also, I think, make sure that the money that the increased preparedness has already cost comes back to the Swedish Armed Forces. We know that the decisions we have made are very small in financial terms. There are no margins. That is why it is also important that there be new money. This is not something we can borrow from the future, but new money is needed to make this credible. It is not possible to conjure your knees, and at the very least it does so when it comes to building up a defence capability. That is why it is so important now, we believe, that money is being added even now during the spring term so that the shortcomings that exist can be corrected in the near future. We should also carry out a security policy analysis. This was a deterioration that the Defense Committee did not foresee. Therefore, there should be an update where we look at the consequences of this for Sweden. We also need to look at this in the longer term. We know that it's very fast to tear something down, that it's with everything in life, but that it takes time to build something. We must dare to take the decisions a long time in advance. Therefore, it is important, we think, to work in the Defence Committee to see what it is that we need to adjust in the medium and long term. It is no secret that the Christian Democrats, for example, had significantly higher ambitions in the Defense Committee and also in the defence decision than the result. We need to look at what it is that now needs to be screwed up and dare to do so and to add. That is why we are in favour of paragraph 15 under reservation 23, which deals with long-term financial planning frameworks. We want to take more steps, and that is why we, from the Christian Democrats and the Moderates, reserved ourselves on that part of the defence decision that applies after 2025. If the Armed Forces are to be able to plan, you have to be sure that the money is there. We agreed on at least 17 measures that did not fit. It is important, on the one hand, to look at those measures and, on the other hand, to add the money so that we can implement what we see to be implemented. That is why it is so important that we have this long-term focus and add 5 billion to the stairs to increase even after 2025 and that we also come up to 2% of the bnp. We are the country, and it has been said here in the speaker's seat before today, in our immediate region, which is spending the least on defence in relation to the bnp. We can't have that. It will not work either with what we have decided or with what we on the part of the Christian Democrats would like to add. We will not be able to pay the bills if, like the rest of the world, we do not go up to 2% of the bnp. Freedom is worth making that provision, we believe. That is why we think it is an urgent matter to point out in this defence debate, as well as to point out that we also need to look at civil defence. There are major shortcomings there. It's two sides of the same coin. It is important to strengthen the military component, but we must also look at the civilian component of food supply, pharmaceutical supply and fuel supply. We must also look at the risk that, like Ukraine several times, we may face cyber attacks. This has meant that, for example, there has been no current during cold December nights. Sweden may also suffer from this. These are examples of the need to speed up the pace. As far as cyber defence is concerned, we would like to take the step of creating a cybersecurity authority that would have overall responsibility. The Cybersecurity Centre has not got started at all in the way we had hoped. There are also several different ones that should share responsibility through some kind of consensus culture. This means that you do not have the required steering speed and cannot do the job as quickly as necessary. This is a measure that could be taken to strengthen civil defence as well. Finally, it is worth recalling that we need to strengthen our defence, but we would also need to upgrade our NATO membership. The cooperation we have with Finland and the cooperation we have with different countries is great. But we are seen by the outside world as part of NATO, but we do not have protection. That is why we, as a country, should take that step in order to have common defence planning. This would increase security for Sweden but also for the outside world.
i-M4snSfUHLCfCzXmnsrdDyd	Madam President, I would like I have a question for the honourable Member. As a single party, we have proposed that three-year budgets be added as part of the work towards a longer planning framework for the Armed Forces and civilians. How does the honourable Member view such a solution? It is RUT: ad and agree d. If we are to continue to pursue it, we will also have to review the fiscal framework, because in the long term we would be in breach of a practice, as it is said. But it's okay to do this. The Swedish Armed Forces believe that it would be excellent to have a three-year budget within which you can also move funds, of course with careful accounting. I would also like to ask you something else. That the Center has abdicated from the countryside we know for a long time. You don't understand the whole thing and the connections. However, I rarely hear the honourable Member and the Christian Democrats raise these issues. How do you see farmers closing down their activities and reducing and not increasing food supply? How do you view civil society in the defence preparation that you will be part of?
i-4UogqrQr9JgHKcUuYCHA7C	Madam President, I would like For the Christian Democrats, it is a matter of course to speak warmly for civil society and the importance of civil society organisations for defence. In my speech, I also considered that we had to review civil defence. For example, we have far too little self-sufficiency. Finland, for example, is 80 per cent, and we have gone below 50 per cent. It's serious. I think it is carrots and some other foods that we are self-sufficient in. But it's way too bad. Action is needed here. The Christian Democrats have put forward in the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture, for example, the proposal to reduce fuel prices in diesel by SEK 3 for farmers and all Swedes. It is all up the walls too high interference, which makes diesel prices in Sweden the world's highest. That's completely unreasonable. We are 3, 4, 5, 6 or 7 SEK higher than other EU countries. We can't have that. It is very important to have a strong military defence, but of course we must also have food. Finland is also an example in terms of being able to support its citizens. You can make a living for six months. We'll last for maybe ten days. We must have objectives and push for measures to improve food security. These are indeed the heart issues of the Christian Democrats.
i-2QnWQjyKaK2Vqyi6NEWzPD	Madam President, I would like The honourable Member did not have time to answer the question of the three-year budget. I would like the honourable Member to comment on that. The second question was how to look at the introduction of civil service obligations. Can I have answers to the questions about civil service and three-year budgets?
i-BuVad5UUNCdKiuMeKBnS6	Madam President, I would like Thanks for the questions, Roger Richthoff! The important thing, as we see it, is to make it clear that we are making increases in appropriations, that we are making commitments in both the short and the long term, and that we must have up to 2% of GDP. In the reservation we have with the Moderates, we make it clear that the increase in appropriations to 2025 must not stop. It's not gonna work. In order to be credible to both ourselves and the outside world, we must ensure that we do not leave any spring notes. I have no clear opinion of making any change in the way Roger Richthoff is doing. But I believe that what the Armed Forces are asking most is long-term. For example, we could now make it clear that we should have the stairs up to 2% of the bnp, just as the rest of the world has. We're gonna call it a day. We are the country that does not respond in the way that other countries do. The Baltic countries are at 2% or more. Poland is on the same side. Finland is considerably higher than we are, and Norway as well. It is therefore very important for us to be credible. Now the honourable Member is not in a position to reply, but I would have liked to have asked about the NATO option. We can count on SD's support forward, can't we?
i-BUjSfvHY1u1EvvoHkcS2F	Madam President, I would like I have a friend at home in Malmö who usually says that his memory is good but very short. Today it is also the case for Mr Widman, who is somewhat out of breath for this debate. Let me begin by saying that the reports that have come in the last few hours about a possible Russian deescalation in Ukraine do not really mean anything new. The Russian demands, which were made just before Christmas, will remain. This will also be done by the incredibly militaryly strong Russian state. It is now the case for all countries in Europe, including Sweden, to analyse this and draw the right conclusions for the future. One of the motions in the report we are debating today concerns the Defence Materiel Administration. It is an activity that I have had the privilege of following for many years, Madam President. I note that efficiency, i.e. supply of equipment in relation to administrative costs, has fallen gradually. It is about time that we took a major interest in this authority, not least in the light of the security policy situation. Madam President, I would like I'm in favour of reservation 16.
i-2RLvafxMxFaAxuTtkCxhQV	Madam President, I would like The House is discussing defence policy today. I think I'm into my eighth year in Parliament. In some ways, this debate has begun in the same way in these years: the security policy situation in northern Europe has deteriorated. I am going to start at that end today too, because unfortunately that is the way things are going. It's going the wrong way. Maybe there's nothing funny to say to our kids, but it looks darker and darker. This has been high on the agenda. I'm seeing high school kids. I meet people who work in voluntary defence organizations who are worried and who are thinking about what to do. It is clear that what is now happening around Ukraine is worrying. Of course, Russia is responsible for this. They're the only ones who are guilty. It's their troops that exist. But this is a development that we have seen for quite a number of years. Several of the previous speakers have talked about Georgia and the annexation of Crimea, but what may have become even more serious are the Russian demands on how other countries in Europe should act. It is very important that we are clear that we in Sweden are acting according to our own head. We decide for ourselves who we cooperate with, what our cooperation should be and how we defend our democratic rights and freedoms. It's important. You can look back in history. It has happened before that the great neighbour in the East has interfered in the way other countries act. The history book read about Hungary in 1956 and Czechoslovakia in 1968. I remember Poland myself in 1981. So this has happened in the past. The risk is that we can add Ukraine to that list. But we have had a defence committee that has been working for a long time to produce a basis for the defence decision that we are now at the beginning of. It pointed out that this development could come and that we had to take it up. I think that those who were in that defence preparation and who were thinking about how to deal with this should be congratulated. This has also affected the defence decision that a large majority in this House is behind. We have seen a rather sharp increase in national defence in Sweden. Between 2014 and 2025 it is an 80% increase. This is the biggest increase since the 1950s, when the Cold War was at its worst. What is important to say is well that it is the national ability that we now build up, the ability to defend Sweden. An important part of this is that military service is back, that Swedish young women and men participate in the Swedish defence. It is possible that this needs to be increased. I believe that the greatest challenge we have before us is to solve the staffing problems in national defence. It's about the personnel challenges. I don't think we'll be able to have as many officers and employees as we can. We need conscripts to help. I think it is important for the defence will and understanding of why we should defend Sweden and Swedish democratic rights and freedoms. I can continue to list things. We're starting five new regiments. Let's start a flotilla. But I think the important thing is to say that we are building national capabilities to defend the country. Unfortunately, we have to do that, but that is what matters. Several people have been into this. I won't talk much about NATO, but I'll talk about other collaborations. We are building stability, security and peace with other countries. Finland is the most important partner we have on the other side of the Baltic Sea. It is important that we cooperate with our Nordic neighbours and with our Baltic comrades on the other side of the Baltic Sea. It is, of course, in the vicinity of the Baltic Sea that this is important for us – that we create security and stability in northern Europe. Then I think that the UK and the Netherlands should be added, but also, of course, the transatlantic link. The United States of America has the greatest military capability. It is important that we work together there. Most of these countries are NATO countries. This means that we also have cooperation with NATO, but we have chosen to remain out of it ourselves. We choose our own collaborations. That is precisely the signal that goes to Russia: we choose our own cooperation. I said that the great challenge we have ahead of us may be the human resources issue. It's about having people who are ready to work here. Of course it also includes civil defence. But this also means that we need equipment in the Swedish Armed Forces that is modern. I do not believe that the future conflicts will look like they did in the past. I think we need to bury World War I. This will not be the case. That is why we need to have a development on the technology side. We need to review the material needs of the Armed Forces. I share the view of several Members – that it must be better in terms of security of supply, cost control and such things. But I don't think we should say that we should not develop products in Sweden. We're good at it. I also think it is important in a situation where there is an increased level of conflict that we have to some extent this competence within the country. This means that we need to invest more in research and development and that we also need to do so in times of peace, so to speak, when we do not have a major threat of conflict around us. The government has now developed a strategy for a long-term supply of equipment. I hope that this is looked at. It is about solving export issues and export subsidies and such things. I also believe that it is important for the Swedish military capability to increase. To conclude, Madam President, I would like to say that I believe that a national security strategy is important. Now I've been talking about the military threats and the military challenges. It was Prime Minister Lövven's first government that presented the national security strategy – was it 2014 or 2015? There they talked about more things than the military threats. It was cybersecurity. They talked about terrorism. We all remember what it was like with the Islamic State and that kind of mixture between state and terrorist organisation, which hit us. Organised crime was raised, a mixture of bus boys and something organized at a higher level. It's a challenge for us. Energy supply is also highlighted in the national security strategy. How are we going to handle it? It is now quite clear what the conflict between Ukraine and Russia and with regard to gas transmission to Europe has meant for us. It is about transport, infrastructure and the health threat. We've all been through the pandemic. Perhaps no one had understood the consequences it would have. It's about climate change. Of course, the migrations we will have in the world will affect the level of conflict and the risk of conflict. I think it is extremely important that the government continues to develop a new national security strategy or develop it. I think we have a very good foundation to stand on. Madam President, I would like With those words, I call for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report.
i-GpekE8XANA1PphPxiwroDn	Madam President, I would like I hope the honourable Member noticed the applause. I have a question. The former defence committee stated and wrote that the government should commission the Swedish Armed Forces and MSB to jointly conduct a review of how voluntary defence organisations can contribute to the total defence in order to develop voluntary activities, among other things. These are new needs, recruitments, training and so on, such as the rescue schools that I mentioned in my speech. What happened? How's work going? According to my contacts – this doesn't have to be correct – basically nothing happens. There is some discussion, but the objectives of this paragraph are difficult. I would like to make a comment on that. Then I wonder: how does the honourable Member view civil service? I know there's a part of it that's being placed in war. But I'm wondering about a civil duty in general. That's the other part. Everyone knows that the Swedish Democrats have fought for the 2% target by 2030. You can read that even in 2014, if you find it exciting. Now several parties are in on this. How do the Social Democrats and the honourable Member see such an objective clearly being set?
i-S4rUWjMUAmedQTiYBL4e5w	Madam President, I would like Thank you, honourable Member, for the questions. They actually concern the civil part, which is at least as important if not even more important. It is clear that for several reasons it is important to have a civil capacity and a strong civil defence. It is important, because the least we can ask of a society is that we can take responsibility for our citizens in a conflict or other crisis that arises. In order for us to have an ability to defend ourselves in situations of conflict, it is important that there is an understanding and that you feel that it works, otherwise you will probably not participate in it at all. I believe that voluntary organisations and defence organisations are extremely important here. It creates an environment for action. These are all around our country, and given the world situation, we are now seeing how to meet and plan. I was talking about the Home Guard, which may not be voluntary in that way, and how to meet these different things and what to do. I'm a friend of military service. As far as civil service is concerned, we have said that we are not quite there yet. But it is clear that there can certainly be an opportunity when we have to take advantage of this too. There are investigations that are rolling around the civilian part and what it should look like. You have to watch them. To say something a little short about the economy, I am no friend that we should say 2% of bnp that way, but the important thing is that we think about what we need to defend our borders and maintain this society. Then it'll cost you what it costs. There somewhere we have to put it.
i-B2zYAtb8vdV6CZcij4pCze	Madam President, I would like Thank you – for now! This 2% is, like, a goal to relate to, and we link it to the Substance, which we signed. When we count on it and the parts to be introduced, where the Swedish Armed Forces were involved, it will be quite good with 2 percent, and we have also said that we can go over this after 2030. But from Värnkraft we land on these amounts, so it's not just taken out of the air. It's good to have a goal to relate to. That target can change gradually to 21⁄2 percent. We don't know that. But gravity requires this money. I got an answer about civil service. Madam President, I would like Does the honourable Member share the view that Sweden has set itself up and is in a very, very serious situation? We have a food supply that goes down instead of up. We've got farmers dropping out of business. According to the LRF, being a farmer over the country has become over 5 billion more expensive. This is a serious problem. I think most people concentrate on the defense. The defense has money. They're building theirs, and we'd like to add more money there. But they do have order and order, and then the Defense Committee finds out what money they need to carry out immediate action. So I am not very worried about this in relation to people dying in health care queues, not getting space and being on the floor of hospitals, fuel prices rushing and companies closing down. That worries me a lot more right now.
i-NHMeqJSgjkKnC7j7srof1v	Madam President, I would like If I return to the 2% target, I think you have to keep thinking about what we want to do and what it will cost. I don't think you should set a goal like that. If I don't remember my history book wrong, we were in the days of the Cold War at 4.5 or 6%. Maybe that's where we're supposed to be, what do I know? I think it is important to look at what needs we have and what the economy looks like, and then we need to put those resources in place. If we can get as much consensus as possible in this, it's good. It may also be the case that the economy is crashing, and hux flux is like in the southern European countries that we spend 30 percent on the Armed Forces. I think it is important that we consider what capacity we need and how we can finance it wisely and in the long term. Security of supply is part of civil defence. Yes. It's a disaster. It's even worse on that side than it is on the military. For eight years now, we in the government have been trying to rebuild this. My party and most parties are guilty of the disarmament that was done. I'm not going to try to hide that. It was a mistake. Let's try to build it up. I think you have to think a little bit about how to do it. It is perhaps the case that the state should have a relationship with Sweden's farmers and that, so to speak, we store grain and have extra cows and in that way can support us. Maybe it's not the big layers that we're going to build. That also applies to medicines. Since the abolition of the Apoteket, we have no medical warehouse at all. The market does not solve everything, and in the field of defence and civil defence it may not be the market that will solve everything either. What do I know?
i-EhtaPYmtXWiuM9iCs8fwHc	Madam President, I would like I think that Mattias Ottosson reasons wisely and humbly on several points in his speech. It truly honors him. This applies to the deteriorating environment around the world, and also to the fundamental fact that it is we who decide our safety policy choices. There we are united. The question, however, is how to deal with the security policy line, and here I have strong criticism of the current government. When the government took office on 3 October 2014, it formulated its very own security policy line, which announced that military alliance freedom serves us well, and added that it contributes to stability and security in the immediate region. It was a practice violation of previous 30 - 40 years. During the alliance years, we had a jointly negotiated security policy line between the opposition and the government in the Defense Committee. The government Persson had a jointly negotiated security policy line. But this government chose not to follow that consensus line. Now we are entering a security policy crisis where we do not have a common understanding of the Swedish security policy line. It's unfortunate. Ottosson knows that Parliament has announced that we believe that Sweden should introduce a NATO option. I think it is wise for us to signal openness to future Swedish NATO membership and, like Finland, not to close the door as the government does. I have a question for Ottosson. For a year we have appealed to the government and said that it is not good that we in Sweden do not have a consensus on the security policy line. For a year we have been appealing: invite us to security policy negotiations! Let us sit down and discuss whether we can find a consensus on the way forward! For a year, we've had to call the hands of the government. Why have the Social Democrats and the government not opened up negotiations and discussions on this so that we could avoid entering this security policy crisis without a common security policy line in this House?
i-NXQWdbF7Mdj6rpMZbo85ho	Madam President, I would like I share Mrs Jonson's view on Swedish security policy, which means that we would need as much consensus as possible on it. I think it is important for a small country to have a broad consensus on security policy. That's where we're in complete agreement. The two of us also represent two parties that have historically been able to resolve these issues and find ways forward. I think that's a line we're going to continue on. There will be discussions and discussions in the future; I know that the Defence Committee will meet tomorrow, and I also think that one can think about the security policy agenda. Then, of course, there is the question of NATO and of NATO option, as it is said. I am not very much in favour of the option, but I think we should consider whether we should be members of NATO. We have a slightly different view of it. On the Socialist side, we are quite clear about, and do not have an internal debate on it at all, that we believe that we should not be in NATO. However, we know what NATO is: NATO is no more than its members, and a large part of its members are close allies to us and are in our neighbourhood. I think we should work with them. I believe that our two parties need to take greater responsibility and see how we can meet and resolve this. I think this is important for a small country in northern Europe.
i-KtWPzVYo3uqqrAPd1AEiJB	Madam President, I would like In order for us to achieve a common understanding, we also need to conduct security policy talks across the water. It would be good if we could get to this. Let me challenge Mattias Ottosson on another point. He says that the Defense Committee was right in many assumptions about the security policy environment. In several paragraphs, Mattias Ottosson is quite right. You wrote in detail, above all, in the report 'Värnkraft' and in the interim report 'Resistance power' on how Russia challenges the European security regime. We have now seen this with all the necessary clarity; and it is holding and drawing right. At the same time, in the changing climate, we see qualitatively new factors that mean that we should also, within the framework of the Defence Committee, set up an investigation that will make a new security policy analysis around the world. There we have appealed to the government to give the preparation a mandate to do so, but so far we have not received any answers from the government. What I am thinking, for example, is the fact that we are seeing closer coordination between Russia and China. Russia leaves its entire eastern flank almost defenseless. China is demanding that NATO should not expand eastwards. We have not seen such coordination before. The second thing that is quite clear is what Mattias Ottosson himself said, namely that we have not seen Russia presenting legally binding agreements that will both knock away our international defence cooperation and also limit our freedom of security policy to become a member of NATO. The third point is that it is now almost seamless between Belarus and Russia, in a way that it was not in 2019 when at least the Värnkraft report was still there. These are geopolitical realities. Are the Social Democrats willing to open up for the Defence Committee to present an updated security policy analysis in the light of the geopolitical changes that we can now see?
i-SpVzyVdNDWobxCKhTKzRrn	Madam President, I would like I share Pål Jonson's concern about the close cooperation that is currently taking place between Russia and China. We see that they have somehow found each other, and there is a danger that it can change the world system considerably. There you should think both one, two and three times about how to deal with this. I may repeat myself a little, but I still agree that it is important to talk. I know there have been discussions about the Defense Committee. I myself will not be there, and there have been signals from both sides. The government has said that they are ready to meet. Both the Prime Minister and the Minister for Defence think it's a good idea. One would like to look at what types of changes you can make in the current defence decision, if there is anything urgent that can be brought forward. They also want a dialogue with the Swedish Armed Forces. That's good, and I think it should be done. The world is changing fast. I do not want to anticipate the discussion, but basically I think it is wise to discuss with each other and try to find solutions. It's not just about talking about short-term decisions. If defence policy is to be discussed, security policy must also be discussed. It's no wonder. But I do not want to anticipate that discussion. I think that the government and the Moderates can surely meet on this issue and talk together about what a broad security policy for Sweden should look like.
i-PyfSg2RSYGTGFLMQy6bYvX	Madam President, I would like I thank Mattias Ottosson for these words on this important matter. As I made a speech in the past that the Swedish democratic Member, Mr Richthoff, chose not to ask for a reply, but instead came back in a different line and commented on the rural policy of the Center Party, I intended to make a connection with the defence decision that is now in force. We made a strong contribution to achieving half a billion in food and water supply together with the other parties in the settlement. There are 500 million people on the 2025 floor – the current period. As a parenthesis, I can say that the Swedish democrats in their cooperation on the conditions of the rural programme for 2022 have not contributed a single crown. It is important to link the importance of agriculture to our security. Swedish agricultural policy is also total defence policy. I have the following questions to Mattias Ottosson in this context. Based on the need to complete and analyse the civil part of the total defence decision, in which areas are the Social Democrats prepared to complement the tasks now up to 2025? Are you prepared to give assignments that clarify the conditions and significance of primary production for stronger global defence in the near future?
i-JpALJ5zJA7xxLUofkHVjcd	Madam President, I would like The honourable Member touches on the most important thing, namely how our food security should work during conflicts or grey zone periods. It is important, and I have given this a lot of thought. I myself am an ostgöte and come from an agricultural county, and I have met many farmers and their organisations. You have to think about how you can benefit from each other. Let me first answer Mr Bäckström's question. Yes, civil opportunities need to be reviewed, and a number of investigations are under way. We have previously looked at how the state and the business community can work together. And that's where we haven't really got the answers we wanted, and we're looking at how the development should be done. You should take advantage of the capacity available in Swedish agriculture. I think that at some earlier change of line I have said that we should not only build up the type of large stock that existed before, but also take advantage of the capacity available in agriculture. Cereals can be stored on the farm, and then we spread the grain out over the country in a wise way. Then there's the meat production. It's possible to save meat alive, if I put it that way. The potatoes can also be stored on the farms. That way we can get meat, potatoes and bread on the table when the worst happens. It is therefore necessary to take advantage of this competence. Much of the food production also takes place in the various agricultural cooperatives. It is clear that it is possible to benefit from the co-operation in building preparedness in dairy and slaughterhouse operations. And it is clear that it must be done together between state and business. That's the way we need to go. We're not really there, but we need to get there.
i-TgMboWxHfj6Zrf1vooiqXe	Madam President, I would like It is positive that the government, as a first step in this situation, has met in the crisis billions – aid billions – to Swedish agriculture. This has strong links with defence policy, and it is also something that the Center Party has initiated in the parliamentary committee work. In addition to Mr Ottosson's involvement in the debate, I would have liked the Minister for Defence to have had the opportunity, in this situation of security policy, to be present when we debate defence issues. My next question concerns the ambitions of the Social Democrats when it comes to the military part ahead of the forthcoming work of the Defence Committee. Re-prioritising only within the economic framework decided by the Riksdag will be insufficient. What is the reason why the Social Democrats have confined themselves to the methodology, that is to say that it is within the framework of forwarding, that the Minister for Defence has said should apply? One of the keys to getting a broad anchor of the measures that need to be taken in the near future is to achieve a common understanding. If the Social Democrats are going to work over the next few weeks, is the aim of a broad consensus, or is it limited to the existing framework and otherwise nothing in relation to the work of the Defence Committee? How do Mattias Ottosson and the Social Democrats view this in practice?
i-BUtEGLKMuS7tJ6f4rk3eou	Madam President, I would like As a government party, one has, of course, a great responsibility to move forward when negotiations or discussions of this kind are about to begin. It is, of course, a responsibility that we Social Democrats must shoulder in order to find as many common solutions as possible. Then I don't think the Secretary of Defense is wrong. I think you should look at the defence decision that exists and what adjustments you can make in the near future, and I think that everyone agrees with me. Is it possible to do things? I also believe that a close dialogue should be held with the Swedish Armed Forces. I also see, of course, the problem that perhaps the toughest challenge is people. It takes time to educate people. Soldiers are trained in a year, and officers who can train soldiers take a few more years. Then products and equipment will also be produced, but it may be a little easier. I think it's the staff bit that's the big challenge. In this grouping, I believe it will be discussed whether new financial resources will be allocated. I am convinced that Mrs Bäckström and several Members will raise this point. What I think is important then is that we have a conversation about it. I would also be grateful if one could find a common view of it. I think it's a strong signal outwards that this is how we could work. It will, of course, be a piece of negotiation to be conducted. But both Daniel Bäckström and I have a long experience in politics, and we know that if we negotiate, we can also come up with a wise solution that will move the country forward.
i-JX8AWSJ8Tpx4fdCmcETQ1R	Madam President, I would like I, too, agreed with many of Mattias Ottosson's speeches about the seriousness of what is happening in the outside world and what is at stake – the European security regime, that free European countries should be able to make their own security policy decisions – and that the demands made by President Putin and Russia, which also have consequences for our country, are totally unreasonable. But I thought I'd follow up on what Daniel Bäckström was into just now. We're going into negotiations in the near future. When I read the instructions we have received, I first got the impression that it was within the framework and within the existing one. I saw in front of me that you're supposed to borrow money from years 24 and 25. I think that we in this House now all agree that it is a very tight economic framework that we have for the coming years to make a necessary reconstruction of Swedish defence capabilities. I therefore wonder whether Mattias Ottosson would be able to answer if there is an opening on the part of the Social Democrats to the effect that there must actually be a question of new money if we are to correct the shortcomings that we can correct in the near future.
i-FGz3LjcZYX9DwbrQhF2vRM	Madam President, I would like I am pleased that Mr Oscarsson has some of his Eastern Gothenburg dialect left. That makes me happy when we stand in this Chamber. I do not really share the honourable Member's view that this is a cautious development that we are currently having. It is a rather strong initiative that the government and the Riksdag have decided to make on the Swedish defence. It's a massive increase. There are not many policy areas in the Swedish Parliament today that have received this kind of increase, and it is based on the common reasoning and thoughts that we have had about the need to build up national capabilities. But now we know it looks dark. We know what is happening on the other side of the Baltic Sea. We're in a tough position. Then we have said that now we must do something, and the government with the Prime Minister at the head has said: Okay, we will convene the Defense Committee again. After all, it is a historic assembly that has worked more with the long-term decisions. But now, in order to get a broad deal where all the parties in Parliament can participate, you choose to call the Defence Committee. I repeat that I do not think it is wrong, the defence minister's argument that we should look at what we can bring forward in the defence decision. I think it's important. It's the right end to start in. But I also believe that there will be discussions in the Defence Committee on whether new resources should be added, what impact it can have and where it can have the best effect. That reasoning will be followed. Mr Oscarsson and his party colleagues have been very clear that they are going to pursue this issue, and I am absolutely convinced that you will negotiate and discuss it.
i-XKZrZ6XZZ2Y4ED7xhHnZFY	Madam President, I would like I was hoping that the honourable Member would say that he hopes that we will succeed too. We hope so, because we see that we need to increase our endurance by buying ammunition and spare parts. There would be a need for extensive practice and repetition exercises. The increase in operations made by the Swedish Armed Forces has also cost a good price. It is true that the Swedish Armed Forces are expanding and that it is substantial compared to the levels we have had. It's necessary. But I do not see the possibility of taking away from the planning and appropriations we have made for the coming years. It's going to be very tight anyway. I believe, Madam President, that we need to add money instead. That is also what we are seeing now in these negotiations. It will require new, fresh money. That is what we have done historically. The detention decision of 1936 was a substantial increase, but they had to make substantial increases also in 1938. Then they went directly up from 11⁄2 percent to 2 percent of bnp. I think it's important to see that we don't have all the time in the world. We have a responsibility now to speed up what we can speed up. It takes a long time to build defence capabilities, absolutely, but there are measures we can take to speed up. Now that we see a deteriorating world situation that also affects our immediate region, we must take all the steps required.
i-FQYpyv1PNMWJHfPGMrLN9m	Madam President, I would like After all, the defence decision in 2015 was a sharp increase in the defence. It was the first thing we grasped after the strategic timeout or whatever you call it – after the eternal peace, as we thought. My memory picture – the honourable Member will have to correct me if I am wrong; no, he cannot do that now, I'm sorry – is that after that defence decision and what we took in 2020, we have added additional resources to the defence. In almost every budget discussion, the issue has been raised, so I do not know if the government has been nudged on this issue. After all, we have seen developments in Europe and the need to build national defence. It is this government that has taken hold of it and started to build the national defence again. I also believe that additional resources will be added in the future to the Swedish defence, and I think that is quite right. But I think we need to make some sense. If we're going to build the Swedish defence, we need supplies. It must also be produced and delivered. And it is not only the Swedish defence that is being built up now, but the defence in the whole of Western Europe is being built up strongly. There are more people competing for the equipment we need. But by far the biggest challenge is staff. It takes a year to train a conscript. We can raise 6, 7, 8, 10 billion, but it will take these 12 months to train a Swedish soldier. There is no change, so we must have some moderation in the discussion. Then resources will be added and the national defence in Sweden will be built up, and I want as broad a consensus on that as possible.
i-CJ9dvXo9yZWmeeJo8z4JFE	Madam President, I would like As has been said many times before, both over the years and today, the security situation is very worrying today. What is happening around Ukraine is very worrying for all of us. Russia has greatly strengthened its military capabilities since the turn of the millennium. The country continues to occupy the illegally annexed Crimean Peninsula and is very active in cyber attacks and misinformation towards Sweden. The threatening rhetoric and actions of the Russian political leadership combined with the country's geographical proximity to Sweden are worrying. For us in the Green Party, this means that we need to break our dependence on Russian energy resources such as oil, gas and, not least, uranium as soon as possible. Sweden is right now in the middle of building military capabilities, and every day our military defence becomes stronger. The main focus has once again been to defend Sweden, rather than to build an intervention defence with the capacity to operate abroad. And the total defense decision 2021 – 2025 makes historic efforts to rebuild the military defence. At the same time, Sweden must be able to meet a security policy situation where the border between war and peace is not as clear as before. It requires a well-functioning total defence where civil and military defence work together in the event of increased preparedness and crisis. A strong total defence is, we believe, prevention and peacekeeping. Civil and military defence is mutually reinforcing, and both are needed to keep Sweden safe. The total defence shall be built so that it deters other countries from trying to control or otherwise exploit Swedish territory, harm Swedish society or threaten and blackmail Sweden. The Swedish Armed Forces are, as I said, based on the historic contribution they have received, and I am convinced that they are working frantically on the basis of the mission they have received and the international situation that exists. I have great confidence that they are doing what should be done on the basis of the current situation, but also on the basis of the mission they have been given. However, civil defence has not been given the same conditions to build itself stronger than military defence has been given, which I am concerned about. Madam President, I would like Increased capabilities and planning are needed to meet the broader threat picture that is current in all levels of conflict. The Green Party believes that total defence needs to be strengthened but therefore wants to see a much better balance between military and civil defence. There are many extremely important activities in society that need to function in the event of a crisis or at worst war. The ability to identify and manage hybrid threats needs to be improved within public authorities, and preventive measures need to be taken to reduce vulnerabilities and protect activities. Attacks on democracy and freedom of expression, cyber attacks, lack of water and energy, major disruptions in transport systems, pandemics and, not least, the effects of climate change, are threats that we need to protect against and that we consider to be as serious as traditional threats such as military attacks. The development of capabilities is simply needed to deal with the broader threat picture and hybrid threats in peacetime, and the authorities need to include the hybrid threat perspective in their planning to a greater extent – everything from preventing strategic takeovers that may pose threats to the dissemination of misinformation or pure sabotage of electronics or other things. International cooperation with other democratic countries is very important here. Madam President, I would like A review of the supply of civilian defence personnel, including the possible need for reinforcement resources, is underway in the future. MSB will report in April this year the mission given to the Agency on staff reinforcements in the event of increased preparedness and war. After that, we have basic knowledge of which measures are best suited to secure human resources even in civil defence and can move forward quickly with that work. In order to strengthen psychological defence, a new psychological defence authority was established on 1 January. That is very welcome. The investigation report Structure for increased resilience is now being prepared within the Government Office, and according to the Ministry of Justice it is planned that those parts that do not require legislative change will be decided before the summer. That is also very welcome. In the autumn of last year, the government decided on a directive for a parliamentary committee to review, among other things, whether the constitution should be amended in order to allow for greater scope for a government to act if a serious situation arises in peacetime that requires this. The Prime Minister announced very welcome in the Government Declaration that the Office for Crisis Management, which since 2014 has sorted under the Ministry of Justice, will be moved to the Council of State Committee. The control post that was added to the Total Defence Decision 2023 will evaluate whether the reinforcement and cost development is in line with the Riksdag's decision on the direction and financial framework for total defence. We look forward to this control station, and after that we know more about what we need to do.
i-Rf7VL5YhriMpkScEon2khU	Madam President, I would like Now the Green Party is no longer part of the government, but it is not without responsibility for much of the chaos that exists in many areas in Sweden, such as health care, pharmaceutical stocks and their supply, as well as electricity supply, which is critical in many situations. These are things for which you in the Green Party are responsible. The defense committee brought out Resistance. In 2017, when we stood in this Chamber, we were the only party to invest 4 billion in civil defence. Then came the Defence Committee, which landed at 4.2 billion, which we supported. These funds are being reworked. I would like to ask the Green Party: what did you do over the years to ensure cheap and safe electricity to Sweden? What did you do to strengthen food supply and increase your own production in Sweden? What did you do with regard to the responsibility for supplying pharmaceutical stocks? In 2017, I stood in this Chamber and said that we could actually suffer a pandemic. It was 2017-01-18, but there was no reaction. Now they say we do. What were you doing in the Green Party during all the years you were in government? Then, if there is time, you can also explain the 140 000 litres of thick oil imported every hour in large quantities from Russia. It is a consequence of the policy that you have pursued together with the Social Democrats. How does it benefit the environment? These are the questions that I and many others are asking. Please explain this!
i-Cr9vReLtiSvnc5ua8BK2FA	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the jump, Mr President. We are not without responsibility for anything, but we are not alone in this responsibility. When it comes to chaos in Sweden, I disagree. Of course we have problems in some places. When it comes to food security, we have worked actively to give farmers an opportunity to switch from fossil fuels and so on. Structuralisation, that is, the closure of smaller farms, makes it problematic throughout the country. When it comes to the fact that we do not have enough self-sufficiency, it is something that we have been working on constantly since we came into existence. As far as pharmacies are concerned, there is a free market. This applies to both pharmacies and energy. As long as we have this free market, there will be fluctuations. As far as energy prices are concerned, we have not had the worst of it in the problematic period that many have had, but nuclear countries like France have had much higher electricity prices than we have. We are absolutely not without responsibility, but not everything is our fault.
i-TBEXs1AxcEEjQNvkut2H3V	Madam President, I would like Now the farmers cannot run on biodiesel, but they need old, honest diesel, if I may put it that way. I would like answers on how to look at the municipal veto against bird shears, was I saying, i.e. windsworts? The Swedish Armed Forces have gone in and said no to certain offshore wind power. The windmills will probably end up far out into the economic zone. Perhaps we are opening them up to foreign companies – why not China again, which is building so feverishly? Then I can read that you question the Swedish Armed Forces – it is not specifically about the Green Party – when you talk about flying in the area. But the big problem is underwater. The possibilities for a foreign power that wants to get under the water are increasing enormously because this cannot be intercepted. The windmills are noisy under the water. These safety aspects must be taken into account when one says unilaterally that the Armed Forces cannot decide this. I would like you to bear this in mind even if you cannot respond to this particular issue of offshore wind power. Then you in the Green Party are happy that you get Russian oil to Karlshamn. We were very close to critical situations. Many times it was critically close that parts of Sweden had to be extinguished. If you don't think there's chaos in the areas when people are in the corridors of our hospitals and when the iva sites have decreased and disappeared, I wonder where the border goes.
i-Fc42LNDhugpn383fEPve1j	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr President, for the questions. Now it is not the Green Party that imports oil to Karlshamn. The reason for importing is simply that energy prices are so much higher elsewhere in the world, and you want to export. It is Europe that is demanding this. I know a lot of farmers. There are many organic farmers who actually run on biodiesel. They have no problem with that at all. I'm sure it works, too. I'm sure ocean wind could be a problem in some places. There I have great confidence that the Swedish Armed Forces will say so, because the Swedish Armed Forces usually do so.
i-7qgj8oPXwHYDmUVMT9XrJA	Madam President, I would like Just as we protect our homes by locking the door, we should embrace the process of protecting IT infrastructure with adequate cyber security. The attack on Kalix municipality's IT system in December puts its finger on a serious challenge, as well as when Coop's payment system went down after it had been exposed to a so-called ransomware attack. Digitisation is based on the security of these IT systems so that activities can function without interruption. When municipalities, regions, state and business are knocked out, most people stand out. Economics, care systems, family situations, personal data and substance abuse data are the most sensitive data and therefore also those most at risk of being attacked and leaked. Medical care is a particularly attractive goal, given the huge numbers of patient data gathered there. The number of attacks increases exponentially because they are relatively easy to carry out and allows the attacker to press the target for the attack on large sums. Sweden is today one of the world's most digitised countries, but we are much worse off in terms of cyber security. We need to take strong action to address these challenges and be able to identify, analyse and combat attacks on socially important activities. The Swedish Security Report – the need for stronger protection for network and information systems states that there are serious shortcomings in terms of both government authorities, regions and municipalities, as well as organisations and industry. These shortcomings concern both systematic information security work and the security of different network and information systems. Madam President, I would like An accident commission needs to be set up when major cyber attacks affect socially important activities, as happened in the Municipality of Kalix. This will enable us to identify and analyse vulnerabilities and learn lessons for the future. That is why I am in favour of reservation 4 in paragraph 2. Otherwise, of course, we support all of the Moderates' movements, but for the gain of time I only call for this. It is about setting up a Commission of Accidents in order for us to be better at this. That is something that all parties should support. There are a number of areas that need to be strengthened in Sweden when it comes to cyber security. We Moderates put forward in our motion a number of proposals aimed at strengthening both Swedish cyber and information security and Swedish cyber defence. These include the provision of skills, greater and more effective investment in research within academia and better cooperation structures with the business community, as well as better and more coherent constitutional support. We believe that cooperation with the business community is crucial for us to move forward properly on these issues. There is also a great need to invest in communications with a higher level of security protection, as the reconstruction of civil defence requires better management and cooperation. An important part is also that cyber security skills at the Government Office need to be significantly strengthened. A good collaboration between the state and the business community is crucial if society's combined resources are to be used effectively to strengthen both crisis preparedness and total defence. Much of the social resources and associated skills are currently in the hands of the private business community. This is particularly true in the area of cyber security. The Moderates therefore see it as central that the link between public and private is deepened in the cyber area in order to broadly strengthen Swedish security. Therefore, we believe that improved cooperation with industry should be an important point in the cybersecurity investigation that we Moderates propose in our motion. Madam President, I would like The establishment of the new cybersecurity centre is an important building block in this entire work. But it urgently needs to become operational and develop close cooperation with industry. The centre also needs to work closely with the new psychological defence authority, for example because both actors will work to identify, manage and respond to attacks and impact operations in digital environments. We Moderates have also pointed out the importance of giving the centre a clear headship, with a qualified actor in charge. We suggest that the FRA, the Defence Radio Institute, be given that mission. The FRA has extensive expertise in cyber security. Overall, we also need a comprehensive approach to how Sweden can strengthen and continuously work with cyber security. Therefore, we Moderates believe that there is a need for a larger investigation to support and develop a new Swedish cybersecurity strategy. A more integrated approach is needed to identify risks and opportunities in relation to Swedish cybersecurity. From a legislative point of view, there is a great deal to be done in terms of how we apply new technologies and abilities such as cyber, AI and autonomous systems. We need a doctrine to guide the application of defensive and offensive cyber operations. Then we propose to introduce a cybersecurity coordinator to the Security Council, who will have the main responsibility for developing the strategy in the future. The Cyber Security Coordinator will also play a central role in keeping the entire cyber security work together at the Government Office. Through increased competence, better leadership, cooperation with the business community, that the work is kept together and that we become better at monitoring efforts and results, we can get better and stronger cyber security in Sweden. But then a moderate government is required.
i-3g8uSzjKJmda5hvz3zMJL2	Madam President, I would like Information technology has been a very important part of globalisation. It has linked all countries together in a way that today has immediate access to the whole world. New technology has been vital for increased international knowledge and the dissemination of new ideas. Unfortunately, information technology is used for both positive and negative purposes. Today, spying and regular cyber attacks over the network are everyday, and about 100,000 attacks are directed at Sweden every year. The major powers, led by Russia, the United States and China, are investing heavily in building up their capabilities for cyber warfare, espionage and surveillance. Military intelligence, terrorists and organised crime will increasingly use information technology, not least because it is cheap, difficult to track and globally. We are also concerned about strategic investments by actors as well as the possibility for non-democratic totalitarian regimes to acquire companies and other socially critical functions that are important to the nation. Infrastructure investments in everything from IT and telecoms to physical infrastructure need to be limited. We believe it is important that companies should be able to compete on equal terms and be given the same opportunities to invest in, for example, IT infrastructure. However, the possibility of free competition needs to be limited when it comes to national security interests. Therefore, we believe that actors linked to non-democratic regimes and their intelligence services should be excluded from the Swedish public market. We also believe that infrastructure of national security interest should not be sold out. In the case of a divestment of state-owned companies holding infrastructure of national interest, these parts of the company shall be retained under State control. Madam President, I would like Cyber safety issues are extensive and extremely important, but today I will choose to highlight some extra things, and that is the piece that concerns socially important activities linked to total defence. What is meant by social activity is service or infrastructure that maintains or ensures social functions that are necessary for society's basic needs, values or security. These activities are carried out by a large number of private and public operators. It is municipalities, regions, county boards and monitoring authorities at national level that identify what is a socially important activity. Today, however, no designated authority is responsible for compiling all activities of social importance in Sweden or checking that all such activities have been identified. Much of the social activity is based on digitalisation, and this trend does not seem to be broken. Technological developments and digitalisation are taking place very quickly. Today, many IT systems are no longer just a support for the operation but a prerequisite for the operation to function. There are threats to these activities in the form of human antagonistic or non-antagonistic threats, technical system failures or weather phenomena that can disrupt the systems, and the consequences can be far-reaching and very costly. Safety has not followed the pace of development. This means that both NGOs and society as a whole will be vulnerable to various cyber threats. According to the Swedish Armed Forces, cyber attacks are as harmful as an armed attack. When supporting social functions are hacked, an entire nation can be paralyzed. It is therefore time to take a holistic approach to the safety of socially important activities. There are currently initiatives on cyber security in the form of, among other things, the previously mentioned cybersecurity centre, which is a collaboration of several authorities with a mission to collaborate with both private and public actors. However, the precise target groups or areas to be covered and prioritised in the Centre's work are still not identified. However, we welcome the strengthening of cooperation between the authorities. As mentioned earlier, the responsibility for cybersecurity issues in the activities of society is divided into a number of authorities. We believe that an authority should be given the coordinated task of protecting the public sector from cyber attacks. The Swedish Democrats have a number of reservations, but I choose to vote for reservation number 2 only.
i-Aj5MUvsFmGpkv74hu81V7E	Madam President, I would like We have plenty of examples of cyber threats. It is about ransomware in Kalix and cyber threats in the Västra Götaland region and in Region Skåne, where I come from, and Region Gotland has been under attack for several weeks. We have seen almost all Swedish media being shut down and our payment solutions and identification services are being shut down. But this is not just a Swedish question. Hospitals in Germany have been paralyzed, with death as a consequence. We have seen entire energy systems shut down in other countries. And linked to the crisis in Ukraine, we have seen how Notpetya, which was intended as an attack on Ukraine, took out 20 percent of the world's total shipping. So it is an extremely present and topical threat that affects us whether we want to or not. That is why Sweden must strengthen its policy in this area, and I am pleased that the Center Party has presented the most radical policy. The Center Party believes that Sweden needs to be better at identifying its vulnerabilities. Foreign power already carries out mapping activities against Sweden, and they test our systems in different ways, not least the vulnerabilities in our infrastructure. According to several IT security experts, we should assume that foreign power can sit on a comprehensive information on vulnerabilities and weaknesses in our digital infrastructure – an information we do not have ourselves. This is a major challenge for us in terms of defence and security policy. Since foreign power is constantly searching for our vulnerabilities to be able to exploit them, the Center Party wants Sweden to also look for its vulnerabilities to be able to fix them. We build Sweden safely by knowing our weak points, analysing our weak points and acting on our weak points – not by pretending that they do not exist. It is therefore time for Sweden to systematically and consistently map its vulnerabilities and weaknesses in its socially critical infrastructure. Why is this needed? Let me give you an example from home. The City of Malmö has just completed a mapping of the vulnerabilities in its systems, and 65 critical vulnerabilities were found. The conclusion is that it is only a matter of time before the City of Malmö is taken hostage by cyber criminals. This is not in itself a surprising conclusion, because the cyber threat is severe, obvious and topical. The surprising thing here is that the municipality of Malmö is carrying out a survey of its vulnerabilities while the government considers it unnecessary to do the same for all government agencies and organisations. If an individual municipality of Malmö's size has 65 critical vulnerabilities to deal with, how many should we guess that the state has in its systems? Thousands? These are systems that cover everything from infrastructure and energy to taxes and identities. Madam President, I would like It is simply time to identify our weaknesses, just as our opponents do. That is why I support the Center Party's reservation, number 7. Madam President, I would like As the report states, the importance of investigating and learning from major cyber-related incidents cannot be overestimated. That is quite correct, and a lot is under way when it comes to taking in information about what happens in case of attacks and other cyber incidents. But the lessons must also be disseminated. It's not enough for the cybersecurity center to get information and learn. All the authorities and businesses involved must also learn in order to disseminate the information. This requires a systematic way of disseminating lessons and recommendations. It's not happening today. Examples include Kalix, Gotland and Västra Götaland. What was done with the lessons that came from there? Were they spread to other public organisations with the same system? Was it ensured in a systematic way that the rest of the public sector and other critical systems were given strengthened knowledge and were able to close any gaps? No. Instead, we see that government agencies' reporting of cyber incidents to MSB has decreased, in a situation where more and more incidents are likely to occur. When MSB receives a report from an authority, this authority receives a feedback after MSB has analysed the incident. But not all other authorities are allowed to know what MSB has come up with, despite the fact that authorities often use the same IT system. Time and again, then, we throw away a good opportunity to strengthen the entire Swedish critical system when a small part of it fails. That's why we need an IT failure commission. Perhaps Sweden's leading IT security expert, Anne-Anne-Marie Eklund Löwinder, who is one of the people with the keys to the internet and the first Swedish to be elected to the Internet Hall of Fame, is asking for an IT accident commission. Patrik Fältström, another of Sweden's top experts in IT security with ongoing expert assignments for the government and for authorities and a place in what can best be described as, type, a security committee for the internet, ICANN SACC, requesting an IT accident commission. But the government repeatedly says no to the Center Party's proposal to introduce an cyber-crime commission. Now other parties, like the Moderates, are also beginning to see the need, and I am very happy about that. But I'm not really happy until we get more political support so that it becomes an actual activity, where knowledge of current vulnerabilities and ways of managing them are spread to all critical activities in Sweden. Madam President, I would like It is one thing to deal with breakdowns, intrusions and attacks once they have occurred and another thing to avoid them happening at all. Much of the challenge for strengthening security in the digital environment lies in purchasing right from the start. If the safety perspective is not correct from the beginning, it will be easy to get worse after construction. That is why we in the Center Party want to see clear minimum standards for cyber security in public procurement established. We have also proposed independent review of security requirements for major and critical digital procurement. Often it is the same player who will build our systems that also evaluate whether they are safe. One cannot always think that this is the best way to deal with such a matter. If we receive independent reviews, we can also ensure that safety is given higher priority from the outset and over time, throughout society. This may be relevant given both the Swedish Transport Agency and today's news about Arlanda, for example. Another part that we would like to lift from the Center Party, if there is time for that, is the competence part. We have proposed that we introduce an IT security competence centre together with the university, where we get both business and government – a cybercampus, even. We can see that the Government has invested SEK 5 million in cyber and information security through the Swedish Research Council, but also that it believes that there is no need at the moment to take further action in terms of providing cyber skills. At the same time, France is investing 1 billion in a cybercampus and Norway, I think, about 100 million. Austria is also on the move. We see that Sweden also needs to strengthen. We live in a new reality. The criminals have found a new, lucrative arena. The Chinese state infiltrates Sweden on different fronts, for example. We have even seen Russian apologists in Parliament. This is the security reality we are living in today. It is time to take the threat seriously and get Sweden into the reality we live in and strengthen our knowledge and capabilities in the cyber security field.
i-HfBz7C2WEBLV3XETexL5PY	Madam President, I would like We are debating cybersecurity issues here this afternoon. I am, of course, behind all the reservations of the Christian Democrats, but for the winning days I am content to ask for the approval of reservation 18. Cybersecurity issues are, I would say, more important than ever. Historically, we have seen different types of cyber-attacks hit Sweden, and we know that every year about 100 000 state-funded cyber-attacks against Sweden are made by foreign power. We've seen attacks on hospitals and banks and on payment abilities. And the worst of all is that this is probably just the beginning. We have seen ransomware or blackmail attacks and denial of service attacks combined with blackmail, which is very dangerous and harmful. Last summer we saw Coop shops hit. We also see that this costs a great deal of money. There are estimates from America that the various blackmail attacks could have cost American society up to 70 billion last year and may have cost well over 100 billion this year. This, as I see it, means that we need to look at how it works today. Today in Sweden we have a situation where seven authorities share responsibility. There we differ from other countries. This falls between the chairs, and it won't be good. It has been created a cybersecurity centre with good intentions, but, as we see it, it is too steep-tube oriented and too narrow. The mandate is unclear and fragmented. No authority has received lead, main responsibility, but one should collaborate – there will be some kind of consensus culture, we have understood it as. It is not finished with premises, and it will not be as powerful as it should be. On the Christian Democrats' side, we therefore believe that a cybersecurity authority should be set up, which would have the task of coordinating cyber defence between authorities and defending critical national infrastructure and socially critical national interests – a authority with a broad focus, covering cyber protection of authorities but also telecommunications operators, electricity producers, distributors and other sensitive sectors and socially critical parts of the business community. We have seen, Madam President, in the near future, how, for example, Ukraine has been hit by attacks. Cold winter nights in December have left up to a quarter of a million people out of power. This is something that can also affect Sweden. Equipment has been tested that allows you to disrupt the Internet over large areas and make it possible for no one to communicate. These are threats that can also affect Sweden, Madam President, and that is why we see it as important that we move forward. This is something that several other countries have done and that would allow more resources to go to protect us against cyber attacks. We can see that this is something that, unfortunately, has only just begun. According to the reports we have received, it is becoming more serious, and it is easy for foreign power because it is difficult to detect. They can be in a country and use a company that does; it is very difficult to detect. This can affect our country and important institutions, and in short we need to strengthen this. That is why it is our view that we need to move forward. The Cybersecurity Centre has good intentions, but we need to move forward and establish a cybersecurity authority.
i-EXFREFPgicStyARomdbd59	Madam President, I would like For a long time, the cyber threat was something that was warned about and something that would happen in the future. As a result, it was simply a matter of pushing this matter away. As a result, the threat was not taken seriously enough. They did not prepare themselves, their organization, or their authority sufficiently. With a few years' perspective, we can now see that we have moved from a rather relaxed, and in some places even naive, attitude to the cyber threat to seeing it very seriously today. Just the fact that we are standing here today for the first time debating a purely cybersecurity report with motions says something about how this issue has developed, because reality has really caught up with us. There are reports of new attacks or attempted intrusions if not every day almost every week. Then you should carry with you that it is only a fraction of what actually happens that reaches the light of the public. The Swedish Defence Radio Agency reported a few years ago that there are around 10,000 activities per month against targets in Sweden from foreign state actors. That figure is, of course, much higher today. What is perhaps even worse is that we are now seeing more and more concretely how the cyber weapon actually does harm, how it limits and closes operations and how it brings with it great economic costs and risks. Madam President, I would like The cyber threat is really real, like when Volvo Cars was recently forced to go out and tell them that the intrusion on their servers did not affect the safety of the cars. The same applies when the Kalix home service no longer accessed medical records and medical records after the municipality suffered an extensive cyber attack, or when nearly 800 of Coop's stores were forced to stay closed after a major intrusion. This is just a sample of current examples. All of them are also examples of a peacetime reality. Not infrequently, these attacks are based on the same logic that has always been the driving force in the criminal world, namely to usurp money and other values. These may include innovations, trade secrets or innovative research results. And it's always at someone else's expense. The Cyberweapon is also part of the military toolbox of states and as such has the potential to result in extensive damage to socially important activities and, in the worst case, actual deaths. This is, once again, not a distant future scenario. It is enough to see how Russia has been acting for several years to destabilise Ukraine with cyber activities, among other things. In Sweden, a wide range of efforts are being undertaken to strengthen the ability to prevent, detect and manage cyber threats, including through the Swedish Armed Forces' ability to act actively and conduct active cyber operations. Another cyber-defence unit has also been established with the establishment of the Swedish Armed Forces' Cyber Defence and Information Security Centre at KTH. This strengthens the Swedish Armed Forces' ability to gain access to courses at the forefront of research, which is also deemed to contribute positively to the Authority's competence provision and competence development. The tip training for cyber soldiers is now in the second round of training. On the civilian side, as many have mentioned, the newly established national cybersecurity centre will become a key player in strengthening coordination internally within the state, where the very co-location of the incoming authorities will stimulate closer cooperation and provide better opportunities to produce situational images and to work together in the operational environment. The Cybersecurity Centre will also be a very important link between state and business and will have a role to convey advice and support in terms of threats, vulnerability and risks. But, of course, we cannot settle down with this. More is needed, and perhaps above all that more people need to do more. One of the main findings of this report is that the systematic work on information and cyber security needs to be strengthened by all actors in our society. One area in which there is a need for further focus, and which is also mentioned in this report, concerns the need to raise the level of knowledge about the cyber threat and what we can do to protect ourselves. Knowledge is in this sense our first and most important line of defense. And here we need both lace and width. When it comes to lace, it is about research, among other things. If you talk to the main cybersecurity researchers, they are clear that we have not yet constructed sufficiently secure systems that can be used on a large scale. More research and development is needed. As far as breadth is concerned, we need to raise the level of consciousness in general in society. There is sometimes talk of cyberhygiene, i.e. having secure passwords, not opening attachments from unknown senders and updating old systems. MSB recently showed in a recent report that many of the mistakes that occur are human and relatively simple mistakes that can potentially lead to major problems. This is also what is seen among the cyber incidents reported to MSB. Madam President, I would like Finally, the time when cybersecurity issues could be waved away and seen as an unnecessary cost item and delegated away to some marginalised IT department is over. The question is no longer what it costs to equip yourself to face the cyber threat. Rather, the question is what it costs not to do so. Madam President, I would like With this, I call for the proposal in the report to be approved.
i-6TdX1eyyKDCd6KCZzpcfFf	Madam President, I would like Thank you for a good speech from the honourable Member. But I'd like to follow up on a little thing. I think we agree that very well has happened in recent years after a few years, as the honourable Member correctly says, when we have not been so awake in this area. But instead of focusing on what I think is good, I want to focus a little bit on what I may not be completely satisfied with, to be honest. I am pleased that the honourable Member points out that today we have not created sufficiently secure systems that are needed and that more research and development is needed. Then I wonder why the government does not think it appropriate to invest in a cybercampus that the Center Party and KTH have proposed should be established. Another thing where I am a little curious about how the government and the Social Democrats, who are now the same thing, think is why they believe that we should not identify the weaknesses that exist in many of our systems. Our leading experts say that it is quite likely that we can assume that countries such as Russia, China etcetera, also have a very good map of our weaknesses because they are constantly testing them. At the same time, we are not doing it ourselves in a systematic way. I wonder why the government does not consider it appropriate. The same applies to the accident commission proposed by the Center Party for five to six years should be established where we have the leading security experts to, when it is trespassing, etcetera secure knowledge for all the authorities other than the one affected, so that they actually have access to information on how to improve the situation, how to save themselves from it and what to do to avoid the same problem once more. I would therefore like to hear a little bit about how it is that these things are rejected.
i-86Zu75TcAe42T2vVttuFiX	Madam President, I would like I mentioned in my speech the establishment of the Swedish Armed Forces' Center for Cyber Security and Information Security, CDIS at KTH. This can be seen as an example where the state is now increasing its entry and building closer relations with academia. I think it is absolutely essential that we continue in this direction. There is also the link to the training of cyber soldiers who have now started in a very good way and who seem to have very good results. I see that we need to strengthen this part. The state needs to take an even clearer approach to research and education, as this is an area where more needs to be done. When it comes to identifying vulnerabilities and shortcomings, it must be said that we are doing so today in a number of different ways. One example is that the FRA conducts a very active activity where they visit primarily authorities and do so-called penetration tests. There is a high demand in central government for such services. We also have the IT incident reporting system, where I share Niels Paarup-Petersen-Petersen's concern that the reporting has not reached the level we would have liked. However, there is a clear instruction to do so. There is also the potential to draw conclusions from the reports that come in; I referred in part to them in my own speech. MSB compiles the incidents reported to the Authority and then communicates them publicly, and there it is seen that human error – as I mentioned – is one of the major explanations for many of the incidents that are taking place.
i-8xcCZd3j4YECaoufR7GnUj	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for your answer. I am pleased that we agree on the need to focus further on developing the research area and the collaboration that is an essential part of this. Research is a part, and it is very important – but it is precisely cooperation with the business community that leads to development, etcetera. This also applies, of course, from an industrial policy perspective, that Sweden hopefully receives a positive bnp contribution, but it is not least about ensuring that the knowledge becomes better and that products actually come onto the market that can help us here in Sweden. As I said, we fully agree that very good things have happened. You are welcome to copy our cybercampu proposal, Kalle Olsson; it's all right. The same applies when it comes to ensuring that the post-reporting and analysis of incident reporting leads to a greater dissemination of knowledge. That's where we see the weakness at the moment – we and many experts with us. Another question I would like answers to is that we in the Center Party have proposed that independent security audits may be relevant in connection with the procurement of major infrastructure which is safety critical. Among other things, such news about Arlanda has been up in the press today, but we have a lot of socially critical infrastructure that is traded. There have also been some incidents, which have affected Social Democratic governments, where procurement has not been done in a completely correct way. Securing the independent security audits in these socially critical procurements would cause us to raise the level of safety from the start, so that it is not they who build the systems that also determine whether they are safe enough. It would be interesting to hear the views of the honourable Member and the Social Democrats on this.
i-3s6MuHLjb5VYNp8RpLyoyf	Madam President, I would like I just want to mention that the government recently commissioned the Procurement Authority to work with developing support for procurements of socially critical activities – just as an example. In this context, I shall also mention the new, updated act of protection, which is, of course, partly an effect of what the honourable Member mentions, namely the problems we have seen in previous procurements and what they may lead to. There are now quite strict requirements in this legislation. Ultimately, a regulatory authority can actually go in and cancel contracts if it is judged that they are not safe enough and that these perspectives have not been taken care of. We all know that very important and socially critical activities today lie on private actors acting on behalf of the public, so we need to keep an eye on this issue. That's what the new and updated Security Act is trying to address. This should not fall between the chairs, but we should have a clear control system here so that we can detect deficiencies early and correct them.
i-FdQEWurYhJGsUWjgM4Ujn2	Madam President, I would like It has been said so much wisely here that for a while I wondered whether I should delete my speech, because very much will be repeated. Still, I thought I'd get up in the speaker's chair and talk for a while. I would like to start by saying that preventive work is absolutely crucial for a well-functioning total defence, as well as for a well-functioning society. Weaknesses in Sweden's basic infrastructure, both the clearly physical infrastructure and the digital infrastructure as well as the supply and other important social functions, mean a vulnerability to attacks and other disturbances. The robustness of all our social functions must increase. More needs to be done to prevent crises and civil defence needs to be strengthened. We know that even events in other countries can indirectly affect Sweden in different ways when the economy and other systems are connected. We have recently seen this in connection with the pandemic, if nothing else. Cyber attacks are ongoing, daily, from several different actors. China is just one example of a great power that conducts advanced cyberintelligence to promote its own economic development and develop its own military capabilities. This is done through extensive intelligence collection and theft of technology, research and development. Impact campaigns and disinformation reach us in several different ways, while espionage and mass surveillance via the Internet raise many cyber security issues. Most attacks on digital systems take place for economic reasons and are often linked to international leagues. A minor part of the attacks is for military or political reasons. However, although the aim of most attacks is crime for economic purposes, the result may still be serious disruptions of major and important activities in society, and the weaknesses may be exploited for attacks on the state. Madam President, I would like The global and accessible digital infrastructure is crucial for companies and organisations to be able to carry out their activities and share knowledge between people in different countries. An open world benefits Sweden in many ways and is a prerequisite for environmental threats and security threats to be managed. However, rapid digitalisation makes issues of vulnerability in our social systems highly topical. Many important societal functions depend on the digital systems, making them sensitive both to data breaches and to other interferences. Energy supply, food supply, water treatment and water supply, health care and many other parts of modern society are thus vulnerable as most things today are digitised. These are vulnerabilities that we need to be able to manage and prevent. Therefore, cyber security needs to be raised in all activities in society, both in the public sector and in the private sector, and Sweden needs to strengthen its ability to prevent and respond to attacks. The establishment of the new national cybersecurity centre is an important part of forming a safer defence against cyber attacks and in protecting socially important infrastructure. The Swedish Armed Forces, MSB and the Swedish Security Service are now tasked with deepening cooperation within the area, and the authorities will have close collaboration with FMV, the Swedish Police Authority and the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency, which will also be given the opportunity to participate in the Centre's activities. Sweden needs a collective ability to prevent, detect and manage antagonistic threats. The idea is that the cybersecurity centre's activities will be of broad national benefit in both public and private operations and make Sweden safer by increasing the overall ability to meet cyber threats and increase the ability to effectively support public and private actors. The activities of the Centre will develop gradually between 2021 and 2023, and in 2023 the Government will take a position on how the activities of the Cybersecurity Centre should continue to be targeted and conducted. It is part of the task of the new National Centre to provide advice and support on threats, vulnerabilities and risks. It will also coordinate support for preventive measures, such as technical safety analysis, and identify the preparedness of activities in cyber incidents. International collaboration is also of great importance in order to maintain the open world we see as important. We should remember, as has been said here before, that technology development in this area is fast. Continuous research is needed to help maintain and develop cyber defence capabilities, and qualified personnel are needed to provide long-term skills and strengthen capabilities. The Swedish Armed Forces, supported by the FRA, have established cyber defence capabilities. Among other things, the Swedish Armed Forces have established a military virtual training facility and started the initial training of cyber soldiers. Some thirty conscripts have started their professional training. The aim is to train 60 conscripts per year. During 2020, the Swedish Armed Forces established the Centre for Cyber Defence and Information Security at KTH. CDIS, as it is abbreviated, contributes to the Swedish Armed Forces' ability to access courses at the forefront of research to support the Swedish Armed Forces' competence provision and development. The ambition is to develop knowledge and create new methods, tools, concepts and applications in the field of cyber defence and information security. Madam President, I would like Cooperation between the state and the business community in the cybersecurity field is of great importance, as we have been into before. Much of the social-important business is currently owned and operated by the business community, and cooperation programmes are underway to work with collaboration between the state and the business community. The Intersectoral Business Council, which will soon be a reality, is very important in terms of cyber security but also in general for a stronger civil defence. Long-term interaction between private and public actors is a key element in coping with civil defence and crisis preparedness today. Industry needs to be more involved – and to feel involved – in ensuring the most important social functions. How this is to become a reality needs to be worked out in close dialogue between private and public actors. Here the need for preparation and scope of activities needs to be identified and then addressed in order to ensure a reasonable level of preparedness. The Intersectoral Business Council is scheduled to be appointed before the summer of this year, according to the Ministry of Justice. The Green Party therefore wants to develop and secure resources both for the national cybersecurity centre and for international cyber security cooperation. This is exactly what I have heard here today that the other parties want to do, so let us do it!
i-9fNvpsPm5spaGHDSMFu3Mp	Madam President, I would like Emma Hult has asked me whether I will stand by what the former Social Democratic Prime Minister Stefan Löfven promised. Furthermore, the questioner wonders when the legislative proposals will come and what answer I would like to give to those transgender people who suffer from the current legislation. Sweden should be a country at the forefront of transgender rights. In 1972, Sweden introduced one of the world's first laws concerning the situation of transgender persons. Within the Government Office, a memorandum has been developed in the form of a draft legislative resolution on new laws intended to replace the existing law on gender. This is a comprehensive product, and the referees need to be carefully analysed. The report is based on previous legislative proposals. After criticism from the Law Council, among others, the legislative proposals have been revised. The proposals were now referred to 8 February. One reason why the government has not yet been able to decide on proposals for new gender laws is the aforementioned criticism from the Swedish Law Council regarding the previous Council of Law referral that was decided in 2018. I am anxious for new legislative proposals to remain unobtrusive when the government moves forward with them. In addition, we have an ongoing pandemic involving, and entailing, a high workload at the Ministry of Social Affairs. However, as I explained in my reply to the written question to which Emma Hult refers, the work continues with full force, and the ambition remains to produce proposals for new legislation during her term of office. The memorandum proposes that two new laws – the Act on certain surgical interventions in the genitals and the Act on the modification of the sex contained in the census – should replace the Act( 1972:119) on the determination of sex in certain cases. Subsequent amendments to other laws are also proposed. The proposals distinguish the process of altering the sex shown in the censuses from the process of surgical intervention in the genitals. One overall objective is that a change in the sex shown in the population register should, as a general rule, be based on self-determination. The application for a child is made by the child's guardian but with the child's written consent. The person who has reached the age of 12 years shall be entitled to change the sex shown in the population register on application. In the case of a first change in the sex shown in the population register, no examination of the applicant's gender identity shall be required. The legislation is proposed to enter into force on 1 January 2024. The proposed modernisation of gender rules is an important step in the right direction in order to give transgender people more power over their lives and bodies and to have their gender identity legally recognised with respect for the right to self-determination.
i-QohtLLWZTebNqgfcaC9waF	Madam President, I would like Where did the new gender law go? Only in the government declaration of 14 September last year did the then Social Democratic Prime Minister Stefan Löfven promise that a new gender law would be in place before the next elections. This year, it's election year. This promise was a great relief for many transgender persons and a great joy for me as an ally. But when the government now presented its bill list, the new gender law was not included. What has happened since September last year? My party, the Green Party, has left government cooperation with the Social Democrats. Obviously, then, the desire to make life better for transgender people also disappeared – at least quickly. These are people who are already suffering from extremely long processes to be who they are and to live the life they want. In 2014, a study was set up to review the age limit in legislation on gender. The investigation was presented and went much further than the mission required. The investigation also received sharp criticism in some parts, and until about 2017 the issue was buried. At that time the government finally announced that it wanted to change the gender law that we have today by replacing it, as the Government has explained, with two different laws – one that regulates the change of legal sex and one that regulates interventions in the genitals. Two further investigations were set up. I can also note that it is a little remarkable that as early as 2014, when our investigation was presented, Norway thought that the investigation was good enough to form the basis for the new gender law that they presented already 2015. A modern gender category is vital to the lives of the people affected and their families. It would come into place during this term of office, but now I am really worried that the Social Democrats are breaking this promise. It is very serious and can have fatal consequences. A study conducted by the Swedish Public Health Agency shows that over half of those questioned in their daily lives are disabled due to either physical or mental illness. This is particularly true for younger transgender people. A modern gender law is an important step in strengthening the rights of transgender people and something that the Green Party has long been pushing for. It must be in place as soon as possible. The legislative proposals have recently been for a referral, and we have now seen the outcome of the referral. We can see that more than half are positive or have no objection to the proposals. For the Green Party, it has been important for a long time, but this must be in place before the end of the parliamentary term. Why? Well, if the law is delayed, it will lead to an enormous amount of suffering for transgender people in Sweden. In the worst case, we also have a change of government this autumn when right-wing conservatives take over power over what legislative proposals are put on Parliament's table. Then I believe that this legislative proposal will be thrown into the trash. I hope that the Social Democrats will stand by their word even if the Green Party is no longer in the government. I am deeply concerned that this legislative proposal will be pushed forward and beyond the date when Parliament closes for the summer. Basically, a new gender law is a much-awaited freedom reform for transgender people. It is also something that most people think is reasonable – in an opinion poll that was done quite recently, 61% replied that they think adults should be allowed to decide for themselves over their legal gender. So there is strong popular support.
i-DFH3drCaG3CuDHBJUXSAEs	Madam President, I would like I would like to think that Emma Hult is well aware that this ambition has been shared by social democrats and environmentalists in the previous government. Of course we're working on it. As I described in my answer, there was widespread criticism from the Law Council. I do not think anyone is valiant that we should once again present a product that the Council of Law is criticising. Therefore, we are keen to take care of the referral points that have been submitted. We have said that a bill should be presented to Parliament, but it is not certain that there will be a bill. That is also why this is not on the bill list. That is a correct observation. But it is not a question of unwillingness, but that we must be able to deal with the views expressed by the consultation bodies. This applies not least to the Law Council. That's the answer to the question. On the other hand, I am well aware of the long-awaited need for new legislation. Believe me, I would be happy to make such a proposal. It's not about will. But we have had a pandemic for two years – talking about where the proposal from 2018 went. In 2018, it was criticized. We needed to revise it and develop some new bases to overcome the criticisms that the Law Council then addressed. Now we have presented a new memorandum. The referral bodies had to submit comments until 8 February, which was last week. Let's take care of those points. Mr Pandemin, I just mentioned briefly to say that it has allowed many legislative products to be shot a little bit. It is about how quickly they could be worked out and possibly also about when they could be presented to the Riksdag. I would really like to emphasise that there is no reluctance on the substance. But I do not want to present a product that receives extensive criticism from the Law Council and that does not pass the Riksdag. I don't see it as effective.
i-RZGGRoTL1wj8JqnZ9H4cPz	Madam President, I would like I can only think about whether it is only the possible criticism of the Law Council that the government is concerned about or whether it is also the pressure of the extreme lobby organisations. It's an election year. I receive daily emails from various organisations that claim one after the other untrue and believe that this legislation should not be introduced. The Finnish Government Hallengren says that a country at the forefront of transgender rights should be Sweden. I can only agree with that. I always want us to be a country at the forefront. She also refers to the legislation that we introduced in 1972. Sweden was then one of the world's first countries with laws regarding the situation of transpersons. Of course, I'm proud of that too. But this legislation is out of date. A lot has happened since 1972. We need new, modern and realistic legislation, Madam President, and now. I am still very concerned about the possible consequences if this legislation is not put on Parliament's table this parliamentary term. As I have explained before, there are forces that do not want to see this, even in this House. Both in the general debate and in my personal meetings I often get told how incredibly bad transgender people father in Sweden. It is distressing that we do not have a new gender law in place. The draft of what has expired proposes its entry into force on 1 January 2024. It's almost two years away. A date such as 1 July 2023 might be possible, but there are a lot of people who will be in very bad danger, even if new legislation would be put on Parliament's table for decisions before the summer. This is distressing. As has been mentioned before, transgender people are a group that feels very bad, actually the worst in our society. We can't keep doing that. The situation is particularly difficult for young transgender people. According to a study done a number of years ago, 30 percent of those under 30 years of age had, on more than one occasion, seriously considered taking their lives in the past year. These are alarming figures that we can never accept. Many say that just the long wait is one of the reasons why they feel so bad. The long wait is largely due to the fact that today's legislation is designed in such a way that you need to have a doctor's contact before you can even start the discussion about changing your legal sex, even if it is just about your right of self-determination over what legal sex you want. I've been looking at some of the referrals that came in last week. I note that referral bodies such as Save the Children, Amnesty and the Ombudsman for Children support the bill and believe that it strengthens the rights of transgender people who are children or young people. Perhaps that is the most important thing in this – that we ensure that more children and young people don't get hurt because society has set a standard and a framework for how to be and how to behave. The National Council for Medical Ethics also supports the bill, and I think that is a strong reason for the government to dare to do the same.
i-AUTTrhs9vz355fgbKw8wPd	Madam President, I would like The referral was received last week, as I said. I am not going to pick any referrals, but I want a comprehensive consultation assessment where we can weigh the answers from both children's rights organisations as well as authorities, the judiciary and other actors. It is a hundred and thirty, I think, referrals received, and these all deserve to be reviewed and valued. There was widespread criticism from the Law Council against the proposal made by the government, which was based on the investigation mentioned by the interpeller. Of course, the criticism that the Law Council had is important to take seriously. It concerned, among other things, that the risks of abuse of the system were not sufficiently highlighted. This does not mean that we should not do this, but that we should highlight the risks and ensure that it is not used in the wrong way. The criticism also concerned the age limit for surgical interventions – for example, whether this is in accordance with the ECHR and the Convention on the Rights of the Child. I'm not saying it's or not. But we must be able to respond and respond to it. I am not going to present a bill to Parliament that receives widespread criticism. These are questions that are vital, just as Emma Hult describes it. We should have gone through them in a way that will prevent them from being discussed afterwards. If possible, we will bring forward legislation. We have no reason to delay the question. I don't know what the reason for that would be. This is urgent. But we will take care of the referee in a way that makes the criticism not look like it did in 2018. I don't think anyone benefits from that.
i-7atNVPobgheesc9Ajpt4pN	Madam President, I would like The reason for delaying the question or perhaps not taking a stand before the elections is precisely because it is an election year. Criticism of this legislation and these changes is increasing, so is the pressure on us politicians. In the autumn, and also in recent times, it has been highlighted both in the media and in other ways sweeping fears that the possibility of changing legal sex without trial would lead to a minor avalanche of people who want to make these changes casually and without reflection. We can look at other countries that have changed legislation in this direction, such as Denmark and Norway, to take a couple of similar countries. We do not see the development that those who are concerned claim to be there. It has also been mentioned that there is a fear that gender will no longer be used and that it would lead to setbacks in gender equality work. We don't see that happening either. Rather, we would get a gender-disaggregated statistics that really tell us how you as a man or woman feel, experience things and have it in working life, leisure life and so on, instead of being categorized into a sex that you do not belong to. For me and the Green Party it is obvious that everyone in Sweden should be able to have the same freedom. No matter who you are or identify yourself as and what life you choose to live, it is a matter of course that you should have the opportunity to influence it yourself, without the cluttering of legislation and the tough processes where, for example, it is required to go to a doctor to be allowed to change your legal gender. We need a modernised gender law, and we need it now, in order for more people to have power over their own lives and their bodies. I would like to thank the President and the Government for the debate. I will return to the matter until the legislation is on Parliament's table.
i-CGWYChdwowTAE1TmrJRvLs	Madam President, I would like I thank Emma Hult for the question. It is certainly excellent, I think, that the issue is kept alive by interest groups as well as individuals and, of course, also by the parties in Parliament. I would like to say once again that the government has no interest in prolonging the matter. On the other hand, we would like to make a proposal that does not give the same criticism as in 2018, because I do not think we can afford that. I would also like to say that the concern expressed by the interpeller here is not something that I have expressed, but was caught from elsewhere. I feel that this is an issue that engages. It faces criticism from various quarters, but the government has no ambition other than to present this legislation when we have received the necessary evidence to conclude both the legislative referral and the proposal.
i-A9Di9i3wGtu4eiSd61gSoK	Madam President, I would like Martina Johansson has asked me whether I intend to commission our national authorities to investigate what skills are needed to conduct child talks adequately. Martina Johansson has also asked me whether I intend to instruct our national authorities to produce clearer guidelines for the conduct of investigations based on evidence-based methods of achieving equivalence across the country. Decisions in matters concerning children require a solid basis. Whether the decision is taken by a social welfare board or by a court, the basis is often based on an inquiry from the social services. The importance of the quality of such investigations cannot therefore be overestimated. How social services investigations concerning children are to be conducted is governed by law. In the case of children who may need protection or support, the Social Welfare Board has a far-reaching investigative responsibility. Every child shall be given the opportunity to be involved in matters concerning him or her. The child has the right to relevant information, the right to speak and the right to influence based on his or her age and maturity. Social services should communicate with the child in order to ensure the child's ability to participate and to ensure the quality of assessments and measures. Actions in the field of social services must be of good quality, and the staff must have appropriate training and experience. It is also important that evidence-based methods are used in social services. One example is the way of working Children's needs in the centre, abbreviated BBIC. It contains a structure for the management, implementation and follow-up of the exercise of authority with a focus on the child and its needs. All Swedish municipalities have a license to work with BBIC. The task of the National Board of Health and Welfare is to support social services and youth professionals. The Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare has developed knowledge support for social services professionals who meet and talk with children. The Agency for Family Law and Parental Support has also developed administrative support on risk assessments in investigations on custody, housing and social relations. There are therefore already many areas of support for the employees of social services in their work. Preparation of the report Sustainable Social Services – A new Social Services Act is in full swing within the Government Office. The report proposes that the current provision on the child's right to information be supplemented by a provision that the information should be adapted to the child's age, maturity and his or her individual circumstances. As far as possible, the person providing the information must ensure that the child understands the information. The report also proposes that it should be possible to talk to children without the consent of the guardian during the ex-ante assessment. The investigation suggests that the appropriate authority should be given the task of developing support to use for these conversations. The study also proposes to introduce a statutory requirement for activities within social services to be conducted in accordance with science and proven experience.
i-LuWjHCDASVXgaTdGdwTGF8	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lena Hallengren, for your answer! I would just like to start by mentioning that there is currently a campaign against Sweden, which claims that the authorities are kidnapping children. That is something that I do not support, and it is not true that this is happening in Sweden. I agree with the Minister that investigations involving children and young people require solid evidence and that the importance of the high quality that is needed should not be underestimated. Much of the work done in social services is very good. There are a lot of good employees who do an amazing job. But I still see a need to improve, and then it is for me to see how we can support by increasing knowledge about how to talk with or interview children. We have legislation that says that we should, but we also need to provide support in how to conduct these talks and interviews so that they actually become children's stories. The same applies to the other parts of an investigation – they should be evidence-based so that we know that they are done in the right way. This is where there's a difference between me and the minister. I see a need for us, at national level and in the form of a uniform education, to actually bring these things together in order to ensure that children and young people speak in a uniform way. The police currently have special training courses for interviewers of children who are either victims of crime or witnesses of crime, but the corresponding type of training is not available in the social services. I wonder about this, because these talks are of course a very important basis in the investigations that are being carried out in relation to children, both in terms of custody, housing and social relations and when it comes to a child or a youth being cared for or not. The right of children to speak is very important to me. There is an example in Norrköping municipality where, together with a researcher a number of years ago, an interview methodology was developed to use in their children's interviews. Now I am not competent enough to say whether that method is the best one there is, but it is there, and if there are more such methods in Sweden that are used in our municipalities, we will lift them up and ensure that everyone who works with this gets that knowledge. Today the Municipality of Norrköping is training other municipalities in its own method. I think this should be a national time so that it becomes uniform throughout the country. My question was whether the Minister intended to give a mandate to investigate what skills are needed for, among other things, children's talks. I do not feel that I have received an answer to that question, and I have also highlighted a concrete example of what I am looking for, namely to have a uniform approach.
i-FGVsKjmQncDT1mFmCtoHpY	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Martina Johansson! I think this is a good example of the fact that an interpellation debate is not always a debate in which you have different opinions, but in which you actually highlight very important areas of society or issues. I'll elaborate on that. I would also like to thank the interpeller for starting by emphasising that the disinformation that is now taking place in Sweden, which is a campaign against those who work tirelessly every day to make sure that supporting children and their families is very unpleasant, and I want them to feel that they have everyone's support. Many times they have a hard job, and this certainly does not make things any easier. When we come to the question of what methods are to be used to ensure that the child's story really comes out, I would like to tell you that in recent years a long series of efforts have been made to ensure the quality of both the care itself and the placement of children and young people. The National Board of Health and Welfare has a mandate since 2020, which also applies during this year, to support social care professionals and social care professionals in order to promote both skills, stability and quality development. It is in turn an extension of a mission that has been going on since 2018, so this is really something that is prioritised for the government and for the National Board of Health and Welfare. It is important to strengthen the skills of the professions that meet children and that investigate children. There is knowledge today among the authorities, and this applies in particular to the National Board of Health and Welfare and MFoF, the Agency for Family Law and Parental Support. They develop knowledge to be disseminated to professionals. The National Board of Health and Welfare has developed knowledge support for social services professionals who meet and talk with children in various respects. MFoF has also developed a management support that deals with risk assessments in investigations regarding custody, housing and social relations. The Government has also given SBU, the Swedish Agency for Medical and Social Evaluation, the task of contributing, as it is called, to support and mentor the social services so that practitioners and practitioners can systematically seek, evaluate and use scientific knowledge. The need to use scientifically proven methods and knowledge should not be underestimated. SBU will also compile the scientific evidence on investigative methods for children and young people being investigated in the social services. It's an assignment that's going on for another year. It is important that existing knowledge is disseminated and made available to professionals. I am not saying that no more can be done, but it is a solid work that is going on to build knowledge among individuals and to share the methods that are considered scientifically well-proven with good results to other parts of the social services.
i-9ipT8TmwQhU9Z5E7EUC7J5	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the information on what is happening. It is clear that there is advice, support and guidance for those who work. Nevertheless, I do not believe that there is a uniform approach. When I talk to various employees in the social services, and when I talk to... – now I lost the name of the association – researchers in social work lack a uniform focus that is researched for the work of scientifically following up efforts with the social services. It is about how this is perceived and works in practice. Let's look at interviews and conversations with children. Do they really feel that they are allowed to speak, that they are listened to? Then it is the adults who should make the decisions because that responsibility cannot be placed on the children. I have not really received an answer to what I am looking for, namely consistency. Children's needs at the centre, BBIC, which the Minister raised in his first speech, are a structure for the parts of documentation. But that structure does not determine how you work with the conversations, what picture is involved and what risks the child is exposed to together with one or other parent, or what risks the child is exposed to if it does not meet a parent, or what risks the child is exposed to by being placed in or not being placed in a family or what efforts may be needed. There's a lot going on. If there are uniform methods – equally in the country – it also strengthens our employees in social services who do the difficult work. As Lena Hallengren says, they work every day to make good decisions. Then they need security. How will a new and inexperienced employee be able to stay in the profession if there is nothing to stay in when making these tough decisions? There are different methods. Who are the best? Who are we recommending our municipalities to use? In order to support the difficult decisions, which may be about putting in a voluntary effort, taking care of a child, not taking care of a child, which parent is the best parent if not both parents are the best, a national support is needed. In the draft budget submitted by the Center Party last autumn, we have set aside funds to strengthen the work and to start work to gather and decide what is best for Sweden's children and young people. That's what we're going to focus on.
i-SSa5cd7qLGCxggNv6rXHBE	Madam President, I would like We shall have the best interests of children and young people in mind, and we have jointly made some investments in the years we have worked together. It is about investments in social services and municipalities. If there's a single method that everyone should use, I can't answer. Rather, there are several methods, but there are approaches that are expected to be used. The fact that the Convention on the Rights of the Child is law plays a role in any exercise of authority. We have been working on the basis of the Convention on the Rights of the Child since its ratification, but it has made a difference that the Convention on the Rights of the Child is now a law – I would like to emphasise. Knowledge of, desire for and interest in truly understanding and understanding how the Convention on the Rights of the Child affects their own activities and administration in the authorities is great. This applies not least to social services. They should also have the right conditions for working in social services. We have already considered in this interpellation debate that this is a tough task. Many interests are involved, but of course the best interests of the child should be at the centre. No child who ends up in a situation where you are placed should get worse than before the placement. The law says that social services should be of good quality, and the quality of interventions should be systematically and continuously developed and secured. I said earlier that SBU has a mission to compile the scientific evidence for investigative methods and make it available. SBU has until 25 February 2023, and it is therefore an ongoing mission. But competence development is an ongoing work, and this means that you should not have to wait until 2023 before you get support at work. It is possible that the interpellier will follow is a compilation of available scientific evidence. Again, I can say that there is knowledge support for professionals, and both the National Board of Health and Welfare and MFoF have the assignments in essence. I feel great hope and confidence, but of course more can always be done.
i-L4jdj1Fr6W7M53Z1jtFN9W	Madam President, I would like If it's one, two or three methods that are the best-- no, I'm not human to decide this either. That must be done together between research and professionals. Here we will land in which methods are to be used in children's interviews, in children's conversations and in the investigation methodology. We should know that it will be right, uniform and equal throughout the country. Whether I'm an inexperienced or experienced employee in social services, I need tools so I can do the job. Whether SBU will deliver this or not remains to be seen, but we need to continue working on the issues. Once again, I would like to raise an issue that I have raised earlier. I have mentioned that, in order to conduct child interviews within the police, there is a special education. The equivalent is not available in social services. Is the Minister prepared to look at this issue in order to ensure that children are properly heard and involved? I have another thought that I have not mentioned before but which I send in here in the run-up. How do we view basic education in socionomie education? What tools should we give those who attend the training from the beginning, so that they have these pieces with them? It's a broad education. It is important that we feel that research is linked to everything that is done in this area, as in other areas of health care. There is a link to research on methods and investigations of diagnoses.
i-SPFSy33Um3uSfV9Ysoy8dV	Madam President, I would like It was excellent to get into this issue – even if it was at the end. I think there is every reason to say that it is not specifically a question of social services. Many of the social efforts need a clear scientific and empirical basis to rest on. It benefits everyone, not least the staff who should feel confident that what they are working with can be expected to produce results. There it looks different compared to the health care system, just as Martina Johansson describes. Given that you have an initial education, I would like to say that many of those who work in social services meet children and young people. Not some do what needs special training, but this is the knowledge that everyone who is going to work in social services needs to have. But the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare has a mandate that has been extended since 2018 – it has been extended and continues this year too; we will see how it will be in the coming years – to support principals and professionals and ensure that competence and stability are built in this area. It is also important to get employees to stay. It is also about experience and to feel secure as a social security secretary in these discussions. It is not just a matter of having the right method or tools. I think quite a lot of people understand what I mean – that you should feel safe in having these difficult conversations. There you need to support each other between colleagues, and it is important that managers support their employees. However, the National Board of Health and Welfare has developed a knowledge support for social services professionals who meet and talk with children. Such a basis exists. It may not be an education in the same way as in the police, but it is something that is available and I expect you to take part if you work with children and young people in social services.
i-B2HtDFfunVChbwJ5r1sMmu	Madam President, I would like Ludvig Aspling has asked Minister Annika Strandhäll if the government will support the proposal for the establishment of a social climate fund and how the government works to ensure that the award criteria take into account the needs of Swedish consumers. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. The proposal to set up a Social Climate Fund is part of the Commission's comprehensive climate package, the so-called Fit for 55 package. The aim of the Social Climate Fund is to facilitate the introduction of an emissions trading scheme for road transport and buildings. The Government notes that the decisions taken in 2020 already provide a historically large amount of funding for the climate transition in the agreed Multiannual Financial Framework and in the Recovery Instrument. The government believes that a new fund is not needed. If a fund is to be set up, it should be financed through expenditure reductions in other areas of the EU Multiannual Financial Framework (MFF) and should not include income transfers to households. Moreover, a fund should not be introduced less than the introduction of a new and ambitious emissions trading system for road transport and buildings. As regards the criteria for allocation, the so-called allocation key, it is important that these take into account the purpose of the fund: to facilitate the transition to fossil-free heating and sustainable transport, including in Sweden. However, a higher return to Sweden from the Fund does not necessarily improve Sweden's net position as the Fund is financed by the EU's general budget, which in turn is financed by all Member States, including Sweden. For the government, it is a priority to minimise the impact on the Swedish EU fee. That's where the focus has to be. It is the government's assessment that the most effective way to achieve the klim targets and protect Swedish taxpayers' interests is by conducting climate policy where the marginal cost is lowest. Sweden's EU fee should be kept down. The government intends to safeguard the amount of the EU levy by pushing that the fund, if it is to exist, should be financed through savings in other areas.
i-U4zECCLLUqcqnjgJT186PV	Madam President, I would like In July 2021, the Commission presented a legislative package called Fit for 55. The aim is to achieve the Union's enhanced emissions targets by 2030. Part of the package is a new emissions trading scheme for road transport and buildings, and in particular heating of buildings, which will further drive up the prices of electricity and gas for ordinary consumers in the EU – something that many, especially here in Sweden, certainly cannot afford. In order to compensate the households affected by this, there is now also a proposal to set up a Social Fund for Climate Action to deal with the social impact of these price increases. The Fund will amount to over SEK 700 billion and will finance investments to increase energy efficiency and phase out fossil fuels in heating and cooling of buildings. However, it should also be used to compensate direct payments to ordinary consumers. This means that Swedish taxpayers, in addition to their own heavily salted electricity bill, will pay the electricity bill for especially Poles, Spaniards, Frenchmen, Romanians and Italians. Those countries will receive 60% of the Fund, according to the allocation keys that have been presented. It's not a small amount of money either. The Fund is estimated to increase the Swedish EU contribution by approximately SEK 3 billion per year. We will be able to get back about SEK 1 for every SEK 3 that we pay in. The average Swedish gets back about SEK 430, while the average Bulgarian gets over 4,000. We currently have record prices of electricity in Sweden, much thanks to the incompetence and disinterest shown by this and all the Social Democratic governments in previous mandates. To lay down – or by mydling and underhand control force Vattenfall to put down – clean, reliable nuclear power without ensuring that there is a sufficient alternative is pure madness. And now, in addition to all this, one is prepared to perhaps have the same vulnerable Swedish consumers pay for heating and cooling villas in France and Italy. I therefore wonder: can Mikael Damberg promise that, if the proposal as it stands today is put on his table, he will use Sweden's veto to stop it in its entirety? As the decision-making process goes, the first decision must be a revision of the long-term budget. This has been announced by the Commission, and since it is a budgetary decision, all Member States have a veto. This means that Sweden can stop this at a relatively early stage. I therefore wonder whether Mikael Damberg can promise here and now before the House that, if the proposal as it stands right now, as he himself says he is sceptical, he will be added to his table to use the veto to stop it. Will that happen?
i-WLAguDQVprtBW3dxWk8k4e	Madam President, I would like It is remarkable that words like this are used in an interpellation debate in the Swedish Parliament. I am not very impressed by the tone of the debate. This is basically a very serious issue which concerns the whole of the European Union's climate policy, where the European Commission has presented a programme that is very comprehensive and ambitious but which consists of many different elements. When considering that programme, it is important to take a stand on the whole in order to see if it is the right measures that are proposed, whether it is strong enough and, if so, what balances Sweden should prioritise in negotiations. It is a rather poor negotiating tactic in EU cooperation to start by voting or saying no to individual parts. It can overturn the entire programme or the whole negotiation and thus leave Sweden completely out of it. I do not believe that the Swedish Democrats have any problem with it, because just as the Swedish Democrats have a very weak climate policy at home, they have a very weak climate policy at EU level. It does not matter if the EU fails with its common climate policy at European level. But it is another debate. I repeat what I said in my reply: the government believes that a new fund is not needed. If a fund is to be set up, it should be financed through expenditure reductions in other areas of the EU Multiannual Financial Framework (MFF) and should not include income transfers to households. Moreover, a fund should not be introduced less than the introduction of a new and ambitious emissions trading system for road transport and buildings. That's the line we're running. It is tough and assumes that other parts of the package will also be implemented if it is to be considered for Sweden at all. But I think it is important that we in this House are clear that when we prioritise things, we also prioritise the position of Swedish taxpayers and that it is therefore important for Sweden to keep the EU levy down. These are some of the priorities that I have outlined. But I am not prepared to say even now, before the negotiations have even started, that certain parts of this package should be completely stopped. If you do that, you end up at the side of the negotiating table, and there is also a risk of stopping the whole package without knowing what it looks like as a whole. That is not the way we usually negotiate in Europe, and I do not think we should do it this time either.
i-ndpT5LXQbUmd1D3kzjczU	Madam President, I would like The reason I ask the question in the way I do is because I have heard this rhetoric from Social Democrats before. Before the process of the current MFF, the cornerstone of the policy of the Social Democrats was that we should have no increase in the budget – budget restraint is the most important thing for us. Then, a few years later, they voted in favour of the biggest increase in the budget in the history of the Union with the Corona package, for example. So what they say on the one hand and what they do on the other can be two completely different things. That is why I ask the question as I do. Another issue that I find interesting in this is why this fund is such a huge loss to Swedes. This is because Swedish taxpayers do not normally have anyone to defend their interests in Brussels. The normal order is that each Member State's government tries to defend its own citizens and their economic cause. But there is one exception: the Swedish Government. The draft Regulation provides for a number of factors to be taken into account when calculating how much each Member State can withdraw from the Fund. Among other things, it is carbon dioxide emissions from fuel combustion in households, the proportion of households that are at risk of poverty and lag behind with the payment of electricity bills – there are a couple of them in Sweden – as well as purchasing power adjusted per capita gross national income and greenhouse gas emissions for the aviation and stationary installations sectors. Stationary facilities are European languages for industry, quite simply. But there is a rather important factor that I think is missing, and it is the question of whether heating is necessary at all in order to survive in a particular place. I cannot believe, for example, that the need for cooling and heating of buildings should be put on an equal footing. You can live in warm climates without AC. I've been doing it myself; I've been living in Bangkok for a couple of years. It's a little sweaty for some months, but it's going perfectly well. But you can't live in places where it's minus 18 to 20 degrees Fahrenheit in some months without heating up the house, especially when you have children at home. This is absolutely self-evident, I think. You can make a simple comparison. In Italy's northernmost city, Venice, it was 6 degrees and sun when I wrote this speech. In our own northernmost big city, we can call it, Umeå, it was minus 13. Yet we will pay their electricity bill for the sake of social justice. Why has the government not lifted a finger for this perspective to come into the regulation, especially when, as I said in my previous speech, they have a veto right and can say blankly no if this has too serious consequences for Swedish households or is too distorted so that it costs so much for Swedish households that it is no longer reasonable? It is because in Sweden more energy is simply needed to survive, compared with France and Italy. This is not taken into account when determining which countries are to receive funds from the Fund and how much. The Government said in its introductory speech that the important thing is to keep the fund down. I agree with that, in and of itself. But that depends on whether we are talking about the framework and the expenditure key as two completely separate decisions. But when the framework for the fund is set, that is, the budget, it is important to change the expenditure key as much as possible in order for it to give Swedes an advantage. Then, for example, consideration would be given to the need to heat up the house in order not to freeze to death could be a rather appropriate parameter to lift in. At least I think so, but I'm eager to hear what Mikael Damberg says about this.
i-NwXFgiJ7HsQM26AKnoP26R	Madam President, I would like I am a little grateful that it is not Ludvig Aspling who is conducting Sweden's negotiations in the European Union when I listen to this speech. If we were to go directly in and discuss what the keys to the fund should look like, we would have accepted the fund. Then we say that Sweden should pay a higher fee to the EU to finance things that Sweden basically thinks should be financed with the current budgetary resources. So I think it is a completely reverse argument; I think it is wrong. We also know that, with Swedish tax funds, we have helped Swedish households to make large changes. We do not have as many households that have fossil heating of their homes, because we have had large programmes for energy efficiency and district heating systems and for working with geothermal energy. For decades, Sweden has been working on this to bring down household fossil dependence. So we think it is reasonable that this fund is not a priority. And we think that, if it is to be established, it should be financed with existing funds. I believe that this is a fairly important principle if we are to succeed in negotiations in the European Union. Otherwise we have bought the fund in advance, and then it is higher EU fees and less effective environmental management in Sweden that is the result of the policy. I think that is unwise in these negotiations.
i-8tmahTzQKuPsFXBnzbQW9z	Madam President, I would like I do not know if Mikael Damberg has missed this, but this applies not only to fossil fuels for heating houses, but also to heating by means of electricity. For ordinary people living in ordinary houses and on ordinary wages, electricity is quite expensive right now. There's a lot of people who can't afford to warm up the house-- it's not that much fun. I have several acquaintances who have pointed this out with the hope that I, as a politician, could do something about it. Unfortunately, I cannot do so in today's situation. If you look out a little bit over the country, you will find that if electricity becomes even more expensive, which is the consequence of the proposal, it will make it more difficult. Then perhaps it would be an opportunity to bring this into the negotiations. The fact that this would mean accepting the regulation is not true. There's already a draft. The text has been sent out; we have it in the EU Council, and I have read it myself. But the decision-making process is far from complete. This is to be threshed through Parliament and the Council. There will be a trilogue hearing and so on. The Government could say today that we think that this is unreasonable and that the regulation must take into account the need for more energy in order to survive in Sweden at all – that it must be introduced if there is to be any of this at all. We have the right of veto on this issue. We will defend Swedish taxpayers' money and ensure that they will not have to pay unnecessarily much of the electricity bill to Italians, Spaniards and so on. This could be done, and that would certainly not mean accepting the existence of the fund. It's a clean escape.
i-DmHyuFjTNKcNS1PvZgoQg1	Madam President, I would like There's something you can do right now. We have tabled a proposal from the government on electricity price compensation for those households that have had high electricity prices. This is not something we often do in Sweden, because historically we have had relatively low energy prices in Sweden. We still have this in a European perspective, but with the very high energy prices we have had this winter, there have been households that have been hit hard. The proposal is now being discussed in Parliament, and we will see how that support goes. I hope and believe that we will get support for this, because then it would be a relief for those households that have had large electricity bills this winter. It's a government proposal. With regard to EU priorities, it is important that the whole picture is also taken into account. We need to look at the important negotiations that are about now getting an effective European climate policy, which I may not expect the Swedish democrats to be the main driving force, either at home or in Europe. The second is that the EU is also using its financial resources as efficiently as possible. The Swedish line is that we do not believe that a new fund is needed. If such a fund is to be set up, it shall be financed by expenditure reductions in other areas. This is an important principle, and it is important to pursue that line in these negotiations. Then it goes without saying that if a fund is introduced, Sweden will also benefit from these subsidies and push for us to get things out. But starting the negotiations at that end would mean that we would get less support for the line that the fund is not needed and that we think it is more effective to take part of EU money to compensate Swedish households, which we know it is not. Every cost of compensating Swedish households that go through Brussels is higher than the cost of the decisions we make in the Swedish Parliament that are about compensating Swedish households.
i-2DZigRP7fvr6NskkBqk2bv	Madam President, I would like Lars Beckman has asked me whether I share DHR's view that the bonus malus system has a very negative impact on disabled people in need of their own car, and how I and the government intend to compensate for the costs of the bonus malus system in accordance with DHR's wishes. The involvement of adults and children with disabilities in society is an important issue for the government, and car support is a significant benefit in this respect. On 1 October 2020, additional car subsidies were increased to compensate for higher car adaptation and purchase costs. As the DHR points out, the increased vehicle tax on cars with higher CO2 emissions risks leading to undesirable effects for people who, as a result of disabilities, are unable to choose a vehicle with lower emissions. According to what was announced in the budget proposal for 2022, the Social Insurance Agency has therefore been commissioned in this year's regulation letter to make proposals on how people who meet the requirements for car support and as a result of disabilities need a car that is subject to increased vehicle tax can be compensated within the car support. The possibility for people with disabilities to choose a car with low emissions increases as more and more rechargeable models that work even for those who need a larger car are introduced. The charging infrastructure in Sweden is also being expanded, and the importance of being accessible also to wheelchair users has been highlighted by several authorities. For example, Trafikverket requires that the charging point can be accessed from a wheelchair in its call for state support for the expansion of public charging stations for the rapid charging of electric vehicles. I would like to stress that the government is constantly following the issue of opportunities for people with disabilities and their relatives to take part in the car support and use the charging infrastructure being built.
i-PSS8anYFVopHK64EPey55F	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Finance, for your answer. I do not know how familiar the Finance Minister is, and I do not know how familiar those who are watching this debate are. But it is in this way that a person with a disability may be entitled to car support. The purchase price in the car support is approximately SEK 40 000. If you buy a car of the usual type that many disabled people use when they use a wheelchair, the penalty tax in the bonus malus system is approximately SEK 40 000 per year. Madam President, I would like You get 40 000 in the purchase allowance, but you have to pay 120 000 SEK in penalty tax over three years. Moreover, all the studies show that this group, just as DHR has alerted its members, often has poor finances from the start. It is therefore the most fragile people in society who are punished in the bonus malus system. Of course, many others are also affected: the plumber, the electrician, the farmer and everyone else who is changing cars. I myself was called by an entrepreneur from Hälsingland, an agricultural entrepreneur who was about to change his car, and he was, of course, deeply upset that he was being taxed when he was about to change his car. However, the difference, Madam President, is that the electrician, the plumber and the farmer are likely to pass the cost on to us consumers. They raise their prices to compensate for the government's penalty tax. But the disabled cannot do so. Instead, what you do is refrain from changing cars or not getting a car at all. It'll be a lock-in effect that's very unhappy. Madam President, I would like Instead of saying, as the Minister of Finance and the former Minister of Finance, that we are following developments, we think it would have been reasonable to have considered in advance what it would mean to introduce a bonus malus system which means that disabled people cannot have wheelchairs in the car. You can't buy cars that have room for wheelchairs without being punished by the bonus malus system. In the past, I have drawn the attention of the government and previous ministers to this issue a number of times. There would be a very simple solution to this. There is now a system in place whereby, for example, those who have parking permits for disabled people do not have to pay congestion tax. That's perfectly reasonable, because they depend on the car. It would therefore have been possible to resolve this issue by saying that the same system used for congestion tax and parking permits for disabled people could also be used to ensure that vehicles that have received car support are not subject to criminal taxation. This could have been solved years ago if the will had existed. The will obviously does not exist. I had a debate with one of the Ministers of State's collegues. She thought you should buy a smaller car. It is a response of someone who is totally unincorporated in the conditions of functional impairment. There's no stopping a per-mobile in a Golf. It's physically impossible. You depend on the big cars that exist. In addition, there is, for example, a family with children in Gävle that has two permobils. This is extremely limited in terms of which vehicles you can choose. When imposing criminal taxation on disabled vehicles, thought should have been given to it. This issue should have been able to find a much faster solution than the Minister of Finance saying that he is following developments. My question to the Minister for Finance is: Is the Minister of Finance prepared to ensure in the near future that those who depend on cars and wheelchairs can afford to buy the car they need?
i-Hp6dQYg7Q16DESBJqf2DnY	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask the question of how the Government and the Government think about this. Today we have seen a recent study from Demoscope which shows that energy and nuclear energy are ranked fourth among the issues that voters think is most important. To a large extent, we are talking about electricity prices, about how people are suffering because of the high petrol prices, not least those in rural areas, and about what we are talking about today, which my colleague, Lars Beckman, has mentioned, namely the increase in taxes on high-emission vehicles. It hits hard on the one who has to buy a new vehicle. This target group is particularly vulnerable. I listened to the Government, who said that the government is following the question. But the government must act! It is here and now that this means something to those who have a disability. Investigations seem to be the government's parade branch. But you can't just investigate and investigate and get high – you also have to act. New, large and adapted vehicles for those with a disability can receive an annual tax of 20 000 SEK according to the bonus malus system. That's a lot of money for a person who has a disability. It is not your choice to buy such a car. You have to have it in order to fit the wheelchair or permobil that you need to get through. It is extremely important. This is a group that is already affected. We do not want this group to be even more isolated. For a person with a disability, it affects life drastically not to be able to afford the car you need or if the car is taxed in this way. Here we can see a clear example of people who end up between the chairs when the system does not work. In such a situation, the government must go in and act and not just follow the issue. This has to be right. It is extremely important for the government to go in and look at what you can do to simplify. I would like an impact assessment to be carried out before introducing such a tax on persons with disabilities: what are the consequences for a person who has a disability and must have a large car in order to fit his wheelchair or his per-mobile? I would like to put that question to the Government and the Government. It is not the person with a disability who should take responsibility for investigating this or press on about it. That is why we are here, those of us in this House who are prepared to take hold of this. I would also like to ask the Government how the Government intends to resolve this here and now for people with disabilities. It is not a question of following the issue over time, because it is here and now these people are being affected.
i-HEKA9k4BZEEXgRYwztnfZj	Madam President, I would like Thank you for an important debate. However, the full interpellation response should be read. I said not only that we are following the question but that we have also given assignments. The Social Insurance Agency shall make proposals on how persons who meet the requirements for car support due to disability and who need a car subject to increased vehicle tax can be compensated by car support – this in order to get a decision base and be able to move forward. I note that Beckman raises ideas about how this could be done otherwise. But there is no such basis for decisions, and it takes much longer to make such a change in the law. It's tax legislation we're talking about, so it's not just hello, hey hope. There must be a basis for decision-making, and there is no such basis for decision. In addition, as I said, it takes longer. We have therefore taken the view that the quickest way forward on this issue is by adjusting car support. There may be differences of opinion on this, but that is our assessment. The group of disabled people has fallen behind in economic terms in recent decades. They were never allowed to take part in any job tax deductions because many of them cannot work and are therefore not part of the work line. That is why I am incredibly proud that, from 1 January, we have made great improvements for people with sickness and activity benefits. It is about raising the housing cost ceiling to SEK 7 500 for unmarried people and SEK 3,750 for married people and increased tax reduction, which means a reduced tax by an average of SEK 10 000 per year. This highlights a group that has had a huge financial crisis for a long time. I was therefore somewhat provoked by the adjustment of the Government's budget proposal decided by the Riksdag. In our tax reduction that would lift the entire Swedish people after the pandemic and give everyone more money in your wallet, you chose to lift out the disabled so that they would not get part of the tax reduction. What moral doubt did you have there? Why did you choose that group? Why is it so important to the Moderates that there continues to be a functional tax in the tax system? We had put forward a proposal to remove it. It's strange. This is an important issue, and so an authority has been asked to make proposals on how to develop car support. Finally, the Bonus Malus system drives many more electric cars, and more models come onto the Swedish market. There were twice as many electric cars at the end of last year as at the beginning of last year, so there have been dramatic developments. Sweden is at the top of Europe when it comes to the development of electric cars. This also drives the secondary market, and it means a lot to those who need an electric car. Otherwise, there is the risk that disabled people will get stuck in higher costs for other fuels that over time will cost a lot of money. It is therefore important that all people, including the disabled, have the opportunity to make this transition over time. Today, there is too little choice of the cars needed, and that is why the car support needs to be modernised.
i-NsjvCnn67yG6L4BZdFLVCz	Madam President, I would like Hey, hey, hope, hope is a good description of government policy. The fact that the Social Democrats give an election year to Försäkringskassan to make a proposal for a change in car support and that this report will be presented on 30 September is to believe that the disabled are gullible. Had the Minister of Finance and the Government wanted to resolve this issue, they would have done so already when the bonus malus was introduced, but it is provocative that the Social Insurance Agency will come up with its result on 30 September of an election year. I don't think anyone believes that, if I'm being honest. Mikael Damberg's representatives were clear. When Sweden received a refugee stream, Magdalena Andersson said something to the disability movement that was very attentive: We have to make savings on Sweden's disability to finance the refugee crisis. This is available on Ekot's website; it's just that googla på. Magdalena Andersson answers disabled. Madam President, I would like The problem is not that the government said it, but that the government did it. Assistance compensation, accommodation adjustment and car adaptation have been saved. It has acted in a remarkable way against Sweden's disabled people. To also tax the disability of the bonus malus system is a consequence of government policy. This question would have been easy to solve even when introducing bonus malus if someone within the Social Democracy had thought that there are people who use wheelchairs. Then you could have thought before introducing the bonus malus system that this has consequences. As I said in an interpellation debate several years ago, if the government wanted to resolve this, it would have been able to set up an investigation even before an election year. As I have pointed out, there are technical proposals to exclude these vehicles. Hey, hey, hope, hope put the government in just a few days an investigation into closing Bromma airport. So hey, hey, hope, hope, if you wanted to solve this, you could do it with an investigation. This does not affect many people in Sweden, but for those it concerns it is extremely important. There are families who cannot change cars because they cannot afford the penal taxation of disabled people by the Social Democrats. They can't afford to change cars, because they can't afford the bonus malus that arises. Plumbing, electricians and other professions affected can impose the cost of government policy. It is true that it will be inflation-driven and higher interest rates, but a disability cannot impose the cost but depends on the support of society. There is broad political agreement to support disabled people, and therefore the M- and KD-budgets that went through in Parliament reduce the tax heavily for disabled people. However, there is no broad political agreement to tax the disabled. Had the government wanted to solve the issue, it would have solved hi, hello, hope much faster than setting up an investigation in Försäkringskassan which happens to be completed a few weeks after the election. How credible is that? My question remains, just as my colleague asked: what is the quick solution from the government that allows disabled people to afford to get a car?
i-VyTnqyCu5LWgvRz6ZK4CRv	Madam President, I would like I'll probably have to use the same hello, hello, hope, hope, and I think the government will be able to live with it for a while. The government says it's not hello, hello, hope, hope in the decisions that are made, but I would say it is. For people with disabilities, there is nothing like it; they live here and now. Let me put some pressure on this with isolation. What are people with disabilities pulling in on only when they start to get badly off, when petrol prices increase and when they are taxed? Well, they go on trips and isolate themselves in their homes. But that is the last thing we want for people with disabilities. That they should have to wait until the end of September to get the answer to the question whether this is how the government wants people with disabilities to live is an understatement for the government. We must protect this group, which is already vulnerable to society. In this case, one can really talk about the pattern of the Social Democratic class society, which is clearly intended to preserve and even strengthen here. In doing so, one creates a kind of subclass consisting of vulnerable people with disabilities. Madam President, I would like I still have no answer to the question as to what the Government intends to do here and now, before 30 September. It is now that they are suffering and have to save on trips or cannot buy a vehicle in order to get away.
i-Kx32nygsdnde8jdczRVVeh	Madam President, I would like Support for people with disabilities in need of mobility is important. It is part of their quality of life to be able to live life as much as possible. That is also one of the reasons why we have increased car support several times, but now we have a situation where we need to further develop car support. The supply of electronic passenger cars and light trucks that are electrically driven is now increasing strongly in Sweden. I think this has to do with the control systems we have in place. Why would the increase occur so much faster in Sweden than in many other countries if it has nothing to do with the control system? When it comes to taking the interests of the disabled seriously, we know that when you buy a car that needs to be adapted, you will have to live with that car for a number of years. Then it is important that the car can be driven in a cost-effective way. So it is not possible to have an ambition to shut them out of the entire electric car market, which now provides lower operating costs than otherwise. It is incredibly important that we have a system that drives the supply of newer electric cars but also a second-hand market for electric cars that disabled people can also use. The range has increased, but it is still difficult to get hold of these cars in Sweden – right? – and in Europe. It is not just a Swedish question, it is a question of supply. I think it is important to recognise that there is a specific problem. Although car support can be provided today with a newer used car being rebuilt, it is still the case that today's car support system needs to be developed. That is why we have commissioned an authority to make such a proposal. That is our assessment. You may have other views that you are happy to explain about how this would be done more quickly with some other decision-making basis than a change in car support. When I talk to the lawyers at the Ministry of Finance, they say that it is the fastest way forward, with the system we have today and the opportunities we have right now. That is why we have come to the conclusion that the Authority should be allowed to put forward such a proposal so that we can get on with it. Finally, it is interesting that criminal taxation is lifted, because the Moderates changed the budget that we presented to Parliament and introduced criminal taxation precisely for those people who have not been able to work. Now we will continue to have a difference in taxation of people who can work and people who cannot work. It was not the proposal that was at the table of the Riksdag. We had proposed removing the difference in taxation between these groups, but the Moderates chose to adjust precisely on this point. The groups that have been vulnerable and have had a difficult economic situation will now receive substantial financial contributions with this budget, but they will still live with a different taxation from those who work. I think this is morally questionable, but it may be related to the Moderates' previous view of the work line. I do not understand how the work line is linked to this issue, because the group we are talking about has not actually been able to work. Then why should they pay higher taxes than others?
i-Cx1rdR7X9Jyi8m411S6255	Madam President, I would like I think that anyone who looks at this debate should google on Magdalena Andersson, cutbacks, disabled and finance refugee crisis. If you do, you come to Dagens Eko's website, where you can find out how the then Finance Minister said. The problem, then, is not that the Minister for Finance said so, but that the Minister for Finance did. Of all the groups that exist in society, it is the disabled that the Social Democrats have systematically cut back support to. For example, we have been able to see how a woman died in the toilet in Malmö because she had her personal assistance withdrawn. It's been a systematic. I myself have contact with a woman who lives in Lund and who is being taken off her per-mobile because she does not get a wheelchair garage because the Social Democrats have changed the law on housing adaptation. Now the region is going to take back her permobil because she has nowhere to store it. I also have contact with families who cannot afford to change cars because of the Social Democrats' punitive taxation of disabled people in the bonus malus system. This is the reality beyond the rhetoric of the Minister for Finance. It is action that makes a difference, not rhetoric in a speaker's chair, and the action could have been that the government acted swiftly already a few years ago, when the avarities of the bonus malus system were discovered. This is not new. For example, as in the moderate proposal that came through our tax policy spokesperson, it could have been said that the same system would be introduced as the congestion tax and that the penalties would be abolished for those who have car support. It is a technical measure that the government could have done years ago when the problem was discovered, but the will is lacking, Madam President. That is the problem. The fact that, during an election year, the Social Democrats set up an investigation in which the Social Insurance Agency will deliver some kind of response on 30 September, a few weeks after the election, is not credible. The question is what the government intends to do here and now so that even disabled people can afford to buy or change cars.
i-DzCgSBtAFXPYSs3zDQd3ki	Madam President, I would like The interpellant raises an important issue about mobility and opportunities to live a normal and free life in Sweden. For example, being able to use a car or take your per-mobile with you is an important issue. We have therefore given the authority a mandate to come up with a proposal which, within the framework of car support, will be able to compensate for this. When it comes to working long-term, the disabled must also be able to take part in cheap cars, which will be cheap to drive even over time, not only cheap to buy in. Then the question of changing the car market becomes important. It is a little strange that in this debate the Moderates portray it as that bonus malus has no effect on driving new electric car models or making sure that there are more models on the market that also disabled people have the opportunity to buy, either from the beginning, which costs a lot, or on the secondary market to bring down the cost picture. We have a proposal that we have added to the authority to correct the problem. With regard to the view of disabled people, we have two terms of office to compare with. Before we took over government power, the tax rate for this group was consistently removed, while we chose to make great efforts, which did not enter into force in the future but from 1 January. This meant that the housing supplement was greatly improved for this group, which is the poorest and which really gets an exchange on this. We have also changed the tax side, but the Moderates chose in the Riksdag to go back to their old work line and introduce the funkis tax again. We could have abolished the funkis tax in broad political agreement in this House, but the Moderates chose to keep it for some sort of reason that I do not understand. I think it's immoral. I think it would be right to abolish it and ensure that these people pay exactly the same tax as those who have worked. But there, apparently, we have different opinions.
i-21M59jXXPk6J82xVRtv4K9	Madam President, I would like Lars Beckman has asked me whether I and the government intend to take any measures in the near future to compensate commuters for the sharp increase in fuel costs. There are many people in Sweden who live in areas where you are dependent on the car, and there higher fuel prices hit extra hard. An important determining factor for fuel prices is the oil price on the world market, and it should be noted that no part of the price increase last year is due to increased fuel taxes. It is important that progress towards more fuel-efficient vehicles and zero-emission vehicles continues. The government is also convinced that the costs of climate change must be borne fairly. For this reason, for example, the government has reduced the tax on residents of more than 70 sparsely populated municipalities. There is also a specific reduction in vehicle tax on cars owned by people in sparsely populated areas and investment aid for fuel stations in sparsely populated areas to be applied for. The Ministry of Finance has referred a memorandum proposing that the current travel allowance should be replaced by a regionally differentiated tax reduction that is distance-based and transport-neutral. The proposal is expected to allow more commuters to benefit from the tax relief compared to today. The rules are made easier to apply and thus reduce the large tax error associated with the current travel allowance. The proposal that has been referred is a model of how a new system of tax incentives for work travel can look like, and the proposed tax reduction is at a level that makes the proposal financially neutral if the current travel allowance is abolished at the same time. The possibility of adjusting the levels of the model is an issue that may be assessed in the work on future budget proposals. The memorandum's proposals and the responses of the consultation bodies are currently being prepared within the Government Office. The government has not yet taken a position on the final form of the tax relief.
i-5u4PenKtRSYZnovHEseVQz	Madam President, I would like A Member of Parliament who is elected for Stockholm County or lives in Stockholm County can buy a monthly public transport card for SEK 970. Then you can travel as much as you want around the clock in Stockholm County. It is a fantastically low and good cost for those who have the privilege of living there. Madam President, I would like But anyone who lives in Ljusdal in Gävleborg County, for example, and goes to OKQ8 and tanks their car with 70 litres of diesel will have to pay 1,540 SEK for a tank. With today's diesel price you will thus have to pay SEK 1540 for a tank when the diesel costs SEK 22 per litre. So these are completely absurd levels. We can read in the media around the country how farmers and small businesses, of course, do not make ends meet. But we can also read, Madam President, about the assistant nurse in Västerbotten who cannot afford to commute to work. For she cannot afford to pay SEK 6 000 as the total fuel cost is. That is why I have put this interpellation.
i-2KiPaix5pKq8a4shn5Nhrg	In his reply to me, Mikael Damberg says that a proposal has been submitted according to which more people will be able to benefit from tax relief. But it's supposed to be neutral state financial. That's what the answer says anyway. It shall be publicly-financially neutral. This means that the travel allowance per person will fall sharply. The government's response in this interpellation response to me – it's just to read to the inside of the person interested in what the Minister of Finance read – is therefore that significantly increased fuel costs should lead to lower travel deductions. In fact, the travel allowance should increase significantly. Had the government had a policy of work and enterprise – a coherent policy – and not been a grant government, it would of course have increased the travel allowance. This is becoming restrictive. I was talking to an entrepreneur in Ljusdal who had an employee who lived in Söderhamn. Now I know that the Minister of Finance is of course not familiar with public transport in Gävleborg. But there is no metro in Gävleborg, and there are limited possibilities to travel by public transport. Travel time is much longer than driving by car. Now it is becoming difficult to recruit to this company in Ljusdal when it comes to occupations with normal wages because it costs too much to drive to work. When you look at the difference between the a-cassage level and wages and the compensation for having to pay SEK 1540 for a tank, it becomes dramatic. A person who had seen that we should have this debate sent me a text. This person pays 6,000 kroner a month to get to and from work and can't afford it. It would even pay for this person to resign. In this situation, therefore, the Minister of Finance says that the travel allowance should be changed so that more people can benefit from the tax relief, but it should be state-financial and public-financially neutral. This means, therefore, that this poor person who pays SEK 6 000 a month is in danger of getting reduced travel deductions when, in fact, there is a need for increased travel deductions that make it possible to work. I would have liked the government not to be so tone-deaf on this issue.
i-NEHrXACmt599BLWqwCFjQt	Madam President, I would like I noted that in his reply the Minister of Finance mentioned the tax reduction for inhabitants of sparsely populated municipalities. He seemed very pleased with this tax cut. I don't really understand how he can be. It is a tax cut of a few hundred cents for people who have been burdened with thousands of dollars because of government policy. It is, of course, about the prices of petrol and diesel, as my colleague mentioned. It's about vehicle taxes. It is about the air taxes that have led to the closure of routes. Then the Minister of Finance will be here and happy. The tax reduction for rural municipalities is SEK 140 per month. It is six litres of diesel, even if it is enough with today's diesel prices. Moreover, this tax reduction is so unfair. It is completely randomly selected municipalities that are allowed to take part in it, it is arbitrary and it is in every way reprehensible. I would like to ask the Minister for Finance to explain why, for example, Skellefteå with 72 000 inhabitants is counted as sparsely populated areas and can take part of this 140 SEK a month that you can buy six litres of diesel for. But Laxå, where 5 600 people live and who are definitely classed as rural, does not benefit from this tax reduction. Why does Östersund, which has both universities and 60,000 inhabitants, also count as rural areas? But Grums, for example, does not. The new proposal for a travel allowance is a clean and cut tax increase for those who depend on the car to get to work. It works against the work line in every way. That should not be surprising in itself. It is, of course, the hallmark of the Social Democrats to ensure that those who work are as difficult as possible in order to facilitate the lives of those who live on benefits. However, the new proposal runs counter to the objective of regional enlargement. The proposal aims to compensate – if you can call it compensation – for trips to the workplace of up to 50 kilometres. This will prevent companies from attracting the skills they need. It will effectively stop people from settling in rural areas because they can neither afford to get to work nor afford to drive their children to various activities. I do not understand how such a deduction could have been envisaged, and I appeal to the Minister for Finance to reconsider before this is introduced.
i-RK4AHQUUoSkznVtXE2RyfU	Madam President, I would like I think this is a scandal. The Government must understand how this affects rural areas. I think my colleague Boriana Åberg put it well. Who are counted in sparsely populated areas? Anyone who gets to and from work by car is entitled to a tax-free travel allowance. It's called mileage. This applies to anyone who lives at least half a mile from the workplace. I'm from Värmland. There are rural municipalities everywhere. There's a half mile easy to count. This applies to everyone who has to go back and forth to work and cannot travel collectively. The mileage allowance shall cover all variable costs such as fuel, tyres and servicing for the car and also depreciation. This has to be taken into account. It will also be provocative to hear that you are buying an electric car. Electric cars are very expensive; you cannot afford to buy an electric car, especially if you are two in the household who need a car. Despite the apparent fuel prices, the tax-free mileage payment remains at SEK 18.50. It has been at the same level since 2008. The compensation, which has thus not changed since 2008, is less than half of the compensation in the other Nordic countries. It does not even cover the cost of fuel and other charges, as I have mentioned, and anyone who receives more compensation than that from his employer must estimate the difference. Fuel prices are rising and rising while the compensation is still standing. It stands still for those who need it in rural areas, who may not even be counted in sparsely populated areas according to this model. If we take out all the actual costs, we really do not go with this model. Then I would like to mention the non-profit sector, which must also be thought of here. Here I really think that the government must reconsider and carry out an impact assessment, once again. Culture, sport and church rarely receive more than the tax-free mileage allowance, and it is, of course, too low. It lags after many years in relation to today's fuel prices. Nor are associations prepared to pay social security contributions on mileage payments, for they cannot afford that. They don't make ends meet. The non-profit sector is so important and does such an important job for many people in society. Sweden has an incredible number of people working in the non-profit sector, and there are many who move over large geographical areas. They must be rewarded when they work on a voluntary basis, and they must also receive mileage compensation. There are therefore several target groups here that the government must take into account and look over. This applies not least to those municipalities where the travel allowance is used today; only in my municipality in Värmland it is 13 per cent that uses it. These are therefore important questions to which the Government must take on board and answer, Madam President.
i-M3kzNvNQJwnGBkFvTkEvBk	Madam President, I would like I thank the interpellant for an important debate. I think it is really important, because there are several problems with today's system. As has been pointed out during the debate, the level of the travel allowance has not been adjusted since 2008, and there have been some developments in prices since then. So you should not interpret my interpellation response as that I want to keep the system as it is now. That's not what I'm saying. I can only note that today's system of travel deductions has been criticised for quite a number of years, for a number of reasons, and I can remind the House of a few of them. One reason is that this is the deduction that gives rise to the greatest tax error, and that has been the case for a very long time. It is important that tax rules are both easy to understand and apply and that it should be possible to check whether people are doing the right thing or not. That's what we do with all the taxes, so I think that's a base plate. Another reason is that the current system is questionable from some perspective and also from an environmental and climate point of view. Lonely car drivers may be favored compared to those who carpool, for example, and such a system may not seem to be automatically needed. For example, people who travel collectively in order to get to work may be able to get public transport screenings to a greater extent than they are today. This was, of course, the background to the fact that the Rural Committee – with all parties represented, including the Moderates if I understand it correctly – recommended that the current travel deduction system be converted into a distance-based and transport-neutral system. I understand that; you are welcome to correct me if I am wrong, but I have understood that that is what the Moderates thought in the Rural Committee. That's what's settled. After all, the proposal that came forward did not meet all the demands. It didn't go well. Therefore, a PM has been referred, and it is public financial neutral. It is not the government's final proposal, because I think we need to review the levels of the travel allowance. I think that, if you look at the proposal that has been referred, you should consider whether it is reasonable, for example, to have an 80-mile limit in that system. I find it interesting what is said about regional differentiation in the memo. This makes it possible to make greater efforts outside those regions that have developed public transport. However, this is a systemic issue, and the second is a budgetary issue. The Moderates have a very high tone in this debate, and I am a little surprised because you went in and adjusted our budget. If you thought the travel allowance was important, you might have been able to include it in the budget, and you did not. I have also been reviewing your parliamentary movements since at least 2018, and you have not exercised about increased travel deductions. I am therefore thinking about the high tone. I think it is relevant to discuss the levels in view of the cost development we have had, but I also think it is relevant to take the Rural Committee's proposals seriously and to consider whether a distance-based system is not better. I don't know exactly how the Moderates have landed-- if you've changed your mind since the Rural Committee and think you shouldn't really change the system to this. It is, however, a matter of knowledge; since I have not been Minister of Finance for so long, I do not know whether the Moderates have adjusted their views on the substance of this matter.
i-Qsy5Xi4aZ2xjVd7K4Rn8vs	Madam President, I would like I understand that the Minister of Finance cannot be familiar with all the details, but a direct error in the Minister of Finance's reply concerns the investment aid for rural fuel stations that is to be applied for. I understand that a social democrat may not often go into smaforetagarna.se, but had he done so he had seen an interview with a number of gas station owners in sparsely populated areas. The Federation of Small Entrepreneurs writes: In the Government's budget, investment aid is set aside to compensate gas station owners for the replacement of pipelines. The problem is that at present this money is not searchable and you do not know where or how to implement an application. It is not reasonable for these hard-working gas station owners to carry a heavy yoke of uncertainty because of the policy's inability to manage an application procedure adapted to the business environment. ..................................................... There you can also look at gas station owners around the country who are being interviewed. Of course, small entrepreneurs think that this aid should be extended for a number of years, because it is still not possible to apply. It might be good for the Minister of Finance to know. I understand that the Minister of Finance is not familiar with the basis he signs; it is probably some official who has written it. Madam President, I would like It can be noted that the travel allowance seems to work in such a way that only 6 percent of the inhabitants of Stockholm County receive a travel allowance – 6 percent! The counties with the largest travel deductions are Uppsala with 15 per cent, Halland with 15 per cent and Värmland with 13 per cent. In my county of Gävleborg it is 11 per cent, so every tenth person who goes to work has a travel allowance. In Norrbotten it is 12 percent. If we look at individual municipalities we see that Nykvarn has 21 percent, Aneby 22 percent, Värnamo 15 percent, Stenungsund 24 percent, Tjörn 21 percent, Orust 21 percent, Ale 28 percent, Lilla Edet 27 percent and Gagnef 26 percent. In Nordanstig – located in my home country, outside Hudiksvall, I can inform the Minister of Finance – it is 22%, and so on. We can also take some Värmland municipalities: Eda has 24 percent, Forshaga has 25 percent and Lekeberg has 24 percent. The travel allowance is therefore very important, Madam President. It is very important for a lot of people in Sweden. As I said in my first post, it now costs over SEK 1,500 to refuel a normal car – SEK 1,500! In this situation, with the passing of diesel prices, the government must, of course, act. Otherwise, it leads to a dysfunctional labour market where people simply cannot afford to commute to work, such as the assistant nurse who lives in Söderhamn and commutes to Ljusdal. Then the government must act here and now. Now the government can come forward with a proposal for a reduced fuel tax, and the voters can thank the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats for that – although I would have liked to go much further. But you have to act. The least you can do is not reduce the travel allowance – not to worsen for those who live in Nordanstig and are going to commute. Here and now, however, the travel allowance should be improved, and that is the responsibility of the government. I understand that every minister loves to talk about the Moderates. It's okay. We can talk about moderate politics. The more moderate the politics we talk about, the more voters get the Moderates. But it's actually the government that has all the power. It is the Minister of Finance who can make proposals to this House. It is the Minister of Finance who can ensure that the labour market works. It is the Minister of Finance who can ensure that people can afford to commute to and from work. So it is the Minister for Finance and the Government that are to make proposals. My simple question is: When are they coming?
i-JgYf6WtGsRrUJ4kfVeYtZz	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Finance, for your answer. The policy of the Moderates is aimed at enabling people to live throughout the country, including in rural areas. We are against such taxes that you have introduced, Mikael Damberg, which only make it difficult for ordinary people. What have we done in the Moderates? Among other things, we have reduced the tax on fuel; this will enter into force on 1 April. It was thanks to the budgets of the Moderates, Christian Democrats and Sweden Democrats that this tax was reduced. We would have liked to lower it even further. I think it's a decency principle that the travel allowance you have should reflect the cost of getting to work. The idea of transport-neutral travel compensation hits the people who depend on the car to get to work. The proposed compensation is SEK 5 per mile. How much is this $5 worth? Even people who have access to public transport need a car – think about the nurse who is going to get to the night shift, or think about the police. Given the insecurity that exists in Sweden, with all the shootings and blasts, it is not a luxury but a necessity to use the car to get to work. It must be endorsed in all systems relating to the travel allowance.
i-SfBY6CNSSAsg16Tyy27Cg1	Madam President, I would like The President-in-Office of the Council, Mrs Damberg, is standing in this Chamber asking why we have such a high voice when we have not written motions on this subject. No, I have not written a motion on the high petrol prices either, because this is something that has arisen here and now. I have a high voice because citizens, commuters, non-profit-working people and valuable people have raised their voices and contacted a elected person – i.e. me, Lars Beckman or Boriana Åberg – because they want to put forward their situation regarding the deduction, with which they are not satisfied, and how this affects them. Hence the high tone, Madam President. When I listen to Minister Damberg, I wonder if he has sometimes been inspired by Prince John in Robin Hood. Taxes seem to be more important than people's well-being and more important than people being able to get to and from work and the non-profit sector working; they do not do so with this system.
i-4hkDGiSC6hXrYZwD3dtSiZ	Madam President, I would like My question about the high tone was more about what I have said in this debate, namely that I think the Rural Committee's proposal for a distance-based travel deduction, which the Moderates were involved in proposing, is interesting. It is also regionally differentiated so that it provides greater support for those who do not have access to good public transport, if we are going to talk about the system. I also think that a tax reduction is more fair than a tax deduction, but perhaps it is more of a tax technical discussion that one can have in the model form. Something else I have said in this debate is that I find it strange that the travel allowance has not been adjusted since 2008. Some things have happened with price developments since then. I have made it clear that this is one of the issues we are working on. That is why I find it surprising that the tone is so high. I am genuinely interested in finding a situation in which we are both modernising the system of deductions that exists today and which has its obvious shortcomings, as everyone has known for a very long time, and find a system in which rural areas and sparsely populated areas are actually compensated. The Rural Committee said there was a need to change the system. My everyday life and reality is that I meet a lot of ordinary people who really need the car to go to work. Of LO members, 93 percent have not been able to stay at home and work from home during this pandemic; they have to go to work. If you work in health care, care for the elderly, industry or construction, you need to be in the workplace or in commerce. My picture as Minister of Finance is that over time you evaluate how the travel allowance should meet the cost development that has taken place. I think this is a relevant discussion to take. That is why we will be putting forward proposals for a new and modernised system and thus also making it clear that the PM which has been referred to be public financial because it was a model. This is not the system or the funding that I, as Finance Minister, intend to propose in the future, but that discussion can be taken a little later on when the proposal has been tabled. At the moment, we are reviewing all the points of view and consultation that have been raised. There are certainly some things there that can inspire us to get both a good system and a system that allows ordinary people who need to go to and from work to cope with it now that costs have increased.
i-4NTwX1SsJgqcGujhCN6pEA	Madam President, I would like Anyone who lives in Stockholm County – I know that Mikael Damberg is elected for Stockholm County – can buy a monthly card for SEK 970. For SEK 970 a month you can travel around the clock. It is a fantastic public transport system, and we who do not live in Stockholm are of course jealous of it. I have respect for the fact that Mikael Damberg and the person who lives in Nacka and is Prime Minister cannot understand how it works for the person who pays SEK 1540 for a tank. I have respect for it; you live in the world in which you live. You may pay the children's, the wife's or someone else's monthly card. I understand that you have no empathy and understanding whatsoever for those who pay $1,000 or $1,000 for a family commuting. But now I think it is time for you in the Social Democrats to release the sarga. Now that you have sent Sweden's biggest car hating party out of the government, I think it is time you dropped the sarga. You don't have to be a car hater anymore, but you can do what's good for the nurse commuting between Söderhamn and Ljusdal. You can act and do things, because you have been in government since 2014. For almost eight years you have ruled Sweden, and so stands the Minister of Finance here and says that the travel allowance should have changed. I am not sure that people appreciate the message that the government has been aware of this problem for so long but has done nothing. This is an acute situation. People are resigning here and now because they can't afford to commute. Then it is reasonable to do something here and now. It was precisely this simple question that I asked: does the Minister and the Government intend to take any action in the near future to compensate commuters for the massive increase in fuel costs? I note that the Minister for Finance's answer was no, and I regret that.
i-FmxrMNpZFuDYQ3dLkNNdzb	Madam President, I would like Sometimes it feels like these debates are taking place in some kind of parallel universe where you don't listen to each other in the speaker's chair. Well, that may be the case. We have had an important discussion about the travel allowance, which is a prerequisite for people to be able to travel to and from work. The deduction has not changed for a long time, not since 2008. We have also had a cost development that has gone away. We have had a rural committee that made a series of proposals to modernise the current system and thus also compensate rural areas in a more accurate way, including by introducing a more distance-based system. In addition, we have referred a memo that makes a differentiation between the parts of Sweden that have functioning public transport – where you do not have as much need of the car to get to and from work – and other parts of Sweden. I have said that these are important issues that we will come back to. I note that the Moderates have a hugely high tone but that, when our budget was adjusted, this point was not last adjusted. Furthermore, since 2018, no proposals have been put forward to improve the travel allowance. My message as Minister of Finance is that we will be putting forward proposals to reform the travel deduction system and that I see in front of me the need to increase the travel allowance, which has not been done since 2008. That is the message I have given to the House and to the Swedish people.
i-UAXwhXXxfcZKWuDXxBzYDZ	Madam President, I would like Tobias Andersson has asked me what measures I and the government intend to take to ensure that expulsion decisions are implemented. Tobias Andersson has also asked me what measures I intend to take in my area of responsibility to counter the shadow society in Sweden. A fundamental prerequisite for a long-term sustainable migration policy that counteracts the emergence of a shadow society is that those who have been refused their asylum application or for other reasons may not stay in Sweden return to their home country. At the outset, I would like to stress that the number of asylum seekers is the lowest in over 20 years and that the number of refugees and wanted men has been steadily decreasing since 2015. In addition, more than 94 000 former asylum seekers have left Sweden in recent years, and Sweden's return rate is above the EU average. A number of measures have been taken to increase return and counter the emergence of a shadow society. Detention capacity has doubled. The Police Authority has been given increased opportunities to carry out workplace checks and more tools to use in internal foreign control. The government is now intensifying its work further, including through measures aimed at better control of the labour market and more effective return.
i-4DttoyuWyBdBHRtELfYe2P	Madam President, I would like The Swedish shadow society picks up on a daily basis, and no one has any idea exactly how many people live illegally in Sweden. In recent years alone, there have been more than 10 000 people with expulsion orders every year who have deviated and been wanted by the police. However, how many are left in Sweden and how many more than these are found remains unknown. Of course, these illegal immigrants have good incentives to act in this very way. The potential consequences of going underground are minimal, partly because the risk of detection is limited and partly because even if arrested, they are not certain that they can be expelled. Then they also have the opportunity to repeat the same story again with a better routine of hiding and staying away. It has also been associated in Sweden with a number of benefits to live illegally, although Ygeman certainly will not acknowledge this. Free health care and dental care is one such benefit that probably many Swedes, not least elderly people who are forced to give up much-needed dental care for economic reasons, wanted to receive themselves but instead have to look paid out to illegal immigrants. In addition, there are examples of municipalities paying social assistance to illegals. They have also been able to participate in regular school education and more. In other words, the system that the Social Democrats, but also the other parties apart from the Swedish Democrats, have built up has created grounds for migrants to avoid the asylum process or later deviate from expulsion decisions in order to remain illegal. Too few rights have been attached to the residence permit, less to citizenship, resulting in an incredibly distorted incentive structure. On top of this, internal controls on foreigners have been inadequate, and the measures to actually overcome enforcement barriers have generally indicated their absence, despite regular rhetorical moves on the matter. Madam President, I would like I welcome the fact that after almost two terms of office, the government has announced certain measures in this area. However, given previous commitments without any noticeable improvement, it is likely that this time too we risk having a completely unchanged situation. In this connection, I asked two questions to Anders Ygeman in my interpellation.What measures do the Government and the Government intend to take to ensure that expulsion decisions are implemented? What measures does the Government intend to take within its sphere of responsibility to combat the shadow society in Sweden? To this he replied: a fundamental prerequisite for a long-term sustainable migration policy that counteracts the emergence of a shadow society is that those who have been refused their asylum application or for other reasons may not stay in Sweden return to their country of origin. That sounds good. However, the question remains as to why nothing has happened. If this is really the government's wish and ambition, why are over 10 000 expulsion decisions not implemented annually? Something is not right here, Madam President. You cannot truly feel anything in a government position while failing to make a reality of what you think.
i-6nX3Vdx3HcKBHtiDS6f456	Madam President, I would like It is clear from Minister Anders Ygeman that it is an election year. In a debate after a debate, the same phrases are repeated. We hear them from Anders Ygeman but also from his fellow ministers: We need to do more. We're gonna turn every stone around. These are concepts that come back when Social Democratic ministers are to explain why Sweden, the country they have been running for almost eight years, is heading in the wrong direction. Actually, the concepts are just another version of Stefan Lövven's quote that we were naive. But at least they indicate that the Social Democrats now realise that things are not going as they intended and that something needs to be done. Madam President, I would like If I put the question directly to the Government when the Social Democrats realised that the immigration situation was unsustainable, the answer will probably be: in connection with the migration crisis in 2015. During this year, over 160 000 people immigrated to Sweden. Only then did the government feel obliged to establish border controls against Denmark, only weeks after he stood on Sergel's square and chanted: My Europe does not build walls! If it is now the case that Anders Ygeman and the Social Democratic Government realised that migration to Sweden was unsustainable already in 2015, one might ask why so few measures have been taken since then. Anders Ygeman's plea to turn over every stone and his desire to do more is just a way of telling voters that they have been naive. However, since the border controls were established against Denmark in 2015, more than 600 000 people have immigrated to Sweden. In 2017, an act of terror was committed by a person who was part of the shadow society that Anders Ygeman wants to combat. Another one cleaned up at the PM's house. In 2018, the so-called afgha-namestin was established. Over 10 000 people a year have deviated from expulsion decisions in recent years. Madam President, I would like Unlike Anders Ygeman, I'm not naive. I understand that the government, which has had almost eight years to deal with the problems, either does not have the answers to them or adopts a certain rhetoric because the elections are approaching. Anders Ygeman can talk about how the government has made some changes over the past eight years, but the truth is that the Social Democrats sift mosquitoes and swallow camels. When Anders Ygeman boasts about double the number of detention places since 2016, he does not say that the seats have only increased from 250 to 500. At the same time, more than 10 000 people deviate from expulsion decisions each year. And another 600 000 people have since immigrated to Sweden. When the government continues to pursue an unsustainable immigration policy with one hand, it does not really matter what the other hand does to combat the shadow society and to increase the number of expulsions. Madam President, I would like If you are sitting in an old wooden boat that takes in more and more water, the focus should be on finding the leak. But the Social-Democratic ministers stand with each of their spans and elevate water from the boat while they soon have water up to their knees. And the possibility of getting things right is getting smaller and smaller. My wish is for the Government to understand that there are no more stones to turn over. We Swedish democrats have already turned these stones around, but unfortunately we have spoken on deaf ears. If Anders Ygeman is going to stop this boat from sinking, he needs to let go of the bucket. He needs to listen to those who sit on the solutions and implement policies that really make a difference.
i-K1yM7mFVWghzxcig7Bu2FL	Madam President, I would like There is some sort of Swedish-democratic storytelling going on here. Nevertheless, let me add a few small facts to interfere with the Swedish democratic storytelling: The Swedish Democrats raised enforcement barriers. Yes, but let us talk about enforcement barriers! Among other things, we had a major problem with citizens from Morocco. Morocco refused to accept its citizens. The government that the Swedish Democrats wanted to support had written ten letters to Morocco and received no response. No Moroccan citizen could have been deported to Morocco. It was the situation that existed when I arrived in Rosenbad. We are now expelling citizens to Morocco. We no longer have a problem with Moroccan street children on the streets of our cities. The same is now about to happen to Iraq. We have deported the first of them. We have expelled a couple to Lebanon. More and more will follow. This is how it is, Madam President: to remedy shadow society is not done through fairy tales and talk. This is done by practical action, just as we have done in the example of Morocco.
i-gEQADJdK9xcCehGSGCKTY	Madam President, I would like I fully understand that the clock is getting a lot and that Anders Ygeman would rather talk about fairy tales, but it should perhaps take a while until he is finished with the debates here tonight. It is extremely strange when Anders Ygeman himself says that he would certainly execute 80 000 expulsions among those who arrived in just one calendar year, namely in 2015. 80 000 of these would be expelled. Then Anders Ygeman is standing in this Chamber boasting that 94 000 people were expelled over a period of seven years. Madam President, I would like I don't think that's something to brag about. But the Social Democrats as a party and Anders Ygeman personally seem to share the view of the Swedish Democrats and my view that we need to ensure that people who do not have in Sweden to do so are de facto expelled from here. At least that's what it sounds like. But there is a difference between words and actions. I do not know how many times I have spoken in this House and in other contexts about the need to counteract the shadow society that has emerged in recent decades and how unsustainable it is that today we do not know how many people are living illegally in Sweden, who they are, what they are doing, what an agenda they have, what loyalty they have or what threat they pose. This incalculable shadow society has not emerged out of thin air. It has been possible to arise as a consequence of the obvious incentives that have long existed for foreigners to live illegally in Sweden. These are incentives that Ygeman and colleagues have made possible, established and never counteracted. While the debate has at times been about whether the group should be described as undocumented or illegal, the benefits have increased. Minors have free access to Swedish healthcare, and adults have access to much of it. The regions offer contraception advice, medicines, maternal care, health examination, interpreter, transportation in connection with welfare and so on. Schools, grants and housing are other benefits offered to illegal immigrants around Sweden. They can also get jobs, including at the home of the Swedish Prime Minister, Ygeman's party colleague. Madam President, I would like It is my strict opinion that Anders Ygeman cannot both be in favour of these incentives for foreigners to live illegally in Sweden and may be in favour of expulsions being carried out, as he said in his interpellation response. It is flawed both in logic and in common sense. Now perhaps neither logic nor common sense is a recurring characteristic of social-democratic politics, but in this case it becomes quite clear that there are two opposites that Ygeman is behind at the same time. I have never heard him problematise or act on these incentive structures. Ygeman said, as I said, in 2016 that 80 000 of those arriving the previous year would be expelled, but he has not yet acted against the benefits that these 80 000 may receive. Madam President, I would like What's Ygeman gonna do? How many of the 80 000 he wanted to expel in 2016 have de facto been expelled? I do not want to hear about 94 000 over a seven-year period. I want to know how many of the 80 000 were present then that are left in Sweden. And how many people live in Sweden illegally? I know that there is no such aggregated data. I had hoped that Anders Ygeman, if anyone, would have at least one hum of how many live and work in the Swedish shadow society. And it is my ambition that he should come up with an answer to that question.
i-842W3bcoFKqJsMa4hd5ZT9	Madam President, I would like Anders Ygeman has actually been in Parliament since I was in preschool. Of the 26 years that the Government has been in the Riksdag, the Social Democrats have ruled the country for 18 years. But this is where he's gonna solve the problem. If the Government ever took the opportunity to leave Stockholm's inner city, he would see the problems that shadow society has posed for Sweden. The people who are illegally staying in Sweden contribute to the fact that law-abiding residents do not receive treatment on time by taking up care places and also cannot be invoiced. At the same time, Agda, 95 years old, pays for her visit. They work black and low wages, even at the Prime Minister's house, and compete for jobs with the workers the Prime Minister claims to represent. Apart from the fact that it is a criminal offence to reside illegally in another country, many people make a living by committing crimes. Madam President, I would like For me, it's almost unbelievable. Yes, it is amazing that after over a quarter of a century working in Sweden's highest decision-making body, one still does not sit on the solutions on how to fight the shadow society. 10 000 people deviate annually from expulsion decisions, and in eight years Anders Ygeman has only managed to scrape together another 250 detention places. With the same pace ahead, the Government will need to beat Queen Elizabeth's reign before Sweden has a reasonable number of detention places. If you say no to our proposals to remove free health care, free dental care and social assistance for illegals, to test forced expulsions for covid-19 and on a national census, while you have had immigration to Sweden during your reign of 800 000 people, you should not believe that you can fight the shadow society.
i-7WV9FvLmU6vYF9hpWKC2nx	Madam President, I would like One Swedish Democrat tells stories, and the other lies. I don't know which is the worst and which is the best. But the voters cannot be impressed. Let's start with what I actually said instead of the Swedish-democratic lies. I said that between 60 000 and 80 000 will be allowed to return. Since 2014, 94,000 have returned. You can do the math yourself. I recommend you to (a) open a newspaper or a television channel that is not your own propaganda megaphone and (b) take your lies back into the Parliament's pulpit. They don't dress you. It is also easy for the Swedish Democrats, because they have never got the voters' confidence to take responsibility for the country. They've never had to be in government. Sometimes I wonder if they even want to do it themselves. It's pretty comfortable there in the gallery with the storytelling and the lies. But tell me! You have an entire international. Where, where the Swedish Democrats have government influence, are they better than Sweden when it comes to shadow society and return? There are European statistics. What is it like in Hungary, the country that leading Swedish democrats are emigrating to because they are tired of immigration? They manage worse than Sweden with the return. Please tell me in which countries you have government influence, where you sit on the taboos, that return works better!
i-TMrznkEGaHnc3amBLKFFFk	Madam President, I would like It may be that Anders Ygeman in the discussion about the fairy tales he talks about looks into the future when he talks about Swedish democrats in government position; I know that there are no such ones at present. So I do not know exactly which Anders Ygeman refers to. It may be that he is occupied with the fairytale moment he claims to be in and looks into the future and sees about Swedish democratic government power in Sweden. Otherwise, I really don't know who he's referring to. On the other hand, you must take it as a compliment when Anders Ygeman says that lies do not dress a Swedish democrat. So he has at least a certain respect for Swedish democrats and estimates that we are generally truthful individuals, so if there should ever be any information from a Swedish democrat that Ygeman does not consider truthful, he does not think that this suits him. However, he is wrong in substance when we talk about the, according to him, alleged lies. In fact, according to his own statement, he would expel 80 000 people who came here for a year. Then Anders Ygeman boasts of 94 000 people over a seven-year period. The questions I asked remain. I understand that Anders Ygeman is doing his utmost to move the focus to Hungary – the favourite country for social democratic rhetoric – instead of being accountable for the failures that occur in Sweden by Social Democrats and Anders Ygeman. I asked questions about how many people are in the Swedish shadow society. Anders Ygeman didn't answer. I asked questions about how many were expelled by the 80 000 Anders Ygeman indicated that he would expel. Anders Ygeman didn't answer. I asked questions about what measures Anders Ygeman will take to ensure that the Swedish shadow society does not grow. Anders Ygeman didn't answer. The only thing that has been recurring and rigorous throughout this debate is that Anders Ygeman has fled from the questions he has received and instead talked about fairy tales and Hungary. I had really hoped for more, Madam President.
i-96KTSyChiicCa4FosaQ8HG	Madam President, I would like First of all, it was interesting information from Tobias Andersson that nowhere in Europe is one of the sister parties of the Swedish Democrats and has government influence. You can interpret that as you wish. I can also note that Tobias Andersson cannot mention any other country where the return has been better achieved than in Sweden – also interesting. When it comes to Tobias Andersson's lies, there is the original article from Dagens Industri. It is obvious that Tobias Andersson has not read it, because then he would not spread the lies that he expresses here. It is possible that he has seen some version of it in Riks or any other right propaganda, but the truth is there in the article. There he can read what I have said in reality.
i-D3NvUFd9yUqkQziugJP2Ki	Madam President, I would like Ludvig Aspling has asked me whether the government intends to initiate a reform for a return to an authority-based labour market trial for residence permits for work. The Government decided before Christmas on a legislative referral, and work on a bill on improved labour immigration rules is under way at the Government Office. During this term of office, the Government intends to set up a new study on labour immigration, which will, among other things, be tasked with considering the issue of labour market testing. Sweden must have a regulatory framework that meets companies' needs for labour from other countries. Labour immigration can help companies grow and develop when it is not possible to find the right skills here in Sweden. It is not self-evident, however, to allow employers to decide for themselves whether they need to bring in workers from outside the EU.
i-KCjLKGyJrqeD2jcmh2GEZF	Madam President, I would like Our strategy to modernise labour immigration rules is entirely pragmatic. We are happy to cooperate with the bourgeois parties in which we feel similar, for example in terms of increased wage requirements or increased criminal liability in the event of fraud, and we are equally prepared to support the Social Democrats where we feel similar, especially on the issue of the labour market test for residence permits on the basis of work. What this means in practice is that an authority is given the authority to test and decide whether it requires labour from other countries in a particular occupational category or whether the employer should be able to find staff in Sweden, which should be the case at least for jobs that require little or no training. In order to overcome a regulatory framework that has failed in corruption and cheating and what some choose to call pure slavery, labour market testing is perhaps the most important measure. But what has actually happened to the Social Democrats on this issue? When the labour market test was abolished by the Alliance and the Green Party in 2008, the Social Democrats were critical and wanted to maintain the old system, as was also made clear in a reservation in the Social Security Committee, report 2011/ 12:SfU11. Prior to the 2018 elections, the Social Democrats reiterated exactly the same promise, and on their website they published a communication titled But after the election was won, nothing happened. We're there again. On 16 December 2020, Morgan Johansson announced in a debate that he wants to go back to the order in which we have a labour market test and that it is the shortage professions that we have labour immigration for and not any other professions. The think tank of the Social Democrats Time lifted the same proposal in February 2020, which was also adopted at the Congress of the Party. At Magdalena Andersson's first participation in the Prime Minister's Question Time, she answered my question by saying that Sweden should return to a system of labour market testing. What has happened to this proposal? Before Christmas, the government sent out a legislative referral proposing to require employment contracts for residence permits and to require certain employers to notify the terms of employment. Of course, this is better than nothing. You have to be happy about the little stuff. However, the proposal does not address the fundamental problem. It will still be free to recruit cheap personnel from poor countries to do, at very low remuneration, simple jobs here in Sweden – simple jobs that are desperately needed to integrate the already many hundreds of thousands of people living as unemployed here and now, today. The question then is why the government has so far not lifted a finger to make reality of what they have promised for about ten years. In its interpellation response, the Government mentions that they will return with a new investigation during this term of office. I wonder if Anders Ygeman is aware of what time it is, because this term of office is beginning to tick. That is also the point, and I would like to emphasise this point, that at the moment he has the Parliament behind him on this issue, at least on paper. The left, the sossies, and we're in favour. This may change after the election. It's not impossible. So why drag this out so long that it may not be possible to become a reality because of changed circumstances? Why have you waited till five to twelve to even set up an investigation?
i-9WFjJYbmJV5PBTcsdEPN2	Madam President, I would like The truth is that there has been no support in this House for a long time. Now the situation is different. I'll put Ludvig Aspling right in that. We have taken a number of measures and we will take others. It is about binding employment contracts and better control. The other measures that Ludvig Aspling for some reason ascribes to the bourgeoisie, that is to say, increased criminal liability and wage floors, are such proposals for measures that I plan to present. Nor do I close the door to take other measures that have not been in the debate. The reason why I cannot now put forward a proposal on labour market testing, in which I share Ludvig Aspling's view that it is desirable, is that there is simply no preparation document in the Government Office. You could've wished it was in place, but it doesn't exist. Therefore, the issue needs to be investigated so that such a proposal is in place. When the proposal is in place – it will be investigated in accordance with the will of Ludvig Aspling – the question is whether the party of Ludvig Aspling will actually vote in favour of it. Perhaps even more important to ask is whether the proposal will be put to the vote in this House after the elections, whether the party of Ludvig Aspling, the Swedish Democrats, will be prepared to support a government that does not intend to present a proposal for a labour market test. That would be interesting to hear.
i-2vxbSzGZ9GqXPJgLy7mSQp	Madam President, I would like I cannot, of course, take a position on a proposal that does not exist. As the Government says, there is no basis for investigation, and it is impossible for me to say yes or no as long as I do not see the product. But we are obviously in favour of the principle. If this proposal ends up on Parliament's table, I can promise that we will vote in favour of it – if it is close to what the system looked like earlier. In his interpellation response, Anders Ygeman referred to the Council's referral, which he made before Christmas. As is so often the case, he tries to make a chicken out of a feather. The problem is that the proposals do not take into account how the rules are being misused in practice. The scheme for cheating works something like this: A person who wants to move to Sweden pays a substantial amount of money for a fake employment with an entrepreneur, who often has a background in the same country or region. The person then works long days to little or almost no income for four years, after which the person gets a permanent residence permit and then can try to find a real job. If this is not possible, the person can switch to living on benefits. What happens, in other words, is that the employer sells a Swedish residence permit. The employee is used in a way – I absolutely agree with that – but since the value of the residence permit is so great in Sweden, precisely because of the benefit levels, many people are willing to go through the process in four years to stay here. The tragic thing is that the most important piece of the puzzle to tackle cheating is the labour market test. The problem is that as long as both parties to the agreement agree to post it, no one will inform the Migration Agency that the real conditions for a particular employment are actually much worse than those on the paper they have submitted to the Migration Agency. This makes part of Anders Ygeman's proposal relatively toothless, although we are in itself behind the proposals – but we believe that they need to be supplemented with the labour market test. The whole thing is something strange. As I pointed out in my first speech, Anders Ygeman has the Riksdag behind him. The proposal could have been examined quickly last year or the previous year. There would have been no problem, and the proposal could have been in place well before the elections. But you haven't, and it's very strange. One trend that recurs in the area of migration is that there are incredible ambitions to do one thing and the other, but once it comes to the end, and it is time to make a move on the matter, there is a lack of real will or there are other intentions than those put forward in this House. I do not want to speculate on what the Social Democrats are really thinking about, but it is clear that if one had really seen this as a problem and had really had the ambition to do something about it, the proposal would already have been on paper now. Then there are the excuses that there is a need for an investigation basis. Of course, but it's the government's job to make sure such things exist. I think a big problem is the SD scare. I think a major problem for the Social Democrats is that they need our votes to get the proposal through the House. We do not see it as a problem at all, but it becomes a purely communicative issue for the Social Democrats – and that is why we hesitate. That's my interpretation of the whole thing. But I'm eager to hear what Anders Ygeman has to say.
i-3fCHa95aj4BKpdxLnEemkd	Madam President, I would like No, not at all. We do not know how Parliament would react to such proposals, as Mr Aspling expresses. Let me make a small comment. Although I am a major supporter of labour market testing and a supporter of a strong increase in wage levels, the objection that Ludvig Aspling has to the government's proposal in the area of binding employment contracts means that it must be known that, even if it is in favour of the proposal, it is also valid for labour market testing. You can't be naive, Ludvig Aspling. You can apply to get an immigrant for a job and then do a completely different job. You can come here as an electrician, for example – for whom there is a shortage – and then work to carry out demolition material. None of the proposals solves individual problems, but there must be binding employment contracts, wage floors, labour market testing and much better control. We have facilitated controls. We have criminalised new areas and expanded the criminalised area. Only today did we have the first result of the change in government legislation. The Supreme Court sentences eight different judgments for human exploitation, which is a good thing. I have a question that I did not really get an answer to, and Ludvig Aspling tried a kind of political sliding. When the investigation has put forward its proposal, if that is the way it has been so far, namely that the Moderates and Christian Democrats – and for that matter also the Liberals, although I have understood Åkesson so that the party is not a planned coalition partner for the Swedish Democrats – are not in favour of a labour market test, it is worth the voters to know in the election whether you are prepared to release a government even if it does not become a labour market test.
i-6d7HB3UaPyCESCZe1tLrmi	Madam President, I would like Anders Ygeman has now been in the Riksdag and also in the government much longer than I have. The question has been asked before, and the answer also comes as a letter in the post: we do not negotiate here in the speaker's chair in this way. A Social Democrat would not do that, nor would a Swedish Democrat do that. It's basic. I also believe that Anders Ygeman misunderstood me about the legislative referral that was presented before Christmas. We are behind most of what is there, and we think it is a step in the right direction. That is what I said in my first speech. But the hole in the package is precisely the labour market test. That is what is needed as a complement. We believe that it is by far the most effective measure precisely to ensure that people do not come here who allow themselves to be exploited because they are in a desperate situation and thus undermine the function of the labour market and allow rogue entrepreneurs simply to sell Swedish residence permits – as it works today. For the sake of clarity, I say that we support those elements, but they are not enough. Labour market testing is needed as a complement to these. That's why I'm standing here today. The question has not been answered either. How is it that, at this eleventh hour, an inquiry is to be set up in the spring election year when you have been in power for eight years? It's totally cocoon to have that as an excuse; we've been thinking about this, and we're going to set up an investigation. Let's do that spring election year. I haven't got an answer. I might not have expected a sensible answer to the question, but we can see. Anders Ygeman could have another try.
i-VcvgaTctGCBBY4xjVx8iwN	Madam President, I would like I have already said the reason: we have not had support in Parliament for this order before. And to be strict, this government has only existed for about ten weeks, but in the short time we have put forward a long series of proposals. In fact, I believe that Ludvig Aspling reduces the problems of tackling labour immigration and labour crime. Even a combination of what we have put on Parliament's table and the labour market test will not be enough. There must be substantially more proposals. And I can promise Ludvig Aspling that there will be more proposals both on the table of Parliament and in other forms to address this problem both on the migration side and on the work crime side, because we do not have a situation that can be satisfied with. Much more needs to be done. Then it becomes interesting. Ludvig Aspling talks about the government issue, and I ask: are you prepared to put forward a government that does not put forward proposals for labour market testing, as Ludvig Aspling himself says is the central issue? Ludvig Aspling then says: We are not prepared to negotiate in the Parliament's pulpit. I can only say that the Swedish democrats are prepared to negotiate a labour market test. They are prepared to sell out the labour market test in order to sit on government taboos or gain other influence over politics. Otherwise, Ludvig Aspling's answer would have been no, and that thing would have been out of the way. But that answer was not given by Ludvig Aspling today, and that is an important enough response for the electorate.
i-9uyZvbQaFZybUB5tZ7nQfW	Madam President, I would like Thomas Morell has asked me whether the government intends to set up an accident commission to investigate the causes of disruption to our important road infrastructure. It is of great importance that the winter road maintenance of the roads is of high quality. This is important for both accessibility and road safety. The Finnish Transport Agency, which has the Government's mission to be responsible for winter road maintenance, has sufficient financial resources, developed requirements for winter road maintenance standards and procedures and methods to follow up entrepreneurs' work so that it is carried out correctly. This creates the conditions for a working winter road maintenance. It is important that entrepreneurs fulfil their commitment and carry out their activities in accordance with the requirements. If an entrepreneur mismanages his commitment and violates the contract requirements, the Finnish Transport Administration will take the necessary measures. This may, for example, mean giving periodic penalty payments and obliging entrepreneurs to correct errors and shortcomings. I assume that the Finnish Transport Administration is already investigating any shortcomings identified and that measures are taken. It is the Trafikverket's responsibility to have a dialogue with the stakeholders to ensure that the right efforts are made at the right time and of the right quality. It is also important that the actors work together in the long term to develop their activities and to promote a more efficient and better anti-slip approach.
i-5PnrsgprErs32dBBMW9sno	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. We have discussed winter road maintenance before, and we can see that it has not improved. Out on the road there is lightning, and unfortunately there are accidents. Some time ago there were two fatal accidents in Kronoberg, the state council's home county. There were two drivers who died in two separate accidents. There they say that the Swedish Transport Administration missed the ice bar – it was unsalted for several hours. I talk a lot to professional drivers because I have that background. They say it's just getting worse and worse. It's a clean ice street out there. Yesterday, I think it was, a school bus slipped off the road with eight schoolchildren in it. It's part of the point that it stood still before it slipped off. So it is not a question of high speeds or reckless behaviour on the part of drivers, but the surface is so slippery that you simply do not get hold of it. A heavy vehicle has a peculiarity that light vehicles do not have: The tires get warm even if it is winter road, so when you get standing the ice melts under the wheels. Then a small water membrane is created, and then it goes away. As a driver, there is nothing you can do in that situation, but you lose control and get off the road. The accident with schoolchildren had a happy ending — they had to drive a fire truck to school because it was the only way to get them there. But that shows how the maintenance of our winter roads is. When it is so slippery that even stationary vehicles slip off, then the Swedish Transport Administration has missed. They themselves say it was unsalted for hours. In the newspapers there is a glass content in Kronoberg: I can list headlines from the newspapers for hours. There must be something wrong when an entire profession that actually has the road as its workplace says it has become worse than ever. There's no running on the ground. You get stuck on the slopes. The Swedish vehicles have good tires, but the foreign cars that come in have cheeses as tires. So they are smooth; they are like the tabletop here. Those cars get stuck at the smallest counter, and then even the one who has good tyre equipment gets stuck when it comes behind and does not get past. There's no way in the world to get by in such a situation. We got proof of this in Finnerödjabacken, where traffic stood still for 12 hours. For 12 hours, the E20 was off just because the cars couldn't move. What are the costs to society when such an important artery as a European road is blocked for 12 hours? Much of the goods transported on the roads are just in time. The industry sends away products that are to land in another industry or be exported, and everything is time-controlled and should be in place at a given time. Volvo at home in Skövde can handle a stationary vehicle but not two or three, because then production stays down in Gothenburg. That's how tight it is, and that's assuming the roads are navigable. We can conclude that the Swedish Transport Administration is not solving its mission. I would like to hear the Government's response to this.
i-LRPhgKfzhfRj4pKndhqCZf	Madam President, I would like I thank Thomas Morell for his commitment. I appreciate this and think it is important that we have a strong commitment to road safety. One thing might be useful to clarify to those who follow the debate: the Finnish Transport Administration has no resources of its own in terms of winter road maintenance. I have not heard the Swedish Democrats propose it either. This is procured by contractors in the private market, and it is verified by third-party certification that they carry out their mission. Sometimes an entrepreneur does not fulfill his mission. It was the case relatively recently that winter road maintenance was sloppy and was not out on time. There are clear time intervals– if there has been this much snow you should within an hour out at this type of road quality. If you do not follow through, yes, then the Swedish Transport Administration can both impose a penalty payment and actually cancel the procurement and ensure that other operators can do so instead. I think it is good to have the clear control of winter road maintenance. Then, of course, this is a challenge. Thomas Morell is just mentioning in time, Madam President. Of course there's a difference. We have discussed this before. Thomas Morell usually refers to what it was like in the 70s and 80s, when they checked how the road was a bit more manual instead of the digital methods that exist today. But back then we also had 1,300 dead in traffic. Recently we were able to read in a debate article from the chief of police, where he highlighted the road safety work, that we are under 200 dead. It is a successful road safety work we have had in terms of both winter road maintenance and tyre requirements. I am personally responsible for the fact that we are now making demands on winter tyres also on foreign vehicles. That requirement did not exist before. Work has also been successful with regard to alcohol regulation and, in particular, speed regulation. However, although I also hold professional drivers high, I can unfortunately note from the Finnish Transport Administration's and also the NTF's studies that it is still the case that professional traffic very often drives too fast. I think one of the reasons is the harsh pressure that exists precisely because of in time. It's tougher to be a professional driver today. There are tougher demands and more stress. There are requirements for faster deliveries. Not least, it has been a situation where competition from foreign truck drivers has been unsympathetic. We have had to work on this for quite a long time: levelling out the competition differences, making clear demands on foreign truck traffic, imposing requirements on winter tyres on both Swedish and foreign vehicles, increasing controls on the road and developing better methods for working winter road maintenance. This is a step-by-step work that is actually getting better and better. Because, Madam President, the number of people injured and killed in traffic is falling every year. Then there will always be challenges. Thomas Morell referred, Madam President, to the situation at home in Kronoberg. It was a few days when it was really black ice; it was hopeless. The Swedish Transport Administration had to go out with messages and say: Take it easy in traffic – it is very slippery. There are demands on all kinds of efforts to overcome the slip, but it is also important to realise sometimes that today we are not going out for a ride. Production and transport systems must also sometimes relate to this. We do not have any major traffic disruptions now, but there will always be challenges when it comes to getting the perfect winter road maintenance. There, of course, Thomas Morell makes many sensible proposals. I think Trafikverket can certainly take them to heart when you procure new technology from entrepreneurs to get a better winter road maintenance.
i-RDo2WBY2ckdzwryf1XmoPp	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. I'm the first one to tell you to take it easy on the road. I've seen the consequences of an accident. I've been sitting on the edge of the ditch trying to comfort people who have experienced the worst moment of their lives. They were lucky to survive, but it's a terrible experience to be involved in a traffic accident. There is an advantage in having had a few years on your neck. I have been with ABS, anti-charge systems, brake reinforcement, airbag, belt pretensioner and all that was not in the cars when I took my driver's license. It was possible to get on the roads even though they had much worse tyre equipment. There was no access to anti-slip systems or ABS brakes. But it was possible to get through; there was a stronghold on the ground. Today the cars have a lot of support functions, but that doesn't help. I stand still and cut off the road despite the fact that I have tyres that have considerably better properties than those in the 70's and 80's, with the sajpings and rubber blends that are in the tyres today. We had a lot of dead people in traffic in the '70s. If you go back even further back, to the 60's, we had far more. The big change came when we went over to right-hand traffic. Then the safety systems have come to a halt. It is not possible to compare the cars in the 70s and 80s with the cars we have today. The safety level we have in the vehicles today is outstanding. As long as we stay below 70 kilometers in the moment of collision, we survive if we have normal physics. It is therefore not possible to compare these conditions. But when it comes to staying on the road, you can compare. A whole profession says there's lightning on the road. It is not possible to brake or control under certain conditions. We can see that accidents happen. There was one the other day, February 6, when a bus and a truck frontal collided on the E4. There were 18 passengers aboard the bus, and it collided with a truck. The vehicles are pretty demolished and the people involved have been lucky. "It is slippery on the site and messy on the entire E4 along the coast of Norrland with snow and ice on the road," says Göran Sundqvist. ..................................................... E4 is one of the large arteries. The Finnish Transport Agency should have resources outside and make sure that it prioritises this route, partly because it is so heavily burdened by traffic, and partly because it has such an important role for the infrastructure along the Norrland coast. When it comes to the Swedish Transport Administration and their procurement, much is governed by the rules that apply there. The meteorologists standing on a pole at the ditch edge with a thermometer at the bottom of the road are always too late when it comes to telling when it is slippery. Then resources will not come out; we have discussed this several times before. You trust blindly that the pole in the ditch tells you when it's slipping. Once it talks about it, it has been slippery for maybe an hour or two. The resources come out too late, and then we get an accident on the road, for nothing. Instead, the electronic meteorologist could be combined with the physical checks used to be. This falls time and again. Those on call don't let out the contractors on the mission. They stand in the garage waiting to get out, and once released, it has been slippery for hours. This is not good enough.
i-6viXKKvMHnopVubaiBUR7U	Madam President, I would like I believe that Thomas Morell and I fully agree that we should do what we can to ensure a good winter course. I note, in the case that Thomas Morell highlighted in relation to E20 at Finnerödja, that entrepreneurs were out quickly. But there were incredibly difficult weather conditions, which also changed during the evening and created great challenges, even for the haulage industry that handled the sanding. I also note that, in this context, Thomas Morell once again highlights the fact that the Swedish Transport Administration is going out with resources. Nevertheless, I would like to ask: Do the Swedish Democrats now think that winter road maintenance should be nationalised and that the Swedish Transport Administration should have its own resources? I hear recurring such views from the Swedish Democrats. That would be interesting to know. I think the model we have today is still well-functioning, where the Swedish Transport Administration procures, hauliers manage their responsibilities and third parties then certifies and checks and ensures that they behave. For those following this debate, it may be important to know that this is not a money issue. Some people think it's saved on the winter road. No, actually, there must not be a budgetary restriction. We note that we are allocating sufficient resources to have a well-functioning winter road maintenance. It may sometimes cost more and sometimes less, depending on the weather, simply. What's interesting is the development work that's going on. I am far more optimistic than Thomas Morell, and I am based on statistical and scientific bases. There were 1,300 deaths in traffic when working in the way that the Swedish Democrats sometimes highlight as the most optimal, and now it is under 200. We use technology to an extent we haven't done before. What is within reach now that the vehicle fleet is being replaced is what we see in Scania's trucks: They exchange information with each other so that you as a driver can get information that these worries are on the slopes a little later on – take another road. Some of us have already encountered that kind of functionality in navigators in our cars. It will become even more common, with more measuring points and better opportunities to provide the right information. This is a smart way to use new technologies to improve transport efficiency. I think that is how we will generally have to work in the future. It will impose other requirements on professional drivers; there is no doubt about that. But right-handled, Swedish hauliers who want to work efficiently but also provide safe and good working conditions to their professional drivers can use this equipment to also make the profession and job as a truck driver even more attractive. We are faced with a challenge; I would like to take this opportunity to say so, Madam President. The mobility package is now coming into force – what makes us negotiate tough rules for foreign truck drivers in Sweden. They must have Swedish salaries and contracts. They're going home every three weeks for their rest. The vehicle shall return every eight weeks. There are other penalties if you violate driving and rest rules. This will even out the competition gap and perhaps also strengthen the Swedish transport industry; I hope so. But then we also have to make sure that more people go to work and want to be part of this important bloodstream so that we can transport goods through Sweden. I think that's where new technology can help. I chose to use this part of the interpellation debate to say that there is a lot of positive happening. The statistics – not anecdotes – suggest that we are on the right track. There are fewer people dead and injured in traffic than ever. But we will not be satisfied until we have a zero result, of course.
i-X3oSNtZr1ZZ5JiwurB78dN	Madam President, I would like That technology I've had in a passenger car since 2017, so it's nothing new. It's been five years. But the Government refers to the death toll in the 1970s. What kind of cars were people in? Well, most of them didn't even wear their seatbelts. We are talking about Volkswagen 1200, Opel Kadett, Morris Minor and such cars. They couldn't stand any big bangs. It was enough at a speed of 30 - 40 kilometers per hour to cause severe damage. The cars we have today are something completely different. It is no wonder that the death toll has fallen. I think it's bad style that you don't even listen to the professional drivers who can tell you how bad it is out there. After the last debate that we had in this House, I was called by a number of entrepreneurs who said: we must not go out. The Finnish Transport Agency does not allow this under the agreement in force. If they go out, they don't get paid. If they increase the salt transducer because they know that in a certain curve or in a certain sink it freezes on harder they are hit by a penalty because they lay out too hard salt mixture. No wonder there is glass content on the roads when people rely more on an aluminium pole in the ditch than on professionals to make sure that the road is navigable. It may be a new technology, but when you can't handle it so that it works, the new technology becomes your worst enemy. That's how it is now. Right now this evening, a number of hauliers and entrepreneurs are watching the debate. I hope that the Government will now say that we need to get to grips with this and ensure that we have a working winter road.
i-DW6aUCGcPbAcuXYSE67PXx	Madam President, I would like Let me first say something about the comparison of the car parks. Thomas Morell makes it easy for himself when he says that there is a difference between the cars in the 70s and those we have today. That's absolutely right. But that does not explain the difference between Sweden and the United States, Germany, Spain or other countries. We have significantly lower mortality rates in traffic in Sweden than in almost all other countries in the world. Perhaps Norway can match us. This is what we see as working with the zero vision and working with better technical systems for designing the infrastructure. It is clear that you also have a more modern car park in other parts of the world, but Sweden is the most successful, and that is because we systematically work to secure the work on our roads. It's about how we build infrastructure – central railings, speed cameras, speed limits – and a well-functioning winter road maintenance. My mission as Minister of State is to ensure that the Swedish Transport Administration has the right resources. There are no financial constraints. They shall have a clear check on who is performing. They have third-party certification. They will do their very best and have constant development work. That's what they'll make sure they have. I believe that the Swedish Transport Administration is certainly also prepared to accept good points of view from both Thomas Morell and others. In the conversations I have with the truckers I think there are a lot of people who say that it works well, but sometimes you are very critical. That is how we constantly develop this so that work and society can improve. My hope is also that more people with the background that Thomas Morell has, who have worked in the transport industry, can work within the Swedish Transport Administration, so that this competence can be better exploited. Nevertheless, I dare say that we now have the lowest number of people killed and injured in traffic. It's a good grade, but there's still a lot to do to make sure it's safe on our roads.
i-J8n27MGoZYwTSXDUwXUYqk	Madam President, I would like Maria Stockhaus has asked me how in my work on the new infrastructure plan I am taking up the technological development and the pandemic's impact on behaviour and transport. When the Government commissioned Trafikverket to develop proposals for a national plan, it included reporting how different measures and the plan proposal as a whole are affected by different assumptions about how external factors and instruments develop. The Finnish Transport Agency announces, among other things, that technology development is expected to lead to more cost- and energy-efficient available transport solutions with less environmental impact, which can drive transport demand. At the same time, digitalisation in particular can lead to a reduction in demand for certain types of transport. Rapid changes in the outside world require transparency and an approach in which digitalisation and technology development create new conditions and opportunities for infrastructure planning. Pandemin has had a major impact on transport demand, especially in aviation and ferry traffic to and from Sweden, but also in public transport. The development of traffic is strongly linked to the development of society at large. It is too early to say exactly what effect it has had, but the government has been careful that the Swedish Transport Administration will monitor and analyse the development. The Finnish Transport Agency has now presented its proposal for a new national plan for 2022 – 2033, and it is out for a broad consultation. What the final plan will look like, the government plans to make decisions in the spring of 2022.
i-7cyCveKsjA9Jd2hrWZ6oat	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Infrastructure, for your answer. We are in a very exciting time right now. Technological development is moving at a furious pace. For example, we today received a presentation from the Transport Committee of Swedish Aerospace Industries on the development of fossil-free aviation. Electric car sales are exploding with new models. This also applies to heavy goods vehicles, where new technology that we did not believe was possible a few years ago means that even heavy goods vehicles will be able to run on electricity. The development is positive, and there is reason to feel some hope in terms of the possibility that all modes of transport can become fossil-free. This positive development means that we need to rethink the planning of infrastructure. If trucks, cars and even flights are run fossil-free, the climate arguments for investment on rail are not as obvious. Building rail takes a long time and also gives rise to large emissions during construction. The investment on high-speed roads that according to Trafikverket will be completed after 2045 will hardly be able to work out the climate debt that will build up if the other modes of traffic then run fossil-free, which is our common goal. Madam President, I would like Although the Minister for Infrastructure states in his reply that the Swedish Transport Administration has the task of taking account of technological developments and changes in behaviour, very little of this is visible in the proposal that the Swedish Transport Administration has developed on the government's basis. The Finnish Transport Administration's hands have also been rather tied up. Lagt short is located, the Minister for Infrastructure has been clear with. That is a good principle, but it cannot apply without the possibility of review. The possibility of reconsideration has existed in previous planning, but now the government clogged it, so the Swedish Transport Administration did not have this possibility this time. When all projects are considerably more expensive than the calculation that formed the basis for previous plans, this means that the scope for new projects is very limited, which the Swedish Transport Administration is clearly included in its proposal. With the major changes that we see as reasonable, it would have been reasonable to give Trafikverket an opportunity for reconsideration. But despite running costs and completely new conditions, there were no opportunities for re-priorities. This does not mean doing it lightly, but infrastructure is something that you build for a very long time to come. Then there must be no prestige in how to prioritise. There, we Moderates have shown that we are open to reconsidering our decisions. This was the case, for example, when the costs of high-speed lines skyrocketed. Then we chose to reconsider it, as did our position on Norrbotniabanan now that we see industries establishing themselves in the north. Madam President, I would like It is very clear that the Green Party was in the government when the directives for a new national plan were to be drawn up. The road network is allowed to decay, and all the money will go to rail even though the vast majority of experts believe that it will only marginally affect our emissions. My question to the Minister for Infrastructure – a supplementary question to my previous questions – is whether the government will redeploy priorities and make more investments on the way, now that it does not have to negotiate the plan with the Green Party.
i-Umr1MXp5dkX8Tjqfx4edVn	Madam President, I would like This is an important interpellation. We need to build in safety and robustness, and we need to radiate a sense of security when we talk about infrastructure and technology development, both organisationally and in terms of maintenance. Here there is more to be desired by the government, and there are constantly questions about how to succeed in this. Our commuting trains need tracks that can be trusted, which are robust and can handle varying Swedish weather conditions. We have the right to demand a Sweden where commuting people should not have to stand and freeze on the platform or risk driving off the road because the road team is too bad. Today it is exactly the opposite. On 300 miles of state roads, the speed has been reduced due to lack of maintenance. Hundreds of miles risk facing the same fate over the next few years. People suffer from the chaos in Mälardalen, first because of a new digital system and then because of disease that has caused the cancellation of every third train. People and companies suffer from poor tracks, roads and systems, even in my Värmland region. This should be unacceptable to the government. Madam President, I would like This is more important to the Moderates than 400 billion high-speed trains. It is not that there is no money for infrastructure up to 2035, but we are talking about up to 900 billion. It is more about having a policy that ensures that the whole of Sweden can live. It's about the work commuting by train, bus and car to work. Nothing else is acceptable. The Swedish Transport Agency is very clear: the consequences of the Government's infrastructure policy proposal are poorer roads and an increased maintenance debt in both road and rail. The Government chooses to sub-finance maintenance by SEK 33 billion until 2035. It is under-funded to maintain current standards, and it is not infrastructure for the future and the technological development we need to invest in. Madam President, I would like You can't handle infrastructure like that. It is seven lost years that should have been used to expand airports and strengthen communications for all of us who regularly commute or travel abroad. It should be about travel, transport and the challenges of technological development. What the government has been doing is pure nonsense.
i-VUBxNDpaw5S8Bz1HLxafrM	I see a disastrous future ahead of me when it comes to infrastructure if this government is allowed to continue to lead Sweden.
i-JdBe5RmMEcrnVT1MTxcG6R	Madam President, I would like I am also interfering in this debate. The heading of the interpellation is interesting, and the infrastructure of the future is around the corner. I went up to Mora on Route 26 just over a week ago. It connects to the E45 at Johannesholm. I recommend that the Minister for Infrastructure take a trip along this road, because it literally falls apart. But when you hear the answer, another picture of what is happening is given. It should be clear that the vast majority of people live, live and work outside the big cities and that it is in these areas that the big money is generated to our country. The industry out there is extremely important to our exports. People live and work along highways 26 and E45, for example. If you follow the road past Mora, Sveg, Östersund and Vilhelmina up to Gällivare you understand that there are plenty of resources and people who, although it is sparsely populated, provide us with the important forest production. The answer is that the Finnish Transport Agency announces, among other things, that technology development is expected to lead to more cost- and energy-efficient available transport solutions with less environmental impact, which can drive transport demand. ..................................................... I was in a truck company a few days ago with the ambition to buy electric cars. They have Scania as a supplier and a manufacturer in Holland. They have calculated that it will be possible to drive these circuit cars on electricity. Car batteries have the capacity for that. But there is a concern here. Neither the municipality nor the electricity company intend to expand the electricity grid so that it is possible to charge these cars. It will not be possible to drive electric cars despite the ambition of the haulage company because there is a lack of resources to invest in the necessary infrastructure. Electricity is also an important part of this. Large and important parts of the country are being set aside and do not make the necessary investments. Instead, they focus on fast trains between Stockholm and Malmö – leaving everything else behind. It's very strange. Back to Highway 26. I thought I'd stop and photograph the big pieces that had come off the road surface. But I backed on it because there was so much traffic and not the time. Otherwise I could have shown what it looks like on one of the most important roads in the interior, that it literally falls apart. The government must ensure that everyone can live and work throughout the country and not come up with flosskeler and describe a reality that is not right.
i-33tdEabr9zPbJjrKsHJn1y	Madam President, I would like I thank the interpellant and the other participants. It's always fun to talk infrastructure, especially in a situation where we invest 900 billion. It's more money than ever. Other things were when we had a moderate-led government with a finance minister who did not want to invest in the railways. They didn't invest in infrastructure. Tax cuts were more important. Now we are investing a lot, and I am currently privileged to hold hearings with representatives of regions and municipalities, and the other day I had it with the whole business community and all the chambers of commerce. They said something that may be interesting for Maria Stockhaus to hear: They want much more railway. They see that too little has been invested in rail before and want more climate-smart rail transport. This is why, in both the current and future national plans, we are making great and important rail investments. It's necessary. Sweden has grown and has more than 10 million inhabitants. More people travel by train to work, and more companies want to transport their goods by rail than before. Needs are great. But it's tight on the tracks. We've hit the capacity ceiling. Then it is important to build more railway, whatever the Moderates say. I'm a great enthusiast when it comes to new technology. I myself have a background in the automotive industry, and I am proud to be in a country where we have the largest electric car sales across the EU. This is a sharp increase thanks to the government's policy of both tough climate demands and contributions to the transition, but one must nevertheless say the painful: that is not enough. It will be crowded on road 40 – it is already too crowded on the road between Gothenburg and Borås – if we do not invest in the railway or on the E6 down in Skåne, when Fehmarn Belt is built and the pressure on the Öresund bridge is that the transports will be up. I would like to ask Maria Stockhaus: how will it work if you say no to the Gothenburg– Borås or Lund– Hässleholm railway initiatives? The fact that these bets are stopped is the essence of what the Moderates are proposing. What will it look like on the E6? Is it going to be eight-lane, ten-lane or twelve-lane? What will it look like on Route 40 – do we have to multiply it as well? Trains are capable and climate-smart. We need to ensure that more rail is built. Then we have made it clear that it will happen throughout the country. The main routes we are now talking about, which are often referred to as high-speed trains in the debate, are three routes: Gothenburg– Borås, Lund– Hässleholm and Ostlänken– Norrköping– Linköping– Nyköping. There is strong support for building them. In the regions, commitments have even been made to build housing, and they want to increase regional commuting. We are framing 107 billion in order to achieve this. The remaining parts go to investments throughout the country. Although the Moderates are now saying that they are prepared to reconsider, as I note that they said in the debate, it is a bit difficult to review infrastructure investments every year. Holding on to something and having the courage to pursue previous decisions on, for example, new main routes is important if we are to create predictability and long-termness when it comes to such important things as infrastructure. It is important to say that we are also investing more than ever in roads, be it roads in Värmland or roads at my home in Småland: 197 billion in road maintenance. We are doing this to ensure that both the forest industry and everyone living in our country has safe and secure roads. There is a lot to do there after years of underinvestment, but we therefore invest that we prioritise the infrastructure.
i-TpHB5pYHHHR13AdgSpmH2J	Madam President, I would like 900 billion sounds like huge amounts of money, but when you look at the Finnish Transport Agency's documentation, it becomes clear that there is not much left for new named projects with the cost increases for the projects that are in the current plan and that it is therefore not allowed to poke at all. This is what Trafikverket clearly says in its basis. This is a completely different debate that one might also need to have. It is about what the government is actually doing about the running costs and the nine national audit reports that have come up with the processes for how we invest in infrastructure. How the pandemic will affect our travel in the long term is a bit difficult to see at present. The Minister for Infrastructure can sometimes be very quick to use the effects of the pandemic as an excuse for, for example, the early closure of Bromma airport, but if business travel is reduced, it should also reasonably affect the need for high-speed trains. Business travellers travel a lot between Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö. The government is investing heavily in the elektrification commission and many millions in facilitating electrification of heavy transport. This is well-lawed and necessary if we are to achieve our climate goals. At least it gives the impression that the government is seeing developments in the transport sector. We see that heavier vehicles are also electrified and that, for example, the forest industry is looking at being able to drive heavy timber transport by electrified vehicles, often from the forest to a railway or port. The big question is which roads these transports should go on. Unless changes are made to the plan, the road network will fail. This is the Swedish Transport Administration very clear on its basis. Then the heavy transports cannot get through, even if they are electrified. In the draft plan, the Finnish Transport Agency was also asked to submit proposals on which projects should be prioritised if the framework is increased by 10 per cent. It is quite telling that virtually all the projects on the list are road projects. Sweden is in great need of new roads and not least the renovation of roads in the existing road network. Madam President, I would like We do not yet know what the government's plan will be. The Minister for Infrastructure has announced changes, and it is clear that the plan may look different when the Green Party is not going to negotiate. However, we note that not many people are satisfied with the proposal that has been submitted for consultation. There were high expectations from many quarters, but most of the money is eaten up by expensive projects in the previous plan and by the high-speed lanes. Then it is no wonder that the disappointment is great around the country. Many people depend on the car, and now it is clear that the necessary investments in new roads do not take place, that rural roads fall and that speeds are lowered. With increased fuel prices, many will buy an electric car. This development is positive, but there must be ways to drive and opportunities to charge. In his reply, the Minister for Infrastructure states that the Swedish Transport Administration is tasked with monitoring and evaluating the developments following the pandemic and technology development. My question is: in what way does the Minister for Infrastructure think that the Finnish Transport Administration has taken account of technological developments in its proposal for a national plan?
i-KxcWLHQPAmtcsZ92MjQs59	Madam President, I would like Instead of building high-speed trains for 400 billion, the government should invest in upgrading roads, securing tracks and ensuring safe roads for both people and transport. There are many shortcomings that need to be addressed and where there is a need to strengthen. At the same time, we are seeing fantastic opportunities that are emerging with an increasingly fossil-free vehicle fleet. It is a development driven by large companies, academia and researchers, Madam President. We are talking about the first fossil-free ferry to Gotland, about the possibility of a fossil-free domestic flight in the second part of the 2030s and about buses powered by hydrogen, for example. These are good things that the government should also prioritise and invest in instead of high-speed trains. Madam President, I would like I see a government that puts prestige in front of people's security and business flourishing. We were visiting Molkom, where there is a deadly intersection at Nyed's church. Then we have looked at the accident-stricken road section of Valnäs – Töcksfors, which the government is not doing anything about. These are two examples where something needs to be done to ensure the safety of people and transport, rather than giving priority to what I have mentioned before, namely high-speed trains.
i-NmYvZAaMNB3r3ypxpstjK6	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The infrastructure of the future must apply to everyone in our country. It does not help the car industry to deliver electric cars. I was talking about, who had the ambition to electrify their transports, could go and buy a car now, without further ado. The problem is you can't load it. A trucker who can't charge his trucks isn't a trucker. Possibly it's an exhibition hall. Important parts of the whole conversion process have been missed here. Instead, the focus is on high-speed trains. The Government then tries to reduce the money it actually intends to spend on this and takes up the example of Gothenburg – Borås. Should the train turn around in Borås? Is there no thought that it will continue from there? The infrastructure of the future must apply to everyone. The Finnish Transport Agency itself writes in its plan that the roads will be worse in 2033 than they are at present. It is not sustainable if we are to have a country where everyone can live, work and live in the whole country, that our industry does not work in Dalarna, Jämtland, Västerbotten and for all parts in Skaraborg or Västra Götaland in general. You have to look to the whole country when it comes to infrastructure.
i-3yg9SGbGYMQ8aogMSuNbfw	Madam President, I would like I thank the interpellant and the other debaters. I appreciate the commitment, and I think it's good. It is fun that we have great requests for Swedish infrastructure and that more even want to invest even more. I would have liked the Moderates to have had that view when they were in government. Then they didn't bet. It is in opposition that they want to spend money on this but not when they had the chance to rule. Then they refrained from prioritizing roads. To Marléne Lund Kopparklint I still want to say – although I understand, appreciate and think that I can sometimes recognize myself from the discussion at home in Småland in the one that exists in Värmland – that if you want to invest even more on several roads, you should also be aware that for her party colleagues Jonny Magnusson in Gothenburg and Carl-Carl-Johan Sonesson in Malmö, together with the business community and the regions, the most important efforts are to pursue new main tracks, for example. They've been talking about this for a long time. They see what happens when the Fehmarn Belt connection is built and the Öresund Bridge will be full of traffic. It's full on the E6. The South Main Line is under heavy pressure. Skåne risks having a fairly large traffic attack if we do not build more railway capacity there. You have to take national responsibility. In fact, I demand that the Moderate Coalition Party – not only be a cluster of people who speak for their own constituency but, as a party, dare to take a stand on what are nationally important priorities. At the moment, national priorities for the government are to invest more than ever in infrastructure because it is needed and to invest more than ever in road maintenance because road status is poor in parts of the country and needs to be strengthened. We now need to be very clear that we need to strengthen and make efforts for road maintenance, both on the high-traffic road network and on the low-traffic road network. I myself come from a town with 800 inhabitants and know how important it is that the roads there work. And I resist a description where sometimes you try to set several objects against each other and say that this with new main tracks is really just something between the big cities. Tell this to those who live in Hässleholm, Värnamo, Jönköping, Borås, Norrköping or Linköping where you see this as an opportunity to actually increase labour market regions and get better commuting and perhaps also free up capacity on the Södra tribal railway for more goods. The same is true with Sydostlinken at home in Småland, where they now invest in it from Älmhult down to Olofström and down to Karlshamn and the harbour there. Then it relieves the South Main Line. For Ikea and Volvo in Olofström it is incredibly important, but also for the residents in the region. It is clear that it is a tough responsibility for a government to make national priorities out of all the wishes that exist, not least now in a situation where, unlike when the Moderates were in power, we are being called upon to advance investment because it is such a strong industrial growth. I was there at the time when the Moderates ruled this country. It was then because of large company closures that infrastructure investments were to be compensated for. The industry was basically gone, it was said. Now there are record investments in Swedish industry, not only in northern Sweden. Recently we heard about the news in West Sweden. And as a letter in the mail, there is a desire for more investment in infrastructure. That is why we are investing more. That is why we are also careful that with the green industrial revolution taking place in Sweden we must follow up with important infrastructure investments that are sustainable and climate-smart. One of the most important elements there is to properly strengthen the rail system but at the same time also work on road safety on our roads, rearrange them and, not least, electrify them, which is an incredibly important part when we will electrify the whole transport sector.
i-AmPypJZHDrDGWYFSXNd9HT	Madam President, I would like I find it interesting to say that, on the one hand, objects should not be set against each other and, on the other hand, it is an important task for the government to prioritise. In my world, setting different objects against each other, evaluating and looking at, for example, socio-economic profitability is what you do when you prioritise, and that is what we need to do better and with a better basis than what we already have today. Talking about that it's more than ever before gives the impression that there's going to be a lot of new investments. But that's not true. If you look at what's happening, you can see that cards are lying. You can't poke in anything in the existing plane. No revaluations and re-priorities may be made, even though this is something that the Finnish Transport Administration has always done at all times. But this time you're not supposed to do it. When costs run out the way they do and we have a government that does not seem to care about it at all or do anything about it or look at what is fundamentally crazy about the Transport Agency's handling of all the infrastructure funds that they have at their disposal, it ultimately means that there will be no new projects. It is a bit unfortunate that it is what it is and that the national plan is adopted in June in an election year. This means that there is quite a strong incentive to keep the calculations down and push in as much as possible, just as Stefan Löfven in the previous election movement was out cutting ties in Uppsala and gave the impression that there would be four tracks built. Now we see that all other projects have become much more expensive so that this is postponed to the future. This is a very unfortunate way of dealing with important investments. And it would be interesting to look at all the processes so that we have a better structure in terms of how we prioritise and invest in infrastructure. Now we have a minority government with very weak support here in the Swedish Parliament. Infrastructure investments are long-term. My question to the Minister for Infrastructure is therefore how he intends to anchor the new plan in Parliament.
i-WxazAyh1Z5ep5QiWimGDwY	Madam President, I would like I thank Maria Stockhaus for the initiative for this interpellation, and I thank the other speakers. As I said, it is always fun to debate infrastructure. And it is important in a situation where the Riksdag has supported the framework that is now in place and that is historically great. I note that the Moderates wanted to spend less money on new infrastructure in their proposal. I think it was about 30 billion less. And the Christian Democrats want to spend 50 billion less. But on the other hand – I will say that because Maria Stockhaus is not in a position to speak – instead they wanted to prioritise even more resources for road maintenance, I think. I respect that. It may be that we have a little different priorities sometimes when it comes to what we think is most important. I also recognise that it is a tough challenge for us to secure the quality of what we have and, at the same time, the clear climate targets we have – to reduce emissions by 70% by 2030 and, above all, to achieve net zero by 2045 – must now have the courage to take decisions that push about parts of the transport system. That is why we are now investing more than ever in electrification. I lead the Commission on Playtrification, and it is incredibly exciting to see how quickly it is now possible to electrify the fleet of vehicles but of course also the heavy vehicles in the future when we are expanding the charging infrastructure. It must now be ensured in the same way that we now have sufficient capacity in the railway systems from Malmbanan, from Norrbotniabanan or down to South East Link and Lund – Hässleholm. It's incredibly important. I think that Maria Stockhaus has an important point in the interpellation that I would like to highlight. It is about how the changes that we have seen now, not least during the pandemic, may affect the future. I'm also a tech optimist. It's both Maria Stockhaus and me. I like digitalisation and new technology. But I also see how digitalisation leads to reduced travel or changed travel. It will be able to influence the need for infrastructure and the type of investments we will make in the future. Part of it reports Trafikverket now. But I think we should be honest and say that we will all be able to follow this and see how it affects the development of infrastructure in the future.
i-Ce2113zEs4rMevTeqVkGeU	Madam President, I would like Peter Helander has asked me what efforts I intend to make to implement the tourism strategy for transport. The government presented last year a bill with the largest financial framework ever for transport infrastructure. In total, the framework amounts to SEK 881 billion for the period 2022 – 2033. We do this to both take care of and develop existing infrastructure but also to carry out new investments throughout the country. It is much needed to meet the great needs that exist after many years of neglected maintenance. A well-functioning transport system is an important part of the construction of society and the tourism industry. The Swedish Transport Administration's proposal for a new national plan, which has been developed on behalf of the Government, takes into account the needs of the tourism industry. The proposal is for a broad consultation. What the final plan will look like, the government plans to make decisions in the spring of 2022.
i-Agaq5dECc8iYECpJsM4y74	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister for Infrastructure Tomas Eneroth for his reply. My interpellation was about the fact that the tourism industry has grown strongly over a number of years – with an average of 2.7 per cent per year since the beginning of the 21st century – and accounts for a large part of the bnp. If you add everything around the tourism industry, such as the purchase of goods and services, private and public investment and so on, the tourism industry will reach 10% of both GDP and employment in Sweden. The Government developed a tourism strategy that was presented in autumn 2021, and I think it is good. It is clear that the country of tourism Sweden will be strengthened. In the visitor industry strategy, there are a number of points or areas that are highlighted, and I will focus on the points that lie within the remit of the Government. It is about sustainable transport solutions and creating different modes of transport. The very idea of the tourism industry is largely based on the movement of people. The strategy says: a sustainable travel to tourist destinations and events is important in order for tourism to be sustainable. Public transport is important in this context. ..................................................... The government highlights three points that I would like to raise. The first is that it should be easy to travel sustainably and reach destinations in all parts of the country. The second is that Swedish tourism and tourism industries benefit from a shift in the transport sector through transport efficiency, energy efficient vehicles and vehicles, as well as sustainable and renewable fuels, including electricity. The third is that it should be easy to combine different modes of transport as a visitor. I come from and am a member of the Swedish Parliament for Dalarna. Dalarna is Sweden's largest tourist industry destination outside the three metropolitan areas; we have a total of 15 1⁄2 million guest nights in one year. We also have the advantage of having both summer tourism and winter tourism in Dalarna. On March 6th, we will complete the Vasaloppet race, and if the Government wants to go, I will make sure that he gets a seat! Most people who go to our destinations in Dalarna go there by car, because there is no train traffic to get up to our winter destinations in northern Dalarna with. It applies to Idre, Grövelsjön, Sälen and others. The consultation round of the Transport Infrastructure Plan of the Finnish Transport Agency is currently under way for the next twelve-year period. When it comes to what you want to do with the tourism industry and how you want to develop transport in the tourism industry, I find nothing about it in the Transport Infrastructure Plan of the Finnish Transport Agency. To mention just a few things concerning Dalarna: The Swedish Transport Administration had suggestions for improvements of national road 66 and national road 70, and it is out of the plan. The same applies to an ongoing project with the central separation of the Borlänge– Djurås section on E16, which was stopped after one third was completed. These three roads represent the major transport routes up towards winter tourism and the tourism industry. My question, to which I did not get a proper answer, was what the Minister intends to do to bring about these sustainable transport solutions and create different modes of transport. What ideas do the Minister and the Government have on this?
i-EcQj8wxaAu9zd8SUrZ5xwX	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister, and thank you for an interesting and important interpellation, Peter Helander! The answer was not very far. Peter Helander's question was all the longer. I have also noted that as soon as we debate this, it is very much about what the Moderates did not do when they were in government many years ago and how much money there is and how amazing it is with the current government, but let us see if we can get some substantive answers from the Council of State this time. As Peter Helander said earlier, transport is about building nodes so that it is possible to travel in the country. How do you connect different types of traffic to each other, and how do you make it sustainable? It is important to know how the government thinks of this in the future. What are the target groups? The Government was in a previous debate on digitalisation and how it affects travel. Maybe it won't be that much. At the same time, we will invest in the country of tourism Sweden. We come from a time, before a pandemic, when we said that this was one of the basic nutrients. Then this industry has wet during the pandemic, one might say, and lost both jobs and activities. It's had a really rough period. I'm still interested in hearing how this will turn out. We come from a time when we have discussed technology development – or the decommissioning of transport modes. We are also at a time when we are talking about electricity, electric cars and charging poles. We have heard here that it is not in place yet and that there is much left. We know that the tourist resorts have queues at the charging poles, if any, so that people can drive their cars. We also have an immature market for apps, where people will use different actors to load their vehicle. I am sure that this will be corrected – I am convinced – but right now we are sort of in an intermediate phase. We need both a tourism industry that makes it forward, via a bridge for bridging, and we need the new one. I also want to get into this with who is going to travel. Is it travelling in Sweden you imagine? There has also been talk about international travel. We know that we are a long country, and in the north we have different visitor attractions. We have the ice hotel in Jukkasjärvi, which is very international, and we have the Esrange Space Center that can develop into something fantastic for the tourism industry. We also have Vasaloppet in Dalarna, which Peter Helander was at, and we have Mora, Sälen, Idre and Åre. Then I'm thinking, technology. This is what the Government says he is very interested in, but it has not always been clear from the government that this may be the case, if we say so. We've been talking about air cams. Therefore, it is important to know how to view the future of technology and aviation. The Government of Bolund opened the airport in Sälen, if I remember correctly – he was at least the one who said that this was the last airport to be built in our country and that there will be no more. He didn't really like that it was built, but now it was allowed to be, he said about it. I myself belong to those who like technology development, and I believe that it serves humanity and Sweden well that we develop our country. I also intend to travel internationally in the future. We come from somewhere historical, and I think we will develop it very well. My question to the Government, therefore, is how one sees this being able to get by car and plane in the first part. Then there are other parts, such as trains and bikes and so on, when the nodes are to be connected.
i-PDQmeUGuG9ZhrxWiXHnTkn	Madam President, I would like I thank Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson but above all Peter Helander for a very good interpellation. I really appreciate the commitment to the tourism industry. It's important. It has become a lot that we are talking about the green industrial revolution because there is a lot of industrial investment in Sweden, and we should be proud of that. But we should remember that the tourism industry – if you exclude the pandemic, which has been difficult for the tourism industry – is also a growing engine in the Swedish economy. I myself come from the small community of Kosta, with the glassworks in the center. There, the tourism industry has grown with interest in the glass and all the experiences you can get in the Kingdom of Crystal. Dalarna is a bit more outstanding, you have to admit, when it comes to developing tourism. I've been there several times. I am not sure, however, that I dare to take up the challenge of Vasaloppet. I thank you for it, but maybe I'd rather play badminton and bikes. However, I am impressed by the efforts made to attract people from all over the world to beautiful Dalarna. We recently had a hearing on the Swedish Transport Administration's proposal for a new national infrastructure plan. The second hearing we had was about allowing the business community to speak. They ranged from the Chambers of Commerce to the Visita organisation and the tourism industry, which highlighted the tourism strategy and what further efforts could be made to promote the tourism industry. I myself was already in the national plan in 2018 – and also in the directives to it – careful to say that the Swedish Transport Administration must take greater account of the interests of the tourism industry. Not only can we look at the forestry industry and the carrying capacity on heavy roads, but we also need to see whether there are important tourist destinations along the smaller roads. Dalarna is a typical example, but of course we have a similar situation in Jämtland, Härjedalen and many other parts of the country. This has therefore been an important part of the directives from the Government to the Finnish Transport Administration. I listen carefully to the referrals. I have also made it clear that there will be changes in relation to the Swedish Transport Administration's proposal. They have done a solid job, but there will be changes, not least because there were new points of view that could be important for the tourism industry during the hearing. I think that an important part is what you both, Peter Helander and AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson, are about: to ensure that travel to the visitor industry goals can be sustainable, for example through the development of charging infrastructure. I opened a charging station in Krokom a while ago. There they built together with Jämtkraft and Skellefteå Kraft up charging possibilities along the entire route available. I think that's how we get to work – both with national initiatives where the Swedish Transport Administration has been tasked with plugging the white spots that exist when it comes to charging infrastructure and with state general funds that have been available in the Climate Centre and the like to help build up charging infrastructure. It can also be municipal, regional or, for that matter, purely private initiatives. Volvo and Scania are now building together with Mercedes 1,700 superchargers. I think this is a very important part. Here policy has a responsibility to ensure that the service is provided, not least so that it also promotes the visitor industry goals for sustainable tourism and sustainable travel. I listen carefully and see for myself that there is more to do to ensure that we have good infrastructure for important tourism goals and that travel can be sustainable. Yes, AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson : The flight has an important part in this. But it's supposed to be sustainable. That is why we work both with biofuels and reduction obligations as well as with electric flights, which can eventually become an important part.
i-9zPKmLPNeJmVtx8rkWuyz3	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. If the Government does not want to go to Vasaloppet, the Government may be able to hang out with me when I'm cycling to Paris this summer in a childhood cancer project. We finish the day before the Tour de France finish in Paris. Of course we see a future with a lot of electric transport and many electric cars. It should be remembered, however, that we change 100,000 guests per week during a winter week in northern Dalarna. They're going to get back and forth on the three roads I mentioned. There'll be a lot of charging poles on the way. Hopefully the batteries will be so good that you can get all the way and charge at the destination. Pandemin has of course influenced domestic tourism, but there are also features of many Swedes buying houses and wanting to vacation in Sweden. It may also be a new trend for domestic tourism. I would also like to mention something more local; the Government may not be familiar with all the elements. In Idre in northern Dalarna we have built a new ski area. It may be the last ski area to be built in Sweden, given the climate change. It is called Idre Himmelfjäll and has had a huge development. You should add Idre Fjäll, Grövelsjön and Fjätervålen, which are three other destinations in the same area, which is not located in Sälen but in another place. I know that investments around the Idre area are planned for 10 billion. A problem with this huge development in a rather extreme sparsely populated area, which can really only live on tourism, is a stretch between Särnaheden and Idre. A few miles up to Idre has a huge narrow road. It is a road that is eight metres wide and where trucks and buses lose their side mirrors when they meet on the road. The road is built for smaller vehicles; it does not work today. This has become a pretty big thing at home in Dalarna. Politicians from all parties agree that you have to do something with this road, which will also swallow many more tourists. In fact, we have had protest convoys of cars, trucks and motor homes along this road. What we have seen in Canada and in other countries we have also had in Dalarna. Of course this is important. People are very upset that nothing is happening. They do not feel seen in this part of Dalarna. My question is about something on which the Government was concerned. How do the Government and Trafikverket value visitor trade flows in their calculations and in their budget allocation? The Government may be able to deny or verify this, but I believe that it attaches great importance to work commuting and student commuting and rather little importance to the tourism industry when making a social benefit calculation. How do the Government and Trafikverket value the tourism industry in these investment calculations?
i-UNnFKGG23uX4PcajCKddP5	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. I am very pleased that the rhetoric surrounding aviation has changed. This is an important mode of transport, and it is of course important in the transitions in order to get to our country and be able to travel within our country. In my part of Sweden, located below Småland, down in Skåne, there are both Tylösand, Halmstad and Båstad, if you build the two landscapes together. There, Ängelholm Airport has a very important function, so I am grateful that it is included in the plan in the future. We have, like the Government, sat down with Visita. Each region does this at regular intervals and discusses issues about their concerns and opportunities in the future. I am pleased that there can be comments in collaboration with Trafikverket. I think I have heard in previous debates that it was cut in stone what it would be like, but then there is still a discussion that is going on with the tourism industry linked to the infrastructure plan ahead. This is very gratifying. As I said, behavior also makes it necessary to reconsider. At least before the pandemic there were a number of people who went in from across the Atlantic and cycled, walked and traveled around. I also see wine packages in front of me; that is a question that we will have to come back to with another department. You get around Skåne and other places in Sweden to vacation, tourist and visit. I very much hope that this basic industry can come back and that in the future we can see all sorts of routes possible in our country.
i-BA4QqkpLgNGzxtxzCdxGHq	Madam President, I would like I thank both speakers for their commitment and for their wise contributions. I share the view that we need to develop the tourism industry throughout Sweden. To Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson I can say that Ängelholm Airport is among those who receive support. If it is then by plane or by car, bike or train you get out to beautiful Hovs halls to walk down to Torekov or other parts of the Bjäre Peninsula I let be unsaid. But there are great opportunities, which perhaps more people have experienced and discovered during the pandemic – that kind of vacationing has actually increased. Let us hope that it is a trend that can continue and that one may sometimes ignore a Thailand trip and choose instead to walk the Jämtland triangle or visit other beautiful parts of our country. It is sometimes both more sustainable and a completely different kind of experience. That being said, to the point! An important part of doing these efforts is working locally and regionally with the Finnish Transport Administration, not least within the framework of the county plans for which it is responsible at regional level, in setting the right priorities. It's very important. I am also clear in my control of Trafikverket. One should have a very good dialogue with regional stakeholders in the discussion on which actions should be the most prioritised. I am convinced that both Peter Helander and Hans Unander, whom I sometimes meet in Dalarna, will point to important efforts, whether in Idre or in Sälen. This is important, because the knowledge that exists in the region and the priorities it makes within the framework of the county plans should be taken into account. The background is what Peter Helander also mentioned in his speech, Madam President – that calculations do not capture everything. I believe that it is true – without having done a deeper analysis of it – that in net present value ratios and in socio-economic calculations it is often traffic intensity and flows that determine very much. It usually favours population-tight areas. Often we are told that investments in rural infrastructure are not socially profitable. The first thing I want to say is that they are socio-economically necessary for this country to stick together. They can be absolutely necessary to develop both basic industries and tourism. Some of these calculations have had to be re-evaluated afterwards. We were told that it would be completely unprofitable to invest in everything from Citybanan and Citytunneln to Ostkustbanan and Norrbotniabanan. I am convinced that we can now know that several of these initiatives will be absolutely necessary to develop Sweden. This means that calculations should always be seen as one of several bases for decisions. Another important part is to study the development of society and the possibilities of developing a region. This knowledge sometimes exists at national level, but it is definitely also available at regional level. That's why I think the collaboration is so important to take advantage of. When we have had hearings before national plans, it has been important for me to listen to regions and municipalities and hear about their priorities, but also to listen to chambers of commerce and various professional organisations, such as Visita. This isn't cut into stone. I can guarantee you that. I know that previous debaters wanted to argue that it is always a short story. It's not the same as nothing can change. Of course we can make re-priorities, and of course we have to listen to comments that come during the consultation process. I have said that there will be changes. An important part is to ensure that the views and thoughts that exist locally and regionally throughout the country are taken into account. This is also why it has been important for me as Minister of Infrastructure to travel around the country and listen to comments on which objects can sometimes be more important to prioritise than what is visible in national calculations.
i-XMjkfTBNcfuLJGzNgDvXu5	Madam President, I would like I went to the Jämtland Triangle last summer. It was amazing. The only problem was that there were ten thousand more who went there in a line after each other. This tranquil nature experience shone with its absence. I can rejoice that the region and the municipalities of Dalarna – cross in the ceiling – have gathered around common priorities, which I think is important and certainly also the Minister thinks is important. Something I would like to mention a little more is the lack of investment in the maintenance of national roads 66 and 70 and E16. This has resulted in Trafikverket lowering speed. In addition, most of our county roads have experienced speed reductions down to 80 kilometres per hour. I amused myself by comparing how many roads in Stockholm County had reduced speed to 80 kilometres per hour. I just found one of those roads up to Norrtälje. The absence of reinvestment and investment in county roads in the country makes it a downward spiral. The Finnish Transport Agency solves this by lowering speed, and it gets worse, worse and worse. Finally, we stand still in the countryside. I ride trains from Mora down to Stockholm every week. The speed of the cut is 87 kilometers per hour. When Peter Hultqvist was a Member of Parliament and also the district chairman in Dalarna, we had many discussions about the need to invest 5 billion. We agreed on that. The discussion on the need for investment in Dalabanan can therefore perhaps take Peter Hultqvist into the government.
i-5W66gwWoofy4ZGwdtnFEkD	Madam President, I would like I thank Peter Helander for an important interpellation and a good debate. I think the discussion about the speed reductions is important. We should be proud of the road safety work we have in Sweden. We have the lowest number of casualties and deaths in traffic ever. It is thanks to the zero vision work, where we design the transport infrastructure in a way that reduces frontal collisions. This causes fewer people to die in traffic. The Finnish Transport Agency has also sometimes worked to reduce speed while waiting for central railings and other road safety-enhancing measures. I have reacted to that by being clear that I see that there is a danger in this. There must be other ways of meeting the road safety challenge than generally reducing the speed of longer commuting distances. It has also produced results. I note that the Swedish Transport Administration has interrupted some of the speed reduction work that has been going on. We have been clear in the directives to the Finnish Transport Agency – you should look at ways to increase road safety without, for that reason, generally lowering the speed of longer roads. One way to go – and that is what we did in the previous national plan – is to help the regions and county plans to finance central rails from the national level. It's tough about the space in the county plans. Even though we now increased by 8 percent from the government, it is a tough challenge to ensure that the money is enough for everything. We will then be able to raise funds nationally to finance, for example, more middle railings and thus maintain or even increase speed while avoiding any deterioration in road safety. Otherwise, I think it is important that we continue to have a debate on how the tourism industry can develop. We'll see if we meet in the Jämtland Triangle, along the bike paths or in Vasaloppet. It remains to be seen, but thank you for a good debate!
i-M1Q2GZpvqDkjFmxVqHbHtK	Madam President, I would like Thomas Morell has asked Mr. Ustitie and Minister for the Interior when the Government intends to decide on the necessary rules and procedures to check that drivers comply with the regulations for posting. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. On 3 February, the Government adopted a legislative referral with proposals for legislative changes that lay one of the last pieces of the puzzle to create order and order through the implementation of the so-called mobility package. The legislative referral is part of a comprehensive reform package, in which the government has previously tightened the regulatory framework and introduced the EU's probably highest sanction fees for foreign transport companies who cheat, added resources to the police and the Swedish Transport Agency for increased controls, strengthened client responsibility and introduced the possibility of so-called clapping. The legislative referral proposes requirements for carriers to notify the posting of drivers and the possibility of imposing sanctions on companies that cannot present a copy of a posting declaration at roadside inspection. I am convinced that both Swedish and foreign professional drivers and Swedish haulage industry will benefit from the fact that we now have an extensive regulatory framework in place. The Government intends to follow up the implementation of the mobility package in Sweden very closely. Involving the relevant trade unions and employers' organisations will be a cornerstone of this.
i-QnjvgAHimPRH9UEMKyeZL5	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. The mobility package was adopted on 30 June 2020. It's been over 18 months. Now the Government has submitted proposals for changes to the legislation to the Swedish Law Council. I asked Morgan Johansson the question, because Morgan Johansson is the one who deals with the law in the government. But it was balled over to Minister Tomas Eneroth. 18 months is a remarkably long time. Several other countries in Europe have already introduced these changes. We have had several debates on the mobility package in this House, and each time the Government boasted of working hard on its development. Then it is a little strange that you do not use that knowledge to bring about laws and adaptations to Swedish conditions. So it will take another 18 months. The answer says that Sweden probably has the highest penalties. Yeah, it's possible we do. But there is still coffee money in this context. 60 000 suggest not far if you are to beat someone who is driving illegally in Sweden on his fingers. For the vast majority, 60 000 kroner is a lot of money, but in the shops we are now talking about, it is coffee money. The government needs to increase sanctions significantly. Resources have been added to the police. Yeah, but it hasn't gotten out on the asphalt. I talk to my old colleagues regularly. This has not, as it were, led to the removal of control officials. Orderer responsibility has been tightened up, but it did not stand up for legal review. The government is largely wrong in all aspects of illegal traffic and in accessing those who engage in criminal activity on our roads. We have discussed this more than once. Now, when the mobility package went ashore, it was hoped that the government would be on its toes so that there would be a legislative proposal quickly and that control officials would also be put on the road. But it was said in the conclusion of the interpellation response – and that's what makes you despair a little bit – that the government intends to follow up on the implementation of the mobility package. ♪ Follow up ♪ – it was weak. You have to make sure it's a workshop. We need control officers on the way to do the job. It does not matter how much legislation is produced and how much legislation is tightened unless someone is carrying out the toolbox along the way and making a start on what is a problem. We need to get people on the road who make checks, who take those who commit crimes and who prosecute them. In that case, penalties must also be dissuasive, as provided for in the legislation. There shouldn't be some coffee money on the bottom of a can. You need to get out on the track and come up with proposals that really are working on the problem we are facing.
i-RpwHJt6ax5cfqp9cGg4wJ4	Madam President, I would like It's sometimes a little tiring to hear Thomas Morell's anecdotes. I am very sorry to have to say that, Madam President. Nevertheless, we can see that we have been fundamentally reforming the rules applicable to foreign lorry traffic for several years. Often there has been opposition from Thomas Morell's party colleagues in the EU. Law and Justice, your good friends in Poland, have done everything they can to stop the implementation of the mobility package. But now it's in place. Thomas Morell claims that this has been done in almost the whole of the EU but not in Sweden. When I last looked, I saw that on 10 February there were six other Member States that had notified it together with Sweden, that is, the majority have not. We have worked this out. It is extensive legislative work and a number of products that are going to Parliament, and it is regulations that we are going to change. Let's do it. To follow up on legislation is not to ignore it. That's taking responsibility. In this case, it is also a matter of ensuring that it is not just done by the authorities. Trade unions and professional organisations – the transport companies and the Swedish haulage companies – should also be involved so that they can take a look at this. Is the regulation working and the work we have done to ensure that cheating is stopped – is that really what it is about – cabotage? It is about us being able to check that you have a posting declaration, that you have it with you and that you can then submit a notification to the Swedish Work Environment Agency so that trade unions can ensure that it is Swedish salaries and agreements. Now we are creating the tools needed to create order and order in the transport sector, after years of liberalisation in which the Moderates, the party in which Thomas Morell was previously active, thought the most important thing. Back then, the Moderates wanted free transportation. When we demanded social protection rules and rules for cabotage traffic, the Moderates called it protectionism. But we call it order. It was years of negotiation. I myself was the one who negotiated the package in the Council, on 3 - 4 December several years ago. I am so pleased and happy about this. It was then negotiations in Parliament, where not least Johan Danielsson made a fantastic effort. Then there was the trilogue. And now we have the legislative package in place. The only thing that can really stop this is if the party comrades of the Swedish Democrats in Poland and Hungary succeed in their intentions to stop it. But it looks like we're going to succeed. That is why we have now developed the Swedish legislative package, which requires posting from day one. I think everyone realizes it's gonna take time before we have everything in place. That's it. But the police are doing more checks. The Head of the National Police could present this in his recent debate article. I was able to report it at a press conference not long ago. We see that more checks are being carried out by road. There are more employees working on this type of controls. We spend extra money in the budget to the Swedish Transport Agency to make more checks on not least foreign companies. And we have a piece of legislation in place. I would rather say to Thomas Morell: Get into the game instead of sitting by the side and comment! Make sure that more people are organized in Sweden in general! Promote it! Make sure that more racers and more others are actually involved in ensuring that we can get our ways together! That's what we need. I like the idea that whoever orders transport also has a responsibility. That is why we are now tightening up the customer responsibility. There will be order and order in this regulatory framework, and it is this government that has made sure that it is in place.
i-TfmEYEopBUAfaK3Y1KZqsd	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. There are a lot of things that are not quite right in the story that comes from the Government. The person who started the work to get the mobility package was our member Peter Lundgren, who later together with Jens Nilsson, now deceased, worked out what Johan later had as well as lead in port. Can't we have a history description that matches what's happened? Then it is the case that the Social Democrats have 22 Members who oppose the mobility package, but that forgets Eneroth to tell. 22 Social Democrats down in Europe are trying to stop the mobility package. Start by discussing with them! Then there is the question of controls. I talk a lot to my old colleagues on the road. We are discussing the situation and how to deal with it. I'm in the game. Let's say I'm a judge. I'm on the playing field waiting for the government to come in, but you're not even in the same arena. There's no way to believe it'll work itself out. There must be officials out on the road who stop the vehicle and see what it is. Do they have a warrant? Does the driver have the right privileges? Is it a dangerous goods transport? How much does the transport weigh? You can't do this if you don't have people on the road doing the job. I have had this discussion several times with the representatives of the government. They say, "Yes, but every cop has the right to stop vehicles." Yeah, there's nothing strange about that, because it's regulated by the Police Act. But the job starts when the car stands still. That's when you should find out if they comply or not. Then you must also have the tools to prosecute the person who commits the crime. You have to have a customer responsibility that actually leads to a penalty in the end. It has to be a workshop. It is not good enough to stand and talk and send press releases to the right and left, but if anyone has been very good at sending press releases it is this government. It would be good to talk to those who are active in the industry. I have a debate article here that a skier has written, and that is so true of the picture I get when I talk to hauliers and drivers. I quote in the first paragraph: a great many of my colleagues have understood at an early stage that political, national measures are needed in order to take full advantage of the substance of the reform. We understand that, but apparently not the government. Sounds strange, doesn't it? ..................................................... This is the introduction. Then comes a long debate article explaining how one views the work of the government. If you rate it according to the old scale, it might be a one. In the Government's response, we are told that money has been added to the Swedish Transport Agency to do the checks. But the Transport Agency is not on the way. They can possibly set a sanction fee that the police have reported to them. The Swedish Transport Agency has a unit that carries out company checks, and that is the closest they get to a control of professional traffic. Controls on the way, it's the police department that does, no one else. There are police officers and car inspectors doing the footwork, and they need more staff.
i-FzpJVfMehXkwGf9BPGgA7C	Madam President, I would like The police department has been provided with more resources than ever before. It is even the case that we have earmarked resources for cabotage controls, and the Commissioner himself was recently able to report an increase in the number of controls. I would therefore like to ask Thomas Morell: have there been more checks in recent years or not? The police report it, we get statistics that speak for it and there are more people who get fines and more who are convicted of infringements of the cabotage rules. So the statistics I get speak for it, but if you listen to Thomas Morell, nothing will happen. I would therefore like to ask whether Thomas Morell has understood that there are more controls now than a few years ago. The work that Jens Nilsson started was an incredibly important contribution in Parliament. But if a package like this is to happen, it is partly negotiations in the Council, where it was actually I as a minister who negotiated that night from 3 to 4 December a few years ago, and partly work in Parliament where it was not least Johan Danielsson that we talked about which, surely together with several, helped to convince so that it was a good product. Then we have had trilogues and negotiations to bring it on the ground. There is talk of 22 Members here, but 22 Members of this House have not brought the mobility package before the Court of Justice. It is the party friends of the Swedish Democrats in Europe who have made sure that we now have processes that try to prevent this. I think it is unfortunate, because it is important that we get our ways straight. Now we have had complaints, fines, ordering responsibility, both earmarked and general resources to the police and resources to the Swedish Transport Agency, because yes, it also needs to be carried out by company controls. In addition, a mobility package is now being implemented, we have a legislative referral for posting and Swedish laws and agreements to apply so that together with trade unions and employers we can ensure and control working conditions so that people on Swedish roads are not used. I believe that this will strengthen the Swedish transport industry. It will also strengthen the safety of those who drive on the road. Of course, we also see that there will be a need both to follow up the reform and to increase the number of controls, and that is why we are working to increase the number of checks on the road. Madam President, I would like Thomas Morell is working to get Ulf Kristersson as Prime Minister in Sweden, but Thomas Morell as a previously moderately committed politician knows that the Moderate Coalition Party does not want to make any such efforts. In what way will that commitment mean that a moderate government implements the package in a good way when it is not least the Moderates who have systematically resisted efforts to create order and order in professional traffic? I believe that this will be a challenge for the Swedish democrats in the electoral movement, Madam President. So you should try to convince us that we are going to switch from a government that has done everything you can in these years to create order in professional traffic by providing resources to the police, creating regulations on the ground and ensuring that we now have the opportunity to demand secondment from day one, to a government that is unlikely to have that ambition. Although I have asked several times, I have not heard the Swedish Democrats or Thomas Morell talk about the demands being made for the next government founder.
i-DVNrc4YgJA2Jcq18nFX4nQ	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. Then let me remind you once again: I will not fold an inch in that work, no matter who is the Prime Minister. Not an inch! That's what I said last time, and I'm saying it now. If we are to get some order on our roads, we must have controls that are worthy of the name. Sure, you've added $100 million to the police to control the cabotage. 2.6 of these millions have been reported by the Police Department. The others disappeared in the black hole. Yes, more cabotage cases have been reported. But in actual figures it is not a very big increase. If you look at the percentage you can see that the increase is large, but it is like saying that you have increased by 100 percent if you increase from one to two. What is actually happening out there is not enough. It is good that the mobility package has been left to the Law Council, but why has it been so long? And when you get it in place, you still don't have enough resources to make the checks out on the road. They are far too few, and this has given illegal traffic a foothold in Sweden. The illegal traffic smuggles weapons, drugs and alcohol in terrible quantities. When Encrochat was broken, it was discovered that it was ten times more drugs that came in across the country's borders than was thought. It goes on rubber wheels, and no one has bothered to do the control. That is why we have the situation that we have. I will repeat what I said at the beginning: I will not fold an inch in that work!
i-CXqfGhGXaLpepFtSbAzoav	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Thomas Morell! I took note of the quote and have heard it several times:中 I will not fold an inch. ..................................................... It may be that Thomas Morell has his own personal commitment to these issues, and I appreciate that. It is important, and I wish that more people in Sweden had it. Getting order in professional traffic is a very important issue. The problem is that a vote for Thomas Morell is a vote for the Swedish Democrats, and a vote for the Swedish Democrats is a vote for Ulf Kristersson as Prime Minister in this country. What demands have you placed on the Moderates to create order in traffic? Let's get the list out! Tell us what the requirements are for Ulf Kristersson to become Prime Minister! Have you made any demands? I have asked this question several times, Madam President, but not once has any representative of the Swedish Democrats reported this. If Thomas Morell can't speak for the whole party, can Jimmie Åkesson give any information? Will the Swedish Democrats make demands on Ulf Kristersson when it comes to professional traffic? What are the requirements? Where's the list? Over these years, we have imposed fines, complaints and ordering responsibilities and have given earmarked resources to the police. We have made sure that the Swedish Transport Agency has received more money. We have negotiated a mobility package. We now have rules on posting with Swedish salaries and agreements from day one. We have systematically worked to create a regulatory framework and opportunities to create order in professional traffic and prevent people from being exploited in the Swedish labour market, and we are working to strengthen the competitive environment for Swedish haulage industry. I note that it is under this government that it has happened. I do not believe that this will happen with a moderate government. But Thomas Morell, Madam President, will fight in the election movement for Ulf Kristersson to become Prime Minister, despite the fact that there is clearly not a single demand from the Swedish Democrats for such reforms to be implemented. I'm proud of what we've done. I think there is more to do, and I will continue that work.
i-WBYMa1MhGAA2A3jSuJ2Axm	Madam President, I would like Alexandra Anstrell has asked me whether I intend to act on the issue of being able to sell wild boar meat directly from hunters to consumers, and when, in such cases, we will see a ready-made proposal. Johan Hultberg has asked me why I and the government have not yet moved on with the Swedish Food Authority's draft national regulations that allow hunters to sell wild boar meat directly to consumers. He has also asked me when I and the government intend to take a decision on the necessary notification to the European Commission of changes in Swedish regulations and when the new rules that allow hunters to supply small quantities of wild boar meat directly to consumers and small quantities of wild boar with fur to retail establishments can then enter into force. I choose to respond to the interpellations in a context. The wild boar issue has been on the table for many years, but there is no easy solution to the problems caused by wild boars in traffic and agriculture. One measure that has long been called for is easier sale of wild boar meat. In April 2020, the government decided on the so-called wild boar package, and it was also the start of the government's efforts to exploit wild boar meat as a resource while limiting the problems caused by wild boar. Through the budget proposal for 2020 (prop. 2019/ 20:1, item 23) was allocated SEK 13 million, and for the years 2021 – 2025 SEK 9 million is estimated annually. Part of the wild boar package focuses on enabling hunters to sell wild boar meat directly to consumers. Since all wild boar meat today has to go through a game handling process before it reaches the consumer, there are certain necessary things that need to be in place to enable new sales routes. In spring 2021, the Swedish Food Safety Agency presented proposals for new national legislation to enable hunters to supply wild boar meat directly to consumers. The proposals are basically good but need further analysis in the Government Office. The new legislation will then have to be notified to the European Commission before it can enter into force. Furthermore, the county administrative boards have the task of creating a register where hunters who are allowed to sell wild boar meat can be registered. Information on hunters also needs to be protected on the basis of the Publicity and Confidentiality Act (2009:400). When the legislation is complete, guidance and sectoral guidelines also need to be developed and existing ones revised. In addition, hunters must be trained and businesses informed. This will be a continuous work that can take on when the legislation is ready. Another part of the wild boar package focuses on creating incentives for an increased hunting of wild boars. Through the budget proposal for 2021(prop. 2020/ 21:1, item 23) was allocated SEK 20 million, and for the years 2022 – 2025 the same amount is calculated annually to, among other things, subsidise trichinae analyses. Through the budget proposal for 2022 (prop. 2021/ 22:1, category 23) strengthened the previous investment in subsidies by another SEK 10 million, and for the years 2023 – 2025 the same amount is calculated annually. In June 2021, the Government decided to introduce subsidies for the costs of analysis of Trichinella and caesium-137 in wild boar meat. Subsidies benefit hunters by replacing the laboratories for the analyses carried out for hunters. The government wants the cost of these analyses not to be an obstacle for hunters to hunt boars. Trichinella and cesium analyses are also important for maintaining food safety. The actions of the wild boar package are long-term and wide-ranging initiatives. The government's assessment is that they together contribute to more wild boar meat reaching consumers and to an increased hunt for wild boar.
i-QvJj2xtLYHuzt3SdyrMfvt	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. The Minister concluded the answer by saying that the actions of the wild boar package are long-term and wide-ranging initiatives. The government's assessment is that they together contribute to more wild boar meat reaching consumers and to an increased hunt for wild boar. ..................................................... When will everything that is to be done according to the boar package really be done? When will it be possible to sell wild boar meat from hunters directly to consumers? Selling wild boar meat is nothing new in this world, although we cannot yet do so in Sweden. I have been asking questions since I entered Parliament, and I know that the other interpeller Johan Hultberg has been pushing these questions about making it possible to sell wild boar directly from hunters to consumers for many more years than that. Yet it takes so long. I find it remarkable. The proportion of wild boars has increased significantly in recent years. With them, the damage to wild boars has also increased. Many Swedish farmers suffer from wild boars that prune up arable land and eat crops. The LRF has reported that when they have asked their members if they have wild boar damage on their land, 70% say yes. Then 70 percent of these 70 percent say that wild boar injuries have a negative effect on their well-being and belief in the future. Even forest owners have their land destroyed. Today, many hunters stop hunting wild boars when the freezer box is full because all wild boar meat has to pass through a game-handling facility. There are therefore few incentives for increased wild boar hunting because the regulation of the sale of meat is so complex. There are those who turn to a game handling facility, but in some places there is not one within a reasonably good radius. An important factor in reducing the strain is the ability to sell the meat. We also want more good food in the country. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency is working on a strategy for Swedish wildlife management until 2029, where all county administrative boards in their wildlife management delegations will decide on regional management plans for wild boar. I myself have worked with it in Stockholm, and I have just talked to a group in Uppsala County who highlighted similar problems. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's strategy highlights in the point Road Choice 13 that it should be easy and safe to manage the natural resource that game meat represents. How does the Minister think that the Authority's strategy may be possible when it is not easy to deal with wild boar meat at present? Last year I asked a question to the former rural minister when the minister was able to present a proposal to make it easier for individual hunters to sell wild boar meat. First, I received the reply that the proposal would be in place in the second half of 2021. Then I received the reply that the proposal should be analysed in the Government Office. Madam President, I would like The government's been doing it long enough. The question has been investigated by the Swedish Food Administration, and there are other countries to learn from. The government has had over seven years to resolve the issue without having come to a conclusion. What's taking so long?
i-MNFBoE8YMraG26piiZQ9sG	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. Yeah, what's taking so long? That is indeed the question this evening, and also the question that I have been asking for many years. The question of how we can create the conditions for long-term sustainable wild boar management has involved me for many years– yes, in fact, since I was first elected to this House in 2010. My commitment stems from the fact that wild boars have grown something huge in number. The tribe has spread throughout practically the whole of our country. It's only three counties that have no shooting of wild boars today. With a sharp increase in the number of wild boars and a sharp increase in the prevalence of wild boar strains, the damage and problems have also increased. They are now extremely extensive. The wild boars cuddle up many football fields, golf courses and villa gardens. But the biggest problem is for agriculture. As my colleague Alexandra Anstrell was on, seven out of ten farmers report that they had their land destroyed by wild boars. The cost of the damage is enormous. The LRF has estimated them as much as 1.1 billion annually. An earlier estimate from SLU, the Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences, came to an even higher figure: 1.5 billion. For some farmers, the damage has been so extensive that production has actually been cut. Others have had to adapt their crop rotation due to wild boar damage. This is very serious, Madam President, especially if we are serious about the fine words and high objectives and visions that we in this House have jointly endorsed in the food strategy. It is important to improve the functioning and long-term sustainability of wild boar management if we are to strengthen the competitiveness of agriculture. Then we need to address the many problems and challenges that exist for agriculture – high fuel prices, a high tax burden and regulatory burden, but also the too large wild boar strain. Wild boars also cause a great many accidents in traffic, Madam President. Wild boar is next to deer the species that causes the most accidents. In 2019, at its worst, nearly 7,700 accidents occurred. Fortunately, the number of wildlife accidents has now fallen. Last year the figure was 5 350. It is an expression of the enormous responsibility of hunters. Many hours, nights, and mornings have been spent hunting this difficult game, and it has produced results. The shooting increased by as much as 30 per cent during the 2019/ 20 hunting year. In the light of this shift, the issue we are debating this evening becomes even more important. If we are to maintain a high level of displacement in the long term, the hunters must be able to obtain the market for the meat. As my colleague Alexandra Anstrell pointed out, you stop hunting when your own freezer is full. That is why this proposal is so important. I can only repeat the question put by my colleague: what is taking so long?
i-Vd1TMTApABcjaPw6SqoMuL	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for the answer and the interpellants, Johan and Alexandra, for a good discussion and debate. As everyone knows, there are plenty of wild boars in my part of the country, in Skåne. The introduction to an article in SvD about Skåne reads: Farmers have their crops destroyed and some cities experience an invasion of pigs. It is telling how this has developed. In the 70's there were not at all so many wild boars where I come from. They were planted later, and then the number has only increased. Farmers have great economic trouble with wild boars. A figure that has a few years on its neck is a cost of SEK 1 000 per hectare. Now we hear here that seven out of ten farmers are in trouble with problems and costs. These are amounts around the billion. The wild boars cause trouble when land is fined and must be restored and agricultural machinery damaged and must be repaired at high costs. This may mean that you need to fence in land to keep wild boars in places that you might want to set aside to have some sort of control over them, but it's not always helpful either. At the same time, we know that wild boar meat is good meat and that the shooting could be much bigger. One incentive for wild boar meat to leave full freezers and pay the hunter is to allow hunters to dispose of small quantities of wild boar meat directly to the final customer. As we have heard here, this is not possible today, but it is proposed in a report that has been turned around. I have to join the cluster to ask why it's like this. The Government lists a number of points to be implemented, and they cannot be new for this year or this occasion. It must be the case that at an earlier stage the government has gone through all the points that need to be dealt with in order to move forward. I imagine that the Finnish Food Authority has also had to deal with these points, because otherwise we would not have got anywhere. The question remains what the government is waiting for. The report A hunter's deliveries of small quantities of wild boar and meat of wild boar have come, and the Swedish Hunter Association and the Swedish Farmers' Federation want to simplify the sale of wild boar meat. If I understand correctly, the government also wants it, although it is constantly being talked about how difficult it is. I do not understand why it has not come any further to submit a notification to the European Commission that will influence so that we can get changed rules for our country. Then we will have this opportunity for consumers. We get the launch and not full freezers, perhaps, but a small part of the package that will solve the wild boar problem by selling meat and a certain amount of products during a year directly to the end customer. So, Minister, when is it coming?
i-Fn3qvo44yALMa4MT2oo8AP	Madam President, I would like Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. We want exactly the same thing. We want to see more wild boar meat on the plate. We want to see less damage caused by wild boars. As Mr Hultberg said, it is gratifying that traffic damage has been reduced. There we can see a marked decline. It is also gratifying to see that the hunting year 2021 was felled about 159 000 wild boars. It's a new record, and it's about twice as much as the elk shooting we have per year. Something is therefore happening in the right direction. What else is happening in the right direction is the bets that have been in the boar package, that is to say that we have seen more wild boar meat served in the public meal. There have been subsidies to manage it, but now the government has also given a mandate to broaden this and promote the private sector. But let us be clear that wild boar meat, which we know is a good meat, must also be a safe meat. As you know, since Chernobyl, we have cesium in soil and water. Therefore, 36 years later, it must be ensured that wild boar meat is a good meat. That also applies to trichinae. We want the same thing, that is to get a system in which hunters can sell directly to consumers – although we know that that sale will not be the big sale. The large sales will still be at the game handling facilities. Members want to know when. There are two things the government is looking at. One is the question of the confidentiality of information about hunters that will be included in the County Administrative Board's Primér register. It needs to be further investigated, because if hunters are to report their activities, there will be information about hunters that the public should not be given access to, such as where weapons are stored. The Act on Confidentiality contains provisions covering the hunting card register and the hunter's register, but this applies only to certain authorities. This is something we need to get right. The second is the Swedish Food Safety Agency's proposal to equate hunters who supply wild boar meat with operators. It is therefore necessary to examine further whether the provisions of the Food Regulation can be interpreted in such a way or whether a different solution is needed. That is exactly what the government is doing right now, because we want the same thing. We want to be able to let hunters sell directly to consumers.
i-3rqYRXhR9xMBXb92LG2qrY	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for the developed answer! There are few wild animals that cause so much trouble in nature and traffic and for agriculture as wild boars. The consequence of the extensive wild boar damage may be that farmers stop growing grain and plant forests or other things in their fields. This means that the degree of self-sufficiency in Sweden only gets worse and worse. Food and potatoes are pretty important to our survival. How are we going to manage in Sweden in the event of a crisis or war? There are currently around 15 000 full-time farmers in Sweden. They are the ones who get up early in the morning, in the clocks and showers, and care for animals and agriculture. It can't be so funny, I think, to come out on their field and see that the crops are besieged, that the fields look like a ground cutter has been out all night having a good time. For farmers, the situation is quite acute. On top of all this – that their crops in many places are destroyed, which of course costs both energy and money – they also have very high prices of both electricity and fuel, which means an unsustainable situation for the peasants in Sweden, a country led by the Social Democrats. The level of self-sufficiency has thus fallen to 50%. So every other bite we chew is imported food. Here, by enabling the sale of wild boar meat from hunters directly to consumers, there is an opportunity to promote more agriculture and get more climate-smart domestic meat at the same time. What, then, is taking so long? We were now told that there might be a need to change the legislation on confidentiality and possibly also the Food Regulation. I'm thinking, should it take two terms, at least? For my part, I think you should be able to do it a little faster. The proposal to allow the hunter to sell directly to the consumer has been discussed and debated in Parliament for a long time, and an announcement was made by a majority here in Parliament during the last parliamentary term. It feels like the question is investigated at altitude and vice versa. Nevertheless, the proposal has not become a reality, and in the meantime the wild boar tribe is growing. One might wonder what the government is afraid of. In other countries wild boar meat is sold from hunters to consumers, and it works well. It's not about not Trichinella testing the meat – it's probably everyone who agrees that you should and want to do. It is about being able to dispose of the meat directly from a hunter to a consumer, after a trichina test of course. Then you wonder: What is the government afraid of going to happen? What would happen in Sweden that has not happened in other places, where you do this? The question has been investigated. The hunters are ready. Consumers are screaming for good, climate-smart, locally produced meat. What prevents the government from concluding on this issue?
i-3rCaWtmdCFTmTSP4AZraVh	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for the development of the answer. After all, it was a somewhat more detailed answer than what we received at the beginning. Like Alexandra Anstrell, I feel a tremendous frustration that it takes so long. I am persistent, Madam President. I engage in fitness sports and endurance sports, so I have a good headbone and don't give up in the first place. So I will not let go of this issue either, but I am frustrated that I have been standing in this speaker's chair since 2010 and raising these issues and this need. However, I can see that the opposition to the idea that I met at the time is gone. I have debated the issue with Eskil Erlandsson, who was opposed. I have raised and debated the issue with Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht from the minister's party, who initially was opposed but over time gave in and still opened up for this opportunity. Jennie Nilsson, the representative of the current Minister for Rural Development, took the step of giving the Swedish Food Authority the task of investigating the conditions for the practical design of such a system. And now there has been a year on the table of the government, but not yet have the decisions and steps taken that are necessary for the system, which everyone obviously wants to see, to become a reality. I think, for example, that the issue of confidentiality is important. But it has now been a year since the investigation landed on the government's table and the Swedish Food Administration finally reported on its mission. Then, of course, I think that there is every reason to expect from the government that it will sort out these issues and take the steps that are now required in order, if the expression is allowed, Madam President, to come to the fore. As the Minister said, the new legislation must be notified to the European Commission before it can enter into force. I know that; I wrote it in my interpellation. What I wonder is why the government has been delaying this. Should all these confidentiality issues, for example, be fully investigated before notification to the Commission can be made? Would it not be possible to make a notification and then look further at the confidentiality legislation, which is, after all, dealt with in a different legislation from that to be notified to the Commission? Perhaps that would be a way to speed up the process somewhat. It is also not the day after the entry into force of the new legislation that hunters will be able to start selling wild boar meat to their neighbour or colleague at work. Then many will undergo an education and so on. The proposal on the government table does not mean that any hunter should be allowed to sell wild boar meat. There are clear knowledge requirements, precisely to ensure safe food management and safety. Of course, Trichinella tests must be taken; no one has ever wanted anything else. But, Madam President, in 1990, 334 wild boars were shot. Last year it was over 150,000. I believe that anyone who might follow this late debate understands that, if such a high level of displacement is to be maintained in the long term, the outlets must be improved. That is why this proposal is so important. I very much hope that this is the last time I need to stand in the speaker's seat and push for this proposal to become a reality.
i-Xp2vTZshe9j6ZdBwDFm5cU	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for a little more clarification of what these points are about. I must also note that this takes time. I smile a little, because I thought it was very clever of Johan Hultberg to say that it is time for the government to come to a head. We've been talking about school food and private sales. It is about good meat, and it takes very well-targeted efforts to get it to the market. You could have a hello to the consumer as a slogan to get it in place. The need for a confidentiality law is important, and it is important that it is put in place in good order so that people are not subjected to such things. I am thinking of these points and also of the Food Regulation, which must make these people, the hunters, operators. This discussion is somewhat similar to the one about the vineyards. It is so difficult and there are so many points along the way that it is almost impossible to implement, because it takes so much time to investigate it. But if you start with the goal and say that this is supposed to be done 2022 you have to back the band and see what needs to happen along the way. That is what is missing in this discussion. There has been opposition in the past, which has changed over time. So it is: Society changes, and questions change. Having said that, I still think that if you set the target it should not have to take as long as it does. I look forward to this happening urgently and that this issue comes from the government's home and away so that we can start dealing with wild boar meat in this country.
i-BLgMYv5v7DnBvWrA2i3UKw	Madam President, I would like As many Members have mentioned here, wild boar meat is also a huge asset, in the food strategy, but also, as one Member mentioned, in a state of preparedness. Perhaps especially in the present situation, we should make sure that we can take care of everything. However, I would like to remind Members that, even when this is what we want to achieve together, that hunters can sell wild boar meat directly to consumers, the vast majority will, of course, still be handled by game-handling establishments. That is what makes us sell the meat that we are now trying to create demand for, although sales will help in the management of the tribe. There's no other opinion here. This is something the government is working on. This is what the government intends to do. That is also exactly what the Members of Parliament want. We have no other opinion, except that there are things we need to look further at. I would also like to say that I am pleased with the commitment to the wild boar issue. But a lot has happened since 2014 on this issue. There has been a food strategy. There's been a lot of resources. There has been a demand for the meat. After all, the Swedish Food Safety Agency was given the task of producing legislation so that it could sell directly from hunters to consumers. The Kronoberg County Administrative Board has been tasked with establishing a national register of those hunters who want to say meat directly to the consumer, and that assignment will be reported on 28 February this year. SVA has been commissioned to investigate the conditions for creating a single digital system for traceability of wild boar meat. That mandate shall also be presented on 28 February 2022. The aim is to be able to easily follow shot boar all the way from hunter to consumer. So things happen all the time. We want the same thing. We must see wild boar meat as an asset and reduce the damage caused by wild boars, and we do that if we get demand, as Members also say, so that we serve more wild boar meat on the plate and have more to eat wild boars. That is why we now also commissioned the Swedish Food Safety Agency not only to work with the promotion in the public sector but also, until we get this in place, to start with the private sector. Then perhaps this summer, when the restrictions have been released, we can go to a food truck that serves the excellent wild boar meat.
i-PsoCYWvpMgu7M2fdSkzH2k	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. We want the same thing, says the Minister repeatedly. I believe that if the Social Democrats and the government had really wanted to, they would have made sure that this was in place a long time ago and not allowed it to be dragged in the long way. On 16 March 2021, i.e. eleven months ago, the Swedish Food Safety Agency wrote on its website that the proposals for new legislation that have now been submitted to the government are about making it easier for hunters to sell wild boar meat to consumers and to deliver wild boars to shops and restaurants. I do not think that it is only the large-scale management through food management facilities that makes a difference here. I think it makes a huge difference for every single hunter to actually be able to help and shoot off more wild boar if it is given the opportunity to dispose of the meat. It is important as hunters to follow good hunting ethics. You don't want to shoot and then you can't do anything good with the meat. The Finnish Food Authority proposed constitutional changes that would allow hunters to deliver small quantities of wild boar and wild boar meat directly to consumers and to grocery stores and restaurants. The starting point of the proposal was to keep costs and administrative burdens on hunters as far as possible without compromising food safety. That's where everyone agrees. It should be a good food safety. But that is almost a year ago, and in the meantime this proposal has been analysed at the Government Office. You can still hope that it will be a really good analysis anyway. The question is when the Riksdag can take part of a proposal from the government. I also wonder: will the proposal also deal with the problem of huge quantities of cesium in wild boars in some areas, so that many animals must be discarded directly?
i-YGNxNaikLhVGsdFLPnPXb7	Madam President, I would like I agree that a great deal has been done over the last few years to create better conditions for wild boar management, and a great deal has also been done if we go back to 2010, when I came into this House and started to get involved in the issues. But still one of the real Achilles heeles is precisely the outlets, and therefore it is very important to also look at how to increase consumption in public kitchens. That is another issue that I have been pursuing for many years. I have suggested that, as an alternative to a meat-free Monday, one can have a wild Monday in public kitchens. I have also exercised locally in my town council at home in Tanum, where I live, that Tanum should increase the consumption of wild boar meat to stimulate the establishment of new game-handling facilities, which would be important to create the conditions for obtaining more wild boar meat for larger consumers, restaurants and distributors. However, I did not get an answer to my question whether it would have been an opportunity to speed up the process if the government were to step up and file a complaint with the European Commission while resolving the issue of confidentiality, for example. In conclusion, Madam President, in this debate I would like to ask the Minister whether it is also necessary for us to have a new government in order for the proposal to come to fruition, or whether the Minister for Rural Development will be able to implement this proposal before she resigns after the election loss in September. If we are to maintain such a high level of roll-off as we have done this year, it is urgent that the hunters have better outlets. I am also convinced that if more people are allowed to taste the fine wild boar meat, it will also benefit the game handling facilities and create an increased demand there. I therefore believe that these issues are closely linked. These are important issues for agriculture but also for all of Sweden's hunters, who are doing a great and important job. They need better conditions. Thank you for a good debate!
i-MF3jf5xmjVB1hC9bGVzJHU	Madam President, I would like Of course, this Socialist Government will also ask voters for confidence in four new years, and I am sure that everyone in this House will be asking for the same confidence. Tanum is a positive example. There are many good examples in Sweden where steps have been taken in relation to the public. Kalmar and other places have had food day, where wild boar has been served. Many in public kitchens have made a great effort to increase demand and make children and older people understand that this is both good and good meat. As I described to Members, there are still two issues to be resolved. I believe that there is a great deal of agreement on the confidentiality that must exist, so that we do not go wrong in any way on this issue. I do not think that any of the Members will, nor does the Government. Once we have this in place, it will be the train order that I described: we report to the EU and do what is to be done, so that we can ensure that the sales are clearer and that more wild boars come up on the plates. There is one problem, and that is that only about 14% of the shot wild boars come to the game handling facilities. It shows that more needs to be done. But the government has done a lot with regard to the boar package, and the Riksdag has also been proactive and able to explain what you want to do. We simply have to continue together so that we can get to the bottom of this matter. With this, Madam President, I thank Members for this evening.
