i-WqGuPzi1JBwAMa74S6FgfA	Mr. Old President! Anders Åkesson has asked me if I have obtained a comprehensive picture of the situation for the Swedish aviation industry and what measures have been taken in this regard. I have recently met with representatives of the aviation industry, and it is clear that the coronapandemy has hit the aviation players very hard. Against this background, the government has undertaken extensive efforts to support the aviation industry during the pandemic. The current toll compensation system for the screening of passengers and their baggage, the so-called GAS system, I can see that financing other than charges would require an amendment to the aviation security law. The Government Office has had a memorandum on a legislative amendment for referral to 15 May. The Government has not yet taken a position on whether an amendment to the Security Act is appropriate. In light of Russia's invasion of Ukraine, the government decided early on to ban Russian aviation in Swedish airspace. The ban aims to further isolate Russia. Similar decisions were also taken at EU level. The measures taken by the government show that the government has taken the challenge for aviation very seriously. We will continue to monitor the development of aviation, including the effects of the war in Ukraine.
i-YWgxgDuHF8Z3xp5ELdkn3h	Mr. Old President! I thank the Government for its answer. At the moment, aviation as an industry and transport mode is undergoing its greatest global crisis ever. It is a consequence of covid-19 but also a consequence of the Russian invasion of Ukraine and the geopolitical situation. Overall, this has a very dramatic impact on our country. Swedavia, a government actor who measures traffic movements, notes in the latest measurement a decrease in traffic of 46 per cent from March 2019, i.e. before the pandemic, to March this year. So it's almost a half. The pandemic and geopolitical situation are, of course, a challenge for all modes of transport, but in particular for aviation. Flying, Mr President-in-Office, has the particular effect of creating accessibility throughout the country between people and businesses, as well as between people and businesses in our country and people and companies in other countries. The flight is the long distance journey and is therefore very important for a nation like Sweden, which for example has extensive trade with other countries. The concern under these pressures is that very large deficits have accumulated in the air traffic's own passenger control infrastructure and the traffic management that aviation itself has. My interpellation with the Government stems from the fact that the Swedish aviation industry is currently firing enormous financial deficits ahead of it and is building up a deferral to be paid back. This applies to both passenger control and air traffic control. It is true that the government has taken steps with virtually all parties in this House to alleviate the crises that have arisen. Nevertheless, there is still a very high payment burden for the aviation industry. The risk, Mr President-in-Office, is that on the day of flight, that is, when the pandemic is defeated and the geopolitical situation is stabilised – as we hope – for democratic values very well, the aviation industry still has a huge economic backpack to carry. The risk, Mr. Old President, is that you can't do this. Then the question is: What advice does the Swedish Government have? I would argue, Mr President-in-Office of the Council and the Government, that the Government is fully advised to act on both GAS, i.e. passenger control, and air traffic control. It is a good thing, Mr President-in-Office, that the government has produced a memo, provided that the legislative change required to find a different financing system is now taken forward. But it's only half the concern. The rest is the cumulative cost incurred by air traffic services. If the accumulated cost is solved by adding that burden to new announced toll increases, the crisis of the mode of transport flights in our country is in danger of deepening and extending. That would be deeply unfortunate. My questions to the Government are: When and in what way does the government intend to proceed with regard to GAS, that is, passenger control charges? How does the government make use of the advice provided by an EU joint decision regarding a national deferral of air traffic charges? How will the government proceed? I think the industry needs to know.
i-NCQNpNwPvVD2VRQkaH1uq8	Mr. Old President! The Minister for Infrastructure! I would like to start by thanking you for a very good seminar a week ago. We talked about the second of our two basic transports, namely ferry services. There were very good clarifications about what applies to that procurement in the future. We are happy about this. Gotland is still an island that has no trains. Our only fast transport solution is air. That's why we're more dependent on flights than any other region in this country, I think. Right now, the aviation sector is doing pretty well. When it comes to Gotland, approximately 60 per cent of the 2019 level has been reached. Today we have 37 to 40 departures per week to Bromma in particular. Bromma works very well – I fly there every week – but Arlanda works the worse. There is a great imbalance between Bromma and Arlanda. We are heading towards a summer with record bookings to Gotland. We have about 52 departures forward, but this summer it will be 95. Then we are up to about 75 per cent in relation to 2019. So we are not up to more than three quarters of the capacity we had in 2019. It is nevertheless a good thing, because many other regions are much worse off out there. A major aber is the lack of functionality at Arlanda. I know many Gotlanders who have been there for up to two and a half hours before departure and still missed the flight. This means that in practice we are missing the opportunity to rebuild the economy of the hard-pressed aviation industry because the function is not what it should be. Much is about security personnel, and I know that smaller airports, including Visby, are therefore lending and renting out their security personnel. Let me give you an example of the discussion and the current atmosphere. The Bromma investigator Magnus Persson was at Arlanda on 8 May, and he describes it as a Kafka experience. He stood in line for almost two hours and just got on the plane. He is frustrated that there is a lack of crisis management and that the process is disastrous and is thinking about his conclusion that Bromma could be shut down. He thought Arlanda would be able to re-start after the pandemic, but it doesn't work. What can the government do to increase capacity at Arlanda? This is actually very serious for the recovery of the industry.
i-85hZCWgp7tzFyJJCv6Kuqx	Mr. Old President! The answer feels like the standard response the government often gives: You should follow the development. Yes, of course you should, but when you choose not to take the necessary measures, you do not follow developments sufficiently. That aviation is important to Sweden is a view that I and the Minister for Infrastructure share. Because of Sweden's distance to other countries and our geographical distances within the country, aviation is extremely important for growth and accessibility throughout the country. For example, the companies in Trollhättan think it is so important that it has started an airline to get flights from Trollhättan to Stockholm. Large investments are made in northern Sweden, and even with the extension of the railway the train takes there a very long time. There is also a need for rapid transport, i.e. you need to be able to fly. Let us not forget the tourism industry on Gotland and other places that also depend on the flight working. During the pandemic, the aircraft received support. After all, it was an acute crisis when virtually the entire aviation market collapsed. We wanted to do different and more, but now what is happening must be dealt with. Just as Anders Åkesson mentioned, there is a large deficit in the GAS system that is at risk of affecting future travellers. On this we have the Ukraine crisis and other challenges, such as the situation at Arlanda. Overall, this will lead to higher prices. The Swedish Transport Agency has made it clear that if no action is taken, the price tag on air tickets will rise a lot. It has also been noted that this will affect accessibility. In addition to having an overall picture of the development of aviation and the aviation market, does the government intend to look at the consequences for growth, accessibility and the visitor industry if the price tag on our airline tickets rises significantly?
i-Lo2F31yviQaxNYAvsE4bCu	Mr. Old President! Let me back down a little bit to when I read a report from the Swedish Transport Administration saying: All regular flights between countries have stopped. After all, a few months into the pandemic virtually ceased all flights, and it was empty on the screen for us who have that app where you can follow the flight. There were no planes in the sky. Initially, we had to work around the clock at the Ministry of Infrastructure to provide credit guarantees for our flights. It was about loans of up to SEK 5 billion to prevent air companies from going bankrupt. We had to provide resources of 2.5 billion to Swedavia, who is responsible for the state airports. We also had to support regional airports in several rounds. In addition, we had to contribute to the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration because air fares were reduced. In order to secure socially important flights, not least to Gotland and Norrland, we established a public service obligation in which we maintained air traffic to the mainland from Gotland and from Norrland to Stockholm. It was about being able to transport medical supplies and sometimes even patients. On this path it has been throughout the pandemic. It has been a matter of ensuring that aviation is in a position not only to cope with the crisis but also with the post-corona, as Mrs Åkesson says. One of the reasons why the Ministry of Infrastructure has, among other things, referred the report on GAS fees is to see how we can ensure that both Swedish aviation and aviation in general in Europe have the viability to meet the challenges ahead. There is no doubt that the sanctions resulting from Russia's invasion of Ukraine also affect air traffic in the form of longer international routes and indirectly through rising fuel prices and some other consequences. Sweden needs flights. I have often said that the flight is needed but that the flight needs to be changed. What I'm talking to aviation stakeholders about is how the aircraft will manage to switch to biofuels and eventually electricity while facing a competitive situation with low-cost flights that are increasingly aggressive and do not comply with social conditions and agreements. For the Swedish part, it is important to maintain international air connections but also, as Maria Stockhaus highlighted, accessibility throughout the country. Here we work systematically to see how the cost picture can change in the future, which is why we are looking at the conditions for changing GAS fees. Like all other EU countries, we are also looking at how to deal with the deficit as a result of not being able to charge charges to the same extent as before. This has been reported to the European Commission, and it is considered to be particularly relevant to take renewed positions in 2023 – in response to Anders Åkesson's question. Now we are preparing to get a good basis so that we can ensure that Sweden can secure both the continued development of aviation towards sustainability and good accessibility in Sweden, just as we managed to do, not least during the pandemic.
i-XKyYJu3hXe9ELziosrJQTE	Mr. Old President! I remember very well a meeting of the Parliament's Transport Committee in March 2020 when Minister Eneroth participated and we held a discussion about the post corona, in the pious but perhaps a little naive hope that it would be over to midsummer. It wasn't over to midsummer, and it's still not over. And it has been followed by a geopolitical situation following the Russian invasion of Ukraine, which also has a strong impact on aviation as a means of transport and also on other means of transport, and which in addition creates a series of disturbances that are difficult and socially stressful just as covid-19 was. Mr. Old President! During covid-19, a situation took place in our country where the parliament and government, opposition and majority, jointly and resolutely handled a number of crises in order that people would not get caught, that the ability to deal with the social crisis would persist and that businesses and businesses would survive. Overall, huge amounts of guarantees were issued by the Swedish State to create some kind of predictability and planning. It was good and necessary. Corresponding resolute action is still required, and I will focus once again on aviation as a means of transport. Let me be clear, Mr President-in-Office, that I am not speaking for the aviation industry itself or for the airlines here, but I am speaking for the accessibility that we need so much in our large and sparsely populated country, which is located a little on the outskirts of Europe as a very large common market. We have heard examples from Gotland – other parts of the country are also mentioned – where aviation is crucial for maintaining the accessibility that we consider reasonable for people and industry. It only works by air as a means of transport. Mr. Old President! It is also right, as Minister Eneroth expresses, that aviation is technically facing conversions. It is the same zero emission requirement in 2045 on aircraft as on other modes of transport. It's going into the transition from the fossil. Then, Mr President-in-Office of the Council and the Government, we have an aviation industry, operators, manufacturers and a structure of airports with peripheral infrastructure still in place and maintained in some way in 2023, 2024, 2025 and so on. If you put together the impact of the post corona, the Ukraine crisis and the demand for information now available from the Swedish aviation industry – with the aviation industry, I mean the whole mode of transport – it is about the handling and check of passenger charges that there is a bill. It would be good to know something more about the direction and the tempo that you are working on with the bill. I believe, Mr President-in-Office, that this is the message that the Swedish aviation industry is waiting for now to have some sort of planning, and not least air traffic control. How will the Swedish Government use the freedom granted by the EU to a member nation to deal with the buffer, the backpack, of costs accumulated? Speaking of covid measures, a guarantee loan was made to the Swedish air traffic authority during the pandemic, if I remember correctly, SEK 900 million, which was renounced. There is a huge pillow – or backpack, cargo or whatever we call it – to be refunded as soon as this spins again.
i-XdoMxh8jj4RfZ1cqEiPin9	Mr. Old President! I thank the Government for its reply. I think that the efforts made early in the pandemic on aviation were quite reasonable. We are happy about what was done to start up Gotland. Some things weren't necessary because the industry actually did it on its own. But it's very obvious now is the hugely tough profitability challenge that exists in the industry. There are many companies with large economic backpacks. At the same time, there is a lack of capacity. I already mentioned Arlanda. But there is also a shortage in the industry in terms of personnel, pilots and others. This puts this industry at real risk when it comes to economic recovery. And without economic muscle, you can't do anything else either. It's well known. The Government, like myself, is a strong technology optimist and believes in the transition. In fact, being climate-smart in the aviation industry is a basic requirement. If you can't do that, the industry is going to die. But I am delighted to see the change now taking place towards electric aircraft, and the biojet is on its way. And perhaps the most positive is electrofuels, e-fuels, which may be the final solution to much. I will return to my question about Arlanda, because I did not feel that I got an answer to whether the government can make more efforts to get Arlanda going and make Arlanda work better. Arlanda is for a long time the engine in Swedish air hub, and also the economic engine for us to manage the rest of Flygsverige. What can the government do to speed up Arlanda's recovery?
i-NzzRgz5nprvxZkBBohz37G	Mr. Old President! I note that the Minister for Infrastructure devoted quite a large part of his previous speech to listing what I think everyone in this House already knows, namely what the air traffic was doing during the pandemic. If nothing else, we have heard that list on several occasions in connection with other interpellations. I take it that the Minister for Infrastructure simply lacks answers to many important questions about the future of aviation. As regards the deficit in the GAS system, i.e. the charges paid for handling passengers and baggage at the airport, it is there because of maintaining the air infrastructure – which in itself was a necessity – despite the fact that commercial flights actually did not need this infrastructure. It was maintained in order to cope, not least, with socially important flights and certain procured routes that were absolutely necessary. Yet this whole deficit falls on the knees of commercial air traffic and is to be dealt with by commercial air traffic. They should pay for a deficit for something that they really didn't need when there was a crisis. You can question whether it's reasonable. This will lead to high costs for flights and will lead to high costs for airline tickets. There, as I said, the Swedish Transport Agency is very clear that if nothing is done, the accessibility within the country will be worse, plus that many international airlines will choose not to fly on Stockholm.
i-S9E9NL266jGMKgAdSdvsT2	Mr. Old President! With regard to the latter, I can conclude that the Moderates think that it is only when it is possible to carry out profitable activities that they should bear common costs, otherwise it is the taxpayer and the tax collective who should bear the responsibility. It's actually a rather strange attitude. It is clear that we, together, the market players and society, must bear responsibility for the infrastructure that we have. That is why we have charging systems and also look at how the systems as such can be more driving towards, for example, an increasingly sustainable flight. That's why a slightly odd attitude, may I say, as the Moderates exhibit. Both the market players, the aviation industry itself, and society must take responsibility for the situation that we have. That is what aviation operators in Sweden do today in a good way, both by developing joint commitments and programmes, not least within the framework of Fossil-free Sweden, to talk about how they intend to change and to work with attractiveness. I note that there are some in the gallery who follow the debate. I would like to see more people now that we have a shortage of skills in the transport sector looking precisely at aviation, for example, not because they love the idea of becoming an aeronautic engineer, but because the solution to the future climate issues is there. Recently, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency produced a report showing that it looks like we are meeting the 70% target by 2030, to reduce the emissions of the transport sector. What if Sweden becomes the country that is also able to cope with both the viability and the transition of aviation in the future? That is the government's starting point. When it comes to Arlanda, my responsibility is to ensure that the infrastructure is able to function well. It is against this background that we have investigated the issue of Bromma, and we will soon have an Arlanda investigation in place here in mid-June. Then we will see how, among other things, we can better create the conditions for collecting domestic flights, getting better air connections and accessibility in the country and a better basis for internationally competitive flights. What the actual flight situation now looks like at Arlanda and which Swedavia manages is unfortunately another minister's responsibility. It's under the Ministry of Enterprise. That is why I do not go into detail and answer that question. However, there is no doubt that we need to look at how aviation will be able to meet the future challenge in the future. Just as we have now allocated considerable resources during the pandemic to help aircraft cope with the pandemic, it is important to see how we jointly take responsibility for the transition and competitiveness that is needed in the future. These include everything from the research and innovation efforts we make to strengthen the development of electric air transport and to meet the reduction obligation to other types of support measures, such as how we manage the charges within the GAS system or the deficit in air traffic management. I feel confident that we will continue to take this responsibility for aviation operators. However, it is not always an interpellation debate that is the right context to answer these questions in detail. The government will come back, for example in connection with the budget bill or other documents, with how we intend to continue to support and strengthen so that Sweden has a well-functioning transport sector.
i-12g1CvkCxCRqrY4mvaxgUk	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Minister Eneroth, for a fruitful dialogue! Of course, an interpellation debate is very rarely about publicising concrete initiatives and measures. Such things may well have happened, but the aim – as I think has been achieved here too – is to work out some kind of consensus about what the concern and challenge is and possible ways of solving them. The challenge I think we have identified and, as I understand it, have a common view on: there is a post-pandemic situation, garnished with a geopolitics crisis that has struck and hit very hard on, in particular, one of the modes of transport on which our country is extremely dependent, namely aviation. Therefore, Mr President-in-Office, we need to know quite soon how the accumulated costs incurred by the aviation industry's own infrastructure systems are managed in the form of GAS and air traffic services respectively. It is worth remembering, when we discuss aviation as a mode of transport, that aviation and the aviation industry and its goods and passengers are essentially paying for the traffic police in the air, if we call them that, and the handling of goods and safety on land. It is a self-financing system that works excellently in normal situations. Then came the pandemic, and we also demanded and responded positively to the maintenance of traffic, even though there was no passenger base, to cope with accessibility, safety and capabilities in our country. Now we are in a situation where fixed deficits must be dealt with. In order to deal with them reasonably between society and industry, talks must also be held. I understand the forthcoming bill positively, as an ambition of the Swedish Government to resolve this.
i-CEKxEQTyBtAzNczytVGkpZ	Mr. Old President! I thank Anders Åkesson for the interpellation. As I said, this is important. I think we have a fairly broad consensus in Sweden on the importance of aviation. Whether you come from Gotland, from Småland or for that matter from northern Sweden, it is a fundamental obvious to see the importance of aviation, because it is not always the case that there are alternatives. This is also one of the reasons why I, as a happy technology optimist, like others in this room, want us to have rapid technological development, not least in order to increase accessibility but also to reduce the climate impact of aviation. That is why we are putting considerable resources into enabling aircraft to switch from electric flights to other types of fuel. Here we also work internationally to get a working control system that makes it easier for those actors who want to change. Today, the scheme is such that fossil aviation fuel cannot be taxed under the Chicago Convention. This means that there is no tax advantage for operators who want to go ahead. Here we are working to change the international regulations, and so we go forward in Sweden to see what we can do together with other European countries to produce, for example, differentiated landing and take-off fees or in other ways find the right instruments. But it is also just as Anders Åkesson says, Mr. Age President: We also have a joint responsibility to ensure accessibility in the future, and we take that responsibility. Together with aviation operators, we ensure that you can act as a responsible company in the Swedish aviation market, with the responsibility it entails, but also that you have reasonable financial conditions to be able to take that responsibility. There we sometimes have to help each other, ranging from public service obligations and charging to what has sometimes been direct sector support during times of crisis. We have to work together for the continued development of aviation in Sweden – but it should be sustainable development.
