i-Nt43veASGoXuGoFFX5p7o	Madam President, I would like Roger Haddad has asked me if there are any concrete targets for access to the Public Employment Service that the government is following up. Furthermore, he has asked what I think is a reasonable level for how quickly one can get in touch with a work intermediary e and get a feedback, generally speaking. Finally, he has asked what measures the government intends to take to improve the accessibility of enrolled at the Employment Service in general, but not least for persons with disabilities. The government has made it clear that labour market policy is to work throughout the country. Regardless of where a job seeker lives in the country, you should be able to receive appropriate support. S on a result of a commission in the Employment Service's regulation letter for 2020, the Authority adjusted its plan for a new office network and re-established its own employment services offices in several locations. In addition, in many places the local presence of the authority was secured by agreements with other actors, often municipalities. Work to ensure an appropriate local presence needs to continue. Therefore, e t of the objectives in the Employment Service's regulation letter for 2021 was that the agency should create well-functioning contact paths for each municipality and that enrolled jobseekers should have the opportunity to have personal meetings. In addition, the Government commissioned Arbetsförmedlingen to provide, by 15 June and 1 October 2021 respectively, an account of how the agency ensures an effective and well-functioning local presence, the availability of contacts and meetings with the agency and how an equivalent service is ensured throughout the country, including in municipalities where the Arbetsförmedlingen lacks its own offices, for example through participation in state service offices. The Employment Service submitted a final report on the 2021 regulation letter regarding equivalent service throughout the country on 1 October. The final report shows that the Public Employment Service has now appointed contact persons for all 290 municipalities, that it will be able to offer pre-booked physical meetings for job seekers throughout the country through a physical presence in 211 municipalities, that it has customer twinning at 104 service offices in the country that offer general services to the clients of the Public Employment Service and that it plans to introduce customer twinning at additional service offices in the coming years. According to this year's regulatory letter, in comparison with the situation at the end of 2021, Arbetsförmedlingen will increase the continuous physical presence that takes place on its own, through service offices or through collaboration with municipalities. The possibility for jobseekers to book physical meetings with the agency's staff should be increased if necessary. The Government considers that the ongoing work and the measures taken together create good conditions for facilitating and improving individual contacts with the Public Employment Service in both digital and non-digital channels. The government is continuously monitoring developments in this area to ensure that the unemployed receive appropriate support.
i-GZZF7KizqBVc8zS8nMvxd8	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for the answer to my interpellation. In fact, I submitted it last autumn, but because of the government issue we have postponed the debate. Of course, I also note that some of the things that Liberals raise about accessibility have been partly taken into account in the regulation letter for this year, which is welcome. Yet it is with disappointment that I take note of the government's answers, or non-answers, to my questions. Of course, I follow up on the accessibility of Arbetsförmedlingen generally and widely. This applies not only to the physical presence of premises or customer sites, but also to the digital presence. It is an important part, Madam President, because both the government and the Public Employment Service, as part of the new concept, are persistently and stubbornly saying that we should move on to a digitalised authority. It sounds good, but then it has to work too. I have read the report after the report with criticism of criticism from DHR, the Right to Function Sweden and other actors. The Digital Administration Agency, Digg, has also criticised the lack of accessibility of the Public Employment Service in relation to the portal and the digital service. This is not commented on at all, Madam President, in response to my interpellation. I would like to hear how the Government views that criticism. Now the information is given to the public, not least to the hundreds of thousands of jobseekers, that they no longer have the same local physical presence. I regret that things have deteriorated in several parts of the country. I also question the figures presented in the interpellation response. When I compare the answer from the government with the report that the Employment Service submitted before Christmas about so-called local presence, the number of staffed offices differs. Employment services must operate throughout the country. We have a high unemployment rate. We have a record level of long-term unemployment approaching 200 000 people. The most affected are those born abroad, those with lower education, those over 55 years of age and those with disabilities. That is why, Madam President, I also had a specific point in my interpellation on how the government is now going to improve support for the long-term unemployed. How will support be better for people with disabilities who may need an extra hand, who need to be received in an office or who need to use new technologies to receive and respond because they cannot get to an employment office or have long distances? That part, I note, is not at all commented on in the interpellation response. My hope, Madam President, is that the Government is now trying to clarify itself in future speeches.
i-76gPAeag14ve2cpLaP4pUS	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Roger Haddad! I very much welcome this important interpellation. I can see that there is, in essence, a great deal of agreement between us. There are a number of important comments from the honourable Member that I would really like to emphasise. This is particularly true of the importance of improving the functioning of the whole country and of people who are far removed from the labour market actually receiving the support they need. When it comes to the digital service and presence, I see that the Public Employment Service has done a fantastic job of digitising its services in recent years. Many people get out of work and get far with the digital tools and channels. But I see just as the honourable Member points out here that more needs to be done. Of course, the development of digital services needs to continue. Madam President, I would like I would like to emphasise that we know that there are many people and many types of issues for which digital services are not enough. The possibility of having a physical place to go and another person to talk to is extremely important. The government has made it clear that no matter where in the country you live, you should be able to get support in your job seeker if you need it. You should be able to book a meeting with Arbetsförmedlingen within a reasonable travel distance if necessary. As I mentioned earlier, in this year's letter of regulation we have clarified the need for physical presence. In comparison with the situation in December 2021, the Public Employment Service must have increased the continuous physical presence that takes place in its own right through service offices or through collaboration with municipalities. It is also necessary to promote local projects in collaboration. In particular, it is often precisely for the long-term unemployed and people with disabilities that you need to interact between the Employment Service and the municipalities. It is also an important part of promoting cooperation between local and regional projects. The Government also wants the Public Employment Service to ensure that it has a good knowledge of the regional and local labour market. It looks different around our elongated country. It must also be possible to have appropriate employer contacts. What we are doing for this year is providing additional administrative resources for 2022. It is about ensuring that Arbetsförmedlingen can carry out its task effectively, not least with regard to people with disabilities, as we have made clear. Roger Haddad rightly points out how important it is. These are people who have a disability with reduced working capacity. This means that we are now strengthening Arbetsförmedlingen's administrative resources with a total of SEK 470 million in 2022. We also continue beyond what lies in my portfolio as Minister of Labour's expansion of the Knowledgelift. It's important. We know that many of those who are long-term unemployed lack the basic knowledge needed in the Swedish labour market today. It is usually said that upper secondary school education is the actual entrance ticket to the Swedish labour market. We also continue to develop new tools. One of the things I want to highlight here, and in which the Liberals have been most involved, is that last year we introduced something called intensive years on which we have worked together. It is also a very important part of getting more new arrivals into work. This year we will also be there with what we call the start-up jobs. Much more will be done, Madam President.
i-At6XiLZ2DRB9Lv2V1Tq4kV	Madam President, I would like I note that the government has not succeeded in relation to the Employment Service. When I returned to labour market policy a few months ago, I was shocked that there were so many shortcomings in employment services and labour market policies. These are not anecdotes from any P4 channel where we are told almost daily how far people should go to get to the nearest employment agency or where the disability movement criticises the competence, ability and readiness to receive special consultants and administrators at Work Mediation and where there is a great deal of concern. This has been noted by the Swedish National Audit Office, the Swedish Agency for Digital Management and the Labour Market Insurance Inspection. There are a number of actors, Madam President, who are failing this development in labour market policy. It is not about different programmes, it is about accessibility. The Swedish National Audit Office criticised accessibility almost a year ago in the sense of getting in touch. It was about how long it takes to reach a job intermediary at all and to get feedback. The Government's response states that 211 municipalities will have a physical presence of the Employment Service. However, its own accounts say that there are 112 employment offices in 106 of the country's 290 municipalities where 88 offices are staffed. Madam President, I would like One must be extremely careful about the expectations that politicians and responsible ministers give to the public so that people now do not believe that in over 200 places in the country they can go down to the square or call the local employment office. I say from the Liberals that digital services are extremely important. But then they have to work. Those most affected when it does not work are the long-term unemployed. It is on them that the Employment Service and the whole labour market policy should focus primarily on their focus, energy and resources. Madam President, I would like There are several reports that say that people either can't or want to take part in digital services. The state, ultimately through the Public Employment Service either in its own direction or in cooperation agreements with the municipalities, must secure that service. I note that it does not work. I do not share the government's conclusion that things are moving in the right direction. It's going the wrong way. Either you should have local staffing in Arbetsförmedlingen, or you should have alternatives that work. This is where I want to criticise the rapid, a little hating, reform of the Public Employment Service, which, like all other citizens, I have seen from outside before coming back to labour market policy. There you close down offices one day and then open offices. Then reference is made to digital services. But there is one target group that we must reach but which we cannot reach. Then we have to do more. It is not possible, as the government does in the regulatory letter, to postpone digital services so that they have another year to secure the digital websites and services within Arbetsförmedlingen. That work would have been done a long time ago.
i-AmA8L5kCtU77jJkwuxc74E	Madam President, I would like There is no doubt about how important it is for labour market policy to continue to develop and for the Public Employment Service to deliver better results. It is about working more effectively to meet employers' needs to hire but also to provide support to people who are far from the labour market. It is important to build on the needs of people to be able to receive support in order to get closer to getting to work. This is something that I would like to discuss even more with the Liberals. Now it's the most focus on the organizational. I see the importance of having a labour market policy that is accurate, meets the needs of employers and, at the same time, supports people who are unemployed. That's the foundation. Nevertheless, I would like to remind the honourable Member that we have recently gone through the most serious crisis in the Swedish labour market in modern times. It has been incredibly tough years where Arbetsförmedlingen has managed its mission in a wonderful way given the conditions. I'm really not happy, and more needs to be done. We need to increase accessibility and ensure that people across the country receive the support they need. Getting in touch with Arbetsförmedlingen will be faster and easier, and employers will also receive better and more effective support. I would also like to remind the honourable Member that it is the Public Employment Service that is responsible for what the organisation looks like and how the authority carries out its task in accordance with the instructions it has. I would like to point out that the work of the government and its governance have made a difference. Both in 2020 and 2021, Arbetsförmedlingen reported on the work with local presence and equivalent service based on the assignments given by the government in various regulatory letters. Equal service means that all participants should receive support that meets the individual's needs or the individual employer's needs and what is justified by labour market policy. This can be achieved in different ways, depending, for example, on local or regional conditions. In many places it works well. I am of course in constant contact with the municipalities of the country to follow up on how they view this, and I note that many municipalities testify to their fruitful cooperation with the Employment Service. It is municipalities that report that things have improved. In order to get more people into work and their own livelihoods, a better collaboration has been created. But, Madam President, I am not satisfied until it works throughout the country. I am not satisfied until every municipality reports that this work is working well. That is why it remains a priority, and that is also why the Swedish Public Employment Service has now received a new assignment in the regulation letter that deals with this very issue. I was able to report on this in December, just a month ago, when I said that compared to the situation in December 2021, the local presence will increase. Of course, we will have a full focus on steering and monitoring the Authority in this regard, and I have continued to have very high expectations of the Authority in this area.
i-LKuQCz26g43w6eSWHLh4Tj	Madam President, I would like I note that I do not get correct answers to my interpellation. There are no concrete targets set by the government regarding access to the Public Employment Service. Nor is there a clear strategy on how to improve accessibility for people with disabilities, which suffer double in terms of unemployment and long-term unemployment compared to others enrolled in the Employment Service. Support for disabled people has been reduced. The presence in the country compared to three four years ago has become worse. The digital service is in process, yes. However, when it comes to the core target group – people with disabilities, foreign born, poor language and people with low education and a long way from the labour market – the government and the Employment Service do not deliver. It is the government that, through regulatory letters, through instructions, through budgets and through contacts, dialogue and reconciliations with the Director-General, naturally directs the direction of this important authority – perhaps the most important one at the disposal of the state. Madam President, I would like I read the other day that in Åsele, more than half of all unemployed people have been out of work for more than a year. The Labour Market Unit has been discontinued, the Employment Service has been discontinued and no private actors had yet established themselves in December 2021 at the local level. It is there, in Fagersta, in Norberg, in Åsele and in other municipalities, you need a public employment service. If it is then local presence or digitally posted may be the same, but it must work. These conditions do not exist today, and I hope that they will be tightened up.
i-4vJGme7bPZQn2anNy6jbXv	Madam President and Roger Haddad. It is for the reasons that the honourable Member here raises that the Government adds SEK 470 million this year to the Swedish Public Employment Service's administrative grant. We do this to ensure a local presence but also to provide appropriate support for people with disabilities. We are not satisfied, and that is why we are taking further action. But I would also like to say that we have been through a very tough crisis in the Swedish labour market linked to covid-19. The situation in the labour market has improved. Today, we have over 100,000 fewer registered at the Employment Service. In many ways, therefore, things are moving in the right direction, but the major challenge ahead is to break long-term unemployment. We will both push back long-term unemployment and create new green jobs throughout our elongated country. For job policy is also a policy for the whole of Sweden to live, grow and develop.
i-RPh7N9V4NZk4gmGcF6Wh83	Madam President, I would like Ciczie Weidby has asked me, firstly, why I have not taken any initiatives to strengthen the regulation of the hiring-in and hiring of workers, despite the previous commitments of the Social Democrats, and, secondly, what initiatives I am prepared to take to address the problems raised in the Work Review. Let me begin by stating that the Employment Protection Act is semi-disproved. The social partners have to a large extent the opportunity to reach collective agreements on derogations from the law. This is a fundamental part of the Swedish labour market model. Strong national collective agreements create order in the labour market and protect employees' rights while at the same time providing employers with work peace. This is true throughout the labour market and also in the staffing sector. Interpellation concerns, among other things, the collective agreement for the staffing industry. As Ciczie Weidby notes, the formulation and follow-up of agreements is a matter for the social partners. To the extent that there would be problems in an agreement area, it is up to the parties concerned to try to find a solution through negotiation. The Government intends to submit a proposal to Parliament on flexibility, adaptability and security in the labour market in spring 2022. The proposals in the bill will be based on the agreement in principle which is supported by the central negotiating organisations in the private labour market. In addition to improving the possibilities for transition support and lifelong learning, the Parties Agreement also provides for a better balance between different employment conditions, including the way in which the hiring and hiring of workers are regulated. In this respect, the agreement further promotes the possibility for hired workers to have an open-ended employment with the user company, thereby preventing permanent leasing. Security and predictability for all workers in the Swedish labour market is a matter of concern to me, and I see the planned reform as a major step in the right direction.
i-Xhy6hcr9gT72aQfvJimHdL	President. - Thank you very much. Thank you, Eva Nordmark, for your answer! I asked two questions in my interpellation. I feel that the Minister does not answer any of the questions. On the other hand, Eva Nordmark refers to the social partners and to the forthcoming proposal based on the parties' agreement in principle with proposals for improved opportunities for temporary workers to have a permanent employment in the client company. But, Madam President, first of all, this is not just a matter for the parties. Legislative changes are needed to strengthen the regulation of the hiring and hiring of workers. The Social Democrats have previously proposed two amendments to the law: firstly, that the law on the hiring of workers should be amended so as to prohibit the hiring out and hiring of labour for the purpose of permanent labour needs; and, secondly, that the law on the protection of employment should not be infringed by companies dismissing staff and then hiring temporary workers for the same tasks. Secondly, the proposals in the forthcoming proposal, based on the parties' agreement in principle, which gives temporary workers an increased possibility of permanent employment with the user undertaking, are certainly a step in the right direction. But I don't feel that's enough. In order to strengthen the security of workers, further regulation is required by law. You want me to lie about a full-time job to get a job? The question asked on Flashback may seem very strange. This is about a person who has been offered a job through a temporary agency. But there is one problem: To get the job, the company requires that he either already has another job or that he studies. Someone writes, what kind of nonsense is that? Jump on some onion course that you can read alongside without having to exert yourself very much, suggests someone else. Flashback is a forum with many rather rogue discussions, but this issue is quite serious. It is also recurring in social media. The requirement for the job seeker to be a student or to have another main occupation is proving to be very common, especially in the case of warehouse and terminal work. In the paper Work we can read about Stefan who is employed and hired to the warehouse. But it's not his only job-- he has one more because it's a requirement. He receives a new contract of employment every six months, but without being guaranteed a few hours, and every week he receives a new schedule. This has been going on for more than five years in the same workplace. What, then, is the benefit to the employer of having it this way? Well, of course you get labor that can make the heavier and a bit boring jobs. You can sort of pick who you want free. As I wrote in my interpellation, the Social Democrats and LO presented before the 2014 elections a proposal to strengthen this regulation. So it was 2014. Nevertheless, the S-MP government did not put forward any such legislative proposals, either during the previous term of office or during this. I therefore wonder why the Minister has not taken any initiatives to strengthen regulation, even though you have previously pushed this issue. Is it something that the Social Democrats only say when you are in opposition or in an electoral movement?
i-HRfEdQyU6857pTapvt5b9g	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ciczie Weidby, both for your great commitment to these issues and of course for raising this important issue! At the same time, this is an opportunity for me to clarify something that may have been misunderstood. What we are doing now is going forward with changes in the legislation itself. I want to be clear about one thing, and that is that, as Minister for Labour and with 20 years of experience in the Swedish labour market and party model, I will not review any collective agreement that the parties have signed. How collective agreements work and work is up to the parties to manage and develop. I take responsibility for the legislation and for the political reforms that we are presenting. I would like to make it clear that permanent labour needs should not be met by leasing. Security for ordinary people means that everyone who can work has a job to go to, that you can make a living on it, that the person who works has a good working environment and that you also have predictable working conditions. It's central. The government is now implementing the largest reform of security and freedom in the Swedish labour market in modern times. An important part of this reform is precisely greater security for those in precarious employment. In today's rental law there are no restrictions in time on the possibility to hire staff. This, Ciczie Weidby, we're changing now. We're changing this now. Under the new law, workers who have been placed in the same customer company for a total of more than 24 months during a period of 36 months shall be offered an open-ended employment contract to that company. If this is not the case, the employee shall instead be entitled to compensation from the user undertaking corresponding to two months' wages. Promoting the possibility for temporary workers to have a permanent employment relationship with the user undertaking is particularly important for those workers who have fixed-term employment contracts with the temporary agency. It is important to take responsibility for the legislative part of this. When it comes to collective agreements and how they develop, I believe that we in the Swedish parliament and government do best to continue to ensure that it is the parties who handle collective agreements and not us politicians.
i-5aUnRDs93o4iB2awZ4nDNi	President. - Thank you very much. This is really a matter of heart for me too. I've also worked in the staffing industry myself. I have very long experience in warehouse work, and I have been a member of Handels for over 20 years. Eva Nordmark says that security and predictability for all employees in the Swedish labour market is a key issue. However, there are a great many of the workers who have short fixed-term contracts on temporary agencies, those who are the subject of the Work Review, who do not feel either security or predictability. They are forced to have several parallel temporary jobs, have no guaranteed working time or income and receive new schedules each week. It is not worthy of the Swedish labour market to have it that way. The question is also who should have these jobs. As things stand, very many young men, often born abroad, do not get another job. How can you get in and become a full citizen and worker if you cannot get a proper job? I would also like to mention that Eva Nordmark said that the Employment Protection Act is semi-disproved, i.e. that the social partners are able to meet to a large extent collective agreements that deviate from the law. It is a fundamental part of the Swedish labour market model. That is the case, and just as Eva says, it is collective agreements that create order. But it also shows how incredibly flexible the legislation we have and how easy it is to find loopholes that are then exploited in a way that impairs workers' conditions. We know that collective agreements are based on what the legislative text says. Eva Nordmark talks about the partnership agreement and the improvement. Nevertheless, I believe that the risk is great, even imminent, that it will not lead to any major improvements, but rather to the stacking of periods of this kind on high, and that only one person will be moved from one place to another, just as it is possible to do with other types of fixed-term contracts. That is what the Swedish labour market looks like. We easily have the world's most flexible labour market legislation in Sweden.
i-6ZQ6tZuBFXmtEwiho551oq	( FIRST VICE PRESIDENT: I would like to remind you both that we are speaking through the President and are not using you or you. )
i-3Wd1b5553YnV36EHN6r2eX	Madam President, I would like There is no doubt that the security of ordinary people needs to be increased and that we need to create a safer labour market. This is an area where it has been important for a long time to ensure that we can improve conditions. I was chairman of TCO when TCO reported the Swedish government to the European Commission about the right that previously existed for employers to stack different types of temporary jobs on each other for all eternity. It is clear that legislation is extremely central. We will ensure that we have legislation but also trust the parties, because they are the ones who can develop their collective agreements and adapt them according to the conditions in different industries. It is a model that serves Sweden well and for which there is great support here in the Swedish Parliament. With regard to the legislation and the proposals that we have received through the partnership agreement, I would like to highlight a few things that we are doing. We will return with both legislative referrals and a proposal during the spring. This involves, among other things, strengthening protection or taking measures in the area of rental. It is about planing – that employers today actually have the opportunity to plan down working hours and tell an employee that tomorrow you can only work 60% in this store. We are putting an end to this kind of phenomenon. You should be able to have a transition period as an employee. We shall also ensure that those who have a fixed-term contract qualify much more quickly for a permanent contract of employment. It is very important to create greater security in the Swedish labour market. I was out a few months ago talking to a bunch of safety officers. I told him about the great reform that we come with and said it is the biggest freedom and security reform in the Swedish labour market in modern times. Then there was one who raised his hand and said: No, I disagree; this is the biggest gender equality reform in the Swedish labour market in modern times. She saw that this in many ways meets women's groups, in health care and in trade – there are also many men of course. This, of course, will make a difference to ordinary people. It is a reform that increases flexibility for our employers. It has been tough for many employers during this period. Not least during the pandemic, we have seen the importance of predictable conditions for our companies and employers. But it also increases the security of employees, not least those with the most precarious employment. I am very proud that we are going to come forward with proposals for legislative changes in this area. I also see how important it is that we continue to have respect for the party model and trust in the collective agreement model and that collective agreements continue to develop so that they are updated and adapted to the conditions that apply to the Swedish labour market here and now. I am absolutely convinced that we will see how collective agreements continue to develop. It's basically every day. There are over 600 collective agreements in the Swedish labour market, which regulate the specific conditions for industries and specific sectors. I am extremely proud of this, and together we shall be very concerned about the collective agreement model.
i-Ccw8jRXPFfCYEV33C7WFtG	President. - Thank you very much. I promise, Madam President, that I will be better at speaking through you. Sometimes you get a little worked up by the debate. I would like to thank Eva Nordmark for her answers. If there is one thing I respect, Madam President, it is collective agreements and the autonomy that trade unions have to enter into agreements in their market. But what I have also learned and seen clearly is how difficult it was, for example, when legislation went in and deteriorated employment and general fixed-term contracts came in, to come up with a contract that regulated away that type of employment. Whatever the case, the legislation lays the ground for any type of contract that can be concluded with the employer. For example, being employed on a temporary agency represents a great many disadvantages. You have a worse working environment, and you have a lower degree of influence over, for example, your work tasks and usually get to do the worse and a little more boring tasks. Staff members have short employment and so on. The Left Party believes that temporary work agencies must be regulated and, in the long term, completely removed from the Swedish labour market. Madam President, I would like I note that the Minister for Labour and the Social Democrats do not want to strengthen the regulation of rentals, as Mr Handels wants. It is good that this is made clear to the voters.
i-UwystqaJPPoPmzuLfucM1u	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Ciczie Weidby for the interpellation. I would like to make it very clear that the Government intends to take care of the partnership agreement, which provides both greater flexibility for our employers and greater security for employees. In particular, those with the most precarious employment and employment conditions will find a difference. It is extremely important, what we are doing this year. I believe, Madam President, that we fundamentally agree that we need to strengthen the protection of those in precarious employment and that issues relating to collective agreements are best dealt with by the parties themselves and not by us politicians. I would like to conclude by repeating what I said at the outset. Security for ordinary people is about having a job to go to. Everyone who can work should work. When you get to work, you have to have safe and good conditions. One should be able to feel secure in the labour market, have the opportunity to develop and have a decent life. To conclude, Madam President, given my new portfolio as Minister for Equal Opportunities, I cannot stress enough how crucial it is to ensure that everyone has the right to a job, self-sufficiency. This is what basically gives freedom, community and development opportunities. We'll never forget that. It is also an important part of the struggle for gender equality to ensure that more women get better employment relationships, have a job to go to and in that way can also live in freedom and independence. The woman's place is at work, simply. Thank you, Ciczie Weidby, for the interpellation!
i-UovU14DMXMq358kK6yf743	Madam President, I would like Kristina Axén Olin has asked me whether I believe that we have a problem of insecurity for teachers in schools, what I intend to do to ensure that teachers are safe at their workplace, whether I believe that the school law is adequate in terms of teachers' competence in the classroom and whether I intend to take any action on the basis of my assessment. Swedish school needs to be more secure for both students and teachers. Every time a teacher feels insecure, it is a problem for school and society as a whole. It is self-evident that all teachers should be able to feel safe at their workplace. Threats, violence and violations against teachers and other school staff must never be accepted. The government has therefore implemented and is now implementing a series of concrete measures to strengthen safety and education at school. An important part of this work is to strengthen the competences of teachers and other staff. The Government has also decided on changes to the curriculum for both primary and secondary schools. The changes took effect on 1 July 2019 and clarify the Vice-Chancellor's special responsibility for safety and education at school. The responsibility of pupils to show respect for school staff and other pupils is also now set out in the curricula. The Government has also invested in educational leadership, and the Swedish National Agency for Education offers support and competence development for both teachers and principals on this issue. But more needs to be done. Teachers should feel that they have the support of society as they maintain a safe school environment. In order to create a clearer and better functioning regulatory framework for safety and education at school, a national plan for safety and education has been developed (Ds 2021:13). It aims to define the direction of long-term and systematic work for greater security in education and education. The plan proposes, among other things, clearer governance, strengthening preventive work and clearer powers for school staff to intervene when the situation so requires. The memorandum also contains proposals to make it easier for students who threaten or expose other pupils or school staff to violence to be switched off or relocated. Other proposals mean that mobile phones should not be used in class unless the teacher allows it and that the possibilities for taking care of mobile phones and other electronic communications equipment should be increased. The memorandum has been referred, and the proposals are now being prepared within the Government Office. Finally, I would like to stress the importance of all teachers being treated with respect for their important mission. The professional strength and trust in one's own ability build a teacher not alone but together with others, not only colleagues, principals and principals, but also guardians and the rest of society. If we are to succeed in this, we must support the teachers. H ela society needs to see the school as a common educational institution and not as a service in the market, where students are customers and teachers are suppliers.
i-TLgYWYLgXJ7woLGjeSeuPz	Madam President, I would like The beatings of the student. Threatened by the student that I would be no more and the student pulled his finger over his neck. Called idiot, whore, useless, etc.
i-DQ7maBEEcQmTHjAS3YMAL9	中 Students who erupt and throw balls, chairs. Tossing at the student... students screaming that you're stupid in the head, mean, etc. Trouble between students. Custodians have accused me of trying to push down a student as a student has followed rules of conduct. .....................................................
i-28kPt5doq9y3RPFivVj3AN	中 Students have secretly taken pictures of my bust and posted online with condescending comments. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like This is the reality of our schools. When the Teachers' Association made a report this summer, about a quarter of the teachers in high school reported that they had been subjected to threats or violence at school. When the Teachers' Association had another survey carried out at the end of autumn, more than half of our teachers reported that they are being subjected to physical violence by students. This is the situation in Swedish school. I believe that I and the Government share the insight that good teachers and principals who are safe at work and happy at school and safe and calm students in classrooms with studyo are the prerequisites for a high level of knowledge. The situation that prevails in our classrooms – not in all schools, but obviously in more than half of them – is totally unacceptable. We can't have that! This is, of course, one of the reasons why 16 058 students last summer left grade 9 without the right to read further, referring to a rather dark future. Madam President, I would like I have asked the Government whether it is not incredibly alarming tasks that the Teacher Association reports and what the Government intends to do about this.
i-LiTE26YUUHMG96m8a5RKaj	Madam President, I would like I share the picture of the seriousness of events that Kristina Axén Olin renders. The cases where teachers or other students are violated are not acceptable. We can always do more. But what counts at last is power of action. Therefore, as Minister of Education, I and this government have decided on changes in the curriculum. As I read earlier, we clarify the Vice-Chancellor's responsibilities, and students' responsibilities have also been clarified. Increased powers we are now working on, as well as opportunities for relocation and to shut down students. We are investing in skills development. So there is action. But there are also other things that are important in this. It's about colleagues for teachers at school. Therefore, the investment of 6.5 billion that this government has decided on are important elements. We are also determined to make decisions that will affect segregation. Madam President, I would like Let me make it clear, however, that there are some schools that have very heavy missions compared to others. Therefore, it is important that we review the cases where segregation makes it difficult for teachers to be safe at their workplace. It is also important for everyone in school, both teachers and students, that there is a curriculum that clarifies responsibility and also that everyone understands what to learn. It is a prerequisite for study and security. But not only this plan, which deals with teachers' increased powers, what principals have the responsibility and the ability to relocate, or other important initiatives, but also that we review the school system. There was a deterioration in Swedish school on the day when Sweden got a school where the teacher is on the border with service staff. It is a market school where students have a lot of power, because they are customers and can change schools, and it is actually possible for guardians or students to influence how the teaching profession should be exercised. Democratic control and control of the school market is also a way of taking control of what is happening in the classroom and society.
i-yGV6wW5myEf649yuCx9Ko	Madam President, I would like It's fascinating how different we can look at the school's problems. It's really interesting, but it's also pretty sad. Today we have a situation in Swedish schools where half of the teachers say that they have been subjected to violence. Half of the students also say that they have been subjected to crime during the school day, according to Brå's study. One in four pupils in middle school has stomach pains and says that they rarely or never feel safe in school. The Government is then talking about marketing school and teachers as service staff as problems in Swedish school. That does not belong in this debate, Madam President, and it is not in line with reality. The Social Democrats have been in power for seven years. The school will soon be free. Every fourth child in grade 6 does not pass school, and more than half of the teachers have been subjected to violence. We still have to do something about that, don't we? In its study, the Teachers' Association also shows that one in five teachers working at school today is considering quitting precisely because of the situation of threats, violence, and mess in school. Today, teachers are missing. In a few years there will be 12 000 teachers missing, something that many of us are worried about and wondering how to solve. Should we instead be concerned that even more teachers will leave the profession? Today, we have 35 000 – 40 000 trained teachers who have chosen not to work in Swedish schools. When SCB 2017 had a survey carried out, 40 percent of the teachers answered that mess and violence and the lack of action against this in Swedish school was the reason why they chose to leave the profession. Then a government minister from the government that has been responsible for this for seven years talks about marketing school and that we will regain control. Madam President, I would like I find it embarrassing that the Government does not take the situation more seriously that every other teacher has been subjected to violence on school day.
i-PCuBncaU67CLb6tRr6nQNb	Madam President, I would like Kristina Axén Olin doesn't really listen to what I'm saying. We have introduced a great many reforms, including in the curriculum, which clarify responsibilities. We are now introducing clearer rules in terms of authority and the possibility of relocating and shutting down pupils. We have also made unique efforts for teachers to have colleagues, so that a teacher should not have large classes alone. I would also like to remind Kristina Axén Olin that a school that is permeated by stress, pressure and exclusion – a lot of stress within the school area – was introduced in 2011. It was a curriculum that made it very difficult to understand what you could, and it caused a lot of anxiety in school, not just in the faculty. Another thing that has happened since then is that it has become more difficult to get into high school. Then one might think that it is an increase in requirements, but it has rather been the opposite, only more exclusion. The segregation is another trace. Here we will put forward proposals for a school choice that will enable everyone to change schools, not just those who have called for school places. We also ensure that those schools with the most challenges, where there is also the most concern, receive more money. It is important that we not only do the things we have done but that we also do more things. That is why we now have a very stressful period in the Riksdag with very positive proposals for Sweden's students and, above all, Sweden's teachers. We're trying to regain control of welfare. That's our purpose. Because it will be very difficult as long as we see that money does not go where it is going. We have a segregated school where some teachers every day will not only teach but will also deal with a lot of social problems. Maybe half the class is new arrivals. Others have other social problems. That is why society and those of us who are democratically elected politicians must actually take responsibility. We cannot just say that the market will sort this out and do the best, but it is a whole. If there is chaos in the school market with a free market, it will easily become chaos with students too. Here it is important that we take the command and that we give the authority to those closest to the students. That is what our proposals are aimed at. Above all, teachers will have colleagues. Money should go to students and teachers and not to profits in welfare.
i-BsrDVLV6vERdCrxp2TjRv9	Madam President, I would like It is interesting that Minister Lina Axelsson Kihlblom refers to the 2011 curriculum as a reason why half of the teachers have been subjected to violence. Now the Social Democrats have been in government for more than seven years – seven and a half years – and there is only a messier and messier school. That's what my interpellation is about. The school is one of Sweden's largest workplaces, with priceless teachers who are necessary for Sweden to grow and for us to have happy and well-functioning citizens. Half of the teachers feel that there is chaos in school, and one in five teachers is thinking of quitting because school is so messy. This is the Government's response to that – it is in itself three proposals that we Moderates have long been pushing. It is about that principals should have more opportunity to turn off students, about that there should be a mobile ban in school, which in itself is quite passé because 70 percent of schools already two years ago had a mobile ban, and about changing the curriculum so that it becomes a little clearer. But, Madam President, that is not the answer when it comes to creating order in school. You need to change the school law. There is a need to ensure that children with different diagnoses receive specialist help. We need safe resource schools, which the Government and I discussed the other day. There, after seven years, nothing has happened. The Teacher Association has a number of concrete proposals that they repeatedly put forward. Rectors should have more training in leading the work against threats and violence. The title of the School Act. 5, Security and Studieso, need to be revised. Teachers' supervisory responsibilities need to be defined by law. It is a matter of anti-aggressive measures. They therefore have concrete proposals that they repeatedly put forward on changes in school law and regulation, on more education and on ensuring that children with neuropsychiatric diagnoses are not always in the same classroom without help. When, Madam President, will the Government take responsibility for what it looks like in Swedish school after the government has ruled for over seven years?
i-GSuRRCp4BjrEDZRccKcnz3	Madam President, I would like Kristina Axén Olin does not listen when I explain all the fundamental reforms that we have carried out and that we will carry out. Kristina Axén Olin knows that we are making a proposal about resource schools and that we are making unique investments this spring. I would also like to remind you that SEK 6 billion for schools in the country has contributed to the fact that there are more colleagues for teachers who are lonely and vulnerable. Unlike Kristina Axén Olin, I think we have good teachers in Sweden. I also think we have good principals. I do not share the picture that there is chaos in Swedish school. However, I would like to say that we must work on this issue in a clear and systematic way. And there must be a line on the experience that exists in the classroom, cooperation with the trade unions and follow-up at each school and for every school head who deals with how things go and how they do things. There we, as legislators and I, as Minister of Education, can listen to what tools you need out there. That is exactly what we do when we say: the schools that need the most resources should have those resources. Schools with the greatest challenges should have the best teachers. We're gonna have a curriculum that students and teachers understand. It should be clear what powers teachers and principals have in dealing with problems. We are doing this now.
i-88pnW2FaWSSePaFEMrbRjU	Madam President, I would like Kristina Axén Olin has asked me a number of questions about the international measurements of knowledge. I will answer them in turn. Kristina Axén Olin has asked me whether I think it is important for Sweden to participate in international knowledge measurements and whether I intend to take any action from my point of view. In recent years, the Swedish knowledge results have turned upwards. We see this clearly in both our national statistics and the international knowledge measurements in which Sweden participates. International knowledge measurements are a relevant and important instrument for measuring pupils' knowledge over time. We need to have a good basis on students' knowledge in order to be able to make the right decision. It is therefore important that the knowledge we obtain from international knowledge measurements is correct. Sweden's participation in the international knowledge measurements is regulated in the Swedish National Board of Education's instruction. The instructions for the agency show that the Swedish National Agency for Education can represent the state and that the authority is responsible for Sweden's participation in the international knowledge measurements. I will have a dialogue with the authority and closely monitor developments in the work on the knowledge measurements. Kristina Axén Olin has also asked me if I believe that Sweden has handled the international knowledge measurements, Pisa, Timss and Pirl, according to the regulations. In Sweden, as mentioned earlier, the Swedish National Agency for Education is responsible for the implementation of international knowledge measurements. It is therefore also the Authority that has the knowledge and resources to monitor how the studies are carried out in the participating schools. The Swedish National Agency for Education has always been clear that they have followed current guidelines for the implementation of international knowledge measurements, and I have confidence in the authority. However, there should be no doubt whatsoever in schools as to which pupils should be given the opportunity to carry out the knowledge measurements or not. The Government therefore commissioned the Swedish National Agency for Education on 6 May 2021 to strengthen the agency's efforts to ensure a high level of participation in accordance with current guidelines in Pisa 2022. Kristina Axén Olin has also asked me whether I intend to take steps to ensure that the international knowledge measurements in which Sweden participates in the future are properly carried out. The Swedish National Agency for Education's commission to participate in Pisa, which I just mentioned, was presented to the Government Office on 1 November 2021. The report shows that the Swedish National Agency for Education will take a range of measures to increase participation in accordance with the OECD guidelines in Pisa 2022. I will continue to monitor developments closely so that we can rely on the results of international knowledge measurements. In this context, it is important to point out that the international knowledge measurements do not say everything about the knowledge development in the Swedish school. We need to put these measurements and national statistics next to each other and follow developments over time to be able to see trends in our students' knowledge development.
i-3SVE9pSUZpLz98gJGi4WMP	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It is a concern that we do not have our own knowledge measurements in Sweden. We Moderates have repeatedly suggested that we should have our own knowledge measurements to be able to see how knowledge progresses in Sweden, but so far the Social Democrats have said no to this. The Social Democrats have also chosen to design the national tests not to be knowledge-based. One of the first questions that the ministers get after the election is: Should our national tests be knowledge-based or grade-based? Minister for School Anna Ekström chose to design the national exams to be just gradeable. This is unfortunate, Madam President, because it means that Sweden has no self-measurement of what the knowledge looks like in Swedish schools. That is why we are very dependent on international measurements. There are several, and the one we usually talk about most is Pisa, who is the one where a large number of students are involved. Then there are two smaller ones, Timss and Pirl, about which we don't talk much and which have a rather small base. It is therefore actually Pisa who in a broader perspective measures what it looks like in Swedish school when it comes to the level of knowledge. As Minister Lina Axelsson Kihlblom surely noted last year, we have had major problems with Sweden's participation in Pisa, as we excluded far too many students. The Swedish National Agency for Education has always argued that they have done the right thing, but they have been convicted both by various researchers who have gone through Sweden's participation and by the Swedish National Audit Office, who have made quite serious remarks about Sweden's participation. About 11.5 per cent did not write Pisa– they were excluded because they were not considered to have gone to Swedish school long enough or mastered the language. Beyond that, another 13 percent did not show up that day. Overall, it was a quarter of our nines who never participated in Pisa, and perhaps it wasn't exactly the quarter that would have brought up the result a lot. It is important to learn from the errors that have been made and make sure that the only greater knowledge measurement that we still have in Swedish schools is carried out correctly, hence my interpellation to the Government to ask if we could possibly consider introducing our own Swedish knowledge measurements and how we ensure that the international ones are complied with in the very best way. Madam President, I would like The Government refers to the fact that the Swedish National Agency for Education considers that this has been done correctly, which is of course not a particularly reassuring comment from the Government, since the Swedish National Agency for Education has been proven to be the Swedish Government and that it was not done in the best way. I therefore hope that the Government will be able to explain how to ensure that Sweden's participation will be correct in the future.
i-VEDWixgKHCN3umvHYf1qez	Madam President, I would like I share Kristina Olin Axén's accuracy on the question of the right to be right. Transparency and transparency are very important. We share that will. However, I do not share Kristina Olin Axén's view that we do not measure enough in Swedish school. All principals are assigned to follow up on the knowledge of all grades on all subjects. We have national tests in grades 3, 6 and 9 that clearly reflect the knowledge that students should have based on current policy documents. There are a lot of statistics in the Swedish National Agency for Education. Furthermore, the Swedish School Inspectorate has clear instructions for how to follow up grading and so on. The interpellation is not really about this but about the international knowledge measurements, and therefore I feel very confident with the answer we get from the Swedish National Agency for Education. They have been commissioned to strengthen efforts at the Swedish National Agency for Education to ensure participation. The OECD demands 77 percent participation; the Swedish National Agency for Education's requirements and ambition are 90 percent that they want to deliver to us. The National Agency for Education is the expert authority that has the resources, competence and experience of cooperating with the OECD. I therefore feel very calm that these will be figures that we can trust. As I said: This measurement together with other international measurements are indications, and together with the measurements and statistics we have internally, we will analyse, take it further and see what efforts can support us there. What is important is that we measure and control in order to be better. Therefore, it is important that the measurements we make as far as possible should be adapted to the steering documents so that what the students are taught is also what we measure. We will measure particularly vulnerable groups – newly arrived students and so on. There are also other groups in society whose goal fulfilment needs to be even better, and that is why measurements and the knowledge acquisition we do are very important. Nor do I hesitate, should it be necessary in the future when we are implementing reforms to clarify the curriculum, that we are also designing other ways. We also carry out digitisation of national tests as a complement to international measurements. What I think is important to say is that the trend is broken on all the international measurements when we had our low-level years, Madam President. That's why I share Kristina Axén Olin's concerns if you can't trust those figures, but I feel confident about Pisa 2022.
i-XZb3bD91rTQyL5vqt1ufDG	Madam President, I would like Monitoring the development of knowledge in Sweden is important for all of us. It is about Sweden's growth, but of course it is also about the individuals and their future. Not long ago, I and the Government discussed the development of crime in Sweden. After the statistics came, I made parallels that what unfortunately unites the criminals for 24 years today is that 80% have not passed a grade from primary school. The best prevention we can do is probably to ensure that all students pass Swedish school. Therefore, it is important to measure the development of knowledge in Sweden year after year so that you see what works and does not work. Unfortunately, Madam President, we do not do so in Sweden. The Government refers to the national tests, but the Social Democrats have chosen not to make them knowledge-based. That election was given to the Social Democrats: Should the national tests be carried out in order to be knowledge-based or grade-based? Anna Ekström chose them to be gradeable. Now we should not get caught in the national tests, but it is a scandal that the Riksdag already 2015/ 16 decided that they should be digitised and corrected centrally. If they had been corrected externally and centrally, they could have been interesting to see the development of knowledge, because then we would have got an equal assessment and could have seen how the development is in Swedish school. However, since the Government has not carried out the Riksdag's decisions, despite the fact that it has been repeated in principle every year, it is not possible to use the national tests. For Sweden, one in four children did not participate in the latest Pisa measurement. Yet Sweden was the worst in the world when it came to the difference between natively born pupils and foreign-born pupils. So Sweden has huge problems, and therefore it is even more important to make annual measurements of the Swedish results and whether the development is going in the right direction or not. Madam President, I would like I do not share the Government's view that the trend is broken and that progress is moving in the right direction. A quarter of the students didn't write Pisa. It was also a greater exclusion than the regulations in Timss allow. Yet the Government and the Social Democrats say that the development in Swedish schools is moving in the right direction. It is interesting that one in four children in grade 6 is not approved in any subject or subjects. This figure is consistent with the quarter that did not participate in the PISA measurement. When every fourth student did not participate in Pisa, when his own measurements are not made, when every fourth student in grade 6 has lines in something or some subjects, how can you say that the development is going in the right direction and that the trend is broken? It's for me a riddle. But perhaps you can say that when you have held the government power for seven years and do not want to take responsibility for the problems that exist in Swedish school.
i-Btfk1WpMH4b3gQVexVBMB2	Madam President, I would like Kristina Axén Olin travels with a lot of statistics. These are statistics that I do not recognize myself. I know that Minister Ekström has answered several of the questions and made clear what the statistics for grade 6 show, and so on. I would like to point out one thing, namely that for students who have been in Swedish primary school for six years, there is no difference if they were born in Sweden or in another country. That's what all the statistics say. On the other hand, poverty or low educational backgrounds affect from home. Swedish school is strong in many areas. I don't share the picture of it going down at all. With the reforms taking place in the curriculum, we will see greater clarity for teachers and students in what one should be able to do. Reforms in better school choices, reduced segregation, clarity in the curriculum and so on are important in breaking the trend of segregation, exclusion and exclusion. I would like to remind Kristina Axén Olin once again that it was the Moderates who introduced the 2011 curriculum, which is heavily criticized for being fuzzy and difficult to understand. Furthermore, it is difficult to use the grades. At the same time, it became difficult to understand what one should be able to raise the bar to get vocational training. It has been fatal for Sweden's development and for exclusion. We have to rate, and we have to measure in order to be better. It is therefore important that the Swedish National Agency for Education is given a clear mandate to carry out the Pisa measurements. The measures pointed out by the Swedish National Audit Office will be followed up. Furthermore, there should be a high response rate. I would also like to point out that the Swedish population is constantly changing. Therefore, we should be careful when we cast statistics that black out Swedish school, where much actually goes forward. The average age of newly arrived pupils when they come to Sweden has gone from seven years to nine years old. This reduces the chances of reaching grades in all subjects in grade 9 and thus upper secondary school qualifications. Therefore, it is important to invest in those students who need the money most, and therefore we cannot use statistics in a sloppy way to discredit those who work in the Swedish school.
i-W65iFCdpYFbC95wRMUQg7Y	Madam President, I would like Who will perform Pisa measurements in the future we will decide on some week, and I am not so sure that it will be the Swedish National Agency for Education that will implement Pisa in the future. But let's see what Parliament's decision will be. Madam President, I would like What is sad is that a minister here tells us that the development in Sweden is moving in the right direction and that the results will hold if you exclude the foreign-born students. You can't do that. It is true that there are many with foreign origin in Sweden. Today, about a quarter of comprehensive school pupils are of foreign origin. What has happened in Swedish school, a problem that we really should be discussing, is that more than one student in grade 9 has not attended all the years in Swedish school. It is a major concern that those students do not pass school, and they make up too large a proportion of those who do not pass school and are eligible for upper secondary school. We really should be discussing that issue. What should we do in Sweden for children with foreign origin to pass Swedish school? How are we going to get better at ensuring that those who have also passed the initial years in another country will pass school? There, Sweden stands out in the results. Among other things, Pisa measurements show that Sweden is the country around the world where there is the greatest difference between native born children and foreign born children. I would be happy to discuss this issue with the Government 24 hours a day if we could find a good solution. What is interesting is that the Government indirectly says that those children do not exist and refer to the other children. In Moderate Sweden, all children count. Therefore, all children present in the classrooms each day should of course participate in the knowledge measurements.
i-N4YYg8HorFS3o86QCS8oH7	Madam President, I would like Kristina Axén Olin hears things I haven't said. We look at all students as a matter of course, and we will measure to make us better. This interpellation was about the work on international knowledge measurements. I notice that we are moving from subject to subject with statistics from one and the other that I do not recognize. It's a kind of dispersal and confusion. This interpellation is also about what we have done to ensure that international knowledge measurements work well. The National Agency for Education is the expert authority, as I have said before, which has the competence, experience and resources to carry out the international knowledge measurements. The Swedish National Audit Office's criticism has been taken on board, and the Swedish National Agency for Education has higher ambitions than the OECD's requirements for participating countries, i.e. a response rate of 90 per cent. That's what the interpellation was about. I am willing to address the discussion on the solutions. I will present many proposals to Parliament during the spring. They concern a revised curriculum, increasing the security of schools, an increased focus on all students understanding what they should be able to do and so on. This is the basis for Swedish school development. We're going to take back the school we once had that the alliance government destroyed and turned into a marketing school.
i-SrREnF5fnSQXEHmStu5Y7M	Madam President, I would like Mikael Damsgaard has asked me what measures I intend to take to further strengthen the standard-setting function of national examinations in rating, what measures I intend to take to strengthen the supervision and quality review of assessment and rating by the School Inspectorate, and whether I am considering introducing some form of sanctions against schools and principals that systematically lack assessment and rating. I would like to begin by saying that we have had problems with different grades for a long time. It is unacceptable if the grades are not set fairly, not least from the individual's perspective because grades have a crucial role to play in access to education and can affect access to employment. Equivalence must be strengthened and grade inflation countered. B ewes that are put in a fair way should reflect the student's knowledge, not which school the student attends. The government has therefore taken several measures in this area, and more is under way. As regards the standard-setting function of the national tests, the Riksdag has decided, in accordance with the Government's proposal, that the results of the national tests should be taken into account in particular when grading. Given the grading purpose of the tests, it is of great importance that the tests are also assessed equally. The Government has initiated a major project to digitise the national tests through assignments to the National School Administration. This includes several important measures to strengthen equivalence. The Swedish National Agency for Education shall strive to ensure that as much as possible of the tests are automatically corrected to increase the objectivity of the assessment, which also frees up time for teachers. Student solutions that cannot be corrected automatically should be assessed externally, i.e. by someone other than the teacher. Last year, the National Agency for Education was also tasked with preparing for central correction of the national tests, i.e. that the tests should be assessed by qualified and qualified teachers on behalf of a state authority. But there is also a local responsibility to counteract joy and strengthen equivalence. The Swedish National Agency for Education's general advice on grades and grading states that the Vice-Chancellor should create the conditions for promoting teachers' work with grading and, together with teachers, follow up the grades that are set. The principal should follow up grades and national test grades within his/her own organisation and, if necessary, put in efforts that create the conditions for more accurate and equivalent grades. The Swedish National Agency for Education provides support and support in the form of national statistics to facilitate analysis. As regards the issue of the School Inspectorate and sanctions, the Government decided as late as December 2021 on a mission to the Authority. The authority shall review how principals and schools work to ensure that grades are given in accordance with current regulations and how they work with the field of equal assessment and grading. The Government has also provided permanent funding for the Swedish School Inspectorate to carry out more inspections in schools with a large discrepancy between grades and results on national tests. Periodically during the covid-19 pandemic, national tests have not been given, which has made the work more difficult. However, we await the Swedish School Inspectorate's information about what they are paying attention to, what measures are being taken and whether it appears that some form of sanction is missing from the tools that the Authority already has. These efforts, as well as the review of course and subject plans with associated knowledge requirements and changes in the grading system now proposed in the proposal Subject grades – grades should better reflect students' knowledge( 2021/ 22:36), are all important components of the work to achieve a more fair and equal rating. I note that work on improving the system of ratings from the point of view of equivalence is actively underway. However, this work needs to be closely monitored, and I do not rule out the need for further action.
i-UhaD9iq2Kio38stuUFhEJ3	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. Recurrently we get reports of large differences in how generous schools are in their rating. Those of us who have been following and active in school policy for a long time also know that the issue of grade inflation or joy certificates is not a new issue. The equality of grades between schools and principals is important for a variety of reasons. The grades are expected to describe how much Swedish students learn in school and provide clear feedback to students and parents. The final grades are also used as a basis for selecting different courses, so equivalence is also a question of fairness. In the end, the legitimacy of the school system and the rating system is at risk if there is too much lack of equivalence. Reports of how teachers are put under pressure by students and parents also reach us. However, the grades should not be negotiable – grades should be based on the knowledge the student has demonstrated. However, efforts to ensure an equal rating have been weak for a long time, and much suggests that ever since Sweden received target-related ratings in the 1990s, there has been rating inflation. The fact that an increasing proportion of students receive the grade system's highest grades while Sweden's results in international knowledge measurements do not improve also suggests that. We could hear that in the previous debate. Although teachers have since 2018 to pay particular attention to the results of the national examinations in connection with grading, the differences between schools and municipalities remain large in terms of how well the grades and test results are consistent. The last time students in grade 9 in Sweden wrote national exams was 2019, when more than half of the pupils in the municipal schools in 28 of the country's municipalities received better final grades than they did in the national exams. At school level, differences between grades and national exams are often even greater. Problems of mismatch between grades and national exams are found among both municipal and independent schools. It is therefore clear that the state needs to take further measures to ensure that all schools in Sweden are able to score grades that correspond to the pupils' knowledge and thereby counteract grade inflation. The Minister for Education states in his reply that it is of great importance that the tests are assessed equally and that the tests should therefore be digitally corrected. Where this is not possible, they should be corrected by another teacher. In this we are in complete agreement; the Moderates have for a long time been pushing the issue of digitisation of the national tests and external correction. Given how long that question has been up to date – and how long the question of grade inflation has been up to date in Sweden – it is surprising that there is still no system in place to deal with this. Here, after seven years of government, the Social Democrats bear a very great responsibility. In the case of discrepancies between national examinations and grades, the Minister for Education refers to local responsibility and to a mission to the Swedish School Inspectorate. However, I have doubts as to whether this is enough. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether she is prepared to consider further demands for a sharper link between national examinations and grading at school level in order to tackle this problem.
i-8C5zFuP7FbL97Gxv64kYka	Madam President, I would like I agree with Mikael Damsgaard: this is not enough. That is why we are now implementing a clarification of the curriculum so that teachers and students actually know what to rate on and so that students know what to be able to do. This curriculum, introduced by the Alliance in 2011, is fluke and difficult to understand. Therefore, we want to clarify what the students should be able to do. It is a fundamental condition for a fair grade. As a social democrat and representative of the Social Democratic Government, I am also clear about the market school. In marketing school, students are customers, parents are clients' lawyers and teachers have become service staff. If the teacher does not give the grade that makes the customer happy – the customer is always right – you change school. You are a pawn in a big game, and schools use rating as marketing to compete with other schools. There are sometimes silent pacts for some grades and some schools on subjects where there are no national tests. I believe that, as Mikael Damsgaard pointed out here, we must see this in a broader context and have clarity in what applies and national tests that are corrected externally. We shall have a curriculum that is clear and clear on what to be able to do. We should remember that the grades should reflect knowledge and make sure that the student understands where it can get better. But the grades should also reflect what more the school should be able to do. In the future, we need to discuss how the grades can better reflect students' knowledge here and now and how the school can support them to become more knowledgeable. An elite athlete or elite sportswoman who is at the top of her goat gets an F in grade if the person misses a small part. Today we have a tough rating system that may not benefit all students. We're never going to lower the standards-- I think Mikael Damsgaard and I agree that we can never do that. However, we can be clearer with a rating system that better reflects what students can, which is easier for teachers to score with and is easier to follow up. That is why I am now implementing the reforms I am making and also creating a great deal of work for Parliament in making decisions in this direction. Finally, it is a matter of taking control of welfare, so that not everyone can see the school as a marketplace where there is a jippo. The focus should be on students learning – nothing else.
i-Xt73AcsJtnxH4nenX4RpxX	Madam President, I would like It is undeniably interesting that the Minister for Education wants every discussion about Swedish schools to be about 11 per cent of Sweden's primary school pupils going to independent schools run by limited companies. 104 of the country's municipalities have no independent primary schools. Is it the case, the Minister for Education, that there are no problems in these municipalities, where what the Minister of Education describes as a school market does not exist? It is undeniably interesting that the Minister of Education is sticking to and concentrating so much on this issue. For us Moderates, the right of pupils and parents to choose a school is a central principle. But real freedom of choice also requires choices to be made. The schools run by public limited liability companies also play an important role in helping to develop the school locally and to contribute to diversity. Although the school groups that the Minister of Education often talks about are large national groups, they are small local. They contribute to local diversity. I can take an example from my municipality of Västerås, where there are about 16,000 students in grades 1 to 9. There are 730 students in the International English School. More than 500 students attend Knowledge School. These actors are small locally and contribute to diversity. It is fascinating that the Minister of Education gets so caught up in this matter. Back to the interpellation and what we were actually going to discuss. Another aspect of the lack of equivalence in grading is that it also reduces the difference in knowledge among pupils in different schools. A couple of years ago, the Swedish National Agency for Education released a report stating that the rating in Sweden is largely relative. The chance of getting a higher grade than what is motivated by the performance of the national test is greater in a low-performance school than in a high-performance school because the rating is relative. Part of the answer given by the Minister for Education here was the development of curricula. There is an absolute need for this and for learning from the ten years of experience we have of current curricula. I believe, however, that it is naive to believe that the development of curricula in itself will increase the equivalence between schools. This will make it easier for teachers to grade, and it will be easier for students to understand what grades they will receive if the curricula become clear. However, I think it is naive to think that we can have such clear curricula and curricula that it significantly increases the equivalence between schools, because there will always be a great deal of room for interpretation. I asked in the interpellation whether the Minister for Education is prepared to consider sanctions against schools that are systematically lacking in their rating. The Minister of Education did not touch on this in his reply, and I would therefore like to see her develop it somewhat in the forthcoming debate.
i-MrVLt1FKcLhWVBztcMfkMC	Madam President, I would like I shall begin with the question of sanctions. As I said in my reply, when we receive the School Inspectorate's report, we will see if we need to take action in this area. We need evidence; we can't guess. Speaking of every discussion, and if there are no problems, let me say: yes, there are problems, and it is important that we talk about them. Schools that need to compete in a market set different grades than those that don't. We see that for-profit independent schools have higher ratings – greater discrepancies – than the non-profit independent schools. I'm for independent schools. I'm in favour of the options. I am even in favour of a fair school election where everyone can choose and where everyone can choose on the same terms. I think that is very important, because I want very many independent schools. I want a fair school election system, Madam President, but just as Mikael Damsgaard was on the subject, it is a matter of clarity as to what is at stake. In 2011, a curriculum was introduced that neither teachers nor students understand. I had a colleague in the School Commission – a student. I asked the student, do you know what you're supposed to know? Then he smiled, Madam President. He looked at me and said, "I know, but my classmates don't know." That was a very wise man. That's what it's been like for a few years. This makes it very difficult. Is it well done, or is it relatively well done? This is hard. The rating has become fuzzy and difficult, and it is difficult for the students to understand. This is a fundamental part of counteracting grade inflation. We'll know what it is, what the knowledge looks like, and so on. This is not something you can think of in your Chamber. It should not be part of the marketing of a school to attract more students. I think this is very important, and I am prepared to proceed with these reforms. The school election system will be reviewed. More people should be able to choose a school. We're going to have independent schools and so on. But the grades, the quality and the focus on the students should never be removed. Therefore, the question is what the money should be for – is it for the students' knowledge development or not? We are carrying out a great many reforms in this area in order to better ensure safe rating. This is actually fundamental for both teachers and students, because the grades give access to the university. It is sad to hear that the university states that some schools – they can almost point out certain school forms – actually give too high grades and that the students do not really live up to the demands that the university has. We must also work on this. All these things are connected, and it's a puzzle. It is about clarity, not only in the control and management of Swedish school, but also in terms of what is to be taught and how it is to be done in the classroom. There we must have confidence in the teachers in their profession. They should not be influenced by external factors, such as the principal's desire for their grades to become part of a marketing.
i-7fJrApKoHEBbTrtDxMdrCW	Madam President, I would like As I stated in my introductory speech: in 28 municipalities, 50% of the pupils in the municipal principal's own schools received higher math grades than they did in the national tests. Nevertheless, the Minister of Education wants to make this issue a question of free schools. We know that there is some difference in rating between forms of operation, but it is relatively small and provides a relatively small explanation value. What it is about is that we need to have a comprehensive structure in which the state takes responsibility for how we can follow up and ensure that all principals and all schools have an equal and qualitatively good rating. Here I expected more. We had a discussion that began in the last years of the alliance government. There are announcements from 2015 to strengthen the quality of national tests, for example. The discussion has been alive. The fact that it has taken so long for the government to come up with something feels fascinating. It is very doubtful whether the measures presented by the Minister for Education here today will lead to the desired results. Further action will be needed. With that, I would like to thank the Minister for School Affairs for the debate.
i-QscwP5qKiTBasHGfDA8emB	Madam President, I would like Municipal heads also have a big difference in rating. We have a big difference between independent actors and different forms of operation there. We have to work on this. Basic is that we have given authorities the task of checking and giving clear instructions and that we have steering documents that clearly indicate what it is to rate and for what. We cannot have a fluffy curriculum that indicates what a large professional group should use in their teaching and grading. That is why this is a step forward. The national tests shall be corrected externally and shall be automated. These are important reforms. We can't rush them out. That's why they're taking time. It should be done in harmony with the professions. What is knowledge? 中 is a matter for the educational profession. That is why we need to involve several parties in this. We shouldn't rush things out. This has been done in the past, and we are paying the price for it today. Then I would like to say that it is a bit sad to see the teacher's role, how it is affected, how the grades are used today in the school elections and so on. This applies in particular to school selection systems where not all pupils can choose on equal terms. I would like to thank Mikael Damsgaard for the interpellation debate.
i-DAAd4bRf5KSqPehMhTiiae	Madam President, I would like David Josefsson has asked me what I intend to do to increase the construction of small houses. I would like to start by pointing out that it is gratifying that the supply of housing is now increasing. The Swedish Housing Agency's latest construction needs calculations from December show that by 2030 approximately 60 000 homes need to be completed each year. The investment aid for rental housing and housing for students that has now been abolished on the initiative of the Moderates, Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats has been granted until 30 November 2021 for nearly 50 800 homes. The high interest in investment support indicates that the developers consider that there is still a need for – and the possibility of long-term rental – rental housing with relatively lower rent. The removal of this effective support is expected to have consequences in the form of fewer new rental dwellings and housing for students in the country in the future. During the term of office, the Government has been working on several fronts to create better conditions for housing construction. Among other things, the government has submitted a proposal on private initiative. The amendments entered into force on 1 August last year following the adoption of the proposal by the Council. The Government has also commissioned several authorities to review their claims on areas of national interest. This review aims at a significant reduction in both the number of claims of national interest and the overall distribution of these areas. The Government has also set up an investigation with the task of investigating and proposing measures to facilitate first-time buyers in the housing market. The investigation will, among other things, propose how a government start-up loan for first-time buyers should be designed. The measures to be examined by the investigation are intended to facilitate the entry into the market of owned dwellings. The so-called municipal plan monopoly means that it is primarily the municipalities that decide which land may be built and how the buildings may be designed. Thus, it is also the municipality that decides whether a certain area may be built with multi-detached buildings or with detached houses. It is a priority for the government to maintain the high pace of construction, as well as that people should be able to afford to live in what is being built. The possibility of meeting the need for small houses is important and something that the government is following very closely.
i-LXVoUacRq556XPcS7CeW4Z	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its response to the interpellation. The background to the interpellation is the fact that in some areas, including Västra Götaland, there is a surplus of rental apartments. At the same time, people want to own their home and therefore request the right-of-occupancy apartments, villas or plots to build a villa on. A functioning housing market is a prerequisite for individuals' ability to shape their own lives. Today, it is far from self-evident. The Swedish housing market is fundamentally dysfunctional. Instead of offering opportunities, it hampers both individuals and the economy as a whole. Businesses are finding it more difficult to employ and growth is being held back, while overcrowding and social problems are increasing. The Swedish housing market is characterised by too little market and, in some cases, long queues for rentals, high demands for buying a home and complicated rules for building. When Boverket conducted a housing market survey, municipalities mainly cited three major obstacles to housing construction: high production costs, lack of detailed plans for attractive land and difficulties for private individuals to obtain loans. Then the answer should be to propose measures that reduce production costs, remove unnecessary building rules and bureaucracy in the planning processes and facilitate standard solutions that reduce costs and increase competition. Perhaps we should also discuss how we can lower the thresholds for new ones in the housing market. The Government points to an investigation that will look into this issue. We Moderates see that many young people entering the housing market have significant problems in establishing themselves on the housing market as the low interest rate environment has driven price levels up. In the budget proposals for 2016 – 2018, the government provided financial support for construction. The Moderates then campaigned for the removal of this. Surely the government has not actually been able to perform an impact report on this financial support. We do not know if the tax money has done any good at all. It is likely that those homes would have been built anyway. Sweden's Construction industries believe that the homes built by means of the subsidies would have been built anyway. Instead, tax money has gone straight into the pockets of construction companies. Is it the right way to handle tax revenue?
i-ACxpMXifJBgW5gMhk2e1zi	Madam President, I would like I thank Mr Bergman for his commitment to this issue. The government thinks it is good that more multi-detached buildings are being built, but also that it is good if more small houses are built. To get back to what I said in my initial reply, the great interest in investment support shows that the developers consider that there is still a need and a long-term possibility to rent rental housing with lower rent. SCB's statistics on the number of vacant apartments in the stock also do not indicate that the number of vacant apartments is at unusually high levels, even in Västra Götaland County, to which the interpellant refers. But one thing's for sure. During the Moderates' time in power, it was built consistently too little. The total housing deficit increased every year they were in power. We have reversed this trend, and we are now building away the housing shortage. Since 2018, the deficit has started to turn downwards, and we graze every year of Sweden's housing debt. Boverket estimates that the pace of construction increased by approximately 15 per cent in 2021 when 66,000 dwellings were started. Some 61,000 dwellings are completed in 2022, which is the highest level in 30 years. Essentially, the key to solving the housing shortage is that we are able to sustain this historically high building act. But it will become more difficult once the Moderates have abolished the investment aid that has contributed to the construction of thousands of homes with lower rents. Let me also point out that the housing market is dynamic. If more rental apartments become available through an active housing policy, it also affects the supply of the owned stock. The need for housing also shifts through life. Students generally ask for student housing, and young people who are moving away from home often apply for a rental agreement. If Mom and Dad are unable to pay the cash bet, you may need to save for a while regardless of the type of accommodation you want in the long term. Perhaps in older days you want to move to a cheap rental apartment and in this way create the opportunity for a young family to take over the villa. All of this will become more difficult once the Moderates have abolished investment aid. Having said that, it is correct, as Bergman points out, that many people who have established themselves in the labour market and started to start a family want to move to small houses. I did it myself when we had our second child. Today it is difficult for first-time buyers with regular income and without rich parents to enter the purchased housing market. Basically, amortisation requirements have worked well and helped to increase household resilience, but, as the honourable Member points out, we have a situation where low interest rates, housing shortages, high building costs and high demand have contributed to housing prices rising faster than household income. This has made it more difficult for first-time buyers to enter the purchased housing market. It is precisely against this background that the government has commissioned a special investigator to make a proposal on how we can make it easier for first-time buyers in the housing market. The report will be presented in March, and the government looks forward to receiving the results.
i-6szAxsCWy6nEdghhzL5cEA	Madam President, I would like The Government said that very many new homes are being built and that development is moving in the right direction. At the same time, the building support has been removed. It contradicts the government's argument that the aid is needed. About 40 per cent of the dwelling stock consists of small houses, which means that approximately half of the population lives in small houses because the household size is larger. Small houses are detached villas, terraced houses and chain houses. In the EU, small houses account for about 40% of new production, while in Sweden the corresponding figure lands as low as around 20%. A balanced assessment of the various studies carried out indicates that as much as 70 per cent of the Swedish population would prefer to live in small houses. The largest survey was carried out by Boverket in 2014, after which several others followed, two as late as 2019. All confirm that small houses are by far the most popular accommodation option. In addition, as a result of the coronapendemin, interest in small house housing has increased significantly, which has been noticed in large price increases, among other things. The Swedish bureaucracy surrounding planning processes means that the handling of the development of villatoms can be prolonged. The appeal processes in the detailed planning process are time-consuming and delay the ambition to quickly develop new areas of exploitation for home homes. Rental rights have their advantages. They offer a non-cash accommodation, which may be good when young people leave home to study for a limited period, not infrequently in a place other than their parents' home, and people who have got a job or changed their lives and need a new home quickly do not need to take out a loan in order to solve the immediate need for housing. But we also see major disadvantages with the leases. The distance between the tenant and the housing company is perceived in some parts as the possibility of influencing their housing situation may be small. Social services often place people with mental or substance abuse problems in such housing, which creates problems for those around them. In addition, the unemployed are over-represented in areas with rental apartments, and overcrowding occurs with children-rich families in small apartments, creating problems for children and young people to do their schoolwork at home. Why build more rental apartments when people want to own their home and social problems are created in the rental stock? Ownership creates responsibility and commitment in the area. Will the Government take the initiative to facilitate the conversion of rental rights into tenant-owned or owner-occupied dwellings?
i-4PEV9eCQBKKA5qyNNkHwv5	Madam President, I would like It is true that we do not yet see the full consequences of the Moderates abolishing investment aid. It was, of course, possible to apply until the end of the year, and the applications received last year will be granted. So far, we can only trace future consequences through all the municipal councillors who are already telling us about construction projects that have been stopped and that are in danger of not getting rid of. We can see that even small house production has increased during our time in power, but more modestly. The number of houses completed has increased from around 8 000 per year ten years ago to between 10 000 and 12 000 per year in the last four years. This is an increase of 25 to 50 percent. As I said in my opening speech, during the term of office the government has also worked on several fronts to create better conditions for housing construction. Among other things, the government has put forward a proposal on private initiative. Let me also mention two initiatives that we have taken since I took office a little over a month ago. If, as we agree, more small houses are to be built, where people have the opportunity to step out and feel the grass between their toes in the summer, more will have to be built. In order to obtain more plots, buildable land is required. This is why the Swedish National Heritage Board and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency in their regulations for 2022 have been tasked with reviewing whether the national interests for cultural conservation and conservation identified by the County Administrative Boards have deficiencies regarding topicality and distribution. The assignments will be reported by 31 January 2023 at the latest, and I will follow the work of the authorities closely. In addition, the needs for different types of housing differ from one municipality to another in the country. We have therefore proposed changes to the Housing Supply Act to the Swedish Parliament in order to give the analysis that forms the basis for the data in the municipal housing supply guidelines a clearer focus on the housing shortage in the municipality in question. More rental apartments may be needed in Danderyd but more villas in Borlänge. I can assure Mrs Bergman that the government will continue to work to build up the housing shortage. Homes will be built as ordinary people can demand, and they will be built throughout the country. The question is what the Moderates want. On the Moderate website, housing policy is summarised in three points. Firstly, the aim is to increase housing construction. That is, as I have said, also my first priority, but unlike the Moderates and Bergman, I have not phased out the support that actually existed. On the contrary, we have reversed developments and now have a historically high build-up rate. Secondly, they say they want to make it easier to buy a home. This is exactly what we have an investigation that is looking at and will be completed in March. Thirdly, we want to make it easier to rent a dwelling. Unfortunately, this is not about the right to rent, but about how it will be easier to rent out in the second place, which according to all the surveys and surveys referred to is the form of housing that is most in demand of people. One reason why no one asks for this form of housing is perhaps that in many respects a person who rents a privately owned dwelling has a weak position. When the government tried to remedy it by increasing the security of those who rent a home from a private individual, the Moderates stopped the proposal. The question that arises is: What do the Moderates really want, except to stop the production of rental apartments with rents that ordinary people can afford to pay?
i-HxX34z1JerWVzV54Zg2eEG	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your speech! We can see that insecurity is felt more strongly in rental areas. This shows the safety surveys that have been carried out. Many million programme areas are characteristic of this. Outsiderism is a sign of and creates problems. At the same time, rents in rental areas are often quite high, especially in new productions, compared to private homes. In combination with relatively low incomes, this means that residents find themselves in a lock-in effect as they find it difficult to save for a contribution to a future owned dwelling. It'll be a kind of poverty trap. This combined means that we should instead increase the opportunities for people to build their own homes from the start. We Moderates listen to the citizens' desire to have more freedom by owning their homes and being able to control their lives. The rules need to be made simpler, more villas and flats need to be built and rental apartments need to be converted into flats where residents themselves can make decisions on how to develop the area, which can also help to start a housing career. Madam President, I would like With these words, I would like to thank the Minister for Housing for a good debate.
i-3gT849UW9npHfjiqCCxAhm	Madam President, I would like The fact that rents are high in new production is not solved by the public good selling out the existing stock with low rents. This has had the opposite effect in Stockholm, for example. To sum up the discussion, I can say that it was built too little during Moderates' time in power and that the total housing deficit increased every year. We are now building up the housing shortage. Historically a lot of housing is being built in Sweden, but this development is in danger after the Moderates' actions in the Riksdag, where the investment aid that has contributed to the construction of thousands of homes with lower rents was removed. As regards the possibilities for young people to buy their first home, house prices have increased faster than household income, which has made it more difficult for first-time buyers to enter the owned housing market. Therefore, the government has set up an investigation to facilitate first-time buyers in the housing market. There I feel that we have a consensus that this must happen. We have also taken several initiatives to facilitate housing construction. We have, among other things, taken initiatives for legislation on private initiative, we have taken initiatives to make more land available for construction and we just took, to link with one of the honourable Member's other questions, against the Competition Authority's report on competition in the building materials industry. Lower building material costs could, of course, create the conditions for more people to build and buy small houses. This is an important issue for the government. This is Social Democratic policy. We want to see more small houses, flats and rentals. To the Moderates, the crusade against rental law seems to be the important thing. In this way, I never believe that we will create what we are certainly all agreed that we want to see, namely good housing for everyone, regardless of the type of dwelling. I thank Mr Bergman for the debate.
i-N9NEXqfkLjG7rrFGX1JAtR	Madam President, I would like Ida Drougge has asked me how to ensure that the proposed measures are taken and what additional measures I intend to take to ensure that there is a substantial reduction in the total national interest language. As Ida Drougge states, in 2020 the Board of Directors appointed Boverket, as the coordinating authority, together with the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, Riksantikvariebetet, the Swedish Energy Agency, the Swedish Growth Agency and the Swedish Transport Administration, to review their respective claims on areas of national interest. The review aimed at a significant reduction in both the number of claims for sites of national interest and the overall distribution of these sites. In the final report, Boverket found, among other things, that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the National Antiquities Office needed support from the county administrative boards to complete the review of their respective national interests. R egeringen therefore commissioned the county administrative boards to identify areas of national interest for conservation and conservation of the cultural environment that have deficiencies in timeliness and extent, which the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the National Antiquarie Office can then reconsider. A starting point for the mission was to reduce the conflict between national interests and housing construction and to free up more land for planning and construction. The final report was presented on 28 December 2021. The Swedish National Heritage Board and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency in their regulations for 2022 have been tasked with reviewing the national interests for cultural environmental protection and nature conservation identified by the county administrative boards as having shortcomings in timeliness and extent. The mission shall be reported no later than 31 January 2023. I continue to follow the work of the authorities on this issue.
i-UkZzwzbKryRubrsfxSGTLt	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. National interests were introduced in Sweden in 1987. The idea at the time was that while trying to decentralise housing construction and put more power in the hands of residents and municipalities, they wanted some continued government governance by being able to identify areas of particular national interest at national level. This is what has since been called national interest. The idea was a few identified areas. Today, surveys show that the spread of national interests lies like a wet blanket and creates great uncertainties and unpredictableities for both companies and municipalities as well as developers who want to develop and build homes or reroute traffic, for that matter. The national interests spread over 40 per cent of Sweden's surface area. This makes it clear that, while Sweden is an internationally very sparsely populated country, we have a shortage of buildable land. It is always something that the government has begun work to reduce the spread of national interests, but it is necessary to note that we now have twelve authorities with the task of identifying areas of national interest. Five authorities have been tasked with reconsidering their claims since 2020. Two of these were not able to do this themselves, but needed the assistance and additional time of the county boards to see which areas this can now happen. They have since needed another two years to do the re-examination. When this is done, it will have taken four years for the National Board of Agriculture and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency to know which areas, according to the new criteria, fall away and should no longer be of national interest. Would it not be reasonable, given how extensive this has been and how much time has obviously been required to know which areas need to be national interests at all, that this was done on an ongoing basis and that it was a continuous responsibility that these twelve responsible authorities always have to know about the areas that they claim as national interests are and remain important national interests? I would like to hear the Government's answer to this.
i-7WgeLfjTRMvFFYp4WwrGaG	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the honourable Member's questions. First of all, I would like to say that the government is acting. The ambition, as I have said, is a sharp reduction in both the number of claims for sites of national interest and the total area and distribution of these sites. The problem picture is clear and largely consistent with the honourable Member's problem picture. When the system of national interest was introduced, as Ida Drougge explained, only few and unique areas were to be considered for identification. Over time, as the honourable Member points out, the number of sites of national interest and the area distribution of these sites have increased considerably. According to the Swedish National Interest Survey, 46 per cent of the country's total land and water area is currently covered by claims to be areas of national interest. According to the investigation, this can hardly be considered to be in line with the legislator's intentions. Furthermore, some of these criteria are held at such an overall level that they provide a very wide margin for different assessments. At the same time, over the past few decades, society has undergone major changes, and other social interests have come into being. As a result of these developments, several of the criteria available to assess claims for sites of national interest are outdated and do not meet current needs. This was indeed the reason why five authorities, together with Boverket 2020, were given the task of reviewing this. It is this work that the government has now taken on in the regulations for the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the National Antiquarie Office. In its investigation, Boverket also submitted other proposals that are currently being prepared within the Government Office.
i-3md4PCY9xw79aRiCY15qEF	Madam President, I would like A first question will then be whether the Government can answer when preparations within the Government Office are expected to be ready. A further question that I believe is given to the vast majority when reviewing the timeline of this work is whether the Government considers four years to be a reasonable time. Is it reasonable for the state to need four years to find out if the areas that have been identified as national interests need to be so? It is for me a very long time, especially given that the county boards have now done a survey and developed proposals in areas that they think can be reconsidered. Is it necessary for two years to do so? I would also like an answer to that. Then I can only say that the Government did not fully answer the question I asked. An attempt is now being made to reduce the spread of national interests. However, we Moderates suggest that if an authority has identified an area of national interest, that authority is obliged and should be responsible for keeping an eye on whether this area really continues and always needs to be of national interest. Therefore, we want the areas – national interests – which are not defined by law but are included in Chapter 3 of the Environmental Code to always be timed, so that a continuous review is made. What, then, prevents the government from initiating such a proposal?
i-5T5cQAZ3ybNt8DDhKiyHPQ	Madam President, I would like National interest claims are a tool for the state to influence and protect interests of particular national importance in social planning. At the same time, as we have noted, several of the criteria on which the claims for sites of national interest are based today are unclear and in need of updating. As I said in my interpellation response, Boverket was able to conclude in its final report that, among other things, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the National Antiquarie Office needed support from the county administrative boards to complete the review of their respective national interests. The county administrative boards were therefore tasked with identifying areas with deficiencies regarding topicality or distribution that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the National Antiquarie Office will then reconsider. This is how the government must work. As a minister, I cannot sit down with a map and decide which national interests need to be reconsidered. A starting point for the assignment to the county administrative boards was to reduce the conflict between national interests and housing construction and to free up more land for planning and construction. The assignment was reported in December 2021, just recently, and the review we commissioned in the regulatory letters will be finalized on 31 January 2023. So they have a year to do this, not two years. The County Administrative Board's report shows that the total number of objects of national interest for cultural conservation in Sweden is 1,665. Of these, the county administrative boards have identified 575 objects of national interest as a potential conflict with housing construction. Based on a general analysis of indicators of shortcomings in timeliness, the county administrative boards assess that 358 of the objects of national interest are in priority need of topicality testing. This should therefore be done within a year. The total number of objects of national interest for nature conservation in Sweden is 2,536. Of these, the county administrative boards have identified 416 objects of national interest as a potential conflict with housing construction. Based on a general analysis of indicators of shortcomings in timeliness, the county administrative boards assess that 267 of the objects of national interest are in priority need of a review. This should also be done within a year. In view of this, these two authorities have thus been given the task of reviewing these national interests in their regulations for 2022. And I will follow the work of the authorities on this issue. But it is therefore hundreds of national interests that will be tested in the coming year. This is an important issue for the government, just as it is for the honourable Member.
i-g99jz5TkMtHDhjunQ6EZs	Madam President, I would like It is good that the government has woken up in this area, although I may think it has taken a long time. However, there is no answer, it sounds like. I must interpret it as meaning that there is not really any obstacle for the government to, in parallel with reviewing parts of these areas, also assigns the task of amending the law, so that the authorities will continue to carry out such reviews on an ongoing basis and for the future – to keep an eye on the areas that are identified as national interests should always remain national interests or not. Our authorities should not have to be instructed by the government that they sometimes need to ensure that areas really need to be protected and identified as national interests. It should be remembered that there are a number of ways in Sweden to protect soil, nature and different interests. We have a municipal plan monopoly for this. It is perfectly possible for municipalities, not only for the state, to protect important values for themselves, for their citizens and for our country.
i-Fmjd6xPasSeiTyPydpM7v7	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank you for an exciting debate on national interests. To answer the question of a constant, recurrent topicality examination of national interests, I would like to say that this actually worked on some of the authorities that were part of the original mission. That was one reason why they did not receive further assignments like these two. One of the proposals in Boverket's report is to introduce such a change in the regulation. That question is currently being prepared within the Government Office, and I cannot tell you today when the government will come back. To sum up the rest of the debate, I think we can see that there is no disagreement between the interpellier and me on the direction of travel. The Government's aim with the work on national interests has been to achieve a sharp reduction in both the number of claims for areas of national interest and the extent of these areas. We can also note that the government has acted to achieve this. There is now a very concrete work going on to try out hundreds of national interests on a topical basis. There have been criticisms that the work takes time. At the same time, it is important to ask which option the Moderates believe would have gone faster. The Government appointed a review in 2020 in which Boverket presented proposals for further handling of the matter of national interest in the short and long term. We acted on these proposals and commissioned the county boards in June 2021 to quickly scan the areas with the greatest gaps in timeliness and distribution. This assignment was reported in December 2021, and already in the regulations for 2022, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the National Antiquarie Office have been tasked with reviewing the national interests identified by the county administrative boards. This would mean that more land would be freed up for planning and housing. This shows this government's priority to deliver reforms that lead to more housing throughout the country.
i-XAxqKroG9esSeeD8SdfFXm	Madam President, I would like Larry Söder has asked me what measures I and the government intend to take on the basis of the Riksdag's decision to announce to the Government on open geodata on 18 March 2021. I share the view that the availability of geodata is important for the development of several sectors and processes in our society. Data is an important prerequisite for innovation, sustainable growth and reduced resource consumption. Several studies show that the socio-economic benefits of making data available, mainly geodata, are high. The EU has recognised that in some areas of our society there is particularly valuable digital information which is considered to be associated with significant socio-economic benefits and which has a particularly high value for the economy and society if it is made available free of charge. One of these areas is geodata. In view of its great value, the EU took the initiative to recast the so-called PSI Directive. This Directive was adopted in June 2019. S if my predecessor has previously announced in an interpellation debate with Larry Söder, the European Commission intends to take a decision on a so-called implementing act which will determine which data sets will be made available free of charge. As geodata is defined in the Directive as a particularly valuable data set, the implementing act will form a base plate for taking steps towards open geodata. The European Commission has not yet decided on this implementing act and this is worrying. To avoid duplication, we have wanted to await a decision by the European Commission. However, the government is working to increase the availability of open data in society, as a prerequisite for digital innovation and development. Among other things, a proposal is being prepared within the Government Office for a new law implementing the EU directive on open data and the re-use of public sector information and, from a legal point of view, promoting and supporting the public administration's efforts to make open data available.
i-87F41RZKSwBijzrD3vTpMp	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for his answer, which I consider to be very positive. The Minister says that open data is essential for the development of several different sectors. I would like to say that this is important for virtually all sectors. This is essentially about another way of thinking in terms of information, information exchange and processes. It is only imagination that sets limits, I would say, because where we can imagine that this is a crucial milestone for the development of our society. Where we – and perhaps I mean myself in the first place – only see information about cookies, for example, other people can receive and use that information in a completely different way that creates a completely different benefit. That's why this open geodata thing is so important, I mean. I also hear in the reply that the Minister shares my view of the social benefits of this, that is, that it is very great. There are different figures calculated on how great the benefits of society are – one greater than the other, I would say. Where it is, we do not know because we are only at the beginning of development. But this is where I care. We agree that open geodata is urgent and represents a very high socio-economic gain. The Riksdag has announced on several occasions that the Government will report in what way it can make geodata open and free. There are no free goods; of course someone has to pay. I guess that's the kind of system you're supposed to come up with. The government itself has taken steps in various ways to make this possible. Then I find it difficult to accept that the government is leaning back and waiting for the EU to solve some of the problems. I think, of course, that it is a good thing that the European Union is on the ball and that we can coordinate as much as possible, but that we are waiting for the European Union, I think, is somewhat withdrawn. I think we should be forward-looking instead. One might wonder what contacts the government has with the Commission on this issue. What contacts are being made to make it happen as quickly as possible, since we see the great social benefits for us? And when does the government expect the Commission to be done with this and intend to take decisions on the implementing act so that we can move forward if we now want to wait for the EU to take decisions? I realise, of course, that coordination is ultimately self-evident, both for us and for the European Union. However, since I think this is socio-economically important, I think that the measures, measures and steps needed for us to have open geodata in Sweden, regardless of the EU process in this respect, should be taken. I do not think it is enough to invoke a revision of the PSI Directive and the implementing act mentioned in the reply as an obstacle to doing so. I think we should move on. In many texts over the years, the government has had a fairly clear view: Open geodata is good. It's good for business; it's good for Government Sweden. But somewhere we have to make the necessary decisions to make this real. I guess that's what makes me a little frustrated. Now other countries have gone ahead of us. Denmark is very good at this. They introduced this on 1 January 2013. As far as I know, they are, I was about to say, under the same Commission as us. They've made a different priority than us. Why can we not do as Denmark, that is to say, go ahead?
i-8oNUqdbYiLw8q8QHBCXvon	Madam President, I would like I would like to emphasise once again that I share Larry Söder's view that this is an important issue. I also hope that those who listen to the debate will understand the importance of the issue, although it may sometimes appear technical. Many may be surprised that they use geodata almost daily, as it has already become such a natural part of our everyday life. You do this when you use digital solutions to find your way to a restaurant, when you wait for a home delivery of a product or when you use digital maps to look at the surroundings around a house or home you are considering moving to. Geodata is simply information linked to a particular location. It can be about everything from buildings, property boundaries and roads to lakes, vegetation and population. Today, access to this data is a prerequisite for many e-services, apps and management support. It enables a wide range of things such as address raising and navigation in smartphones, community planning and descriptions of the impact of global climate and environmental change. The Government's goal is for Sweden to be the best in the world to use the opportunities of digitalisation and through it create a simpler everyday life for citizens, a more open administration that supports innovation, participation and higher quality and efficiency in operations. On behalf of the Government, the Swedish Land Survey has developed a national geodata strategy for the years 2021 – 2025, together with authorities and stakeholders in the Geodata Council. Of course Larry Söder knows that. In the national strategy, one of the objectives is that geodata should be open. The government has no other opinion. Open data has been defined by the so-called Open Data Investigation as open-format digital information that can be re-used and freely shared for any purpose. The ambition is high. However, in order to avoid duplication of work, the government has been waiting for the European Commission's implementing act. It is worrying that it has not yet arrived. It was supposed to be here by 2019. Now it is said that it is delayed due to the pandemic and that it will come in 2022. The government's view is that it is worrying that it has been delayed. We hope that the timetable now announced will be kept. There is also a great deal of work going on with what we call management-common digital infrastructure. The Government allocated nearly SEK 210 million in the budget proposal for 2022 to develop the infrastructure over the next three years and thereafter SEK 45 million continuously for the continued development, management and operation of the infrastructure. We also commissioned the Swedish Digital Administration Agency last week, together with several other authorities, including Lantmäteriet, to continue work on establishing and developing infrastructure and the national framework for basic data. This is important as management-wide digital infrastructure is also a foundation for the standardisation and supply of geodata to society. It is of great importance that users know what they get and can expect from the geodata produced by Lantmäteriet and that they have high quality. I share Larry Söder's and Parliament's ambition and hope that the Commission will present the implementing act in the near future.
i-2Jj6BiVoEq9NJmxdb63T1C	Madam President, I would like I am aware that a lot of work is being done behind the scenes to find structures and standards for this. But the problem that I would like to highlight is that we have a system that is subject to a charge. It is also the end of a part of the market that could take advantage of this in a completely different way. This is also where we have the effects purely socio-economically. It is crucial that we might do these two parts at the same time. It is important to ensure that the structures are in place, that we have standards and that we do not double work in this way. But we also need to have a system that is free of charge for anyone who wants to use it and that it is open to everyone and not closed. The Minister returns to the concern that the Commission has not decided on the implementing act. Is it only time-wise that it is problematic or a matter of concern, or are there other parts that the Minister is concerned about? This can, for example, be the focus. Or is there anything else that can interfere with the way we think about open geodata that can also take time? It cannot really be the economic cost to us as a nation that is involved in making open geodata. The studies that have been carried out in the past have shown that it costs approximately 300 – 400 million in fees that would need to be financed by other means. It cannot be the biggest item in the government budget if we are to be truly honest. That cannot be what prevents it, but it must be other things that prevent us from moving forward. The benefits that these 300 - 400 million create at the other end are far greater than that. Then one might ask why Sweden, which is a data nation and digital nation, does not take precedence in these matters. It is such an important issue. Our knowledge of digitalisation should actually be of benefit to the whole of Europe. It is a bit embarrassing that Denmark is ahead of us on this issue. I can't understand why we didn't take the same path as them. Now they did it quite early in 2013. Maybe it wasn't quite a big question at Parliament's table in 2013, but we weren't far behind. We've waited a very long time, too. When you look at the Business Council, which sets out the most important points for what may be important for business to move forward, this is part of what it brings out. Opening up geodata to all is one of the single most important issues for the development of business. With that, I would like to say that this is not just for the Swedish Government, but for the whole of society. That's where we make the biggest profits. I'm sure you'll be able to connect with the government if we still decide to do it. But it is important that the utility is open to everyone and not just to authorities, municipalities and regions. My question to the Minister was: What measures do they intend to take to achieve what Parliament wanted from the Parliament's announcement on open geodata? I have not really received an answer to that. How has the announcement been handled from March 2021? Has it been noted that Parliament thinks this is an important issue? What measures have been taken after that? It would be good to have a comprehensive picture now in the Minister's last speech.
i-GEuYh9wquSftU6FWctK3ZM	Madam President, I would like First of all, I should like to say something about the fact that the government thinks it is worrying that the European Commission is delaying. It is above all about the time aspect. We have no indication that anything in the implementing act would be seriously worrying for Sweden in general. Geodata is identified as particularly important data. We assume that this will also be reflected in the implementing act. I would also like to say a few words about the digitisation of community building processes, which Larry Söder also mentions in his interpellation. In addition to the fact that the government is taking important steps towards achieving a digital infrastructure common to the administration, we are simultaneously driving the digitalisation of the civil engineering process. This is extremely important not least for housing construction. In the work of Lantmäteriet and Boverket it has been found that high quality data is a prerequisite for a more efficient urban construction process. This in itself is an important prerequisite for, among other things, more housing. Here, previous digitisation assignments have achieved several important interim results. But here too much work remains to be done to achieve a fully digital process of building society. The Government has commissioned Boverket to continue its work to promote the uniform application of the Planning and Construction Act in a digital environment. The assignment was presented before Christmas in December 2021. The reports are currently being prepared in the Government Office. The national geodata platform mentioned in the interpellation is part of Lantmäteriet's mission to build a digital infrastructure for data throughout the entire community building process. This will make it easier for municipalities and construction operators, for example, to have access to standardised and quality-assured data, such as detailed plan data. The mission shall be reported by 31 January 2022 at the latest. There is also ongoing preparation of proposals for a modernised land register aimed at enabling a more timely provision of real estate information. However, it is too early to say when any proposal can be presented. I did not work on these issues in 2013 when Denmark made the decision. But it can be said that there was no implementing act to wait for. Now we live on the assumption that it will soon come. To avoid duplication, we have waited for it. It will be troubling if it continues to linger. There is no other opinion. We can also note that the work that the government is still doing is starting to get results. From 2019 to 2020 alone, we advanced the European Commission's Open Data Maturity Report from 23 to 16th place. We're not staying in seat 16. I think Larry Söder and I both agree on that.
i-R3zmavJ5LqpCWLmBXjQiGj	Madam President, I would like Of course, we'll be in position one. When you work in the area that the minister and I work, you see examples of the planning process being digitised all the time. I believe that this is important not only from the point of view of efficiency, but also from the point of view of fairness. Many people can be treated exactly the same with this system regardless of which municipality they are in, and it feels very good. I'd still like to problematize a little bit. Let us say that the Commission says that this will not happen in 2022 either, but that it will come in 2023. Then we are in the same situation again, and I think that every year is a lost year for Sweden for this particular part, which we could make the best use of. I would like the Minister and the Government, in that case, to speed up the process. There is support in Parliament to do this if you want. Should it have to be amended after the implementing act, then it is not more difficult than that, if it is going in the right direction. I would prefer the Minister to say: we are driving, no matter what the European Union does! But if the EU comes forward with it, that's great.
i-YXC1rWrtAKw3Fh1Dxs7wYa	Madam President, I would like As evidenced by this debate, access to data is becoming increasingly important in more and more areas of society. An orderly access to data of known quality is an important part of the solution to several of our major societal challenges. As Larry Söder has pointed out, many studies and studies suggest that there is great potential for innovation if public data, especially geodata, can be made available free of charge. There are also great opportunities to make society and our authorities more efficient. Digital information that is known and of good quality and an efficient supply of information enables our authorities to make wise and balanced decisions in areas such as community building. My ambition and the Government's ambition is, of course, that Sweden should be the leader in digitalisation and accessibility of geodata. I have no other opinion than the Riksdag and Larry Söder; this is an important issue. We have the same objective. Many processes are underway at both our Swedish authorities and, as we have been at several times, at the EU level. As I said in my introductory speech, in order to avoid duplication of efforts, we wanted to wait for the European Commission's implementing act on which data sets should be made available free of charge. As I also said in my initial reply and as I have said throughout the debate, it is worrying that it is taking time. We hope that the current timetable of the European Commission will be met. If not, we will certainly have reason to return to the matter here in Parliament, both me and Larry Söder.
i-6JueqXtso81cWJk9sKgaPv	Madam President, I would like Larry Söder has asked me whether I have drawn attention to the problem of redevelopment in connection with the relocation of temporary modules and whether I intend to take any action. Larry Söder develops in the interpellation his previous parliamentary question addressed to former Minister of Housing Märta Stenevi and believes that it is unreasonable to have a regulation that means that relatively newly produced buildings need to be rebuilt to adapt to new requirements in the building regulations just because they are moved to a new location. As Märta Stenevi pointed out in her answer, I agree with Larry Söder that there should be flexibility in the regulations for modular buildings. In her reply, Ms Stenevi pointed out that there was flexibility in the regulatory framework covering both the rules for temporary building permits and the possibility of deviation from the technical characteristics requirements. It is clear from the Planning and Construction Act that the requirements for modification or removal of a building may be adapted and made different from those relating to the suitability of the building for its purpose, its form, colour and material effects and the availability and technical characteristics of the building. This shall be done taking into account the extent of the change or the purpose of the move, taking into account the conditions of the building, as well as the provisions on caution and the prohibition of distortion. The building committee can therefore strike a balance when a building or module is moved. From Boverket's guidance, it is clear that it may be reasonable to require compliance with new rules if they do not entail significant interference and costs. The balancing is made appropriate against the time spent by the module, the purpose of the move, the use of the module and the costs of action. There is another possibility to adapt the requirements for buildings that are used for a shorter period of time. For premises where the activity is expected to last no more than two years, higher primary energy and higher electrical power may be permitted compared to what is shown in Boverket's building regulations. Larry Söder points out that the requirements for moving temporary modules generate large amounts of waste. Finally, I would like to add that the issue of circularity is a high priority. Among other things, this has been expressed in the budget proposal for 2022, where the government has suggested that resources should be allocated to strengthen Boverket's work on the circular transformation in the construction sector.
i-8WSRUsmCyyn5QCjK3aeNSv	Madam President, I would like We all want our municipalities to build new homes based on the needs that exist. Currently, the vast majority of municipalities have a lack of housing. The reason for the lack of housing can be discussed on another occasion. But the fact that we all want to create more housing hopefully means that we can succeed in our efforts to get the municipalities to plan and then build more housing. Building more homes is not an isolated matter, but it is building or changing a society in the vast majority of cases. New needs are created that need to be met in the form of public service. This community service is schools, preschools, retirement homes and hopefully also that the business community is moving into the area. In connection with these renovations and renovations, there is, as a rule, a need for an increased ability to solve acute local problems – not problems for five or ten years but acute – until permanent premises for childcare, school, care for the elderly, temporary accommodation or other purposes are successfully built. In these cases, rental modules fulfil an important social function. The purpose of these buildings is always to be used temporarily – a short period – as a bridge between the old being demolished or rebuilt and the new one until it is clear. It may be in connection with a water leak, a fire or a flood, or when the need otherwise arises for a shorter period, to take some examples. The Minister writes in his reply that Boverket has a guide on these, but I say the opposite. The Boverket has no guidance on temporary modules today, but there is a guide on permanent modules, which lasts longer than the ones I'm talking about. This creates problems as it should reasonably be much stronger rules for permanent than for temporary modules. There's the cloun in this. The municipality has to assess the temporary modules on the basis of a regulatory framework that has been developed and adapted to permanent buildings. This makes it difficult for municipal administrators to make reasonable and fair balances in their assessments. This makes the reality that rental modules are being rebuilt annually for the equivalent of 10 percent of what the entire industry actually does. In many cases the modules have been in use for only a few years. They are thus judged by the same yardstick as buildings that are to stand for 30 or 40 years or that have stood for the same time. It cannot be reasonable– not when it is opposed to modules often solving urgent needs. According to my view, Boverket should be given the task of developing a clarification guide to municipalities on how to relate to temporary modules. It also allows buildings to be in place more quickly and to fulfil an important social function so that children can have childcare facilities, young people can get school and the elderly and the sick can receive the necessary care. The point is that you should not make the same high demands on temporary modules as on permanent modules. There is a gap between the two that we have to resolve in one way or another.
i-QpsrKv42ZD2JFsvHbUVk6L	Madam President, I would like Thank you to Larry Söder for his questions! I share, as I said in my initial reply, the honourable Member's view that there should be flexibility in the regulatory framework for modular buildings. The government is aware that there may be problems with the application of the rules on how to interpret the move of buildings. These difficulties are similar to those in the case of changes. The rules on moving and changing are based on the fact that the building is unique and that it must be assessed in its context with the conditions that exist right there and then. In order to reduce the application problems, Boverket works with guidance and other knowledge-raising measures. In its guidance, Boverket shows that there may be several different reasons to deviate when a building is to be moved, while in the case of moving, for example, school barracks, there is less reason to deviate from the requirements because it concerns premises where children are staying. Of course, if the problem is based on lack of knowledge and enforcement problems, the measures that may need to be taken should focus on improved guidance and not on changing legislation, just as Larry Söder is concerned. At Boverket it is said to be well aware that there may be problems with the application of the amendment rules and the rules when moving buildings. It works continuously to improve its guidance and brings with it the issue we are discussing today in that work. More generally, the fact that municipalities interpret rules differently and sometimes their own special requirements has been a recognised problem that has also been the subject of several investigations. The government is working to improve the conditions for companies that produce serially as it is not reasonable that special requirements have a negative impact on companies that work to produce in series but build in different municipalities.
i-Q9UKhFtXsjhzEAA8AeZ4sg	Madam President, I would like Of course, I have nothing against the idea of forcing the market to constantly develop new technologies to reduce climate impact. Strengthening the requirements of Boverket's building regulations is a good thing. What is questionable is how environmentally sustainable and circular it is that temporary modules must be rebuilt. 10% must be rebuilt. There will be quite a lot of material going to waste. It might not have been necessary if there were rules and applications that allow you to use these modules several times even if you move them a bit. I think there's something we should be looking at. Although I and certainly also the Minister like the circular economy, you should do the right thing. It should be reasonable to assume that newly produced modules have a shelf life longer than 24 or 36 months so that a re-assessment is not necessary after that. The temporary rules should say that these modules last for X months. Then a re-assessment is necessary, but it should be after more than 36 months. The industry estimates that in the event of conversion due to the BBR requirements, the waste amounts to approximately 437 tonnes each year. Although about 50 percent can be recycled, nearly 219 tons of material are discarded each year. From an environmental point of view, therefore, it is not appropriate to do this. I believe that the BBR needs to be clarified in some parts. I think you can also look at PBL from that perspective if you want to, not only in this particular part but when you make a major change to PBL. Another solution is to introduce a new concept that could, for example, be called "setting-up permits" to clarify what are mobile modules and distinguish them from the BBR requirements for new production. The permit could be limited in time and comparable to, for example, fixed-term building permits. It is also made clear that these modules are only for a few years and no longer, and you can make the demands that are needed on them. An alternative or complement is the proposal for a more predictable construction process involving housing, which the government sent out on a legislative referral in September 2021. There's an opportunity to handle it in that part. One should not complain about those who sit out in the municipalities and deal with this, because they only have the directives and recommendations that exist. It is we who should ensure that they have the right basis, and here there is a glip in the system that we have to deal with. There's a lot of money going on. The modules you move temporarily are much more expensive if you have to rebuild them every time. That is not a small sum either. Most customers are actually municipalities and regions. In other words, it is our tax resources that are spent on this, which I think is a non-essential part to consider. We need the money for other things than to rebuild temporary modules that actually work. My wish is for the Minister to take the same view as I do, that is, perhaps you can give Boverket a mandate to look at this and make recommendations so that the municipalities can handle it much easier.
i-Tzp6GeAAwg9bcnYtZb9K82	Madam President, I would like Larry Söder points out both in his interpellation and recurring in the debate today that the industry estimates that the cost of rebuilding modules according to the latest BBR requirements amounts to approximately SEK 250 million annually, which corresponds to 10 percent of the industry's turnover. Requirements for buildings that are moved thus generate large costs. If this is the result of the overinterpretation of the acquis, it is unfortunate. The Government's hope is that Boverket's work with guidelines will be able to facilitate the interpretation of the regulations and make sure that these large costs do not occur. The Boverket brings with it the issue we are discussing today in that review. Larry Söder also points out that the renovations required for temporary modules generate large amounts of waste. This is a very important point. The construction sector currently accounts for 35% of the total EU waste generation. In addition, the construction sector accounts for more than 20 per cent of Sweden's total carbon dioxide emissions from a life cycle perspective. The waste issue is crucial in terms of circularity and an issue that is receiving increasing attention. Circularity affects large areas such as the use of natural resources, non-toxic environments and reduced amounts of waste. The Government intends to commission Boverket to work with circularity from several of these perspectives. The waste issue will certainly be included there.
i-AVejxuTnmwYNK9cpG6Mufi	Madam President, I would like When it comes to the environment, I sometimes think that the best wood is the one you don't use. It's best for the environment. The wood you use should be used as diligently and well as possible, i.e. that it should do the good it can do throughout its lifetime. In this case, I see that perhaps we are creating environmental benefits through our regulations. We could do environmental benefit. We could help the environment in a clear and simple way. In fact, all are winners in that – state and municipalities are winners in that it might be cheaper to rent these modules, and the environment becomes winners by not throwing them away and making waste out of them. I believe that the Minister and I share a similar view. I hope that the Minister will take this along and look at whether there is an opportunity to do as I wish. That would be very nice.
i-UcqEKNGRs673hetdHFPFKQ	Madam President, I would like I thank Larry Söder for this interpellation debate. In addition to what I have already said in my previous answers, I would like to conclude by informing you that Boverket is currently carrying out a comprehensive review of Boverket's building regulations and construction rules. The new regulatory model that Boverket is working on aims to simplify the regulatory framework and promote innovation and technological development, while creating a simplified and consistent regulatory framework with a consistently similar structure and degree of detail that can contribute to faster and cheaper construction. There is a very thorough overhaul of the regulatory framework and work in which the industry will be given greater responsibility for the interpretation and verification of the regulatory framework. The amending rules are part of this review. Since Boverket is well aware of the problems we are talking about today, I think we should wait for what comes both in Boverket's guidelines and as a result of the review of the building regulations.
