i-XczCynsP9nVGUnNdVaRey7	Mr President, I would like to I would first like to thank the House for having been able to gather at such short notice for this special debate on Sweden's safety policy choices. On 24 February this year, a new and dark chapter began in the history of Europe. Russia then launched an illegal, unprovoked and indefensible attack war against Ukraine. And Europe, Sweden and the Swedish people are now living in a new and dangerous reality. The European security regime, on which Sweden builds its security, is under attack. Progress has gone in the wrong direction for a long time. We have seen Russia's war on Georgia in 2008, the illegal annexation of Crimea in 2014 and the continuing aggression in eastern Ukraine. And last December, Russia further broke the European security regime by demanding the adaptation and submission of its peaceful and democratic neighbours, including Sweden. It was nothing more than an attempt to return to the logic of the Great Power of the Cold War. On 24 February this year, for the first time since the Second World War, Russia then launched a full-scale invasion of a European country – one of the worst crimes ever committed against the UN Charter. In Ukraine, Russian forces are now violating the laws of war and international humanitarian law. We have all taken note of the reports of the atrocities now being committed: mass destruction, mass graves, mass rapes. We also see how Russian state-controlled media openly discuss the possibility of using nuclear and chemical weapons. Vladimir Putin is also pushing Russia in an increasingly totalitarian direction where repression is growing and free and opposition voices are silenced, imprisoned and murdered. Unfortunately, we have no reason to believe that developments will be reversed for the foreseeable future. The invasion of Ukraine shows what Russia is ready to do, and we must relate to the possibility of Russia acting equally at risk in our immediate neighbourhood. This is the reality of security policy that we now need to relate to, and in this reality Sweden needs the formal security guarantees that come with membership of NATO. After 24 February, we have in broad agreement increased the pace of the expansion of Sweden's defence, and we will continue until we reach 2% of GDP. It strengthens Sweden's security now and in the future. For many years Sweden has been building its security policy on solidarity and community with others. Sweden is part of a broad political community with our European and transatlantic partner countries. When we joined the EU, we retained our military freedom of alliance, but we left the policy of neutrality behind. And in accordance with our declaration of solidarity, Sweden would not be passive either if a country in the Nordic countries or the EU were attacked. Sweden has a large number of defence collaborations with other countries, and they have now deepened in this crisis. But above all, we have close defence cooperation with Finland. They have a special position. The close dialogue that Sweden and Finland have had in recent months has been invaluable. I greatly appreciate the fact that our countries have also, together, made the European Union more clearly emphasise the importance of the so-called solidarity clause in the Treaty of Lisbon. It is an important signal to the outside world in this uncertain situation. When NATO was formed, it was not possible for Finland to become a member. This was one of several reasons why Sweden remained militaryly non-aligned. As military non-aligned countries, Sweden and Finland have been able to contribute to detour and stability in our neighbourhood. But that changed when Russia invaded Ukraine. It is now also clear that Finland will apply for membership of NATO. At the moment, the Finnish Parliament is examining the President's and the Government's proposal for a Finnish NATO application. Sweden and Finland are two countries that make their safety policy choices independently, but our history, our safety and our future are closely linked. If Sweden were to become the only EU country in the Baltic Sea region that is not a member of NATO, we would be in a very vulnerable position. It cannot be ruled out that Russia is increasing pressure on Sweden. Sweden and Finland also have far-reaching military cooperation, and when Finland as a NATO member focuses more on cooperation with other NATO countries, Sweden's defence capabilities are reduced at a time when it needs to be strengthened instead. However, if we were to join NATO together with Finland, all EU and Nordic countries around the Baltic Sea would be bound by the same mutual and credible defence guarantee, and our cooperation and overall defence capabilities would increase drastically. The best thing for our country's security is that Sweden is seeking membership of NATO and that we are doing so now, together with Finland. After today's debate in this House, the government is ready to decide on an application. In that case, it will be the start of an accession process which will also involve ratification in the parliaments of all NATO countries. The government then returns with a bill to the Riksdag with proposals for ratification of Swedish accession to NATO. Mr President, I would like to I want to make it clear that an application will not be made without consequences. Our vulnerability to external threats and attempts to influence will be increased until a Swedish membership enters into force. Various preparedness measures have also been taken. From the Russian side, threatening statements have been made against us. Sweden categorically rejects these threats. Our security policy is a matter for Sweden and no one else. Recently, I and my colleagues in the government have had talks with several countries within NATO, including the United States, the United Kingdom, Germany, France, Norway and Denmark. We have received clear assurances of aid during the period of application. This is not the same as legally binding guarantees – it only comes with full NATO membership – but political commitments are the strong signals that strengthen Sweden's security. I also value the fact that Sweden and Finland together will get through the coming period of uncertainty. Mr President, I would like to Membership of NATO is a commitment to comply with the Washington Treaty as a whole. This means that NATO's collective defence guarantees would benefit Sweden, and that is a crucial factor for membership. But membership also means that Sweden is jointly and severally part of an obligation to act as support for other members if they are attacked. How and in what form such support is given is a national decision for each Member State of NATO. Sweden is already part of a security policy community where it is difficult to imagine that we should be passive in the event of a crisis or war in our neighbourhood, but with Sweden as a member of NATO, that solidarity would be reduced in a legally binding form. Sweden is also going to join NATO as a country that itself contributes to our common security. We have a long history of participation in NATO-led operations with UN mandates, with exercises and consultations on threats. As a member, Sweden brings with it significant capacity that benefits the alliance as a whole. NATO's current members are also well aware of this. There are therefore good reasons to assume that a Swedish application will be well received. Sweden is seen as, and we are, a qualified security producer. Swedish and Finnish membership of NATO also makes it possible to substantially deepen Nordic defence cooperation with NATO as a common platform. A strong Nordic voice in NATO gives us increased opportunities to protect our common interests in the Baltic Sea region. When it comes to how we shoulder membership once our application has been ratified, the government believes that Sweden should act like Norway and Denmark. We think that Sweden should state clearly that we do not want nuclear weapons or permanent bases on Swedish territory. It is an attitude from Norway and Denmark that has always been respected, and the corresponding Swedish line is natural. Mr President, I would like to Sweden's main foreign and security policy arena is the European Union, and that is not changed by a Swedish NATO membership. The political solidarity that exists within the EU is a strength for the Union and for us as members. We will continue to contribute to the development of the EU's security and defence capabilities and the role of actors, not least in connection with the Swedish Presidency of the EU next spring. But for collective security in Europe, NATO is the leading player. The EU and NATO are complementary. In foreign policy, Sweden will continue to be a strong player with both freedom of action and action. Our country has a long history of standing up for international law, human rights and gender equality. So is our future. We will continue to work towards global security and development, against terrorism in all its forms and for respect for human rights and a rule-based world order. Our support for the United Nations is grounded. Sweden will continue to pursue disarmament issues, including in the Stockholm Nuclear Disarmament Initiative, an initiative that is launched by Sweden and which includes several NATO members. The Government intends to return to the Riksdag before the summer recess with a new foreign policy declaration to clarify its positions and enable an in-depth debate in the Chamber. Mr President, I would like to Membership of NATO marks a historic change in our country's security policy line. For a long time, Sweden has had an internationally respected line of military alliance freedom as a basis. Abandoning it is not a simple decision. But despite the fact that freedom of alliance in various forms has served Sweden well for over 200 years, it is my assessment that it will not serve Sweden as well in the future. The government's hope is to achieve the broadest possible support for the safety policy choices that I have now outlined. We have a historic decision ahead of us. I am convinced that Sweden is ready to make the necessary decisions when reality changes in order to strengthen security for ourselves but also for our world around us. There is so much in Sweden that is worth defending, and Sweden is best defended within NATO.
i-VhtaH2ynJ6edgkp5Wx1Z7Q	Mr President, I would like to Whatever we think of the conclusion that Sweden should seek membership of NATO and whenever we reached that conclusion, we in this House agree that the Russian invasion of Ukraine has dramatically changed all the conditions for Swedish security policy for a very long time to come. The new security policy analysis, which was presented the other day and builds on Bertelman's investigation from 2014 and Bringéus' investigation from 2016, strengthens me in a 20-year-old conviction that Sweden belongs not only in the EU and in the West but also in NATO. Now that day has come. It is, of course, difficult to feel joy while the Russian abuses against Ukraine are going on, but for Sweden this is a big day. Finally, we too can become members of NATO. It is, of course, an irony of history that this happens only a few months after Russia's invasion. I say as President Sauli Niinistö of Finland said last week: Putin! Look in the mirror! Look what you've accomplished! Just as Russia misjudged the strength and will of the Ukrainian people for their freedom and independence, Putin also misjudged the EU, the US and NATO. The West was something more, bigger and better. Now Finland and Sweden go hand in hand from alliancelessness to an application for membership in a robust defence alliance of like-minded people. Both countries do so in very broad parliamentary agreement. It is a declaration of strength for Sweden, for Finland and also for a stronger NATO. This is not least a declaration of strength because the trip to our NATO membership will be made during an ongoing election campaign and over an election result and concluded with a new government. This means that we must manage to have both tough debates and great differences of opinion on the domestic policy issues that involve our citizens most, and at the same time we must work closely and confidently together on issues relating to our country's security in the most dangerous situation since the Second World War. Because this is about something bigger than party politics. Now we have a shared responsibility in the interests of the nation. For this consensus, I would like to express my appreciation to Magdalena Andersson. It is well known that our two parties come into these issues with different perspectives and different views on Sweden's role in the world. But since Russia's increasingly threatening actions in the autumn, after Lavrov's blackmail letter of 17 December and the Russian invasion of 24 February, we have had regular contact and discussed the consequences for Sweden that the new security policy situation may have. I have greatly appreciated these talks, and I know they will continue. I would also like to thank other parties who, like the Moderates, have been the driving force for a rapid and parliamentary-based Swedish process. I also know that more people than I have had very close contacts with Finland and have taken a strong impression of the clarity and leadership shown by our Finnish friends. Perhaps we helped them join the European Union. Now they're helping us join NATO. Sweden's application to NATO is based on a security policy analysis shared by all parties in the Swedish parliament except two. The conclusions of the Analysis Group are clear. Bilateral defence cooperation is good and important but cannot replace the defence guarantees that we only get with NATO's Article 5. The Musketeer principle – one for all, all for one – only applies to members, or as President Biden put it in an already famous speech: 中 The United States will defend every inch of NATO territory. ..................................................... Another conclusion is that the desire for the EU to suddenly turn into a new parallel defence union without the US is completely unrealistic. 21 out of 27 – soon 23 out of 27, I hope – EU countries are building their collective defence on NATO. The EU is extremely important for European security, but NATO's transatlantic link is absolutely central. Perhaps the most important of the conclusions of the analysis group is that a large majority now subscribes to the basic view that has been my party's for two decades, that is, NATO membership is war retention. The risk of Russia trying to take control of Gotland is reduced – it is not increasing – if we too are covered by the NATO security guarantee. None of this means that we must be naive to the risks and possible threats that now exist. We are living in a dangerous time, which the people of Ukraine are brutally experiencing. Our message here today, and the other day in Finland, will not be appreciated in Moscow, just as they do not appreciate that we are sending weapons to Ukraine or sending Russian spies from Sweden, Today, Russia has the world's largest nuclear arsenal. Russian nuclear capability also affects the Baltic Sea. It is therefore valuable that the analysis team should also clarify nuclear deterrence and its impact on Swedish foreign policy. NATO's nuclear doctrine is an important cornerstone in promoting strategic deterrence in our neighbourhood. For the Swedish part, however, there is no reason to have nuclear weapons or permanent basement of foreign troops on our territory in peacetime. Sweden should do as Finland, and as Norway and Denmark already do, and declare that position nationally. This is the starting point, not the end point, for a new chapter in Swedish defence and security policy. It is not just a question of asking what we can get, but also of telling us what we can give. At the moment, NATO is in a formative phase. I see great opportunities open up to the Swedish part where we not only secure our own borders but also jointly and severally contribute to the overall Nordic-Baltic security throughout the Baltic Sea region, such as the fact that our fighter aircraft can be part of NATO's Air Policing over Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, to name but one example of tasks that we may be asked to contribute. We have unique skills, not only in aviation but also in radar and underwater capabilities, as well as centuries-long knowledge and experience of Russia. We will be better able to contribute more to a fully integrated system. So Sweden has a lot to give, but we also have a lot to learn. This is particularly true of countries such as Norway, Denmark and Estonia. Smaller countries have gained a great deal of influence in NATO by actively participating in exercises and efforts. It is a matter of decisively securing one's own defence capabilities and wholeheartedly signalling that one is in NATO because one wants and not because one has to. With that very attitude, I would also like to join in leading Sweden into NATO. Now we have a homework to do. We must ensure and resource the Swedish skills that will now be needed physically within the structure of cooperation, and we must build our own national defence. When Sweden's willingness to become a NATO member is approved by 30 other NATO countries, they want to know that we have high ambitions. It is therefore urgent that we have a clear plan for when Sweden will reach the NATO standard of 2% of GDP. We Moderates are convinced that this can and should be done by 2025. Mr President, I would like to This is a crucial day for Sweden's future. It is not every day that we make such important decisions in practice. But when the great issues of war and peace, of life and death, move out of the history books and right into our own neighbourhood, we come together, and then we do what is necessary. We continue to help Ukraine. Sweden applies to join NATO. These two decisions make me proud today.
i-MocRQKpSBudmcC1gTTvpHM	Mr President, I would like to The Executive Committee of the Swedish Democrats met yesterday evening to deal with the NATO issue and thus conclude the process that my party started some time around New Year and that has now naturally landed in a strong yes to Swedish NATO membership. The members of the Swedish Democrats have given me and the party leadership a clear mandate to land in just such a decision if the security policy situation deteriorates and if Finland decides to join NATO. Not least with the very clear message that we received from Finland yesterday, both of these criteria, I believe, are now met. I also feel a broad understanding and acceptance of our decision, even though we are a party that has historically supported the freedom of military alliance. Of course, military freedom of alliance has brought great benefits. Sweden has been able to operate with high credibility internationally, diplomatically and humanitarianly, in international crises and conflicts. I mean it has been good for Sweden. However, as has been repeated many times in recent months: on 24 February and Russia's invasion of Ukraine has fundamentally changed our security policy conditions. The security situation for us is seriously impaired. The military threat is evident. Mr President, I would like to Ultimately, of course, it is about the security and security of the Swedish and Swedish people. That must be the starting point for all our security decisions. By the fact that for decades since the fall of the wall and the end of the Cold War, we have demolished our own defence, our security is now under serious threat. We need to rebuild our ability, which is now also finally a broad consensus on here in Parliament. We also need, in parallel with this, of course, to build security together with others. We have long wanted to strengthen our defence cooperation with Finland. We have talked about a defence alliance with Finland. But now that Finland is so clearly entering NATO, that possibility is, of course, limited if we choose to remain outside. Mr President, I would like to Nine years ago, in 2013, I stood here in this pulpit and expressed the importance of just a strong total defence capability. The defence is not a budget regulator. The defense is not a dairy cow that you can pick money off for other things. The defense is not something you can slaughter and then think that you can build up a little quickly if needed. I also highlighted the very attentive statement that Sweden could hold back a military assault for a maximum of one week provided that the attack took place against only one limited target. Since we entered Parliament, I and the Swedish Democrats have been advocating a substantial increase in the defence budget. We have continued to do so, and we are still doing so today. It is consistent and rooted in what reality actually looks like. I said then nine years ago that perhaps the unwillingness to invest in the defence is linked to the Prime Minister's – that is, the then Prime Minister's – almost total rejection of any threat to Sweden, even though Russia, for example, is arming for thousands of billions. So it was nine years ago. This was neither the first nor the last time that a Swedish democrat, unfortunately too often in this time before deaf ears, has tried to make the old parties understand that a military defence worthy of the name is of the utmost importance for the security of our citizens and our citizens and for the security of the Swedish people. For us Sweden's friends and defence friends, there are clear positive effects of the fact that we now have a broad majority in this House for a Swedish NATO application. The government must now implement much of the policy that the Swedish Democrats have been pursuing since we entered the Riksdag. This applies not least to Swedish preparedness and the funding for the defence. We need to review much of our country's preparedness in terms of fuel, food, medical supplies and so on. The pursuit of Swedish membership of NATO is therefore to some extent also a guarantor of maintaining a good Swedish preparedness and a good Swedish defence capability. When other governments, in the past, have used the defence as a budgetary regulator, we Swedish democrats have stood up for the opposite – for a strengthened defence. In order to prevent future governments from again taxing Swedish security and picking money from the defence budget, the Swedish Democrats want to constitutionalize a defence grant of just 2% of GDP, which is also NATO's recommendation to the Member States. An application for membership of NATO is only the first step in a long process. Now we have to look at what Swedish membership will mean. We need to look at what role Sweden can and should play in NATO. As a full member of NATO, Sweden will be able to help make our mark on the defence alliance. NATO, for example, is expected to adopt a new strategic concept in 2022 to replace the current one from 2010. In addition to the Washington Treaty of 1949, this is the Alliance's most important document, and this is an example of things that need to be investigated to see how it affects Sweden.
i-3mPHhBqmR2SwdwpWihBFAM	Mr President, I would like to Finally! At last, there is a very broad majority in the Swedish Parliament for a Swedish NATO membership. It's historic. It's necessary. Sweden's new security policy analysis is sharp and clear. The Russian large-scale invasion of Ukraine, a sovereign and democratic neighbour, is of a kind that Europe has not experienced since the Second World War. Putin war against Ukraine has bombed European peace and security order. The playing field has changed drastically. But we've seen the signs for a long time. We have seen Russia's arbitrary action impairing the security policy order in Europe structurally and in the long term. Since the wars against Georgia in 2008 and against Ukraine in 2014, including the illegal annexation of Crimea, it has been clear: Putin has abandoned the rule-based world order. He has threatened and alluded to the use of nuclear weapons and to the use of illicit chemical weapons. In December 2021, the Putin regime made far-reaching demands for a change in the security regime in Europe – demands that cannot be interpreted otherwise than as a threat to Sweden's self-determination. These are aggressive and unacceptable demands that challenge the free, open and democratic world. Prime Minister Magdalena Andersson's statement today is clear. That is an absolutely necessary response to the Kremlin. We will never be neutral in the face of Putin's bloody attack war. We're not gonna bend. Sweden and Finland will never be part of a Russian sphere of influence. A Swedish NATO membership would raise the threshold for military conflicts and thus have a conflict-resisting effect in northern Europe. There are no other realistic alternatives. It is a real strength that the Security Policy Committee is unambiguous on this point. The serious security policy situation requires collective security guarantees. A Swedish NATO membership is necessary for our security and for the good of Sweden. It strengthens our country. It strengthens our country's defence and security at a time when neither Sweden nor any other European country can take peace and freedom for granted. This includes Sweden in a society based on a foundation shaped by the idea that freedom, consensus and liberal democracy make the world a better place. It is a foundation that the Center Party shares and will always continue to work from outside to build even stronger and wider. When Sweden and Finland become members of NATO, security in the Baltic Sea region, the Nordic region and the Baltic States will also be strengthened. It builds a real solidarity that is directly necessary. Being able to cooperate operationally even closer with both our Baltic and our Nordic neighbours within NATO will strengthen the stability of and around the Baltic Sea while making NATO as an organisation stronger and more dynamic. The fact that all the Nordic countries are members of NATO strengthens mutual Nordic and Nordic-Baltic defence and security cooperation in a crucial way. It is, and always has been, with others that we best build security and security in our part of the world. It is me and the Center Party proud to be able to continue to contribute to. In a situation where all Nordic countries become NATO members, it is also the Center Party's position that our membership should follow the example of Norway and Denmark. Swedish territory must be free from both nuclear weapons and permanent placement of foreign troops in peacetime. A consensus between our Nordic countries in these areas would be a strength. It is a strength that there is broad agreement on this in this House too. There are those who believe that the process of Swedish NATO membership has gone too fast and that it is based on hasty conclusions. I don't share that picture. There are many of us who have been discussing, debating and analysing the pros and cons of a Swedish NATO membership for a very long time. The Center Party soon a decade ago had a thorough and ambitious internal effort to land in our clear yes to Sweden, together with Finland, seeking membership. We noted Russia's aggressive and expansive ambitions and drew our conclusions. It was a process that required responsibility, transparency, dialogue and knowledge. But we've done our homework. This strengthened us as a party, but it also strengthened the Swedish defence debate in general and the Swedish NATO debate in particular. We were the first to propose a Swedish NATO option, which was then heard by a majority in the Swedish Parliament. We have pushed to get the Swedish defence funds up to 2% of the bnp. It is an important decision both in terms of strengthening the Swedish total defence and in terms of the process of approaching NATO. The NATO debate in our country, with the examination of arguments for or against Swedish membership and the discussion on the effects of this, is far from new or premature. However, those of us who are today behind the security policy analysis and the step towards membership must also be able to stand up for it, in a responsible and respectful way. We must understand that there are those who think differently, not only in this House but around Sweden. There are those who are concerned about what the decision should mean and who, for various reasons, want to take a different path or do not see any change at all. That will always be the case. However, on this issue it is particularly important to deal with these differences of opinion in a way that does not contribute to division or mistrust. NATO membership is historic and of the highest importance for Swedish security. That is the right way to go. But the work to strengthen Swedish defence and increase society's crisis preparedness and endurance must continue. It is a work that everyone must contribute to, believe in and take responsibility for. It is a work that must be done in municipalities, in regions, in companies, in civil society, with you and with me. Then the cohesion in Sweden is absolutely crucial. Our trust in each other and our ability to aim for a common goal will always be an invaluable force for a stronger, safer and safer Sweden if used properly. The responsibility for safeguarding faith, belief in the future and community rests heavily on us in this House, as elected representatives of the entire population of Sweden. For now we must also look forward and take this historic day as a starting point to see how we strengthen security and preparedness throughout the country, in all parts of society. Now let us see how we make Sweden not just a NATO country but a country that is strong and ready, no matter what the crisis we face. Then it is a question of reaching the target of a 2% defence grant of GDP as quickly and effectively as possible. It is about keeping a high tempo in the ambition increase of our Swedish defence but ensuring that it is done in a way that gives maximum dividends for each invested crown. We will build the Swedish Armed Forces not only bigger but above all better and stronger. But it is also about continuing to strengthen civil defence and ensuring that everyday life works as well as possible even in times of crisis or, at worst, times of war. We will make sure to build a Swedish total defense that can meet both today's and tomorrow's realities in the best possible way. But now all of us are also required to have the ability to see reality for what it is and to have a responsiveness to changes in it. We must realise that the only nuclear threat facing Sweden and our part of the world is the Russian, realise that for our generation there is a before and one after 24 February, have the courage to reconsider old truths and, above all, stick to the truth of the debate and avoid pulling towards exaggerations and extremes or deliberately misunderstanding each other. Now is the time for action and for gathering, Mr President. This is a historic day and a historic path. The Center Party is, of course, behind a Swedish NATO membership. We've been asking for that for a long time. It is a position that is in every way in the best interests of Sweden.
i-3TCZJHRSaZFjDgJosS5qKH	Mr President, I would like to The brutal Russian invasion of Ukraine once again reminds the world of the horrors of war – an attack that is unforgivable, illegal and unprovoked. No country has the right to decide over another. Every people has the right to rule themselves and their own future. That is the basis of democracy. The principles of international law must never be exceeded. For eight years, the Ukrainian people have been under occupation by a Russian leadership which is now talking about a new Great Russia. During the spring, Russian aggression has escalated in the most brutal way. Sweden must stand up for Ukraine's freedom. We need to send more support and help to the Ukrainian people, who have courageously stood up to the Russian invasion. We must now strangle all imports of Russian gas and oil. The government needs to speed this up. The situation is acute in Ukraine. They need our help now. The Ukrainian people must not be let down. But, Mr President, what is not urgent is that Sweden submits a request for membership to NATO. It won't help Ukraine. It's about something else. The government has decided in a few weeks to abandon 200 years of alliance freedom and military self-determination. We are the country in the world that has been able to protect our population from war for the longest time. That is why Minister Hultqvist declared so clearly, no later than a few months ago, that he would never bring Sweden into NATO. There are of course different ways of looking at how we best keep Sweden safe. But what the alternatives consist of, what their pros and cons are, we have not been able to get to the bottom of. This has been pushed forward, most recently with a pamphlet on NATO called security policy analysis. But there are no in-depth considerations. There are no substantiated claims. The fact that voters will not be able to take a stand on this crucial issue in either elections or referendums is deeply problematic. It undermines the legitimacy of the decision, and there is no justification for security policy. The Swedish Armed Forces and other experts have clearly stated this. It would have been equally safe to take decisions on the NATO issue in October. This process is a betrayal of the electorate. The decision to abandon the freedom of alliance and enter a nuclear alliance with authoritarian regimes is taken over the heads of the citizens. There are other ways to keep Sweden safe. We must have a credible military capability of our own, a defence that protects our own borders. It is an important signal to the outside world of our determination to safeguard our sovereignty and territorial integrity at all times. Conscription is reintroduced to ensure the popular anchoring of our protection. Swedish resilience needs to be strengthened in a number of areas. Critical infrastructure cannot be sold to foreign power. To hold on to our military self-determination is to create security and stability in northern Europe. We shall not participate in military operations decided by others other than ourselves. Then we are drawn into conflicts that make ourselves vulnerable to aggression. We will prevent escalation and altitude of conflict in our immediate vicinity. In a changing time, Sweden will retain its room for manoeuvre. Our privilege is to be able to choose our collaborations. We will continue to develop defence policy cooperation with countries in our neighbourhood and those who share our values. We will continue to cooperate fully with Finland and our Nordic friends. We build our security with others. For centuries Sweden has built a high reputation in the world. Mats Fogelmark, head of the Swedish Armed Forces' veteran centre, served in the besieged Sarajevo. He remembers how the Swedish flag symbolized something more peaceful than colleagues from other countries. It saved his life. He says: On several occasions the Swedish flag saved me. They stole my equipment but looked at the flag and said, "Sweden, out. " Even in Afghanistan, the Swedish flag still works. He believes that the decision to leave alliance freedom may shock the outside world. It has been 200 years of investment in the Swedish flag. Now this can be abandoned. Then Swedish soldiers are no longer in battle protected by the flag. Early on, like the previous investigation, I said that NATO membership will undermine an independent Swedish foreign and security policy. It will impair our ability to take a stand against abuse and human rights. We will be able to get involved in the conflicts of authoritarian regimes. A lot of people said that wasn't true. The government also wrote in its report that our foreign policy will remain intact. But not many hours had passed since the publication until Turkey's Erdo demanded concessions for NATO membership. Now he blackmails Sweden and claims that we are a terrorist hostel and that the Kurdish forces in YPG are terrorists, those which this government calls freedom fighters. According to the government's position, it is unacceptable that freedom fighters who have fought for or sympathise with YPG by some states are classified as terrorists. Now, however, Erdo calls for an adaptation of the Swedish position, and Minister for Foreign Affairs Ann Linde will sit down with the despot Erdo to find consensus – a person who is persecuting and oppressing her own population. NATO will be a new break over Swedish foreign and security policy. The question is why the government did not choose to speak plainly about this in its NATO report. The same applies to the work against nuclear weapons, the greatest threat to humanity. It is as Stefan Löfven says: There is no umbrella to protect against nuclear weapons. The risks of a military escalation in our neighbourhood are very real. Now we commit ourselves to a nuclear alliance where we will plan for future nuclear weapons use. It exposes Sweden to risks and new threats. And this – one of the biggest Swedish decisions of all time – was denied the voters a position on. The fact that a strong democracy such as the Swedish one fails to meet this is spectacular. Now a decision is made that will affect generations of Swedes, without the Swedish people having been involved in the process. Mr President, I am sorry.
i-BMXzua6xvzM5iPDEwMwPMk	Mr President, I would like to Even a person who has no interest in war may find that the war takes an interest in himself. The Parliament gathers for this debate in a moment of seriousness. The Russian invasion of Ukraine and the human rights abuses committed there are constantly in our minds. What is now happening in Eastern Europe is also the reason for this debate and the fact that a large majority in this House has now been formed for Swedish NATO membership – a wise decision at a difficult time. As World War I approached, Sweden stood in many ways astounded and unprepared, coerced by others in a drama where one did not play or wanted to play any role. Then the words will have been coined: a country has a foreign policy, whether it wants it or not. The words feel appropriate also to describe our closest present. Despite an increasingly aggressive Russia and the invasion of Crimea in 2014, there has been an unwillingness mainly from the Social Democracy to absorb the consequences of this in relation to Sweden's national security. Security policy has sometimes appeared to be something that one would have preferred to avoid. Instead, the Christian Democrats concluded that a neo-imperialist Russia requires a Swedish NATO membership. We are therefore pleased that support for this is now above the block line, and I would like to thank Magdalena Andersson for her work in turning and landing with her party in the new era that has existed since 24 February and protecting Sweden's security. I would also like to thank the government, not least the Minister for Foreign Affairs and others, for their hard work in ensuring security guarantees in the difficult situation that we are in. You have my greatest respect for the hard and hard work that lies behind it. NATO membership is the right path for Sweden. Today, I will briefly highlight why, based on three different angles of entry: first on our western values, then on Swedish security interests and finally on our foreign policy tradition. Mr President, I would like to Every human being and every people assumes both responsibility and duty. It's not our choice. It is imposed on us by inheritance, by our obligations to our neighbor, and by the desire of conscience for justice. It is primarily the responsibility of Sweden to secure our own people's security. No one else can do that. But it also falls to us to stand up for what is true and right on the basis of the conditions given to us. Not least, we have a responsibility for this within our own neighbourhood, towards our neighbours, where we have the greatest opportunity to influence. How, then, can we best contribute to democracy, freedom and independence for ourselves, our neighbours and the world at large? The answer is through membership of NATO. NATO is the defence alliance of the free and democratic world. In addition, it is the defence alliance of the small states. The Soviet propaganda would like to turn it into NATO's means of power, and I note that this reasoning touched on parts of the Swedish left. But the truth is that in NATO there are not county lords or vassals, but all countries are equal. That is why there are no guarantees within NATO for support in the event of attacks, but only in the case of defence. The strength of this was recognized by the peoples of Central and Eastern Europe when they got their freedom, and they therefore sought security within the defence alliance. If we want to be their support, it is within NATO that we should operate. Never do we want to relive the time when the Baltics were broken away from the Nordic countries. As little as we sedentary could accept Putin's attack on Ukraine, we could remain passive in an assault on Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. Or, as Carl Bildt said slightly cooler back in 1993: It's hard to see neutrality as a likely choice, if Baltic freedom is threatened. If we are to be true to ourselves and our own ideals, it is with our NATO friends that we should work together. Mr President, I would like to It is not possible to get around in real politics that the only military threat to Sweden comes from Russia. Russian revengeism is found in plain text both in Putin own speech and in the plethora of government propaganda that has been spread over several years. The freedom of both Finland and the Baltic States is in question. From a strategic perspective, it is clear that a Russian attack on the Baltic countries would put Sweden and not least Gotland in a precarious situation. The possibility of using, for example, anti-aircraft deployment on Gotland to deny the West opportunities to rescue the Baltic States could be of great importance for Russian armed forces. As the Bringéus report states, this means that Sweden would most likely be involved in such a conflict. The best way to face this threat is by building collective security together with our friends around the Baltic Sea. A Swedish NATO membership would act as a direct deterrent to Russian aggression in the Baltic Sea region. We raise the threshold to resort to violence. It should also be said that Finland's and the Baltic States' independence is not only a desire on the basis of democratic principles, as they are, but also on the basis of fundamental Swedish security policy interests. The fact that the eastern coasts of the Baltic Sea lie in the hands of free peoples relieves the pressure on our country and certainly makes the Baltic Sea the sea of peace. Our safety is their safety. Their safety is our safety. Is it safe to join NATO? No. This means increased Russian threats to Sweden in the short term, but as noted in the security policy analysis, Russia has long regarded Sweden as an integral part of Western security and defence cooperation. We should understand the risks of standing outside NATO, not least after Russia has designated Sweden as a hostile country. Mr President, I would like to There are those who claim that membership of NATO would be a crime with our country's foreign policy tradition. That's not true. Our freedom of alliance is not born of any idea of neutrality as a good thing in itself. It was born as a pragmatic consequence of our country's ancient efforts to preserve its independence. Through our history, it is this supreme goal, our independence, that has guided us. In certain times Sweden has therefore chosen the freedom of alliance, and in other times we have sought alliances to find support against hostile great powers. That is how we have secured 500 years of independence, 200 years of peace and 100 years of democracy. The fact that our country is now seeking membership of NATO, as a result of Russia's newly revived imperialism, is therefore not a break with it, but is in agreement with the deepest lines of our foreign policy. It is an echo of the alliances of old, just as our support in the form of arms supplies to Ukraine echoes our support to Finland during the winter war. It is a coincidence that looks like an idea that Sweden and the United Kingdom signed a joint declaration of solidarity on 11 May. It is a declaration that historically has its equivalent in the November tract, which during the 19th century helped protect Sweden against Russian aggression. Through membership of NATO, we are now acting again to secure our independence from foreign imperialism, like so many times before. Mr President, I would like to For these reasons – principled, real political and historical – Sweden acts right when we seek membership of NATO. It is a wise decision at a difficult time.
i-Wm94F2QpvBrtAdXpea22TF	Mr President, I would like to It is with a tremendous humility that we stand here today. It's an important decision. And as several speakers have said, it is a decision that will mark generations to come in our country. Mr President, I would like to There is no other single measure that significantly strengthens the security of the Swedish people as a member of NATO does. Our other defence policy collaborations and how many percent of the bnp we allocate to the defense weigh considerably more easily. Many of my representatives here in the speaker's chair have spoken about Article 5, the so-called Musketeer Paragraph. It is important, at the heart of the Washington Treaty. At the same time, however, we must remember that Article 5 is supported by the ongoing defence planning carried out by the Alliance. This planning will also help us to tighten up our military and civil defence, Mr President. We will be encouraged to a lesser extent to long-term development projects and more to war-worthy combat capability here and now. The report from the Security Policy Analysis Group that came in last week states that the freedom of alliance has historically served Sweden well. I'd like to say the opposite. For a long time, many decades, we have had no credibility in terms of our freedom of alliance in the eyes of Russia. Mr President, I would like to I stood a few years ago with Hans Wallmark at a height out on Österlen, at Ravlunda shooting field, and saw B52s flying nonstop from the United States simulate minute laying in Hanö Bay. Then the military units of eleven different NATO countries landed on the shore. It wasn't something that only we saw. So did Russia. They know that we have been playing under cover with the USA and NATO, and they have known it for a long time. While we have been close but not in NATO, we have lacked the security guarantees offered by the Alliance. This means that for a long time we have been in a security policy no man's country, without guarantees and without credibility in terms of our freedom of alliance. It is just such a situation that Ukraine has found itself in and is still in, Mr President. In alliancelessness there is also a fundamental feature of loneliness. Small countries, when hot, often bend to the upper hand. Sweden did so during World War II. German soldiers crossed our country. And after the war ended, we handed out baltes to the Soviet military power. We were also one of the very few Western countries that recognised the annexation of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania by the Soviet Union. It has been called that a Swedish NATO membership would mean that we leave our traditional disarmament line, our peace work and our diplomacy. I think it is exactly the opposite, Mr President. I see a Swedish application for membership of NATO as the last steps we take into the free world. The debate sometimes says that we will now have to have permanent NATO bases and nuclear weapons on our territory. Nuclear weapons are, of course, a sensitive issue. Sweden will still have its resistance to these weapons. At the same time, however, it cannot be ignored that at a time when Vladimir Putin more or less regularly threatens to use nuclear weapons, including against us, we also need an umbrella to stand under. Unlike, for example, the EU, NATO is not a supranational organisation. It cannot decide what individual Member States should do. There's always a national veto. I have an expectation that today the government will decide on a so-called pure application for membership of the transatlantic alliance. However, I would like to agree with the statement that I believe that NATO has no expectations of Sweden other than Denmark and Norway. The meaning of that is that, once we are members, we can formulate our relationship with NATO and, as many have said, we can reject such investments and locations, Mr President. Many have talked about the reactions that will now come from Russia. Conventional military Russia has its hands full in the small part of Ukraine in which it is currently operating. But of course there can be impact surgery, hybrid attacks and so on. But it is also important to remember that perhaps our most sensitive time is behind us right now. It is during this spring and the months that we have discussed as a window have been open to Russia when it comes to being able to influence Swedish politics. Once the government makes its decision to apply this afternoon, that window closes a bit. A lot of people have been thinking it's been quick. I can agree with that, at least at the end, Mr President. But I can also note that the Swedish Government saw the signs in the sky quite late. Quite late, it was perceived that Finland was on its way. When Sauli Niinistö sat at Joe Biden in the White House on March 3, this year, it was a clear signal, which unfortunately we did not understand. Only a week later, the traditional response of the Social Democrats was exactly the same: no, NATO membership is out of the question. It is something that has been repeated over the past few decades in slightly different versions but with the same meaning. We are now on our way in, Mr President. And it cannot be ignored that, in the case of NATO, we can have a similar problem with democratic deficits as that which arose from Sweden's rapid entry into the EU in the 1990s. I want to make it clear that responsibility for this rests entirely with the Socialist Party. They have never allowed a discussion on the substance of NATO. It's been waved away. Mona Sahlin said not in my lifetime. Peter Hultqvist has said: not as long as he is Minister of Defence. Now you have to take responsibility for this. Finally, 11 April at 2.30 p.m. At 08.15 in the morning, in a windowless room at the Ministry of Defence, Peter Hultqvist will finally have changed his attitude towards NATO. I quote him, Mr President: we had turned and turned all the pieces of the puzzle but realised that there was no other option. That statement reminds me a little of Bishop Brask, who also perceived himself to be in need and forced to take some action. But I hope that in the weeks and months that follow, the Minister for Defence will mobilise greater enthusiasm to join this alliance. After all, he's the one who's gonna negotiate for us on the way in. Mr President, I would like to I have never wished to press for a debate as strongly as I did today, but I know that I cannot do so.
i-AjAAczeLUzrvcGPv45oCkv	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating a historic decision, whether Sweden will abandon 200 years of alliance freedom and whether our country will join the NATO military alliance. But at a time like this, in an extremely serious security policy situation both in our neighbourhood and globally, it is also important to remind ourselves that security policy is actually about more than just no or yes to NATO. Russia's terrible and illegal invasion of Ukraine has dramatically changed the security situation in Europe and for Sweden. A democracy in Europe has been invaded by an authoritarian state, which seeks to deprive it of its right to freedom, its right to self-determination. Horrible and gross war crimes, such as rapes and mass killings of civilians, are now reported from a number of places where the Russian soldiers have pulled out. Nearly 14 million people in Ukraine have been forced to flee. Many thousands of civilians have been killed. It is a terrible attack that Sweden must do everything to stop. I am proud that we in the broad community have been able to send both arms and other support to Ukraine to help them in their fight. But that's not enough. We know that well over half of Putin's export revenue, which fills his war fund, comes from fossil fuel exports. When President Zelenskyj spoke to this Parliament in this very House a few months ago, on 24 March, it was a Swedish ban on imports of Russian fossil fuels that was the focus – not a thin Russian oil, not a Russian oil tanker that loosens in Swedish ports. Unfortunately, on the same day, a proposal from the Green Party to stop the import of fossil fuels from Russia by six out of eight parties in the Swedish parliament was rejected. But our work continued tirelessly, and last week a majority in Parliament finally supported the Green Party's proposal for an import ban on Russian fuels. Now it is up to the government to put that plan into effect. The Green Party wants to see an immediate stop to imports of Russian energy into Sweden, and we want the government to push more forcefully to stop imports into the EU as well. As President Zelenskyj said, sanctions are the only language Putin understands. We all know that fossil fuels aggravate the climate emergency. It will also mean that our country's security will deteriorate as extreme weather, with floods, droughts, severe storms and forest fires, both get worse and come more often. Here, too, we would like a national gathering to face that threat with our full power. I hope it comes later, at least. But dependence on fossil fuels is also a security policy risk. We should also be able to see that here and now. We have been pushing for a long time to strengthen Europe's resilience and increase the pressure on Putin. We have pushed for Swedish energy solidarity so that together within the EU we can close Putin's gas and oil cranes. This means that we need to change our energy policy. Renewable is clearly the safety and environmental sustainability. To remain dependent on authoritarian states and continue to pump money into Putin's war treasury is no longer justifiable. Therefore, political resistance to renewable energy in Sweden and in Europe is also a threat to our security. Renewable energy is energy of freedom, as the German liberal Christian Lindner said. Mr President, I would like to The Green Party largely supports the report prepared by the Security Policy Analysis Group. We share the analysis made in the report on the deteriorating security situation due to Russia's vile invasion of Ukraine and also the assessment of the consequences for security policy in Europe and in Sweden. However, where the letter has positions that only NATO membership would benefit Sweden's security, the Green Party makes a different assessment. We have great respect for the fact that various conclusions can be reached, and for us too the arguments for changing the direction of security policy have been strengthened. However, when the Green Party strikes a balance, it is still considering the negative aspects of NATO membership for us. We believe that the best thing for Sweden is that in future we can also choose our own partners when it comes to security policy issues. We can then look for security policy cooperation with democracies and with those countries that share our values and our view of world development in the future. In a time of growing tensions in the world, more than ever, global actors are needed to promote peace, conflict prevention and mediation in ongoing conflicts. Here Sweden has a proud tradition to fall back on – to prevent and mediate as an alliance-free country in wars and conflicts around the world. Our diplomatic work and our high level of assistance have helped to give us a strong name, which we can also use for peaceful development in the world. Here we see that continued freedom of alliance increases Sweden's ability to conduct dialogue, to act as a peace broker and thus also contribute to relaxation, not least in our neighbourhood. I would also like to remind you that Sweden's security and our ability to cope with crises are not just about military capability, military strength. We must also be prepared to face threats such as impact campaigns, cyber threats, hacker attacks on IT systems, terrorism, threats to democracy and threats to the rule of law. New pandemics will come, and we will see a shortage of necessary inputs for industry. Not least, we know that climate change, with droughts, fires, storms and floods, will put more and more pressure on the world and on Sweden. Mr President, I would like to The Green Party wants Sweden to continue working for global disarmament. We know that nuclear weapons in particular are an existential threat to humanity. A world of nuclear weapons can never be a safe world. Membership of NATO means that Sweden subscribes to the use of nuclear weapons as a threat and as part of a defence strategy. We are concerned that Sweden's extremely important work on nuclear disarmament will be made more difficult if we are members of a nuclear alliance like NATO. The Green Party has pushed for Sweden to sign the UN Convention on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons. That is a requirement we stand by. We also believe that Sweden should legislate that nuclear weapons should not be allowed in our country, on our territory, either in peacetime or in wartime. Our work to contribute internationally to peace and conflict prevention is important. That is something we need to work on. We are concerned that in future Sweden will be seen as a representative of NATO rather than as a country of its own that is working for a peaceful world. I am also concerned about the democratic decline that we can see today, not only in Russia but also in several countries that are members of NATO. We now see NATO countries where fundamental human rights are increasingly being challenged. Journalists are being imprisoned. Media and universities are controlled. The principles of the rule of law are being called into question. These are worrying trends, and they must be broken. The Green Party wants Sweden to continue to be an independent voice for peace and for human rights and to strengthen Sweden's feminist foreign and development policy. Sweden is now about to leave a security policy line that has been in place for centuries and has kept our country out of war and conflict. It is a great and historic decision, and we find it remarkable that it has happened in just a few weeks. Such a decisive decision deserves an in-depth discussion of society. We would have liked more time for a deeper analysis and a longer and broader democratic anchoring of such an important decision. Our view is that Sweden's population should have had the opportunity to take part in both the pros and cons of membership in a social debate during the election campaign, and then to have it with us when we all go to elections in a few months' time. We maintain that there are other options than NATO: to strengthen Sweden's defence capabilities strongly, as we have done, but also to deepen cooperation in defence and security policy with democratic countries. At the same time, as a party, we have respect for decisions taken democratically, and if, even after the elections, there is a broad majority in favour of NATO membership, we will accept that outcome and instead work within a Swedish NATO membership for peace, for nuclear disarmament and for democracy. At a time when there is a very serious security situation in our surrounding world, there is also a need for a national collection. The Green Party will work for us to stand up together to meet the threats facing Sweden but also for world development in democracy and peace.
i-BjLHxd8AznVFusrmkdDcds	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank you for a very good debate and thank everyone who has kept the respectful tone that the seriousness of the moment deserves. I would also like to thank you for all the talks we have had in recent months with various party leaders but of course especially for the close dialogue that I have had with opposition leader Ulf Kristersson. On very many issues we do not agree with each other, but when it comes to Sweden's security, we both put the security of the country ahead of the contentions we can have in various domestic policy issues. I greatly appreciate our dialogue, and I also share Ulf Kristersson's view that a Swedish NATO membership would strengthen Sweden's security. It would also strengthen Nordic cooperation, and it would strengthen NATO. NATO is strengthening Sweden, and Sweden is strengthening NATO because in recent years we have strongly strengthened Swedish defence capabilities in broad agreement in the Riksdag. We are now conducting, under Peter Hultqvist's leadership, the largest expansion of the Swedish defence since the 1950s, and we will continue all the way up to 2 percent of the bnp. We have reintroduced military service, we are opening new regiments, we are buying in n y defence equipment and we have also built a large number of defence collaborations in a way that will also strengthen us in the period we are now entering, from the application to full membership. After today's debate, it is clear that there is a large and broad majority in the Riksdag for Sweden to apply for membership of NATO. Against this background, it is also logical that the government should take such a decision. But I also know that there are many Swedes who still hesitate, who wonder why it must go so quickly and who stick to the military freedom of alliance. We'll respect that. You can land in a different opinion. This does not mean that you care less about Sweden. We all love our country, and we all want the best for Sweden. There are also many Swedes who come to the conclusion that the situation requires NATO membership but who still feel a melancholy. This is a historic and revolutionary decision. This is a major shift facing Sweden. We leave one era and go into another. But we will enter the new time with confidence, and when we do, we will take with us the best of our country's history. Above all, we should take with us the realization that we are getting stronger together.
i-4kPv6S3WZJnApdWunaHNMa	Mr President, I would like to The Social Democratic wave of NATO means that we are abandoning the non-aligned line that has served Sweden well for a very long time and would serve Sweden well in the future. It has kept us out of wars and conflicts and allowed us to have an independent foreign policy. Even now, however, we are seeing how despot Erdo中an is using the new dependency situation that the government has put us in to influence Swedish foreign and security policy. Now we see that Erdo中an is demanding concessions and pointing out Sweden as a haven for terrorists. The Social Democrats and the government have been very clear: doing as Mr Erdo中an wants and stamping YPG as a terrorist organisation is unacceptable. The party leader Selahattin Demirtaş from HDP shall be released. Are these positions valid and something that the government stands by and can express in this House?
i-5ihbLqtVG8co1AsiQDAPgY	Mr President, I would like to After a Swedish application for membership and after Sweden is invited as a member of the Defence Alliance, there is a process in which all parliaments must ratify the application. During that time, Sweden will of course have a dialogue with all 30 NATO Member States at different levels, including Turkey. That said, Sweden's foreign policy line is solid.
i-PiM8EfpWswogwAEMdScwtw	Mr President, I would like to I am very pleased that the Prime Minister is saying and sticking to and hopefully in talks with Turkey will highlight these very things: that the government considers it unacceptable to point out YPG, the group that fought IS and saved the world from the terror cult, as terrorists, and that this government calls for the release of party leader Selahattin Demirtaş from prison. Are these positions that will be taken up with the Turkish regime? Is the government clearly committed to this? A clear yes to clarify the situation would facilitate this discussion.
i-7jYBemZUDj7GFv16zDaQmh	Mr President, I would like to It is as I say: Sweden has a foreign policy line. The fact that we are applying for NATO membership does not mean that we will change our foreign policy line.
i-AzfapyK4QUX9MVGQdarLje	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Prime Minister, for your speech. It is no secret that the Green Party has long been deeply committed to reducing the nuclear threat in our world. Yesterday at the press conference, the Prime Minister mentioned that she does not see NATO membership as an obstacle to pushing foreign policy. At the same time, Mrs Wallström has said, for example, that the Stockholm initiative would not have been feasible if Sweden had been a member of NATO. For the Green Party, it is important that we really do everything in our power. For example, we believe that Sweden should sign the UN Convention on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons, such as Ireland and Austria, as non-NATO members have done. It would be interesting to hear how the Prime Minister views the work within NATO to reduce the nuclear threat. Will the Prime Minister work for Sweden to have legislation that says that there should not be nuclear weapons on Swedish soil in either war or peace states? Will the Prime Minister work to change the first use strategy, i.e. that NATO will be the first side to use nuclear weapons in conflict?
i-PrmeNS6T88BsHeUMdqoigi	Mr President, I would like to Sweden will of course continue to pursue an active policy in the world for disarmament, for peace and for fewer nuclear weapons and preferably no nuclear weapons anywhere in the world. Having said that, it is important to emphasise that NATO does not have any kind of first use policy. On the other hand, it does not have a pronounced no first use policy. However, NATO is clear that the use of nuclear weapons is extremely far away. It is important to emphasise this. NATO does not place nuclear weapons in Member States against their will. I can see that Sweden, on the day that Sweden becomes a member, will be able to express reservations that we do not want nuclear weapons on Swedish territory – or fixed bases.
i-CQeMgfRaBsSs9V4jgojong	Mr President, I would like to At the same time, there are NATO countries that have legislation that clearly states that they do not accept nuclear weapons in either peacetime – which, as the Prime Minister says, applies to many countries – or wartime. Spain is one such example. Here, Sweden could make its position clear, which would be good. I'd like to return to the no first use strategy. We know that the greater the risk of nuclear weapons being used in a conflict, the greater the risk of, without exaggerating, the destruction of humanity. A nuclear war that escalates is an existential threat to all humanity. There, Sweden's position should be to try in every way to descalate and reduce the risk of nuclear weapons coming into use. Now that, as it stands, we have the opportunity to act as a NATO member, it would be responsible to push within NATO for NATO to change its line and have a clear no first use strategy. Is the Prime Minister prepared to act for such a thing?
i-HU12QiSeJvW5FHExYQVDox	Mr President, I would like to These are extremely important issues raised by Per Bolund. Clearly, no one can win a nuclear war. That is why all forms of de-escalation, cooperation in the world to reduce the number of nuclear weapons, are extremely central. It is, of course, important that there be nuclear disarmament and a reduction in the number of nuclear warheads in parallel in all nuclear nations. Sweden will, of course, continue to push ahead. Per Bolund mentioned the Stockholm initiative, and it is a Swedish initiative that several NATO members have joined. I see that we can continue to pursue this issue with full force, also as members of NATO.
i-DzvuFQGoceWxJv6WWEmznB	Mr President, I would like to Sweden's decision to apply for membership of NATO is a decision based on realism. It is nothing new – on the contrary! For half a century, Sweden's security policy doctrine has been characterised by a far more cress attitude than the official rhetoric has sometimes given rise to: From the unilateral US security guarantees in the 1960s to the very close intelligence exchange with both the US and other EU countries in recent years. From the somewhat strange romanticisation of neutrality and alliance freedom as ideology to the active Swedish participation in NATO operations in Bosnia, Kosovo, Libya and Afghanistan over the past 25 years. From quite a lot of secrecy to noticeably a lot of transparency. The process from neutrality through alliance freedom, which became alliancelessness, to today's clear position has been going on for a long time, but perhaps most clearly from 2009 onwards. With the Declaration of Solidarity, we fully recognised the European Community as a relationship with both obligations and rights. But not until now has Swedish security policy basically taken a clear stand, based on both sober analysis and honest assurance. It is good in Swedish democracy. Sweden already belongs to Europe and the EU, but Sweden also belongs to the Western world – and soon we also belong to NATO. That circle is closing.
i-Y2FRMw1p79QeG3xDZmsq6f	Mr President, I would like to I took part in a very nice debate with Ulf Kristersson a few weeks ago in Aftonbladet's studio. At that time Ulf Kristersson kept open – of course – in order to have nuclear weapons and foreign military bases on Swedish soil. Now it seems that Ulf Kristersson has changed his mind on this issue and can imagine not having nuclear weapons and foreign military bases on Swedish soil. How long has Ulf Kristersson been planning to hold the new news? Is it just a few weeks, too?
i-HaDYc7xerVCK1h1WQTAuGk	Mr President, I would like to I understand that in a debate where most people are united, it must be tempting to look for something to disagree on. I respect that; after all, it is a parliamentary debate. But if it is considered that I have expressed such an opinion, there must have been a misunderstanding. I have never understood it as anything but self-evident that Sweden does as Norway and Denmark, that is to say that in peacetime neither nuclear weapons nor permanent troops have been stationed. What happens in the worst case, if what must not happen, is a completely different matter. I see no such reason whatsoever, and I have not thought so before either.
i-JZQDR3w34o2HP3TeBAXqjC	Mr President, I would like to These are not details. It's about nuclear weapons on Swedish soil, and it's about foreign troops permanently stationed in Sweden. Do not underestimate the important issues of national security. The Moderates said a few weeks ago that it was completely open to having nuclear weapons and permanent foreign bases in Sweden. Is Ulf Kristersson's message today that it is something that the Moderates will under no circumstances work for or vote for in the future?
i-22XERwr63LuJ5aNbszsDEs	Mr President, I would like to I don't really know what Nooshi Dadgostar is looking for conflict about here. I do not think anyone in the Swedish Parliament thinks anything else but that it is quite natural for Sweden to make the same kind of statements that Norway and Denmark have made, as Finland also intends to do and as several other NATO countries do. I have not had such a discussion at all. Should the worst happen, however, I am glad that it is not only dictatorships in the world that have nuclear weapons, but that the free world is also prepared to have these terrible weapons that are never to be used as a deterrent. I have never thought otherwise, and I think it is excellent that we should make such a unilateral declaration, as other countries have done. I believe that the NATO countries do not expect anything else.
i-L8FgcUbbpQbYWJjCYAmDRW	Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, nuclear weapons are all too rarely debated and discussed in Swedish politics. Now we really have reason to drill a little deeper into the issue. The Moderates have previously called the UN Convention against Nuclear Weapons a placard policy. It would be interesting to hear what the Moderates' view of nuclear issues really is. Then it is not enough to say that when Putin and other dictators have nuclear weapons, it is good if the other side does too. It's a little too basic analysis. I would like clarification from Ulf Kristersson: How do you view nuclear deterrence? Furthermore, I ask the question I put to the Prime Minister: how do the Moderates and Ulf Kristersson view having a no first use strategy for NATO? Is Ulf Kristersson prepared to work for such a thing?
i-EuLzYeg8BPsEtfV8xskTaY	Mr President, I would like to Nuclear weapons are terrible. Nuclear weapons should not exist. Now that nuclear weapons exist, it is absolutely essential that even democracies with a deterrent effect can indicate to dictatorships that they must not be used. It is placard politics to wish that those countries that care about what people in these countries think should be under pressure to ban nuclear weapons in themselves but leave them in dictatorships. We will never contribute to this policy. Therefore, such a ban is pointless. Of course, the free world should also have this as a deterrent. But the best thing would be a world without nuclear weapons.
i-UiC3vKvEbJukx2dxsa1PWt	Mr President, I would like to It was good to get the Moderates' view of nuclear weapons. Maybe it wasn't entirely an answer to the question I asked. It is clear to those who follow history that previous UN conventions have actually been able to apply to all nuclear nations and have led to de-escalation and disarmament, for example, of nuclear weapons systems that are particularly threatening. We should build on that history and thus make use of it because we obviously have a common goal of having a world without nuclear weapons. I would like to return to the question that Ulf Kristersson did not answer. Today, there is no clear no-first-use strategy in the NATO countries, that is to say, it reserves the right to be the side that first enters nuclear weapons into conflict. Are Ulf Kristersson and the Moderates prepared to work within NATO to change that principle?
i-Ua1AJTJCSfTTbDm3LY6aqc	Mr President, I would like to I'm happy to contribute to nuclear disarmament in the world. It has been successful from time to time. We should not have any illusions that something other than the dictatorships is the big problem here. But if we can all contribute to fewer nuclear weapons in the world, that is excellent. I will not now, long before Sweden is a member, go in and discuss exactly what Sweden should do and not do as a future NATO member. I'm not going to contribute to that right now. But it is quite obvious that NATO is a defence organisation. It is an explicit defence organisation that jointly defends itself if it is attacked from outside. I think it says a great deal about the logic and values of NATO's work.
i-AeyJwzjPMkfCy9HKz43D5e	Mr President, I would like to I had a little kiss from the speaker's chair here. I don't know if that's a sign of anything. This debate, in so far as one can call it a debate, shows that there is an immensely broad support for what is now to take place and the further process ahead. It is, of course, a prerequisite for it to be good. It's very important. It is a strength for the continued process, and the Swedish Democrats intend to be a constructive partner in the further process. It is also clear – it became clear here today, but it has also become clear in recent months – that there are perfectly legitimate, reasonable arguments both for and against a Swedish NATO accession. I agree with everyone who has said here today that we must also respect those who think differently. But for us it is ultimately about the safety and security of Sweden's and Swedish citizens. It is an argument that weighs more heavily than any other argument. If you look at the situation in Ukraine over the past few months, you can see how this not so small people, who are, of course, militaryly weaker than their enemy, defend themselves. Sure, you get help from the outside world in the form of equipment and money and supplies, but you fight on your own. It would, of course, be devastating if Sweden ended up in a similar situation, and it weighs very heavily on our decision here today and in the future. Realism and pragmatism, Mr President.
i-BzNuydoFt2dSCqx1yNbS4r	Mr President, I would like to Putin's boundlessly vile war in Ukraine has changed everything. We see in real time how Russian soldiers on Putin's mission murder, terrorize and desecrate people and try to wipe out a people and a country. All the Ukrainian men and women who are now fighting for their own survival and freedom are also fighting for the survival and freedom of our Europe and the rest of Europe. This new reality requires action. It requires our continued full support for Ukraine, but it also requires us to act to strengthen security and freedom here at home and in our neighbourhood. A Swedish NATO membership does just that. It strengthens Sweden's defence and security. It also strengthens security and solidarity and cooperation with our Nordic and Baltic friends. It is a clear response to Putin's aggressive war and a clear message to the world around us. It is unthinkable to stand neutral against Putin's bloody, unprovoked attack on his neighbour and on European peace. The Center Party has long advocated Swedish NATO membership. We have actively pushed the debate and the concrete defence and security policy, with us a majority in the Riksdag for a Swedish NATO option, has been crucial to raise the Swedish defence grant, together with other constructive forces, to 2 percent of the GDP in the future and pushed through the re-launching of regiments across the country and also investments in civil defence. We have made a difference, and we will continue to be a serious and energetic voice to strengthen the Swedish total defence. That is why it is with responsibility and gratitude that today I am clearly expressing my full support and that of the Center Party for Sweden to apply to join NATO. It is a decision that is fully in the interests of freedom, security and Sweden.
i-EsCtGeAb16Bkab5a8PBVng	Mr President, I would like to Our security policy was never meant to work only in good times. It's got to be the other way around. It shall remain stable over time and in changes. We'll always analyze the new situations. We'll be able to reconsider. But it's not the same as throwing everything we know over tables. Now it sounds to the other parties and the government as if it were the only way to go. We are the country in the world that has had the longest continuum of peace. For 200 years, Swedish alliance freedom has created security for Sweden and kept us out of war. We've had an independent voice. No one has been able to dictate Swedish foreign policy from outside. We have stood up for the security of Swedish citizens and for human rights worldwide. We all agree that the Russian invasion is unforgivable, illegal and unprovoked. What we do not agree on is what is best for Sweden's security. A large majority of the Swedish people voted for parties that stood up for the current Swedish line and a clear no to NATO. There is a lack of democratic and popular support to force the Swedish people into NATO. Yet that is what is happening today. We could have handled this better by allowing the citizens to take a stand on the pros and cons. It would have been better for democracy, for legitimacy and for Swedish security policy.
i-HPaQa9EsuoTnRmGjLL77Cd	Mr President, I would like to It is now clear that today in this House there is a broad political consensus and majority in favour of Swedish NATO membership. This day, Monday 16 May 2022, may be written into the history books as a milestone in Swedish foreign and security policy. For the Christian Democrats there has been, for many years, an aspiration to this very point, to this very day. We have also advocated and advocate a Swedish NATO membership today because we believe in cooperation that strengthens and secures peace and freedom. NATO is a defence alliance, a cooperation whose whole foundation is precisely to secure peace and freedom. This has been the case since 1949, when NATO was formed, and even today, when insecurity, threats and war have returned to our part of the world. Aggressions and threats can never be met by turning away but only by standing up to oppression and for peace. Aggressions do not meet with aggression, but with a strong and credible defence of fundamental values of democracy, freedom and self-determination – values that can be most strongly defended through cooperation. Let it be clear today and in this House that the Christian Democrats are firmly and confidently behind a Swedish application for full membership of NATO, for peace and for freedom which must be defended at all times.
i-2FrBx5c3VrusKwRf33fFQp	Mr President, I would like to It is, of course, appalling, but the so-called balance of terror, or the doctrine of mutal insured destruction, kept peace in a world where strong opponents experienced strong tensions for a long time. Peace could be kept. Even when the Cuban crisis raged, this was possible. This leads me to the conclusion that in any form of disarmament in the case of nuclear weapons or, for that matter, other weapons of mass destruction, there must be reciprocity, that is to say, one cannot ask for more of one side than is requested of the other. I think it is also part of history that the latest world leader who expressed the vision of a nuclear-free world was, in fact, US President Barack Obama. It is true that the decision has been made quickly. But some of us parties that have long fought for NATO membership do not really feel that way. It is almost 23 years since the People's Party, as it was then called, began to pursue this issue. It is correct that the Prime Minister points out that the defence allocation has increased, both in 2015 and 2020 – at the latter point in time to a rather significant extent. However, since the Prime Minister himself was involved in parts of these negotiations, she also knows what was pushing for these increases in funding. It was essentially, Mr President, the bourgeois parties. Alone is not strong, Mr President. In security policy, alone is just lonely.
i-DXzUds66SBbeMQh2eDWcus	Mr President, I would like to The Social Democrats have now turned, and it is a fact that there is broad parliamentary support for the government's decision. The Green Party obviously respects our democratic rules of the game, even when decisions run counter to us, as in this case. As a party, we have not changed our views on the NATO issue. We would rather that Sweden remains non-aligned, even in these troubled times. But now everything points out that we are facing an accession process, and then we want Sweden to make demands for our membership of NATO. These requirements should also be discussed and anchored in the Riksdag. What are the conditions that will apply to Sweden if we now become members of NATO? Now we are already seeing that Turkey is starting to counter-claim to say yes to a Swedish NATO membership. Other countries can, openly or in other ways, impose counter-requirements on Sweden. Here it is extremely important that we on Sweden's part never turn our attention to our view and our demands for democratic development and respect for human rights. The Green Party will closely monitor the accession process and also ensure that Sweden stands up for these values even if there is pressure. There must also be discussions on Sweden's approach to nuclear weapons within NATO. The Green Party wants the government to ensure that, during the discussions with NATO, Sweden will not participate in practice activities that include nuclear weapons, that Sweden will not participate in the Nuclear Planning Group and that Sweden will retain the right not to support NATO's statements on nuclear weapons and that it will be able to actively mark the rejection of nuclear weapons. We want Sweden to legislate in succession against the introduction of nuclear weapons into Swedish territory, that nuclear weapons cannot be placed on Swedish soil or brought into the country, and that Sweden should accede to the UN Convention on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons before the application to NATO is submitted. We live in a serious time in Sweden. We live in a time that requires national gathering. We'll build security together. Russia's war against Ukraine must be stopped immediately.
i-XZGsrayBdJW7LsBirj9YLz	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank all parties for a very good debate, if you can even call it a debate – a discussion. Many important points and arguments have been put forward in this debate. I note that there is a very broad majority in the Swedish Parliament for Sweden to now apply for membership of NATO. Against this background, the government is also prepared to take that decision. Then comes an uncertain time for our country. Then it is good that we have clear security assurances from our friends who are already members of NATO. It is also important that we in Sweden, the Swedish people, keep up-to-date and do not go on the attempts that may come to divide and create discord in Sweden. We'll get through this period by sticking together.
