i-Bx8FN4VgxpzaeiGcGcsQvW	Madam President, I would like There is war in Europe. A sovereign state has been invaded by an aggressive neighboring country with great power ambitions. The Russian invasion is totally unacceptable. Putin has repeatedly shown that he does not hesitate to fulfill his great - power ambitions with military aggression. Now Putin's imperialism has led to a war in our neighbourhood, and Ukraine has been invaded. All countries have an unconditional right to make their own security policy decisions and decide on their own future in democratic and free elections. Russia is an authoritarian and undemocratic country. While standing up for Ukraine's right to defend itself, we support the protests of the Russian opposition and the people against the undemocratic rule of their own country. We support the independent journalism and human rights defenders of Russian civil society who are fighting the invasion of Ukraine for peace and for a democratic Russia. Madam President, I would like We see protests against the Russian invasion of Ukraine worldwide. In Sweden, large demonstrations have been held, and a great many people have shown their disgust with Russia's war against Ukraine. The protests must continue. Economic sanctions must be even tougher, and we see important boycotts of Russia's organisation and participation in sporting and cultural events. The Left Party has in recent days called for even more severe economic sanctions against Putin's rule than those that have been implemented so far. It is a disgrace that the EU has not wanted or dared to hit the Russian state economy harder and the super-rich oligarchs that are close to Putin. The European dependence on Russian fossil gas for energy has already damaged our ability to act vigorously against Russia. The sooner this can be phased out, the better. Madam President, I would like A war always hits the civilian population hardest. Access to basic security, food, drinking water and schooling, opportunities to travel and escape are becoming more difficult and sometimes impossible. It is always women and children who are most affected in war. Sweden must now accept refugees from Ukraine. We have great opportunities to do this, and we need in every way to make it easier for Ukrainian refugees and to be prepared to receive them. The fact that we are going to have a restrictive refugee policy in Sweden must now end. Aid organisations warn against the humanitarian disasters that come from this war. Sweden must go ahead and start evacuating and creating a humanitarian corridor so that the redistribution within the EU works. These are initiatives that we can take without delay. Asylum law is a promise between people to see themselves in each other, a promise of equality and to guarantee protection for the needy. Sweden will contribute a large amount of humanitarian aid to Ukraine now and in the future. The fact that the government has announced an increase in humanitarian aid to Ukraine of SEK 500 million is important and welcome. Madam President, I would like The Left Party is against arms exports. Sweden has a practice of not exporting arms to countries in conflict. This is a practice that we in the Left Party want to follow. The Left Party will therefore vote against the proposal concerning the export of arms to Ukraine. On the other hand, the Left Party supports direct support to the Ukrainian armed forces of SEK 500 million and the proposal to donate safety vests, helmets and field rations.
i-PUyS97qegTXaJ9uVX9Bt4s	Madam President, I would like Sweden and the EU as a whole have condemned Russia's armed attack on Ukraine in the strongest possible terms. Russia is acting unprovoked, illegal and indefensible and is now being met by a Sweden and a Europe showing its support for Ukraine and the Ukrainian people. The responsibility for the war rests solely with the Russian government. International law gives Ukraine the legal right to defend itself against Russia's attacks. The fact that Russia is thus invading a democratic and independent country threatens the entire European security regime, the security regime that has been the basis of everyone's security – also for Sweden. What we are now doing to support Ukraine is also about doing what best to protect Sweden and Sweden's people's security. Madam President, I would like For many years Sweden has been providing substantial support to Ukraine, both on its own and through the EU. It includes financial and humanitarian assistance, but also support that strengthened Ukraine's resilience including in the military field. Since the invasion, the government has announced that it will increase the aid by SEK 500 million to Ukraine within the existing aid framework. The government and its officials have in recent days worked intensively to quickly prepare and enable greater support for Ukraine's defence. In order for Ukraine to benefit as soon as possible, we Social Democrats have put forward the prepared proposal as a committee initiative in the Parliament's Finance Committee. It is the Finance Committee that is responsible for preparing changes to the state budget, and it is the Riksdag that decides on Sweden's state budget. Madam President, I would like I am very pleased that almost the entire Committee on Finance has supported the proposal. This procedure would not have been possible without very constructive cooperation with the other parties. This shows the strength and the ability to act in Swedish politics and democracy. I am convinced that in this situation there is a need to show broad political agreement so that Russia does not think that there are differences of opinion about Sweden's position. Therefore, it is a strength for Sweden that seven out of eight parties in the Swedish Parliament are behind this decision. As I said, I am very grateful to the parties that are now prepared, together with us, to take this responsible and very important decision. It will be an exceptional decision, but it is also an exceptional situation. Madam President, I would like In a moment, then, the House will take a position on the report by the Committee on Finance. First of all, we authorise the government to donate military equipment to Ukraine in the form of armored bulkheads, helmets, body protection and daily portions of food to a value of just over SEK 400 million. Secondly, the Swedish Armed Forces are allocated more than SEK 400 million so that they can acquire the corresponding equipment as soon as possible. Thirdly, we are allocating a financial contribution of SEK 500 million to the Ukrainian Central Bank's fund in support of the country's armed forces. Overall, this means an increase in expenditure that reduces central government's financial savings by SEK 0.9 billion and increases central government's borrowing needs by the corresponding amount. Madam President, I would like I therefore call for the proposal in the report to be approved and for the reservation to be rejected.
i-AaBb1eEVb9LmoGumtB861d	Madam President, I would like This is not a line, but I would like to support the Left Party's reservation. I had to ask for a line in order to do that.
i-6cYzmR7zs47hxTH5PfUA43	Madam President, I would like After the war ended on Thursday. February 24 will forever mark a new era and create one before and another in the same way as September 11 and other formative days in world history have done. We will all remember what we did and where we were. Two things really matter if Sweden is to be able to help the Ukrainian people in the desperate war against Russia that is raging 300 miles from here at this time: It is time, and it is determination to help Ukraine. For far too long Sweden has wasted valuable time and skimmed with vital support. If we had sent defensive weapons, ammunition and supplies two weeks ago, when Ukraine explicitly appealed for our help, our support to Ukraine would have been even better. I think we all hope we're not too late now. Having said that, I welcome the fact that today, in broad agreement in the Swedish Parliament, we can make the decision to send defensive weapons, protective equipment and supplies to Ukraine. With the exception of the incomprehensible resistance of the Left Party, we in this House finally agree that Russia's invasion is not just an attack on a peaceful, democratic, European country but an attack on all of us. When the Ukrainian soldiers fight, they fight for us too. The least we can do for them then and for ourselves is do all we can to help them. Shame on you, Left Party!
i-FrmxhPk79HCdbwNEv3uxLQ	Madam President, I would like In just a few days, a new security policy order has begun to take shape in Europe. Now we must become co-creators of the new rules that will apply in the future. Vladimir Putin has lost his way in his own history. His great-power ambitions are about recreating something that has been lost forever. For Germany's new Chancellor Olaf Scholz, the effect seems to have been just reversed: the invasion of Ukraine has delivered the German government from historical shackles. This is good news, because when Germany moves, Europe moves too. In just a few days, the Union's cautious and somewhat unwilling rally has decided to shoulder its responsibilities fully. Germany is now sending weapons to Ukraine's aid and making a historically great effort on its own defence. They have even begun to talk about restarting nuclear power plants to make themselves independent of German gas. All of this should also be done by Sweden. What is needed is insight and political will. Sweden must also make an independent review of old dogmas and historical locks. Madam President, I would like This is a dangerous time, but it is not a time without hope. Europe has now regained its goal and its meaning – peace and freedom – and the West is closer to each other than it has been for many years, under a functioning President of the United States. Too often a divided Europe and a polarised USA are now united, side by side, against Russia's despotia. There is something big and something important to build on here. In this situation, Sweden cannot stand passively or locked in slightly nostalgic notions of post-war neutrality that is simply no longer possible. It is not possible to remain neutral in the face of an unprovoked attack on a peaceful democratic country in our own neighbourhood. It is not possible to remain neutral when Russia attacks the international law that came into being to prevent exactly what is happening now. There is no neutral right of free nations to choose independently a common path with other free nations. This applies to Ukraine at the moment, but it also applies, by extension, to other countries in the world. This applies to us, and it applies to Finland. Sweden belongs in the free world, and Sweden belongs in NATO. Madam President, I would like The sanctions imposed by the EU, the United States and Japan are strong, and they have an effect. But the EU and Sweden must also get rid of the dependence on Russian gas and oil – and for a number of reasons. In addition, Sweden must now also make its own decision to very quickly upgrade our own defence. Raising our own defence capabilities is the single most important thing we can do to increase stability and security in our part of the world. Historical reinforcements of resources are now essential. Let Germany lead the way! Madam President, I would like With the decision we are about to make here today, we are sending out a clear signal. To Ukraine, in their struggle for freedom and democracy, we say: your cause is also ours. To Russian citizens who are now demonstrating against the insanity of war, we say: We see your courage. To the Russian government, we say: Your threats do not bite. The free world does not bend its back, but the free world holds together. Power does not go before right, and only freedom brings peace.
i-JFhLXXwQucdFdzfAWcFbEN	Madam President, I would like We have noted that there is war in Europe. I am sure that I speak for everyone in this congregation when I say that I had hoped and wished that I would not have to take those words into my mouth. Wishful thinking, however, is not good enough; we have dealt with it far too much over the years. It is particularly not good enough in serious times like these, because it is war in Europe. The Ukrainian people now see their country, their nation, their home invaded by Putin's troops. Ukraine is a strong, freedom-thirsty and proud nation where everyone joins, side by side, to offer opposition in every conceivable way. In the midst of all this dark and terrible, it is hopeful to see all these selfless and many times heroic actions of soldiers as well as civilians. This must be said, even though it is, of course, ridiculous in this context: the thoughts of my party and my party go to the Ukrainian people. They go to all those who fear for this life, to all who try to take refuge and to all who resist the Russian occupying power. It is with them our thoughts and our solidarity exists today. I am quite sure that, in this context too, I am speaking on behalf of everyone in this House. The enormous abuse that Putin Russia is currently committing against Ukraine is, of course, what is currently taking up all the eyes of the world; it is both reasonable and logical. But there is, no matter how this ends, a tomorrow. That tomorrow we all need to deal with today. As a country, Sweden needs to give up wishful thinking. We have to stop being naive. We need, in order to travester a former prime minister, to actually start seeing things coming. Sweden has been moving in a very dangerous direction for many decades. Defence has been milked on resources to finance strange priorities at all; it has even been called a special interest. Conscription has been laid dormant and then reintroduced when late in the day it has been realized that it has been naive. Sweden's once robust and well-functioning energy mix for electricity generation has been allowed to be used as a playhouse for a small group of wishful thinking without reality anchoring and without impact thinking. This has caused a vulnerability. It is a very unfortunate dependency that we have today on our world around us, which in turn is directly dependent on Russian fossil fuels. Madam President, I would like I could, of course, stand here and wish that those who saw it had been listened to. But, as I said, in serious times there is no room for wishful thinking. Nor is there, I mean, today room for petty detail about which party is responsible for what a bad decision and so on. We'll have to take that at another time. What we in Sweden and our part of the world now need to spell unity. In the wider perspective, this is not an issue that is limited to Putin's attack on Ukraine alone; it is about two fundamentally different ways of looking at the world. It is about the view of democracy and independence and about the view of self-evident rights and freedoms, such as freedom of expression and human rights. It is about the ability of Western democracies to stand up for themselves and for the foundation on which we rest. In the long term, it is this – the freedom of the West – that is at stake. As I said, Madam President, I would have liked to be spared this in my lifetime, but at the same time I am extremely proud to be involved in taking the historic decision that will be adopted here later today. For the first time since Finland was invaded by Russian troops in 1939, Sweden will send large arms supplies to a country that is at war. It's not something you do lightly. It's not an easy decision, but it's the right one. I would like to address myself directly to the government and thank it for the courage to take this courageous decision. There are other countries in Europe that have chosen to try to stay out of it. They say they don't want to get involved. They'll have to stand up to shame today. The only thing evil needs to win is that the good guys don't stop it. What is happening in Ukraine is not just a war between two countries. It's not just a conflict between two heads of state. This is the most important battle of all. It's the battle between freedom and oppression. The people of Ukraine are the only thing standing between us and the darkness. The Ukrainians have shown that they are not going to give up. Let's do what we can to keep them from falling.
i-RadtQhyo4dFvMQ2cbTdf1r	Madam President, I would like Just before me there was a party leader in this pulpit who just over a week ago did not have the ability to opt out of the despot Vladimir Putin in the choice between freedom and oppression, to use his own words.
i-XRhGTKfQDMSJL5QrXFSbjM	The alarm of war is sounding again over Europe. For those who have ever doubted the importance of standing up for liberal democracy, openness, freedom, humanism, free speech and human rights, the alarm of war is the answer. Vladimir Putin unjust and full-scale war in Ukraine is an unprovoked and unacceptable blow to the Ukrainian people, to the sovereignty of Ukraine and to the European security order. But it is also a direct blow to the peace that we have long taken for granted, to people's lives, security and faith in the future and to everything that we in Sweden and the rest of Europe are basing our lives and our societies on. The full responsibility for what we are seeing now, just hours from Sweden, rests on Vladimir Putin and his regime. Putin's large-scale attack on Ukraine marks a new and historically dark chapter in the history of our continent. What we have seen and experienced over the past week will forever be included in the history descriptions of Europe and the world. The judgment of history over Putin's actions will be harsh. This is the work of a despot – the enemy of freedom and human dignity. The outside world must continue to be unconditionally clear in its condemnation of his actions and in its call to Putin and the Russian forces to cease violence immediately, withdraw their troops and engage in an honest and constructive dialogue with the elected government of the Ukrainian people. Now is the time to stand on the side of the Ukrainian people. Now is the time to provide all the support they need and demand – humanitarian, economic and material – and to provide health equipment, assistance and defence equipment that strengthen Ukraine in the fight against the Russian attackers. That is why I am proud that Sweden yesterday announced its support for Ukraine with field rations and protective equipment as well as defensive weapons. This is a historic event – the last time it happened was 1939, then in support of and in solidarity with the Finnish people's struggle against the Soviet Union. Then, just as now, the sovereignty and freedom of another European country were at stake. It was about a neighboring country and a brother people. Now, as then, Sweden stands on the side of democracy and freedom. We in the Center Party have pushed to get here, and we fully support the government's decision to support Ukraine. We call for the proposal in the report of the Committee on Finance to be approved and for the reservation to be rejected, Madam President. What we are doing now will be able to look back on as one of the most important and obvious decisions of our generation. I am proud to be part of the European Union. Although there was a reasonable and understandable frustration that talks and decisions took time, it is not possible to overestimate the strength of the decision taken by a united Europe last night. Support, both economic and defence material, and solidarity, together with sanctions and condemnation, are crucial in an extremely critical situation. It will make a difference to the situation on the ground in Ukraine, to the people who are now forced to flee their homeland but also to the future of Europe. It is a Europe that works together and which defends its fundamental values and liberal democracy. It is a Europe that stands up as a united force when dark forces threaten another European country. It strengthens my faith in Europe and Europe's future. It was also my part in this morning's meeting with my Liberal party leader colleagues in the Alde cooperation for a digital summit on the situation in Ukraine and Europe. We agreed that Europe must continue to speak with one voice and act as a force in this deeply complicated time. We also agreed to further strengthen the liberal and liberal forces of both Europe and Ukraine in every possible way. That is why, on the initiative of the Center Party, the Alde Group decided to give President Zelenskyj's ruling party in Ukraine, the Servant of the People, the People's Servant, a fast track to membership of our liberal community within Alde. The party will this afternoon be granted a temporary extraordinary observer status and will be tried out as a full member at the next regular congress. This is a way to show our solidarity with the party and Ukraine and further advance the positions of liberal democracy in a situation and in a place where it is under direct attack. A joint statement from our meeting, in which several Ukrainian co-operation parties including President Zelenskyj's party participated, highlights several strong actions in support of Ukraine militarily and humanitarianly. It is about fast track for EU membership and several tools to further isolate the Russian regime. It was an emotional meeting with direct reports from my colleagues in the war Ukraine in shelters. It was a meeting that culminated in strong, strong and united support from us liberal parties to Ukraine, its people and President Zelenskyj. The message of liberal Europe is clear. We are backing the Ukrainian population and showing that Ukraine is not alone. Ukraine belongs to the EU, and Ukraine's thing is ours. But, Madam President, now is also the time to continue to stand up for openness and humanity. We will do everything we can to sow seed of faith in the future and security for all those who are now seeking a shelter for themselves and their families. We must clearly be a voice, a clear voice, in order to give these people a place of refuge both here in Sweden and in the rest of Europe. We will stand up for the right to seek asylum and get protection when you try to escape a war only two hours by plane from Sweden. We ourselves, together with the rest of the European Union, must send the message of solidarity to the people of the Ukraine of chaos and war. When freedom, security and the future are shattered, we stand united with an open arms for protection and security. It also requires unity and gathering here at home. Now is not the time for political games, conflicts or divisions. Now is the time for responsibility and action. We need to stand united to help Ukraine in all ways and in the best way. But we must also stand united to safeguard our own security and security. We must ensure that the Armed Forces and other authorities are given the best possible conditions to do their job as well as possible. We need to look at how best to strengthen our defence capabilities, our crisis preparedness and our endurance in the short and long term. The Center Party has been a clear force to strengthen Swedish total defence in recent years, both to strengthen our defence capabilities throughout the country and to ensure that all parts of our society, both military and civil forces, have the right tools for the task. Here we will continue to be a powerful and constructive force – a force for the good of Sweden. But the Center Party will also continue to be a serious, constructive and clear voice for the benefits of a Swedish NATO membership, in which we seek membership together with Finland – not to make it a domestic political issue at a serious time, but to press for the strength and importance of Sweden continuing to build its security together with others. We will show that we have full authority and decision-making over our own defence and security policy. In times of war, anxiety and uncertainty, you and I also bear a responsibility to act for the good of Sweden. Let us consider how we express ourselves, what we share in social media or spread to friends and acquaintances. We shall stand up for trust, for transparency and for tolerance. We shall protect the freedom in which we are all fortunate to live. It cannot be stressed enough in these serious times. But we also share a responsibility to see what the war in Ukraine actually is. This is not an attack by the Russian people or Russia as a country. This is an attack by Vladimir Putin and Putin's authoritarian, nationalist and anti-democratic regime. We have to carry that with us. Our anger and protests must never go out on Russian citizens or people with backgrounds or family ties in Russia, either here at home or in other parts of the world. We have to be bigger than that. At the same time as the alarm of war is now sounding over Europe, we are also hearing something else right now. We hear the voices of people in St Petersburg, Moscow and other Russian cities who are defying the bans and at the risk of their own security protest against Putin's illegal war. We must unite in that struggle and in that message with other voices and forces for freedom, openness and peace. Together with sanctions, support for defensive weapons and financial assistance, we shall let the message be heard by the rulers of the Kremlin and the people of Ukraine. Together, we will show how the idea of human freedom is and remain stronger than the weapons and units of all dictators. From speaking chairs, streets, squares and social media we shall sound another message across Europe: No to Putin's war! Freedom to Ukraine!
i-4KGEkRvscTtZWwp21x7LRx	Madam President, I would like At the border between Poland and Ukraine, scenes are now taking place that we have not seen in Europe for nearly 80 years. We see fathers bringing their families to safety, saying good-bye, giving what may be a last glance and then turning around to fight an army many times greater than their own. We see neighbors, sometimes pure strangers, taking other people's children across the border to the security of the neighboring country. But the queues don't just slip out of the country. We hear reports of queues entering the country, from Poland, from England, from Ireland and from Sweden – from all over the world Ukrainians return to defend their country. Yesterday on TV in Agenda, we heard such a voice, Julia. She said, "I'm a Ukrainian woman and Ukrainian mother." I want to join the army. I want to fight. I'm not afraid. These women and men personify what Gilbert Keith Chesterton once wrote: A true soldier fights not because he hates what is in front of him but because he loves what is behind him. If Russia lay down its weapons, the war will be over. If Ukraine lay down its weapons, Ukraine's time of freedom will be over. Ukraine has not wanted this war. The responsibility lies entirely with Putin. Suffering, war crimes, attempts to seize or surround Kiev to take a hostage to negotiations – the responsibility lies with Putin. But the situation also presents us with a moral responsibility. Who are we? Are we true allies? Are we true to our ideals? When the Finnish Winter War was over, Mannerheim thanked his soldiers and stated that Finland knew that it had been in debt to Western civilization for everything it had inherited, but that it now also had the knowledge that it had paid that debt to the last penny. Now that Ukraine is defending democracy, freedom and the right of every people to decide their own fate, we should ask ourselves what debt we owe to our ideals. That is what we are looking at today when we decide that Ukraine should not have to stand alone. In doing so, we are not just on the same side as Ukraine; we stand up for what we keep true, and we are therefore also standing up for the Russian and Belarusian peoples who are Putin's first victim. We stand behind all those who, despite the risks of life and limb, gather to protest for their freedom and for peace in St. Petersburg, Moscow, Minsk. In this situation, too, we in this House must take the responsibility that only we can take, what the Swedish people have given us – the responsibility for ensuring the security of our own country as well. Membership of NATO appears increasingly to be a national necessity. In addition, here and now, we must also ensure our own ability to face attacks on our territory and follow Germany's example now at the latest. Funds should be set aside immediately for the purchase of materials, and I hope that we will find agreement that a rearmament should take place by the Armed Forces as a whole, as well as the reconstruction of our civil defence and our civilian preparedness. We also need to secure our own energy and food supply. The scenes that are now taking place at the border of Ukraine cut into everyone's hearts. But those scenes will fade in comparison with what will happen beyond this limit if Putin wins and a new iron curtain is allowed to cut Ukraine off from Europe. We are not true to ourselves if we sedentaryly let it happen. I support the committee's proposal for a decision today, for freedom and for democracy. Slava Ukrainian j ini – njet vojne!
i-PVpyycRh5jkN4vHxfKbJAp	Madam President, I would like Today in the morning, President Zelenskyj went out and told us that, according to his assessment, the next 24 hours are absolutely crucial for Ukraine. We now have a situation in which every minute counts for this country. For that reason, Madam President, I will be very brief here today. What Sweden is now doing, at least for our time, is unique. Unique is also the situation in which we find ourselves. What happens puts both our way of life and our whole future at risk. Madam President, I would like At this very moment, Ukraine's heroes are fighting for all of us and for the free world. Regardless of the outcome of the war, the world that appears will not look like the one we just left. It is my hope that the broad consensus that has prevailed in this House today will also stand in the many, difficult trials that are now before us. The help we send is a good first step, but it is my conviction that much more will be required. I support the committee's proposal.
i-2DsEu9Y3cfxqfjjGom5x3G	Madam President, I would like This is a heavy time in the history of Europe. Once again, there is war on our continent. On one side is a great power with a powerful despot that has unilaterally attacked a democratic neighbour. On the other side is an elected President who is leading his country with courage and integrity, who is fighting for democracy at a disadvantage and is doing everything to defend his people, his freedom and his right. It is an extremely serious situation, and it will require the best of us as politicians, as democrats and as Europeans. Hundreds of thousands of Ukrainians are now taking leave of their siblings, their partners, their parents. While many remain to defend their country, others are forced to flee for their lives to us, to their neighbours in Europe. As Europeans and as democrats, we must now take responsibility both for those who stay and fight and for those who flee. Now the Riksdag has a position to contribute to Ukraine's defence, ranging from matransones, financial support and protective equipment to helmets, safety vests and even weapons. These are measures that we welcome. The Green Party will vote in favour of this support in its entirety. The struggle for democracy must be won for the sake of the Ukrainian people, but also for the sake of all our democracies. As we see it, weapons are always the last resort. However, we cannot look at democracy and human rights being grounded down without providing the necessary assistance. Mr Putin's actions against Ukraine not only threaten Ukraine and the people of Ukraine, but threaten freedom throughout Europe. But this support is not enough. We must also step up our efforts to meet all the other needs of Ukraine. Through our strong assistance we have been able and can continue to contribute with clean water, food, medicines and care equipment. Therefore, we are also very happy and proud of the aid efforts announced by the government, and we hope that we can also be ready when new needs arise. I should also like to express the hope that this may be a wake-up call on the importance of aid and perhaps also a warning signal to those who have wanted to cut back on aid in a troubled time in our world. Madam President, I would like This is a time when people are again on the run through our continent, through Europe. The asylum court was born once from the experience of World War II. People whose lives and safety are threatened should always be entitled to protection. Now we in the European Union are facing a great common challenge to take care of those who are now fleeing from the war Ukraine. There must be no doubt whatsoever in our acceptance of them, and I am therefore pleased that several parties are now seeing our responsibility and adhering to the solidarity policy of refugees that my party has always defended. The government now needs to work to ensure that EU countries can quickly agree on how to best resolve the emergency situation. Our European Commissioner Ylva Johansson's proposal to activate the mass escape directive is very welcome, and we would like the Swedish Government to continue to push for this mechanism to get under way as soon as possible. Close cooperation within the EU is needed to ensure that reception is properly distributed so that one or two neighbouring countries are not forced to bear the full responsibility. Ukraine and its people should know that our support is there for them. Madam President, I would like Contributing financially and with equipment to those who defend their country and their freedom is important, but it is not our only means of exerting pressure. The EU is an economic power on which the Russian economy is heavily dependent. This applies, in particular, to the exports of gas, oil and uranium on which Russia's economy depends. We in the Green Party have for a long time warned against European fossil dependence and how it fertilises rogue states such as Vladimir Putin's Russia. That is precisely why we have always opposed the large imports of Russian oil and gas and nuclear fuel and fought against it. Even in cases where biofuels are imported from Russia, we believe that they should be replaced by production in our country instead. The Russian attack on Ukraine is financed by EU imports of fossil fuels. As long as we remain dependent on buying Russian oil and gas, we continue to fatten their war apparatus. Now we see clearly the consequences of this dependence in our neighbourhood. This is an expensive lesson that demonstrates the need for the transition to renewable energy that needs to be made and that needs to be made even more powerful. Climate policy has now shown that such a change is possible. It's here and now, step by step. Every wind turbine set up, every solar panel, every electric car rolling out on the streets and every arc furnace in the industry replacing coal is also an effort to turn the weapons out of Vladimir Putin's hands. Now we need to speed up that transition. Europe's need for imported energy must not prevent us from imposing the strongest possible economic sanctions. Russia, like Russian banks, must be completely excluded from the Swift financial system. We cannot allow the European need for fossil fuels to continue financing Putin's aggression against Europe and democracy. Madam President, I would like Vladimir Putin and the Russian leadership must be held accountable for the violation that is taking place – the aggressive attack on Ukraine's sovereignty. It is a detestable violation of international law that we are witnessing. This shows once again that Vladimir Putin does not share our democratic values. The backing and broad support that we now see for Ukraine is crucial. An attack on democracy is an attack on democracy everywhere. The EU and the UN were born out of this insight, and now we all have a responsibility to contribute and live up to what we want to do within the EU and the UN and what we are committed to. An attack on a country in Europe is an attack on the whole of Europe. The people of Ukraine are now fighting for their survival, democracy and freedom. With the decision that we can make here today, Sweden, like the flags on my jacket team, stands side by side with Ukraine.
i-RDZ3bf3bNatoX9Lf3wcS9G	Madam President, I would like The Russian invasion of Ukraine began in 2014 through the takeover and annexation of Crimea. This unlawful action is now continuing in the cruel, brutal and unjustified Russian war of aggression that the whole world can see. Last time bombs fell on Kiev was 1941 during World War II. Now the same thing happens. We see opposition from the Ukrainian public and armed forces. They are fighting for democracy, freedom and Ukrainian sovereignty. Their struggle is also our struggle. Russia and its regime are threatening the entire European security regime, that is, our right to make our own choices, to make our own decisions and to live our own lives in peace and security. No one wants to live with a shadow or a direct threat from Moscow. That's it. Russia has been preparing its attack on Ukraine for a long time. They've been military exercises. Military supplies have been left behind. Hybrid activities with, among other things, refugee flows have taken place. There's been cyber attacks. It's been misleading. It's been misinformation. There has been action on Belarisan territory. And there have been false promises that preceded the attack on Ukraine. It is the Ukrainian people who are currently paying the price for the dreams of the great power and empire of the Russian regime. Now sanctions are being imposed, and this means that Russia is now becoming increasingly isolated. The EU and NATO are acting in agreement. Democratic Europe joins forces with the United States and leading democratic countries. It is ultimately a dispute over the view of the right of other countries to sovereignty and self-determination and democratic values. That is the basis of the conflict. An open, democratic view stands against the practice of violence by authoritarian Russian power. Our solidarity with Ukraine must be clear, and it must be stable. We're not gonna fail. Our decision to send 5 000 armor shots, 5 000 helmets, 5 000 safety vests and 135 000 daily oner food is a logical continuation of the support that has been delivered for many years to the Ukrainian state and to Ukraine's defence capabilities. The military support complements the already extensive civil support that Sweden has provided for a long time and which has been further strengthened in recent months. A democratic, free and prosperous Ukrainian society builds resistance to Russian destabilisation attempts. The Prime Minister said yesterday that it is not Swedish practice to send military equipment to conflict zones. The last time we did this was when the Soviet Union attacked Finland in 1939. Finland is a neighbouring country with which we have deep ties. Ukraine is a neighbouring country to our neighbouring countries 1,000 miles from here. It's not a long distance. Today is a short distance. Communications are fast. Now we are taking this step with a wide range of other countries. We do so because the war in Ukraine is a threat to the whole of Europe and the values we stand for. The situation is exceptional, and I had hoped that everyone in Parliament could support the whole decision. In addition to the material support now presented, we provide Ukraine's armed forces with direct support of SEK 500 million. It is paid to the Central Bank Fund of Ukraine. The total value of this new Swedish aid to Ukraine's defence capabilities is SEK 1.4 billion and is part of Sweden's broad support to Ukraine, which amounts to SEK 260 million per year. We will have reason to return to the issue of aid to Ukraine. What is important to say in this House is that Putin's desire to destroy the Ukrainian state and democracy, to cause the state system in Ukraine to collapse and to create Russian domination and sovereignty is totally unacceptable. If you are a democrat, you can never accept this.
i-TdTc1cyyE2A1VgjT6ejYzU	We've seen Russian rearmament for a long time. We have also seen that the rhetoric has hardened. We have had the opportunity to follow this at a detailed level. New weapons systems have been introduced, exercises have become more and more advanced, new bases have been opened, military capabilities have become progressively higher and various types of international operations have been carried out. There are lots of such things that have happened. It is clear that the encirclement made by Russia of Ukraine, that type of gripping iron, with up to 190 000 soldiers and a host of military systems, is not done unless the aim is ultimately war. Sometimes it is said in international contexts that it is about practice. But there is a difference when that border is crossed and the structure is for war. This was the case when it came to the circle of Ukraine. We must not forget Georgia in 2008, and we must not forget Crimea in 2014. We have also taken certain consequences of this in the Swedish Parliament. Both in 2015 and 2020 we made defence decisions that meant that we changed the entire defence policy strategy in Sweden. Between 2014 and 2025 it is a total increase of 80% in the budget. During that time, we have also concluded some 20 agreements on various types of defence cooperation. I would like to remind you that it was also linked to those decisions to safety policy analyses where, among other things, it has been stated – and that is what the Riksdag is behind – that an armed attack on Sweden cannot be ruled out. Now I'm not drawing those conclusions. However, I think we should mention this and make it clear that there have actually been analyses, consequences and investments. However, this is not the same as the fact that we do not have to do more. For that we have to do. I expect us to be able to add further pieces already this year to the defence decisions that have been taken. We will have to come back to what the technology for this will look like. But here we also have the opportunity to agree in a broad way in the Swedish Parliament. I think that would be a force. We are gathered here today because the chairman of the Committee on Finance has called an extraordinary meeting to decide on a committee initiative, so that Parliament can approve the measures that I have just read out. I understand that there is broad political agreement on the proposals. I would like to thank Parliament for its constructive approach to the situation we find ourselves in. The Swedish Armed Forces are prepared and can begin work on the deliveries as soon as the Government and the Riksdag have made decisions. I repeat: Russian action is totally unacceptable. Our solidarity with Ukraine should be solid and clear. Our thoughts are with the Ukrainian people. They fight for their right to freedom, democracy and national existence. Sweden stands for freedom and democracy. We know where we stand. Ukraine's cause should also be ours.
i-QbB8xJsu4WTJFFKktHa2HP	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Defence, for a strong speech. It is today on the day three weeks since Ukraine first submitted a request, an appeal, to obtain or be able to buy defence equipment from Sweden. It has taken time, but I am glad that we are at this point and can now make this decision. I would like to thank you for giving us that opportunity. My question is straight, given that there is such a great deal of support in this House to assist and try to do everything we can to support Ukraine in this vulnerable and difficult situation. Does the government have plans for further action? Has the government identified or asked the Swedish Armed Forces to identify further parts of Ukraine's needs list that Sweden could spare in the future?
i-LBNB9A9proy2fSXV4nfmRA	Madam President, I would like I think the wisest thing is to speak when you have something concrete to say and suggest. This means that we will come back to this type of case. But what I have said here today really means that I am opening up because this is not the end. However, I will not go into any details.
i-YYY5HxG1zdsS7A6yZVXTwv	Madam President, I would like Let me be clear: If the task is not already with the Swedish Armed Forces to make that identification and to compare further with Ukraine's needs list, it should happen in the near future, given the time we took to get to this point anyway. Having said that, I have appreciated the contacts we have had this week and look forward to us continuing with them forward.
i-8tHoipzPBBYmfuKL2wQC4V	Madam President, I would like I will not go further into that part of the discussion, because I have said what I can say today. However, I would like to say that when we analyse what we can spare at the moment, we must also look at the needs of the Swedish Armed Forces. We have carried out careful analyses in this proposal for a decision to see what can be done at this stage, because in any such decision there is also a risk. I just want to explain that part to the House. We also need to look at the Swedish needs in this, especially when history is such that we have had major building needs for many years. A great deal has been done, but there are more needs and more to do.
i-QwcYTn2cQYkaPETCbi6uxN	Madam President, I would like There is no military solution to the war in Ukraine. I say this because I myself have experienced war and escape for most of my life as a child and in my youth. It hurts to see children and women say good - bye to their fathers, brothers, sons, and husbands. I cannot stop my threads when I see the eyes of children, women and men filled with sorrow, fear and despair. It brings back strong memories. I've seen it many times before. When it comes to war, I know very well what it is about. Putin's declaration of war against Ukraine's sovereignty is illegal and goes against international law. It must be condemned. I'm glad the outside world is acting. Madam President, I would like However, extinguishing a fire with petrol rarely works. Sweden should not export weapons but peace diplomats. Wars and conflicts create, first and foremost, enormous human suffering but also have major economic consequences. Building countries affected by war often takes a generation or more. Responsible ministers wrote in an article in Aftonbladet in May 2016: 中 Without peace, human development is difficult to imagine. Decennials of progress are easily destroyed once a war breaks out. In recent years we have seen a number of wars and conflicts flare up in the world, which has contributed to the fact that the number of refugees is now the highest since the Second World War. Therefore, the government is now taking the initiative for a new investment in peace diplomacy, to further strengthen Sweden's efforts to prevent and curb conflicts. ..................................................... Later, the article states: 中 Investing in peace-building and conflict prevention is an effective way of promoting development and combating poverty. Every crown invested to build more peaceful and stable societies means many saved crowns in the form of costs for wars and conflicts, humanitarian efforts and refugee flows. ..................................................... One wonders where these peace diplomats are. Russia is one of the world's strongest military powers. The 5 000 single-use weapons weapons of the type AT4 which are now likely to be sent are a signal of military support, but they are likely to make a marginal difference between the strength relationship between the Russian forces and the Ukrainian forces. It's likely to be no more than a signal, and then the wrong signal. At the same time, this decision has consequences for both the shorter and the longer term. Helping Ukraine with weapons weakens Sweden's ability to act as a mediator. Only a massive military effort by NATO and the United States would have a chance to counter the Russian forces. There are strong reasons why this has not yet been proposed and that the United States has announced that it will not send troops to Ukraine. The risks would be enormous, and with the escalation of the conflict, there will also be a risk that Putin will make its threats of possible nuclear use a reality. If Sweden is to mediate or together with other military non-aligned countries such as Switzerland and Austria take a peace initiative, we cannot, of course, at the same time send weapons to one side of the conflict. My assessment of the Ukraine tragedy is that it may well lead to the fall of the Putin regime because this attack on a Slavic brother people is extremely unpopular in Russia. Hopefully, after Putin's fall, a more peace-oriented president will join us. At best, we can then start talking again about building a pan-European security architecture, which the OSSE is another embryo. Then we can move on and start talking about the dissolution of NATO. At the moment, it is a Christmas Eve for the NATO hugs, but I think they are possibly making the mistake of taking their victory forward. However, transferring weapons to actively support a side in an armed conflict, as we are talking about here, is something that violates Swedish practice of not using arms exports as a foreign policy tool. We look with concern at what this can lead to when this door is opened. That is why I will vote against this issue, but I naturally support Sweden's aid, humanitarian aid, helmets and other protective equipment sent to Ukraine. We shall open our doors and wallets to the refugees on their way to Europe.
