i-4ny8Mn7Nrq2SqskgZ6gsnK	Madam President, I would like The European Council met in Brussels last Thursday and Friday. At the beginning of the meeting, U.S. President Biden took part. This was an important demonstration of the fact that the EU and the US are united in their condemnation of Russia's indefensible war against Ukraine. In the last month, the EU and the US have acted in a coordinated manner, both through sanctions and other measures to isolate Russia, and through assistance to Ukraine with financial assistance, humanitarian aid and military equipment. I was one of the Heads of State or Government who had the opportunity to speak in the debate. I stressed, among other things, the importance of continuing good cooperation on sanctions, continuing to support Ukraine and preparing for the reconstruction of Ukraine. Later during the meeting, Ukrainian President Zelenskyj also took part in the video. He gave a description of the situation and thanked the European Union for its support, but was also clear about the very great needs of the country due to the Russian bombings and grenade attacks, which are often now specified against civilian targets. The EU is united in continuing to isolate Russia and Belarus, in supporting Ukraine and in supporting the millions of people who are now fleeing the war. We shall also strengthen our own capacity through the EU and take greater responsibility for our own security. The European Council endorses the strategic compass, which is a good tool for continuing to develop and strengthen cooperation in the field of security and defence. Madam President, I would like The debate on the very high energy prices, which affect the whole of the European Union, was both long and difficult. Breaking the dependence on Russian fossil fuels is important for our climate but also very much for our security. Of course, this is done in no time or at no cost. In many countries, uncertainty about gas supply has pushed prices up to record levels, which has also infected themselves with electricity prices, something we also see in Sweden. Finally, we were able to agree to continue to exploit the possibilities for national measures contained in the toolbox presented by the Commission last autumn, but also to deal as soon as possible with the proposal on gas storage and to establish voluntary joint procurement for gas. The Commission was also tasked with examining other short-term measures to facilitate consumers and businesses, such as state aid and a cap on gas prices. I also highlighted the issue of national derogations from the Energy Taxation Directive, which I can see was lacking the necessary support for. Madam President, I would like On economic issues, unfortunately, the discussion was very brief. But a Swedish proposal on the importance of openness to the outside world was included in the text. That, of course, is positive.
i-T9WdjDQrTR6Xtr37Ry4qsK	Madam President, I would like I thank the Prime Minister for his report. As the Prime Minister said, since Russia's invasion of Ukraine, the EU has demonstrated an impressive ability to make strong decisions with unity. It is good that the European Council continues to say that it is prepared to impose more sanctions on Russia and Belarus. I would like to ask the Prime Minister how she views the possibilities for the EU to remain united and hold on to this long-term if necessary. Madam President, I would like The European Council also discussed the high energy and fuel prices, which now weigh on households and businesses in Sweden and around Europe. During the EU Board's consultation ahead of the summit, the Moderates and a majority of the Prime Minister called for a temporary derogation from the provisions of the EU Energy Tax Directive to allow for a substantial reduction in taxes on fuels. However, as we heard, this was not included in the conclusions. There are many examples of measures that we may not have thought in the past that Europe would be able to move forward with, but which have now been agreed upon. The Energy Taxation Directive should not be an exception. I'm sure there's some resistance from some countries. But it is not uncommon for Sweden to come up with compromises in order for the EU to be able to reach an agreement. I expect the Prime Minister and the whole government to do what they can on this issue. It is hardly only in Sweden that there are protests against the high fuel prices. I would like to ask the Prime Minister how she intends now to press for a temporary derogation from the Energy Taxation Directive in the light of the discussions that took place at the summit.
i-NJyBH6RjDNpA3SYPfYYq9G	Madam President, I would like Jessika Roswall asks me what assessment I have of the possibilities for continued unity. I think it is important that we are open and honest with each other, but also with all the citizens of Europe, that we are in tough times now with a war here in Europe. Both individuals and businesses will be affected. We are already seeing this with Putin prices for petrol and diesel and electricity. Putin gas prices are a major problem in much of Europe. In addition, we see increased food prices. They risk increasing further, so that we get Putin prices for food as well. In addition, we have all the refugees who are now coming from Ukraine. It is clear that we will all be affected by this. Having said that, of course, we and other governments are going to alleviate these effects. But we will be affected when we have a great war directly in our immediate vicinity. One way of alleviating the effects is, of course, to try in different ways to influence fuel prices. It can also make it easier for households to pay fuel prices. As I said on the Board, I raised the issue of the Energy Taxation Directive, and I note that I met with compact opposition from coalitions that might not normally be seen. Countries that are normally very budget-restricted were very critical of this. Countries that are normally not so budget-restricted and therefore have very high public debt were also very critical of this. Parties that are in the same party group as my party were strongly critical, but also parties that are in the same party group as Roswall Jessika's party. I can therefore note a rather compact resistance. Having said that, of course, I am prepared to raise this issue again and highlight it at meetings.
i-NdFf2rZAY3aL5PRx3hzH9U	Madam President, I would like I thank the Prime Minister for his reply. As I said, it is not only in Sweden that we have these high fuel prices, but also in other countries. I think there are other possible partners to discuss this with. Let me make another point, Madam President. In the consultation of the EU Council, I also called on the Prime Minister to join other Member States in expelling Russian spies operating in our country under diplomatic cover. According to Säpo, every third Russian diplomat in Sweden is actually an intelligence officer. The Prime Minister then said that it is a sensitive issue, which is true, but that she did not exclude anything, which is good. I would like to ask the Prime Minister whether she was actively trying to pursue this and pool support for it in the European Council.
i-Br7P3mnmmj1DrikDqwQdPg	Madam President, I would like Jessika Roswall said that there are certainly partners to discuss the Energy Taxation Directive with. Yes, there is. However, to amend the Energy Taxation Directive, no partners are sufficient, but all 27 Member States need to say yes to this. It therefore requires unanimity. As far as expelling Russian diplomats is concerned, this is an issue on which we are having talks with Member States. One issue that was also raised was whether there should be a joint debate on this in the EU and whether there were grounds for joint action. This is therefore a discussion taking place at EU level. It is also a discussion that we are conducting together with some other like-minded countries to assess what is the most appropriate way forward.
i-2HnQXFG8zuL8oQjJPv7yMH	Madam President, I would like I thank the Prime Minister for his report. Russia's warfare has consequences for the whole world, but the worst is, of course, how it affects Ukraine's civilian population. For the EU, apart from the refugee situation, it is above all in the energy and food sectors that this puts great strain. It is positive that more focus is being focused on the food situation, although there is still a lack of concreteness. The energy area is given much more space, and there is talk throughout Europe about the creation of a new fund with borrowings at EU level. We have not yet seen any concrete proposal from the Commission, but I note paragraph 17(a) which states that the Member States and the Commission will urgently put in place the necessary solidarity and compensation mechanisms for next winter. What does this mean? How does the Prime Minister want these new mechanisms to be designed? Are there any ideas on this?
i-2nyHxkQkRBN3qV6G32i7ix	Madam President, I would like We have a summer ahead of us, and then, of course, the need for gas is much less than in winter. Many European households use gas to heat their houses, and this will make the gas issue even more urgent for the next winter – unless the situation develops in a positive direction. It is therefore important to prepare, and the Commission is actively working to find alternative ways of bringing gas supplies to Europe. We have the Norwegian gas pipeline, and Norway is clear that it is prepared to maximise its capacity. It also looks at liquid gas and at increasing the possibility of obtaining gas supplies in this way. This is an important work carried out by individual countries but also by the Commission. It also looks at having a joint procurement so that European countries do not compete with each other in the gas market but can make these purchases together. It's a solidarity mechanism you can look at. It is also about how the gas that exists in Europe should be allocated to all countries in a reasonable way. Exactly what this will contain in practice, the Commission will continue to work on. From the Swedish side, however, we are always clear that we are not in favour of a borrowing that should go towards contributions to individual countries.
i-MFU6EV83Rio6LVX4yBt4SD	Madam President, I would like I thank the Prime Minister for his reply. I note in the conclusions that solidarity and compensation mechanisms are addressed in a different point from joint procurement. It will be interesting to see how the proposal is to be drafted, and I assume that the government will protest if it comes to talk about this being financed in any way by Swedish taxpayers. There is a great focus on securing gas from other markets. An agreement has been presented with the United States, but it means that the United States will help us to trade gas from Asia over the next ten years. No focus is placed on increasing the supply of gas in the short term, and the government wants to ban the exploration of gas. Is it something that the Prime Minister thinks more countries in Europe should follow in this situation?
i-KLFTaxrZ8jp2faYnzo7s7S	Madam President, I would like I think that all countries in Europe should make themselves less dependent on imported fossil energy. That's the way forward. The whole crisis we are now seeing in terms of gas and oil prices shows that we should not be dependent on foreign actors' actions for this. Therefore, my starting point is that this is a good argument for speeding up the green transition. Let us ensure that what is good not only for the environment, but also for security policy, i.e. solar and wind power, is developed properly. There is great potential to expand wind power in the Baltic Sea, far at sea so that it is not visible from land. Here it would be good if there were more parties in Sweden, both centrally and locally, that pushed for this opportunity.
i-XZBYg7HfkZd1cvFLutHtz4	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the report. I noted this morning that there was a call for spring jackets, underwear, shoes, bags, girl clothes in size 122-170, jogging shoes in size 39-40. This is linked to the fact that yesterday we drove two dining tables and this weekend tent beds. Many people have already come to Sweden. Some have got in the car and rolled here on their own initiative. Others have come here on buses as private individuals have been down at the border and picked them up. Of course, the images from the border areas outside Ukraine are not as frightening as the pictures inside the border, but the situation is still worrying. At our meeting ahead of this summit, I called for some form of coordination to make it easier for those who have crossed the country's borders to move on to the other countries. This weekend, Commissioner Ylva Johansson proposed coordination of transport and information, improved reception systems, national plans for long-term needs and common solutions to protect refugees and, of course, are particularly vulnerable. The fact that I called for part of this before the summit was because there was no point about it on the programme, and I wanted it to be raised. During your meeting, was there any discussion about all these people who are on the run?
i-Trs2Fk6fhN2wvdBMyoAsF5	Madam President, I would like The migration ministers had a meeting yesterday, and Ylva Johansson had a ten-point list with him to that meeting. One may say that Annika Qarlsson was very far-sighted, because many of the issues she highlighted at the EU Board were among these points. The Commission also sees the needs that Annika Qarlsson highlighted at the EU Board last week. There was, of course, a discussion about the refugees during the summit because it affects many countries, not least Poland, which takes a very large responsibility. It was also about support for Poland to enable Poland to take care of those who want to stay there; many want that because the language is similar and they want to be close to Ukraine. But there should of course also be safe opportunities to move forward. The issue of the risk of human exploitation was also discussed, and a specific text on it was included in the conclusions – something that Sweden naturally supported.
i-DZ6ep8C9mNf3YqEP2ignem	Madam President, I would like It is extremely valuable to manage to have many different parts on the table at the same time. It is both an attempt to end the war and to make it easier for the people who are still in the country, but also for those who are moving forward. The energy issues have been on the agenda and are extremely hot. What we in the Center Party would like to see is an increase in the expansion and conversion and the use of this opportunity to do the right thing now, but also in the long term. There is a proposal presented by the Commission on 8 March, which is called REPowerEU. Are there any discussions about speeding it up and ensuring that efforts and resources are put into the system so that major steps can be taken there? Now that there is a discussion on the Energy Taxation Directive, there must also be room for renewables there, I think.
i-AqWxMWuJXWF6kvDc18aLFf	Madam President, I would like What is positive in all this dark is that countries see in a completely different way from before the war that we must make ourselves independent of Russian gas and oil, although it is clear that these may need to be replaced by other gas and oil during a transitional period. But in the long run it is not the future, it is that we can produce our own electricity through solar, wind and hydro power as well as nuclear power, which will be part of the future for some time. So there is every reason to speed up this work, and my assessment is that there is a real push in it. As far as renewables are concerned, a change that could be made in the Energy Taxation Directive is that one does not need to have a full CO2 tax on biofuels, for example, but this also requires 27 Member States to think it is good.
i-3TjUoxKLjfBDU5wKNgchmr	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking the Prime Minister for his report. Since Russia started its attack war, the EU and Sweden have taken strong action, and support for Ukraine has been large, both materially and economically. Together, we provide support and assistance to those fleeing the war in our respective countries. The right to asylum shall apply to anyone fleeing war and oppression. As Europe continues to import Russian oil, gas, coal and uranium, Europe also continues to pay for the war that everyone says they want to stop. The EU's solution is to make itself independent of Russian gas, oil and coal through joint procurement from other countries and by bunkering, in particular, gas. How does this go with the transition to fossil-free and renewable energy? Did the Council discuss how Member States can switch to sustainable energy? From the answer of the last round of questions, that future seems far away. The EU has previously classified gas as well as nuclear energy as sustainable energy in the green taxonomy. Today, we can clearly see in many ways that gas is not sustainable and that gas, and preferably nuclear energy, should be removed from taxonomy. I have previously, on several occasions, raised the fact that Russian ships, including subsidiaries with a different flag, should not be allowed to dock in Swedish ports and that the Prime Minister in the Council should be pushing both the stop of these ships and the stop of energy from Russia. I would like to ask the Prime Minister: was any of this raised during the meeting? Finally, I note with great satisfaction that the Council reaffirmed its commitment to support the Republic of Moldova and its people. It's a statement I've missed in the past.
i-MpzZjFjbDug1woaooUKzeT	Madam President, I would like Ilona Szatmari Waldau raises an important issue, namely Moldova. They have taken a great deal of responsibility in this situation and have received an enormous number of refugees in relation to their population. It is one of Europe's poorest countries, and they need our full support in this situation. Sweden has contributed to Moldova, partly alone, partly as one of the largest contributors to the United Nations Refugee Agency. It is, of course, important to continue to support Moldova in this difficult situation. From the Swedish side, we have been clear that we are open to further sanctions. There is no doubt that we are prepared to take further steps. I fully share Ilona Waldaus's view that we want to change our energy system so that we are not dependent on foreign imports for our electricity supply and so that we use the resources available here in Europe. Not least in our vicinity of the Baltic Sea, there are great opportunities to expand offshore wind power in order to be able to supply not only Sweden. There are also major plans from the German side to expand offshore wind power, so there are good opportunities here. This, of course, calls for investment to be speeded up, and we want to see high ambitions to do so. Unfortunately, we see too often that plans for expansion are stopped by municipal vetoes.
i-JoikXWbzoj2mFWsxsNmCEz	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answer. When it comes to local expansion being stopped, I myself as a local representative have driven the expansion of wind power, but this has been stopped throughout the county because of the Swedish Armed Forces. This is also an important government issue, and it is not just the municipal veto that is causing it. The Prime Minister said at the outset that it is good for the climate to make itself independent of Russian oil and gas, but I would like to emphasise once again that unless sustainable energy is produced, the climate is not affected at all. I would like to ask briefly how European agriculture was discussed. I believe that Sweden's farmers need to know what aid they can get from the EU and what exceptions are envisaged in the state aid rules that will allow for greater national support. It would be good if the Prime Minister could give a more detailed answer about that.
i-Wu6dMn3VG96g7Ddq4kVGDa	Madam President, I would like Ilona Szatmari Waldau is quite right that there are several problems with the expansion of wind power in Sweden. The Armed Forces obviously have their interests, and local politicians have their own. In addition, we have long permit processes in Sweden, so here is a lot that we can work with together to make us less dependent on imported energy sources. This is something that I very much hope we can work together on, because it is clear that the issue of wind power is no longer just a climate issue, which is very important, but also a matter of security policy. As far as food is concerned, at the meeting in Versailles, we called on the Commission to come up with proposals for measures to ensure food supplies, and I look forward to the Commission presenting such measures.
i-7ZBm5ztb4Lmkb56CYeMKEG	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for the report. In the conclusions of the Council, it is very clear that the EU is on the side of Ukraine and its people and that we will continue to support Ukraine in various ways. The EU's demand for Russia is clear: they will immediately stop their military aggression against Ukraine and withdraw unconditionally. Russia's war crimes must cease immediately, and those responsible must be held accountable. It is good that the Council is clear on these points. The conclusions also state that the EU will continue to provide coordinated support in different ways. The fact that the EU is acting in a coordinated manner is, of course, very important. When the EU acts together, it becomes a heavy player on the world stage, but at the same time there are problems. One example is Hungary, which is blocking far-reaching measures such as an import ban on Russian energy, which does not want to help Ukraine with weapons and which does not allow weapons from others to pass through the country on its way to Ukraine. Of course, unity in the EU is positive, but somewhere a balance must still be struck between unity and action. I wonder how the Prime Minister views that balance. Is it unity at all costs, or does the Prime Minister think that individuals or groups of countries can move forward on their own? Speaking of Hungary, I also wonder if the government sees that Sweden and other like-minded EU countries can put further pressure on Hungary, and if so how?
i-UdrmcFFmp6eSy58N6NkGam	Madam President, I would like As far as Hungary is concerned, however, I will say that Hungary has had a different approach to Russia than some other European countries have had before this war began. But after the war began, Hungary has been involved in imposing the most far-reaching sanctions that we have ever decided against any country and not opposed it but was a constructive party. In fact, I think it is important to remind you of this at this point. Hungary has supported all the measures we have taken, both in terms of supporting Ukraine and in terms of the very tough sanctions that we have imposed on Russia. There are several countries that are very dependent not least on Russian gas, and it is not possible to find other suppliers overnight. It is not the case that Hungary is the only country that feels some scepticism about completely stopping importing Russian gas and oil. So it is not just about what Hungary thinks. They are not alone in this scepticism. Having said that, we from the Swedish side are open to additional sanctions, which in that case would have a huge impact on electricity, petrol and diesel prices throughout Europe, including in Sweden.
i-4WqpCGmaZyyw8xZNpceHk2	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. I understand that the balance is not quite easy. It would have been good if the government had been clearer about keeping open so that Sweden and other like-minded countries could move forward faster. I would also like to take this opportunity to ask a question about the wording that the EU is ready to close loopholes and that any attempt to help Russia must be stopped, as stated in the conclusions. How do you define help to Russia? I am thinking specifically of India, which has taken the opportunity to buy Russian oil at a discounted price and thus actively increased its financing of the war in Ukraine, while others are trying to find ways to reduce imports of Russian energy. On the basis of the conclusions, how does the Prime Minister feel that the EU should act against India?
i-JEDR8cBmPDkJ9fgnQXunLC	Madam President, I would like It is extremely important to close loopholes. Now we have decided on these sanctions, but it is extremely important that they are also fully implemented in all Member States. We only see in Sweden that it is not quite simple. Among other things, it is about who is the owner of different companies. It can sometimes be complicated when it is complex ownership structures. It is therefore important that we work continuously with it to ensure an adequate implementation. We have had very good cooperation between Europe and the United States. But both China and India are two countries that are also key players in this. There are also talks between the US and China and between Europe and China at different levels but also with India to discuss how to look at what is the best way forward and how to act in this situation.
i-EcEnMS1UXXfj9c6uoKFS2s	Madam President, I would like I thank the Prime Minister for his report. Imagine that someone would break into your house and that you would then be forced to negotiate about possibly giving up your bedroom or perhaps your bathroom to the intruder. That is about what is now going on in the so-called negotiations in Istanbul. It is in many ways shameful that the Ukrainian Government should be forced to negotiate with those who are responsible for the war of aggression which was launched by the Russian regime without legitimate reasons. It must never be the EU or individual Member States that call on Ukraine to give up parts of its territory or to make other concessions. Our task, as stated in the Council conclusions, must be to strengthen and support Ukraine, while at the same time weakening the Russian regime in every way. Madam President, I would like There are many good intentions in the Council conclusions of the last meeting. However, I would like to ask the Prime Minister how the talks are going about the negotiations that have begun and are now reflected in the Council conclusions.
i-P1BcMc7hZjSMDy5w63geNq	Madam President, I would like Maria Nilsson raises a very important issue, namely the fact that Ukraine should not be forced to take action at this stage. It is Ukraine itself that chooses to act also in this very pressured situation. It is something that we from the Swedish side also mention, that it is important for Ukraine itself to make the choices that they think are right for its country. That is something that we bring forward in different contexts. Of course, there has been a discussion about whether you think that this negotiating track is something that can be a way forward in the near future. Of course, only one person can decide that in the end, namely the one who started the war – President Putin. He can decide any day to stop this unjust war.
i-M4sXhhZ45ZcKAgJMhbPCx9	Madam President, I would like I thank the Prime Minister for his reply. I would really like to stress how important what the Prime Minister says is, but also that Sweden and the EU dare to take the words in their mouths, that is, that the desired endgame – if I may put it that way – is Ukrainian victory. Nothing else can be acceptable. I would also like to continue the trail around Moldova. And I agree with what a colleague said earlier on that it is important that it is stated in the Council conclusions. Moldova is subject to strong Russian propaganda. We have Transnistria, which is a frozen conflict, and there is a great risk of destabilising Moldova from the Russian side.
i-KeFADBpYYtnSnx5H5JPBL3	Madam President, I would like I think it is important to say the following. We will support Ukraine in every possible way – financial, humanitarian and military. We shall continue to do so as long as this conflict continues. Nevertheless, it is ultimately Ukraine itself that decides how they choose to act in connection with negotiations. Moldova is, as has been said, a country that has a very vulnerable situation. There's a conflict at the bottom. They have also had problems with Russian gas supplies and also had very high electricity prices during the winter before the war broke out. It is therefore important, at this point, to continue to support Moldova and that it is done through the EU, that we do so bilaterally from Sweden and that the United Nations Refugee Agency can also help. There are many refugees who are moving on from Moldova, and it is of course important that there is solidarity in the European Union to receive them as well.
i-3EP5qUQpvaoMjqycSYaTVH	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the report, Prime Minister. Russia's inhumane invasion of Ukraine has now been going on for over a month, and so far the EU has been able to agree on strong sanctions and support for Ukraine. As a country, we have been able to provide humanitarian, economic and military assistance. At the same time, however, we see the war continuing with bombing hospitals, sieges of cities and terrible consequences for civilians. Many millions of people are on the run and, as the Council conclusions show, we need to be prepared for this situation to last in the long term. More is needed, however. On Thursday, President Zelenskyj gave a strong speech to all of us in this House, and there were many of us involved. We all stood up and applauded Ukraine's quest for continued freedom and self-determination. Zelenskyj urged us to stop imports of Russian oil and gas. Every day the import continues the war is prolonged. EU imports of Russian oil and gas give money straight into Putin's war fund and must stop. Nevertheless, few parties supported the Green Party's initiative to stop imports on the same day; only the Green Party and the Left Party voted to move on with the issue. The government is not pushing, and the Council is just saying that we should work towards a gradual reduction. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister whether Mr Zelenskyj call to Parliament will make the government push for greater momentum in the future on this issue within the EU.
i-62BD9vaVgWSes29JTuENGb	Madam President, I would like Maria Ferm raises a very important issue, namely the fact that Europe's purchase of Russian oil and gas is something that makes it easier for Russia to continue this war. Against this background, I also understand President Zelenskyj's call. From the Swedish side, we are prepared to move forward and discuss all types of sanctions, including sanctions for Russian oil and gas. The ports are another issue. We are therefore absolutely prepared to continue discussing this. We are also prepared to push forward, but we need to do so in a way that we believe can be successful. I can see that there are several countries that are very dependent on Russian oil and gas, so it is important to conduct the discussions in such a way that those countries do not hit back and turn a deaf ear.
i-KqqcJjkvxpRbrx9xpupX3Y	Madam President, I would like My second question concerns food security, aid and security. All of this is connected – the consequences of increased food prices are already evident, not only in Sweden but also worldwide. It is very important that the Swedish Government continues to push and monitor that we can change the state aid rules and get a broader support for agriculture in Sweden that does not only involve fossil subsidies. The UN also warns against the risk of a global famine as a result of the war. It is countries that are often already wounded and conflict-affected that will suffer the most. In this situation, I find it remarkable that there are parties that are pushing for a reduction in aid, but it is also remarkable that the Swedish Government is open to making very large sums of money in aid. My question, therefore, is whether the Prime Minister believes that it will actually make the world a safer place at this point.
i-7mbd45tTvrSXGrm51GXWEU	Madam President, I would like After all, the Green Party has really pushed and stood up for us to set aside 1% of GDP for aid. We have also driven these issues with full force and great success in recent years. I fully agree that, at this point, when we are in danger of heading towards a famine in parts of the world and have the biggest refugee crisis in Europe since the Second World War, it is of course quite the wrong way to demand that we reduce the proportion we use for aid. After all, it is completely unrealistic to say that, at this point in time, we should reduce aid. In addition, many people have slipped into absolute poverty in connection with the decline that occurred during the Corona, so it feels a little out of reality. Having said that, we on the part of the government are prepared to apply the rules that exist with regard to aid settlements when receiving refugees.
i-6Fea8d4KLDeN34Zu1itx5Z	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the report, Prime Minister. Much has been about oil and gas, and my question will also be about that. Reducing dependence on oil and gas is a priority for the whole of Europe, not least the Russian. The Prime Minister has been very clear about this in the re-report. It was welcome that the EU and the US were able to present a new energy cooperation in this area and that Germany now intends to completely phase out imports of Russian energy. It is a great and important step to make it even more difficult for Putin to finance his unjust war. Sweden also has an active role in this, and when the Prime Minister met the German Chancellor Olaf Scholz yesterday was an issue on the agenda how the EU can accelerate the pace of the green transition. What does the Prime Minister see as the most important measure for Europe to be able to reduce Russian fossil dependence as quickly as possible and to speed up the green transition?
i-MY8JUrsFHxJQ38VgKPrax5	Madam President, I would like As I see it, this is about two things. First, in the short term, we need to switch from Russian gas to gas that can be imported elsewhere, but in the next stage we need to be independent of gas and oil coming from other continents. We see what this great dependence means for Swedish and European household wallets and for Swedish and European companies here and now – how it hits right into the wallet and right into the liquidity calculation of all Swedish companies. So being able to have stability here and not be so dependent is an A and O for the future. In addition, it is good from a climate and environmental perspective. In our part of Europe there is great potential in offshore wind power. It is fast to expand and is a relatively cheap type of energy. To be able to quickly expand wind power is thus A and O in this situation. In other parts of Europe, but of course also in Sweden, there is potential for greater use of the sun – perhaps more potential the more hours of sunshine you have. There is, of course, also potential in hydropower. A third thing that is often lifted up is that we need to make sure that we energy efficient so that we do not use electricity unnecessarily but use it in the very best way. There is continued potential around Europe – perhaps a little more in other countries than Sweden, where we have been working for a long time on energy efficiency, not least in industry.
i-LHyJ5pe7c6d5EKVkAaRHGA	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Prime Minister. These are, of course, major and difficult issues in terms of energy supply. We also see that the conditions are very different and that there is a difference in the short and long term, as the Prime Minister says. At the same time, we want to stay together within the Union and between the countries. When it comes to Sweden's role in this work, what does the Prime Minister think is our most important contribution?
i-AYJWc1WzZfUmcWu4nMrUx3	Madam President, I would like I believe that our most important contribution is to push forward by showing a positive example, namely what is happening in Sweden here and now because of the policy we have pursued – which has been pushed on by, among other things, the Green Party – in order for Sweden to be at the forefront of the climate transition. We see that this is not something that will create jobs in the future, but that it creates jobs here and now, all over Sweden. It builds battery factories and plans for fossil-free steel, and we see how the industry is flourishing around the country. We have an incredible potential to show that it is not just the future that is at stake, but that jobs are being created here and now. It is therefore something we can lift up and that I lift up a lot when I meet colleagues from other parts of the world. There is a great interest in the green industrial revolution we are currently seeing in Sweden.
i-BpSPzT42LQm6pSESDKzb3Q	Madam President, I would like The Prime Minister said in a previous speech here that we have Putin prices for electricity and fuel. I'm slightly opposed to that description. Even before the war in Ukraine, Sweden had the world's highest diesel prices and was among the four top five in the world when it comes to petrol. Magdalena Andersson has been Minister of Finance in Sweden for over seven years, so it might be more reasonable to talk about Andersson prices for electricity and fuel. For every dollar the world market price rises on fuel, the state takes another 25 cents into VAT. The government is thus making quite a lot of money by increasing fuel prices. We have similar developments in electricity prices. And who's paying for it? Yes, it is the Swedish households and consumers. This is now also passed on to food production, which is in deep crisis due to high fuel prices. In the crisis we are experiencing right now, our government must dare to take this debate in Europe and try to push for a reduction in Swedish costs. I would simply like to ask Magdalena Andersson what she wants to do about the Andersson prices for electricity and fuel.
i-6HPLc4KhKXFLmZ3R83jaWV	Madam President, I would like It is interesting that a political opponent believes that he has such a great influence throughout Europe. The Spanish lorry drivers who are now on strike because of the high fuel prices in Spain – are they doing so because of Sweden's actions? The French pensioners in the nuclear country of France who sweat over high electricity prices – is it the Swedish government that is behind it? The German families with children who find it difficult to pay the gas bill to heat the bath water for their children – is it the Swedish government and Magdalena Andersson who are behind it, Jan Ericson? Or is it the case that Putin's actions and the Russian war explain why we are seeing record high electricity prices, petrol prices, diesel prices and gas prices throughout Europe? I have nothing to add.
i-HySLijvSU7skxQZLAweB3b	Madam President, I would like I didn't get an answer to my question. Of course, the war drives up prices of both electricity and fuel. But what I said is also true: for every dollar the world market price of fuel rises, the state takes 25% more into VAT. It ends up in our treasury, and it's not Putin. It is also the case that we entered this situation with the world's by far highest diesel prices and almost the highest petrol prices in the world. The fact that we ended up in that situation and had the worst conditions even before the war is not due to Putin either. These are Swedish political decisions and are not due to Putin. We are now also seeing how many countries around Europe are actually taking this discussion in Europe. We see how Spain, Portugal, the Netherlands and Poland all take different decisions to reduce their energy costs. But the Swedish government simply states: No, it was not possible.
i-5T3vxXPGJUBKDoVYbwiJ5d	Madam President, I would like I think it's good if you stick to the facts. There is no doubt that it is tough for Swedish households and Swedish companies right now, with both the high petrol and diesel prices and the high electricity prices, just as it is tough for households and companies all over Europe. It also allows governments across Europe, and the European Commission, to discuss various measures to alleviate the effects of Putin's war, including economic ones. If you are going to stick to the facts, the Swedish Government has also presented several proposals to alleviate the effects on households and companies. I think it is important that we can also see this, even if opposition dreams of other measures that we do not know if they are feasible.
i-3ihMpVCw7jTUrtLiK3Xrm9	Madam President, I would like Gender equality and anti-discrimination measures are on the agenda for the next few moments in this House. In Sweden, rights, obligations and opportunities must apply equally to everyone, no matter who you are and where you come from. Gender should not limit the individual's freedom. And we all have our own responsibilities... as individuals, parents, employers, colleagues and fellow humans... so that both women and men can come to their full right. Gender equality is basically a question of freedom for me. The quest for an equal society is based on the equal value of all and aims to give the individual power and the opportunity to choose for himself how he or she wants to live his or her life. Sweden is one of the world's most equal countries – something we should be proud of. But in recent years we have seen that developments in several parts have stopped. In other parts, developments are even going in the wrong direction. Women earn less than men, and women work part-time more than men. It affects women financially, both here and now, and in the event of illness and unemployment. In the end, it also affects the pension. In addition, women in Sweden own considerably less than men. Being able to have one's own savings, having the opportunity to own one's share of the dwelling and being able to create one's own base and a security that makes one not dependent is a question of freedom. Foreign born women have a particularly weak position in the labour market. There are also gender differences in ill-health where women are more sickly than men and where women leave work early to a greater extent than men. Men's violence against women and honour-related violence and oppression are further serious societal problems that cause both physical and mental suffering. It is important that society marks and acts strongly against these crimes. No one has the right to restrict someone else's life. Madam President, I would like Although Sweden has come a long way and can be a role model for other countries in much, we still have extensive problems and areas where change is needed. As far as economic equality is concerned, we can see that developments have largely halted. In many respects it begins when the first baby is born. This is when the big difference between men's and women's use of time is established. As long as women assume disproportionate responsibility for unpaid domestic work, economic equality will be difficult to achieve. For many, it is difficult to see the long-term effects of the choices and relationships between parenthood, responsibility for unpaid domestic work and finally pension. Therefore, I believe that the relevant authorities should be given the task of informing prospective parents of the likely effects of different choices, so that more people can make informed decisions. Here strong role models in schools, for example, make an extremely important contribution. Teachers like Ms. Tone Grönnslett at British Junior in Eskilstuna and Patrik Göransson at Frejaskolan in Gnesta are examples of women and men who, through their actions as clear role models and who, through their teaching and their vice-chancellorship, set the bar high. They open doors to their students, regardless of gender or background, and have high expectations of all their students. In addition, they guide with a clear hand and a warm heart towards the future. It is the parents who raise their children and who take responsibility for giving them equal opportunities and learning about rights and obligations and respect for each other and their environment. What Anna and Carl-Carl-Johan teach their sons Arvid and Oscar matters, just as it matters what role models and how much space Peter and my daughters – Lovisa, Ebba and Alice – will of course have and take in our society. Parents matter. School matters. The demands of society and high expectations matter. Madam President, I would like Freedom should apply to all people in our country, but at the moment there is much evidence that the repression of honour is increasing. Studies show that so many who were sixth ninth graders in the big cities of Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö live under honorary oppression. The culture of honour does not belong in a modern society, and it must be fought by all available means. Decisions about your own life and body should be made by the individual, not by self-proclaimed moral policemen who spread a doctrine that is both outdated and oppressive, especially against women. Therefore, the Moderates want to identify the existence of moral policemen and, through a particular crime, unlawful freedom limitation, criminalize that someone by coercion or undue pressure induces others to follow rules and instructions aimed at upholding the honor of a particular person or group. The crime should be able to lead to prison. Honour culture has no place in Sweden. Madam President, I would like Another area where development is going in the wrong direction is violence in close relationships. Every three weeks a woman is murdered by her partner in Sweden. In eight out of ten cases, the crime scene is one of the homes of those involved, a place where people rightly expect to be safe. Moreover, much of the violence in close relationships is sexual. Many who have been victims of this type of crime still do not feel it makes sense to report in order for the administration of justice to take its course because few of these crimes are cleared up. It is a development that must be stopped. All violence is unacceptable, and action against various forms of relationship violence must take place in better collaboration between police, health and social services. The victim of a crime should receive support, help, protection and knowledgeable and good treatment throughout the judiciary. Women exposed to crime should not have to wait for a restraining order to be broken before it is decided on a anklet. Long-term funding of women's shelters must also be secured. There is also a need for a strong indication of how seriously society views rape crimes. We want to increase the penalty for normal rape. Taste that word: normal! It's shameful that it even exists. In order to achieve the objectives, it is necessary to strengthen investigative activities, to provide victims with the support they need and to tighten the penalties so that they are proportionate to the seriousness of the crimes. We Moderates believe that the penalty for the person guilty of forcing himself on another's body against his will should be increased to at least three years. Madam President, I would like It may sound dark when we see what we have left. Important reforms, such as childcare and care for the elderly, are in place, and we have come a long way. But now it takes some tough work with attitude to take the next obvious but also big steps. With parents taking responsibility, with teachers who show doors to open the road, with good role models in association life and with a common society based on knowledge of what makes a difference to real t, we are many who have the opportunity to set the bar high and finish. Equality is not about one party winning and the other losing. Both men and women and society at large benefit from increased equality. In an equal Sweden where rights, obligations and opportunities apply equally to everyone, no matter who you are or where you come from, where gender does not restrict freedom and where women and men should be able to feel safe both in their own home and in society, everyone can come to their full right. Of course, we support all our reservations, but I would like for time winning to grant only reservation number 1.
i-5P4xUDGHGfVfyzKYS5wi6P	Madam President, I would like It is with pride that I stand here in the Chamber of Parliament to make the voice of my party, and not least of the voters, heard in this debate. I would like to thank all the campaigners for the fact that we women 100 years, 2 months and almost 3 weeks ago were finally able to make our voices heard in Parliament and for the fact that today we can continue to develop gender equality in our country. Madam President, I would like With this honour, I would like to endorse the Swedish Democrats' reservation number 32, in which we believe that all forms of quotas and positive discrimination based on gender should be phased out. We believe that the idea of quotas completely misses the goal of an equal society. Quotation does not take into account the individual, but means positive action by one group of people and, at the same time, gives negative treatment to another. This is reflected in everything from the government wanting to decide how many parenting days you can take to whether you can run your own company or, via the EU, who will be allowed to sit on a company board. It shows a total lack of respect for the family's own ability to decide who wants or can be on parental leave as well as who wants or can make a career. As is well known, women are also self-employed, but the government apparently wants to stop this by pursuing a policy that spoils rather than helps hard-working taxpayers. Do the Social Democrats completely lack consistency, and do they not realise the consequences of their political ideas? There is a strong and clear dividing line between us here. Contrary to the Social Democrats, the Swedish democrats' view is that families and individuals themselves are wise enough and have the ability to create a daily life that works best for them. Madam President, I would like Sometimes what must not happen happens, and the first disparaging words are pronounced or the first blow lands on a stinging cheek and can result in years of abuse. When we talk about violence in close relationships, it includes all parts: violence against women, against men, against the elderly, in heterosexual and in same-sex relationships. We need to strengthen society's safety net for all those affected. Of course, the best protection against violence is that it never happens. Preventive work must therefore be stepped up and a zero vision against someone being exposed to violence in close relationship must be a goal. Unfortunately, the dark numbers of victims are judged to be large. All victims of violence do not report this. Knowledge of what is actually a criminal act is also lacking, and we must ensure that there is no doubt about it. There is no doubt that men's violence against women constitutes the largest proportion of the violence that people are subjected to by their loved ones, which means that it is often this specific violence that the parties debate. However, I would like to highlight the fact that the others are not forgotten. The Swedish Democrats have chosen to pursue the political through two committee movements, Violence in close relationships and Men's violence against women, to highlight that men's violence against women is undoubtedly the most common problem, without losing out appropriate measures for example for violence in same-sex relationships. In fact, statistics are completely missing, which we advocate should be included in the measurements that are being made. Men's violence against women affects women and their children hard. Children are torn from their security, school and comrades, as today it is they who, with their mothers, must be kept safe from the perpetrator rather than the obvious convert. Violence in close relationships and honour-related violence is a major threat to our gender equality. Madam President, I would like The other day I read a text that read in the following way:"The women's rights movement began with freedom and the right to vote and ended with honour oppression and burka. However, I do not want to go so far as to agree with the statement. But isn't the text arousing thoughts, and isn't there something in it? We must stop the spread of honorary oppression in our country. We should not accept that medieval values limit neither the right of girls, girls nor women to self-determination. The spread of the problem of honour in Sweden is a consequence of completely failed migration, not to mention a completely non-existent integration. The government, which, according to its own statements, has suffered from kindness and has therefore not made sufficient demands for new arrivals, has long since lost control. In the autumn elections, we can finally bring about another government, a government that, with the open eyes of the Swedish democrats, sees the problems coming and takes responsibility for our country holding together and is a safe place to live and work. We owe this to all citizens, not least to all those who are affected in various ways by widespread serious crime. Madam President, I would like Neither democracy nor equality can be taken for granted, and it only lives on if we continue to fight for it. We see that self-determination is currently under threat in Ukraine. Those of you who are forced to fight this battle, not just for yourself but for the whole of Europe, are constantly on the table. May the angels watch over you!
i-VBnoMFdKQbro3NV1QCyJCk	Madam President, I would like The work of women's and girls' shelters is based on an idea-based foundation without a profit interest and is an appreciated asset for society's common efforts to combat violence. The quality of on-call support is often praised loudly and from many quarters. However, there is a difference in the various policy proposals for securing the future of emergency services. The idea-based callers have a crucial role as voice carriers for women and children. This voice is and has always been crucial to gender equality, in contrast to the increasing number of private actors whose place on the market is leading to the risk that the on-call movement's many years of experience and knowledge will be depleted. An important contribution is education and information for decision-makers and occupational groups facing violence in their work. All this knowledge and experience and non-profit commitment are at risk of being competed in favour of private profit interests when the protection of violent girls, children and women is exposed to competition. Madam President, I would like There has been an increase in privately operated shelters since 2012. According to the National Board of Health and Welfare, the number has even quadrupled in just over five years. Every third resident is currently privately run with a profit interest. As a reason for the increase, it is stated, among other things, that operators who have previously worked with unaccompanied persons have now started to offer shelter and that it is easy to start sheltered housing if the company has access to real estate. It is not regulated what a sheltered dwelling is or who is allowed to operate a sheltered accommodation. Requirements for staffing or competence of staff are not formulated, and there are actors who have absolutely no experience in the field. One aspect that is rarely highlighted in the general debate is that the work on the subject of violence actually involves more than just a roof over the head. In addition to shelters, several parts are usually included, such as call support, group activities, practical help, children's activities and chat and email support. Research shows that these coherent efforts help to increase the self-esteem and well-being of the victim of violence. Advice and support given at the same time as shelter and safe housing are very important for the possibility of breaking up from a violent relationship. Madam President, I would like The Left Party has repeatedly raised the issue of the future of women's shelters and the need for stable funding. Today, the business is usually run in project form and depends on temporary investments. The increased degree of privatisation in this area threatens the entire non-profit support activities and all the knowledge built up during years of on-call women's work with vulnerable women and children. We want to protect and maintain strong independent women's shelters. Their important work with vulnerable women should not be carried out as a business. Madam President, I would like The women's shelters describe that the demand for support and assistance from victims of violence has increased as the coronapdemine has been going on. This is thought to be due to the fact that domestic isolation has led to an increase in violence in close relationships. When women are subjected to violence, children and young people are also affected, and families whose lives have been particularly strained by, for example, unemployment, distance education and overcrowding are particularly vulnerable. Women's hotlines need continuous and sufficient funding to carry out work in the long term, especially now in view of the consequences of the pandemic. Long-term and stable solutions are of paramount importance. Madam President, I would like I would also like to talk about the violence that occurs in same-sex relationships and which, unfortunately, is often very invisible and is not addressed to the same extent as violence in other close relationships. HBtqi people also do not seek help to the same extent as others, and it is often closely linked to the fact that care and support are often based on a heteronormative perspective. Unlike the committee, I believe that the issues of violence in close relations for LGBT people are not being given sufficient attention. I regret that it does not see the need for further action. It is essential that measures are taken now to make the situation of this group more visible and better visible. I also see a continued need for a general upgrading of the competence of the authorities in relation to the vulnerable situation of these people and would really like to emphasise the importance of the LGBTI perspective being included in analyses and action plans from the start. With regard to the report and issues relating to gender equality, the Left Party has a great deal of good policy. But I choose to apply only for reservation number 16.
i-SP3C4SgdC7wRzhoSdW4FQb	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of the Christian Democrats' reservation 25 in paragraph 8, but of course I support all our reservations. When one of my daughters was in middle school, she became good friends with a girl from the Middle East, but they could only hang out during breaks. The girl — we can call her Leila — was not allowed to come home with me to my daughter. Her older brothers controlled her, everything she did, and who she associated with. When the girls came to high school, it became even more difficult. Like all other girls, Leila had future dreams about what she wanted to learn, what she wanted to work with and who she wanted to be with. But she was scared, terrified, because the family had other plans for her. It was already decided that she would be married to an older man by the summer. If she refused, she was convinced that she would be killed. One day Leila didn't come to school. After a few days, it became clear that she had escaped to Stockholm and taken refuge in sheltered housing. There she was protected for some time. But social services worked for family reunion, and after a while she returned. But she wasn't happy. The control was even more evident after the escape. Madam President, I would like This story is an example of how tens of thousands of girls and women live in our country today. Even boys live under the control of families and decide on what to train and who to marry. Sweden must be better at standing up for the rights of these young people and adults. Every human being has the right to his own life. This also applies to those who live in an environment where the honor of the family is superior to the freedom of the individual. Efforts to combat honour-related violence and repression must be intensified. The Government needs to take further measures to ensure that the municipalities have knowledge support and to ensure the quality of competence and coordination responsibility for honor related issues. At each school, for example, there needs to be action plans for how to proceed if you suspect that a student, like Leila, lives under honorary oppression. Violence against women is the ultimate proof of an unequal society. Violence affects women not only directly but also indirectly through the fear that restricts freedom. The government needs to work together to prevent and protect women from violence. Madam President, I would like Every person, regardless of gender, is a goal in itself, not a means for someone else. No one has the right to arbitrarily limit or control another person. The Christian Democrats believe that the debate on gender equality policy needs to be changed. It is the real problems faced by women that we need to highlight instead of engaging in symbolic projects. There is a need for a new approach to gender equality policy with a different approach to the balance between work and family life and with more choice and flexibility. Such a change in society is not made on a coffee break. Important steps are to reform women's health care, to facilitate the combination of family life and working life, to strengthen women's economy and to stop violence against women and the repression of honour. The ability to combine family life and working life is crucial for both mothers and fathers to be present parents while being able to support themselves and their families. It must be allowed to choose the way a parent wants to prioritise his or her life according to his or her circumstances, wishes and different periods of life. The government should shift the focus of gender equality policy and increase the conditions for families to make their own choices based on such starting points. The government should also more clearly safeguard a family-friendly working life. There needs to be an attitude and a culture in the labour market where it is accepted that parents of young children fall in working time or have flexible working hours. Parental leave should not be disadvantaged in wage developments. That is why there is today a so-called disadvantaging ban in the Parental Leave Act. However, the government should instruct the Equality Ombudsman to inform employers about the parental leave law and that parental leave also has the right to pay audits so that they do not lag behind. DO should also be given the task of carrying out an in-depth study of the extent to which this type of discrimination or disadvantage of parents and pregnant women occurs in the workplace. In order for parental leave not to lose contact with working life, the Christian Democrats want to introduce so-called Keep in touch programs as a structured way of keeping engagement and information going between the parenting and the workplace. Madam President, I would like Employers should be able to require their staff to show their face at the workplace. It is necessary for interaction with colleagues, subordinates, superiors and customers. Freedom of religion is important to protect, but some elements may be hindering what is normal interpersonal interaction. We therefore believe that the legislation on discrimination needs to be clarified, so that there is no doubt as to what applies in similar situations in workplaces. The work in the area of discrimination needs to be broadened and more clearly included also religious persecution, including those directed against Christians. Many people in Sweden are victims of crime because of their beliefs. Many asylum seekers have suffered threats or violence because of their faith, especially those who have converted from one faith to another. Freedom of religion must be a matter of course in society. Therefore, religious dialogue should be encouraged and clear markings made against all forms of hatred because of religious affiliation to Jews, Muslims, Christians, or people with other beliefs. The government should therefore take more measures than hitherto to combat discrimination on the basis of religion or other beliefs. What about Leila, who I told you about at the beginning? She felt betrayed by social services, who had taken her back to her controlling family. When summer came, the family went to her homeland on vacation. Leila had to come, even though she was terrified of what was coming. When the school started again in August, her bench was empty. She never came back. All the tapes were cut. The other family moved to another place where Leila was not known and was not asked for. Did she get married? If so, how was she treated by her husband? Or was she killed in the name of honor, just like the Fadime S ahindal that she so often talked about? She lived in a similar cultural context and knew that Fadimes's fate could very well be her own. I don't know what happened to her, nor do her classmates. But don't let it happen again. We have a responsibility to ensure that everyone living in our country lives in freedom.
i-7hNAXySssZbWSyVtb224fP	Madam President, I would like Gender equality around the world has taken a major hit in the past year. Almost 4 million, especially women and children, are currently fleeing Ukraine because of Russia's heinous war against the country. Unfortunately, reports are now beginning on how women and children on the run are being exploited by traffickers. It is estimated that 2.6 million girls will not return to school in sub-Saharan Africa after school closures in the wake of the pandemic. Instead of returning to school and building the future of their own countries, they are forced to work to support the family, to be married away or to become pregnant. Last week when the girls in Afghanistan were finally going back to school, they had to turn the door when the anti-female Taliban regime came up with new rules to prevent girls' right to education. In Texas, the right to abortion has in principle been abolished as abortions after week 6 have been banned. Individuals have been given the right to sue doctors who perform abortions or others who help by, for example, driving the pregnant person to the abortion clinic. When you compare with the situation of girls and women in other countries, we have it pretty good in Sweden, even fantastically good. But that does not mean that we can settle down and be satisfied, Madam President. When the Liberals invited a number of experts and researchers to a seminar here in the Riksdag, their thorough review of how far we have reached with the gender equality policy objectives showed that it is obvious that progress is far too slow and sometimes even backward in Sweden. The gap between a man's and a woman's income is still SEK 3.6 million, and the gap has not narrowed in 25 years. An average of 15 women still die each year because of men's violence against women. For a woman who wants to leave a destructive relationship, there is not only a risk of an escalation of violence from the man she leaves, but also a risk of being met by a judicial system that is not sustainable from a gender equality perspective. There are still young people in our country who, because of honour, cannot live their lives as they want, but where the family decides who they will get, and above all not get, meet and fall in love with. Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, there is still a long list of problems in the area of gender equality in Sweden. Nevertheless, there are those who think that the Equality Agency is unnecessary and that the other authorities themselves should put the light on gender issues. But we know that's not enough. We think it's exactly the opposite. There needs to be a gender equality authority that highlights the problems that exist in the area of gender equality. It is an authority that highlights the lack of data on differences in the ownership of men and women. It examines the Employment Service and shows that they make a difference between men and women in providing the services that equip them for work. For us liberals, economic independence is the basis of individual freedom. It is a major social problem that women-dominated occupations are systematically valued less than male-dominated occupations. We note, among other things, that the salaries of women-dominated academic professions in the public sector have been lagging behind. The education premium is low in many occupations where the most women work compared to the relatively high wages in male-dominated occupations where the level of education is lower. Wages should be based on skills, not on the gender identity of workers. We therefore believe that the government should take steps to break the pattern of lower wages in women-dominated academic professions. Similarly, more needs to be done to repress involuntary part-time work. Working part-time can be a voluntary decision to allow time for other things. But it doesn't look like that in reality in very many cases. Part-time work is, in far too many cases, an involuntary choice that primarily affects women who are expected to take care of their homes and families to a greater extent than men do. There are also studies showing that there may be a risk of homework, which we see much more of now since the pandemic. Home labour consolidates the unequal division of unpaid labour. We therefore believe that the government needs to give an appropriate authority the task of monitoring how increased domestic work affects gender equality. Madam President, I would like Men's violence against women does not only affect women. It also affects the children. A recent report by the Gender Equality Agency shows that violence is relativised in disputes concerning custody, access and housing. Data on violence and other abuse are not taken into account in court decisions on custody and there is a lack of a uniform approach to risk assessment. Unfortunately, violence and abuse are common. In the 814 cases examined by the Agency, data on violence and abuse were found in 64% of cases. In 60% of the cases, the court has reached agreement between the parents, although it can be assumed that the relationship of power between the parents has not been equal because of the violence. As a result, children may be forced to associate with a violent parent. The review also shows that it is common for violence and abuse to be described as cooperation difficulties or conflicts in court actions. This is one of all the difficulties a woman who leaves a violent man is confronted with when she needs the help of the judiciary after the separation. It is unreasonable, on review that it is unreasonable for a child to be forced to associate with a violent parent. The judiciary needs to be examined from a gender perspective. The women's shelters that are there to help and support women who have fled their husbands need long-term support for their activities. Madam President, I would like Thanks to the Liberals, there will now be a national mapping of the extent of honour-related violence and repression and the establishment of a national competence centre. Breaking the honor-related oppression is one of the greatest freedom issues of our time. It is important to make visible the honour-related violence and repression in society. In order to combat all forms of this effectively, we must also have a clear LGBTI perspective in all efforts. This type of violence and oppression in general is difficult to identify. The difficulties are even greater to break the silence and reduce the number of darkness, it is violence and oppression that affect LGBTI people. Therefore, the government should urgently take the initiative to deepen knowledge of honour-related violence and repression against LGBTI people. Finally, Madam President, a word on the other area of the report, discrimination. No one should have to be discriminated against in our country. Unfortunately, however, this is happening, and the number of complaints to the Discrimination Ombudsman is increasing. However, we see that many notifications do not lead to any action because it is not deemed to fall within the scope of the law. A detailed analysis of the total number of notifications should provide knowledge of both the possible need for legislative adjustments and the need for improved information to the public. We believe that the government should set up such an investigation with the task of reviewing the Non-Discrimination Act. In addition, we want Sweden to move forward positions in the EU in relation to discrimination. In the EU, an anti-discrimination directive covering sexual orientation has been discussed for more than ten years. As the Swedish Presidency of the European Union approaches, we believe that the government should continue to work towards the final adoption of the anti-discrimination directive. The government should be active and ensure that the work should also include all transgender persons in EU anti-discrimination legislation. We support all our reservations. But for the gain of time, I only ask for reservation 5.
i-JHvGmpmoRYDx8uAT81Sqfm	Madam President, I would like He doesn't remember the time when Dad was still living with him. He only remembers every promise that they will meet, celebrate Christmas together and go to football. But when Dad doesn't show up, there's never a penalty. No police car picks him up to hang out with his son. The son has lost his right to his father. The father has chosen him out. She's four years old. The safety of the family rests in her hands. She can't tell Dad what her preschool is called, where the Ica shop is and the names of the preschool friends, because then he can figure out where Mom lives. And my mom protected personal data because my dad threatened to kill her. She's four years old. It's important she doesn't tell me. When she doesn't want to see her father, my mother risks a white. The police pick up children against their will to satisfy a violent father's right to spend time with his children. That is the situation in Sweden today. And you ask women who live with violent men why they don't leave the relationship. One answer is the fear that one day there will be a police car outside the door and that the police will take away by force a child who is terrified of a father who is violent. Madam President, I would like It is easy to believe that this is not true – that we do not do this in Sweden. In fact, however, the recent report by the Equality Agency, which deals with judgments in custody, social affairs and housing for children whose parents have separated, shows that the perspective of children's rights is often lacking. So there is a risk that children may be forced to live and have relations with a violent parent. Last week, I met some of the mothers who live hidden. At the risk of their own safety, they made their way to Stockholm to tell us about the hell they put up with every day. Because they know that if they can't cope, their children end up full-time with the fathers who have been violent. It is fathers who have exposed their children to the fear of not knowing whether mother will survive the next abuse in the next room and who have even subjected their children to violence. Madam President, I would like It's a betrayal. It's a betrayal of the women, and it's a betrayal of the children. Yes, children have the right to all their parents. But no, violent parents should not be entitled to their children. I would like to thank the Equality Agency for bringing this problem to light and giving us the facts that confirm all the stories we have heard. I am grateful that there were enough of us to ensure that this authority existed long enough to be able to write this report as well. Madam President, I would like A common question that women get is: Why didn't you leave him? Or why didn't you leave earlier? For immigrant women, the answer can be found in the Government proposal 1999/ 2000:43. The government believes that isolated less serious acts of violence cannot justify that women who have left the relationship should not be expelled as punishment. I'll explain this a little bit to anyone who's not familiar with the rules of broken connection. It is so that if you as a woman have immigrated to Sweden as a relative of a man, you can only stay as long as you continue to be together. If you are no longer together, there is no longer any basis for the woman to have a residence permit in Sweden. The link, on which the permit to be in Sweden is based, is flawed. There is an exception for women who have left relationships mainly because they have been exposed in the relationship to violence, because the idea is that one should not have to stay in such a relationship. You shouldn't be afraid to leave it. But, as I said, a woman who attends the first battle will, according to this rule, be expelled. Madam President, I would like We need to change the rules on broken ties, because we surely think that all women should have the right to leave a relationship already at the first battle and already at mental abuse and control. Many do not dare until they have gathered enough evidence for a conviction. Many stay for fear that otherwise it will be those themselves who are punished with expulsion with all that it can mean. Madam President, I would like The report deals with a number of issues. One issue that we in the Green Party have raised in particular is the importance of knowledge. It is important that we have authorities working on these issues and produce data. Gender-disaggregated statistics for gender equality work are important. And Crash: It is important to know what the alternative costs. We in the Green Party want to ensure that we also get that knowledge when it comes to honour-related violence, because we are convinced that those costs far exceed the costs of protecting young people, women and LGBT people from this terrible violence and oppression. I therefore support our reservation on this point. We are, of course, in favour of all our reservations, but for the sake of the profits of time, I am only in favour of reservation 15.
i-VAebGh2Wxrwt3MALFTNQ63	Madam President, I would like In the days we are going through, it is Ukraine that dominates. That is the case; it is impossible to get away from. We sat here together in the Chamber listening to the speech from President Zelenskyj. The other week I had the opportunity, together with some colleagues, to participate in a digital interparliamentary conference on an ambitious future for Europe's women after covid-19. There was a Member from the Ukrainian Parliament. So we sat and discussed these major and important issues together across Europe. When a Member of the Ukrainian Parliament enters the debate, but eventually notes that these are very important issues, but for us it is about survival – then, Madam President, one can only be gripped by this and by the seriousness of the moment. Madam President, I would like With regard to the AU8 report, which deals with equality and anti-discrimination, there is reason to refer a little to a debate we had last autumn. This concerns the debate on Category 13. I was then able to note that in this area of expenditure there was a consensus in this House on the government's policy on gender equality. I was pleased to see that, Madam President. It is important that all eight parties in this House can agree on such important issues as equality. There were, of course, discussions back and forth even then. But I can see, Madam President, that it is a bit more sprawling when we discuss this report. Perhaps you can find cracks in the unity we could see last autumn. I warned, Madam President, a little forward-looking as early as last autumn that the unity may be a bit of a chimare. I would like to mention what I mean in my speech. I share the view of the Liberal Member, Malin Danielsson, that it was important for us to save the Equality Agency. I think that was a wise and correct statement. Of course, with regard to such questions, there may be some differences of opinion. I share the Liberal view here that the Equality Authority is important. One can have a slightly different view of exactly how gender equality work or anti-discrimination work should be organised. One can certainly have a slightly different view of, for example, exactly what sanctions the Discrimination Ombudsman should have and how costly it should be, so to speak, to discriminate against someone. Nevertheless, it is good if there is some sort of consensus that discrimination is wrong and that we should combat discrimination to the greatest extent possible. It is also important that we can then agree in this House that equality is an important objective to pursue. What I would like to draw the attention of the Members of this House and the audience to is that it is a bit cracking in terms of perceptions and whether we are actually looking at equality in the same way. I took part in the CSW the other week, the United Nations Commission on the Status of Women, and I was able to note that there a variety of countries with very different starting points can say that they want equality and democracy, but when you go down on the details and discuss the issues in concrete terms, Madam President, they do not really see the same. Madam President, I would like I was going to present some examples in today's report, and it is about the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats. In reservation 1, the Moderates express the view of the blue, capital-ownership party and state that the differences between women's and men's ownership are great. Research surveys show that this is due to several factors. As women generally earn less than men, their opportunities for investment and ownership are reduced. Furthermore, there are norms and stereotypes that hinder women's ownership. ..................................................... That is, of course, a correct position, and I share that view and think it is wise to look at it that way. It is still exciting to see how you then move on, because then you write: ..................................................... A little spontaneously, one might think that it might be more interesting to gain better knowledge of what makes women generally earn less or what makes the stereotyped perceptions of gender so big in society. But there the Moderates miss a little bit, and that's because this blue, capital-owned party can only see to its ownership. And of course, Madam President, it is not wrong with a few fewer Marcusar and a few more Antonior. I think that would be a good development. But then you can also think about why the Moderates are opposed to quotas on company boards and how to deal with these issues. It may look like we are in agreement, Madam President, but when you scratch the surface you can see that we have very different frame of reference. Madam President, I would like Regarding reservation 2, the Swedish Democrats, the Brown Men's Party, writes that each individual should be free to make their own individual life choices, without the public trying to govern or influence these choices. We advocate formal equality in which neither women nor men are treated differently because of their gender. We do not use superficial analyses of how women and men divide in different areas as sole basis for determining how equal society is. –– We are therefore strongly opposed to a policy based on expectations or objectives of a certain distribution. We therefore believe that gender equality policy objectives need to be updated and that the government should come back with proposals that no longer contain wordings on gender balance. ..................................................... At first reading, it may sound a little innocent. But I once heard a television interview with one of the leading ayatollahs in Iran who after a question from a Western journalist about why they didn't reward equality in Iran looked easily surprised and said: But we are absolutely equal – women decide everything in the home, and we men decide outside the home! This view of gender equality is not exactly in line with a modern person's view of gender equality. That the Swedish democrats do not like quotas and so can anyone see by looking at the composition of their parliamentary group. The reason why the Swedish Parliament is still reasonably equal is that we Social Democrats actually make sure to unwind our lists. At one time we took such a decision, and it has actually raised this whole Parliament, this whole Parliament, to a much more equal level. The Swedish democrats have a little to live up to there. It's exciting that you can read this directly in their own lyrics and so you don't have to think about it more than that. Then there are the Christian Democrats, the dark blue, the Conservative Party, and reservation 4. I believe that the debate on equality policy needs to be changed. The problems faced and wrestled by women should be highlighted in contrast to the issues and symbolic projects that are all too often discussed. In my opinion, a new focus is needed on gender equality policy, including gender equality. a different approach to work/family balance, with more choice and flexibility. ––– It must therefore be allowed to choose the way a parent wants to prioritise his or her life based on his or her own circumstances, wishes and periods of life. I believe that the government should shift the focus of gender equality policy and increase the conditions for families to make their own choices on the basis of the starting points set out above. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like It is not possible to read this in any other way than that the Christian Democrats think that developments in Sweden are going the wrong way. It can only be read in such a way that it was better in the past when more women stayed at home and took home responsibility and more men than today took responsibility for the income in the family because they are dissatisfied with what gender equality policy looks like today and they want to change the direction. I think many of us in here can agree that we have a long way to go. We have much more to do when it comes to distributing unpaid domestic work and making sure that income is distributed more evenly between men and women. We have much more left; we have a long way to go. But then wanting to change direction can only mean going backwards, Madam President. I find that deeply problematic. It is the classic 50's home ideal that comes out, albeit possibly with a little more beautiful words. Madam President, I would like Before I stop, I would like to go back to talking about Ukraine. What has happened – the terrible war and the flow of refugees that has arisen – has not only been recognised as a war and a refugee disaster, but has also raised concerns that this disaster will mean human trafficking, prostitution and the exploitation of women. There is also an equality aspect to the disaster. In the madness and brutality of war, the surrogate motherhood industry in Ukraine and the complications and horrors that this has led to have been demonstrated. There is also reason to look at this from the perspective of gender equality. I think it is incredibly important that we take the gender perspective into account in this disaster. I would also like to conclude by pointing out, as I did last autumn when we discussed Category 13, how these ideas that are spread about the absence of women and how such a language that dehumanises women in itself leads to trade, prostitution and surrogate motherhood. You deal in bodies. You consume. This, Madam President, is something that the House should keep an eye on and actually take on board as an important issue of gender equality. With this, I would like to support the proposal in the report and reject the reservations.
i-MxbD8mEDrmVFi9gssTa7Pe	Madam President, I would like In my speech, I raised the problem that very many women who are victims of violence in a close relationship face if they are also immigrant relatives of a man. The change of law made as late as a year ago now means that every woman who comes to Sweden through family reunification is dependent on her husband not leaving her for several years in Sweden. If the relationship ends, the woman risks being expelled from Sweden. There is an exception if the relationship mainly ends because the woman or children have been subjected to violence by the husband. However, there are also statements which state that a less serious single act of violence should not in itself give women the right to stay in Sweden if she leaves the husband because of the occasional less serious violence. It is also the woman who bears the burden of proof that it is mainly because of the violence that she leaves the man. All in all, this means that many women in this situation do not dare to take the risk of leaving a violent man. Do the Social Democrats want to remedy this problem?
i-5GJQNQxv1P47dMX79fBZGK	Madam President, I would like This legislation has partially addressed the problem. What Annika Hirvonen points out here is the difficulty of defining and delimiting something in legislation. I can agree that it's a rather unpleasant, or shocking, turn of words-- I can understand that. At the same time, of course, when defining something, one must also describe in the legal text when, where and how a right expires or enters into force. This is, of course, something that all legislation is in some sense struggling with. Because we believe that people have the right to come to the country as, for example, family immigrants or labour immigrants, this is defined in the legislation. In the same way, you get into this kind of problem. As a counter-question, I wonder what date this law began to apply. I missed it. My answer is that it is about the difficulty of delimiting who is to be hit by a law. This is the basic problem.
i-VNMGYAisgvfpQQkRVZZYfw	Madam President, I would like It is clear that this must be defined and that there must be a delimitation. I think that the limit should be that no woman should have to endure violence. Every woman should be allowed to leave a relationship after the first battle, even if it is about mental abuse or other controlling behaviour – things that we think no woman should ever have to put up with in her own home. Yes, there is a need for a demarcation, but it will go with our zero tolerance of men's violence against women. The amendment of the law, which states that isolated minor acts of violence should not in themselves give rise to the right to leave the relationship and not to be expelled, was made in 1999-2000. This has been the case for two decades. But the last change made women dependent on their husbands for much longer and many more women end up in this position of dependence – if the man leaves the woman, she will be expelled. This rule used to apply only to new relationships, that is, if you wanted to marry someone. Now it applies to everyone, even if you've been married for 30 years. At that time the rule only applied for two years and was therefore called the two-year rule. Now it still applies until the woman has obtained her own livelihood, which of course is especially difficult if you live in a controlling relationship. It is only when you receive the permanent residence permit on your own basis that you become free from dependence on the man. This is an enlargement that we have not yet seen the consequences of. What I am focusing above all on today is whether the Social Democrats want zero tolerance of men's violence against women also for these women.
i-K2ejdt7mmuuTj8m46uWLFG	Madam President, I would like The Social Democrats absolutely stand for zero tolerance to violence against women. That's it. I do not have the courage to respond to the exact way in which legislation is drawn up today. My question was actually when this change was made, but I will return to this and return to Annika Hirvonen. I can't really answer that. We are absolutely in favour of zero tolerance of violence against women, but exactly how legislation is designed to be enforceable and act as legislation, Madam President, I am afraid to respond here and now.
i-VW4Yi89yK9yL6ZBY8s1DAi	Madam President, I would like Members and listeners! As the last speaker in this debate, I would like to begin by expressing my support for women and children fleeing the Ukraine of the war and my disgust with President Putin's war in Ukraine. What we are going to discuss here today, gender equality and integration, is a very horizontal theme. Therefore, it is especially appropriate to do so in the light of the war. It is the case, as speakers before me have pointed out, that we have already seen today the disgusting consequences of women and children being forced to flee, namely the recruitment of children and young people to prostitution and trafficking. These are absolutely terrible situations that we have to deal with. The Center Party writes in its reservations in this report that there is a need for a thorough investigation that deals with and highlights the total costs of the state, industry, society and the individual for the unequal society we have in Sweden despite the fact that it is 2022. We know what this cost is for the individual – for the woman. During a lifetime, millions differ in life's income. If you add this to a social level in our everyday lives, you can see that it must cost an infinite amount of money that we should be able to handle better for a more equal everyday life where everyone can enjoy their rights. As the committee points out, of course, work is under way to promote an equal society. The Commission on Equal Lives has finally produced its final report. Through their work, they have provided a very important basis for developing the work to achieve the gender equality policy objectives. However, unlike the committee and the government, I and the Center Party believe that the work needs to be further deepened. In order to achieve the gender equality policy objectives, we believe that the Government should take further measures to strengthen the work on gender mainstreaming, gender-disaggregated statistics and gender budgeting and better steer the authorities with clear directives. Over the years, Sweden has carried out many important reforms that have strengthened women's economic empowerment. But economic equality has actually stagnated recently, and foreign-born women draw the very shortest straw. This is a little strange. When you look at income, you see that the unequal disposable income persists over time despite the fact that women's share of wage income has actually increased in relative terms – it has done so. But when you put the money on, the gap is equal in terms of the proportion of money that women have respective men have. Why is that? Well, it's because men save more money. They earn more money from income from capital than women do. We all know that the tax on income from capital is lower than the tax on income from wages. Madam President, I would like It is important that the authorities constantly carry out their own gender equality work on the basis of their mandates, but there is a need for economic equality to be followed up even more closely. The Commission on Equal Living Income proposes that the JGV should carry out a gender equality analysis of income inequalities every four years. However, we believe that there is a need for closer follow-up, and I believe that the government should review the possibility of assigning the agency the opportunity to monitor and analyse the objective of economic equality annually. The same Commission has also noted that several authorities lack gender breakdown of their individual statistics. It is therefore a good thing that the government has recently given a mandate to Statistics Sweden on the supervision of and a preliminary study on gender-disaggregated statistics. But statistics must also be put into practice. Gender is often analysed without including other relevant variables, such as age, educational background and ethnicity. Much of the pay gap today is due to the fact that occupations where more women work are valued less generally than occupations where more men work. Madam President, I would like That is why we believe that the mandate of the Mediation Institute should be broadened to include differences between professions in different sectors. It can hopefully lead to new ways of highlighting and reducing the pay gap and the structural differences in the pay gap between women and men. Madam President, I would like The Center Party also proposes that the Equality Agency be given a permanent information assignment regarding legislation against sex purchases. In the various instructions and the various regulatory letters to the Equality Agency, and in part to other authorities, you can read the following from me a little loose sentences, but I stand for this: The coordination responsibility for the work against prostitution lies with the Equality Agency. The work against trafficking in human beings should be coordinated. Cooperation should be developed. The gender equality agency is commissioned by the government to continue to strengthen the work against the sexual exploitation of children, prostitution and human trafficking. Protection and support for victims of sexual exploitation, prostitution and human trafficking should be ensured. My point is that there is quite a lot of focus on the victims of prostitution. Misunderstand me right! That is, of course, quite right. It is clear that the victims should have the support they have the right to receive – in every way. It is also regulated in the Criminal Code. But the step before that happens, who should take the lead on that question? Who should wear the leadership shirt to work even more structured with preventive work? Who is responsible for bringing out the information, in what way and who are you to reach? Who is it that supports the coach to put the bullshit in the locker room? Who is it that supports the employer to stop when the raw jokes are heard around the coffee table – perhaps sometimes by the employer himself? Who tells you that one in ten men has bought sex, that you, you and you probably know someone who has done it and that you need to discuss it with the people? Who makes sure the school has suitable material so that every teenager understands that if you buy sex, you go to jail? At least soon. I hope that a parliament will soon decide that sex purchases will lead to prison. It is a fact that sex buyers are younger today. I believe that the Equality Authority must put on this leadership shirt. Therefore, there should be a permanent information mission. Madam President, I would like The government has also established an action plan to prevent and combat men's violence against women. There are very good things in it. Unfortunately, however, the situation does not improve, but rather deteriorates. Why is that? Is it the case that, here too, we must try to shift our focus in order to put even more work on standards, values and prevention? The gender equality authority has been tasked with reporting every two years an in-depth follow-up to the gender equality policy sub-objective of ending men's violence against women. Furthermore, the Government mentions that knowledge about the situation of those living with protected personal data should increase. I would like to dwell a little on this. In April 2021, the Swedish Agency for Gender Equality was commissioned by the Government to carry out knowledge-raising efforts regarding people living with protected personal data. It will raise awareness of existing legislation, highlight the life situation of women and children living with protected personal data and examine what further measures are needed to facilitate this group. Increase knowledge – make it easier. If I do a little ralcling, it sounds like they're going to have a decent life while they're hidden. During the pandemic, for two years, we have been talking about questioning the fact that we have our lives limited. We question whether it has even been legal to make the restrictions that we have decided upon in this congregation. At the same time, there are 800 women living with protected identity, but I think there are many more. They always live with these limitations – always, every day, every hour, every minute. These people are suffering enormous economic damage. They themselves pay for moving, furniture, new alarms and new subscriptions to TV and telephones. They get their lives limited. It is doubtful whether children should go on school trips, go to birthday parties and sports events or practice football. They have huge problems renewing applications for protected identity. This is not over for the woman herself, but she must turn to the police and social services, which in turn stands for a new application. Instead of giving the woman a protected identity for as long as she wants and then being able to take the step fully that when she feels confident enough to try living without. One wonders what the investigation, the in-depth mission, the Gender Equality Agency is supposed to carry out. I think that an investigation should have a purpose for the hidden women's everyday lives to work without them being hidden. The question to be asked to the hidden women is not: What do you need to have a more decent life hidden? Instead, the question should be: What do you need to live a life without being hidden? In this report there are many good proposals from the Center Party and other parties, but I would like to call for our reservation 7 to be approved.
i-GSkJEKpn13oJLbRQnzY8Ki	Madam President, I would like Ukraine is one of Europe's largest countries. Ukraine also has one of the largest populations in Europe. We cannot distinguish between Europe's security and Europe's security, quite the contrary. They belong together. Those countries that are striving to build their societies according to our model of values must also be able to welcome us into the European Union. It is important, Madam President, to send a message of hope to the Ukrainian people, but also to the people of Moldova and Georgia. They are fighting for the whole democratic Europe. The EU Treaty is crystal clear. Countries fulfilling EU conditions have the right to apply for EU membership. It is the EU that decides who can apply and, above all, who can join, not Vladimir Putin. Much work is being done in Ukraine, Georgia and Moldova to meet the EU's conditions. This work is done through the Association Agreements, the Neighbourhood Policy and the Eastern Partnership. The road to EU membership is crooked, long and exhausting. But we can see that it is worth the effort of the countries that have gone that way and left dictatorship, oppression and unfair distribution behind. Sweden and the EU provide assistance and weapons and receive refugees from Ukraine. But the most important thing we can give to those who are now fighting in Ukraine is hope – hope for future EU membership. And the EU must invest in Ukraine's reconstruction in the future and continue to contribute to the development of Ukraine, Georgia and Moldova. That is why we, Madam President, in a fully united Committee on Foreign Affairs, support the aspirations of Ukraine, Georgia and Moldova. That is why we have come to the opinion that is now on the table in this House in total agreement. With that, Madam President, I would like to support the proposal of the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
i-WBMRAnP5f8HvN4KNyqXtt9	Madam President, I would like In 2008, Foreign Minister Carl Bildt and Polish Foreign Minister Radek Sikorski took the initiative to become the EU's Eastern Partnership. The purpose of the partnership was to encourage reforms and democracy in six former Soviet republics, including Ukraine, Georgia and Moldova. 13 years after the founding of the Eastern Partnership, we see what a strategic success it is – for the European Union, for the values we want to defend, but also for the partner countries. Perhaps this applies primarily to Moldova, Georgia and Ukraine. As then, the Moderates are now on Ukraine's side in their efforts to be part of the European Community. Basically, this ambition is much older and much deeper than the Eastern Partnership alone, where the roots extend decades back. This applies in particular to Sweden, which has long had close relations with Ukraine. In the joint statement by the Ukrainian President, Speaker and Prime Minister who accompanied the application for candidate status, Ukraine refers, among other things, to Filip Orlik's Constitution, which was written in 1710 and which is preserved at the National Archives here in Stockholm. It was one of the first constitutions that actively sought to apply the separation of powers, a today quite fundamental constitutional principle for all European democracies. So there is no doubt that Ukraine has long been part of European civilisation. The Ukrainians have repeatedly shown that it is in Europe and with the values that Europe stands for that it sees its future. We saw it already during the Orange Revolution in 2004 and 2005 and later during the Euro-Maydan in 2013 and 2014, when the EU flag for millions of Ukrainians became the symbol of peace, freedom and progress in contrast to Vladimir Putin's puppet regime. The Independence Square in Kiev became the frontline of European values of human rights, democracy and equality before the law. Then it became clear to all of us that Ukraine had chosen the path. Moldova and Georgia have also chosen the path. Freedom has been chosen over freedom. The West has been chosen over the East. Dialogue and partnership with Brussels have been chosen instead of blackmail and threats from Moscow. At that time, we in the EU took the political consequences of the country's choices by establishing far-reaching association agreements with the countries. The agreements, which entered into force in 2016 for Moldova and Georgia and 2017 for Ukraine, are comprehensive, including in the free trade area. The agreements also further strengthen political ties and facilitate increased cooperation in a number of sectors. Madam President, I would like If Putin, with his brutal invasion of Ukraine, sought to divide the ties between us Europeans, he has failed brutally. Contrary to the split he predicted, the EU has unanimously joined in defending Ukraine's sovereignty and the right to choose its own path. A number of EU countries have now not only provided humanitarian aid to alleviate the needs of civilians, but have also helped to build and strengthen the Ukrainian armed forces. The EU has committed almost EUR 1 billion to its peace facility, thus financing arms supplies to Ukraine. Among other things, the approximately 5,000 Swedish armored bulkheads, safety vests and helmets that an almost unanimous parliament decided to send to Ukraine will be replaced by funds from the peace facility. Madam President, I would like Ukraine has now officially submitted its application to become a candidate country for EU membership. Georgia and Moldova have done the same. Let me begin by saying that I and the Moderates fully support the ambition of all three countries. They belong in the European family and, through the Versailles Declaration, the EU Member States committed themselves to further deepening the partnership. Ukraine, Moldova and Georgia have made considerable progress in various ways on the criteria set by the EU for membership. And Putin's unjust wars have further strengthened the European aspirations of the Ukrainian, Moldovan and Georgian peoples. In this context, it is also important to emphasise that our support to Ukraine, be it economic, political or military, will continue. And after the war, we will be a vote in favour of the EU providing its full strength to rebuild the country's homes, schools and hospitals. Similarly, we shall continue to support reforms so that Ukraine can one day become a full member of the European Union. In addition, the EU should step up its support for reform to Moldova and Georgia with the ambition that those countries will also be able to join one day. Today, Moldova is at risk of being next in line for further Russian aggression. That is why it is extremely important for the EU to support the country. Not least, it is about reducing the country's dependence on Russian gas and supporting the building of its armed forces. Madam President, I would like If we have learned anything from Ukraine, it is that we need to act before the war is a fact. With regard to Ukraine, I would like to say that we from the Moderates are crystal clear. Ukraine belongs in the European family. Ukraine belongs in Europe. We should regard Ukraine as a potential candidate country and strengthen our already close cooperation with the aim of enabling it to take the step of becoming a full member once in the future. I support the committee's proposal.
i-W1YESobgpxEDvqTYa1VFDc	Madam President, I would like What happened five weeks ago, the night of February 24, constitutes a watershed in our time—there is one before and one after. Russia's unprovoked invasion and completely disproportionate violence against a peaceful and independent neighbouring country is totally unacceptable. Ukraine, Georgia and Moldova have for a long time been clear in their ambitions for a stronger link with Western Europe and the EU and have now formally, as a direct result of Russia's invasion of Ukraine, submitted their applications for EU membership. Ukraine's history has been closely linked with Sweden for more than a thousand years. The founder of the Rurik Empire, Rurik, is believed to have come from Roslagen. Olof Skötkonung's daughter Ingegerd, in Ukraine called the Holy Anna of Novgorod, is buried in the beautiful white cathedral with gilded onion domes as you can see in Kiev. When I visited Georgia three years ago, I was surprised to see a lot of EU flags in a central location in the capital Tbilisi – much more than I have seen anywhere in Sweden. It was clear that this was the way in which we wanted to demonstrate and mark our desire to belong to the European Community rather than to the Russian sphere of influence. The memories of Russian oppression still live strong and tangible, not least because families have been divided by the Russian occupation of South Ossetia and Abkhazia. Examples of centuries of russification of Georgian history and culture are diverse. This desire to belong to the European Community is now confirmed by the formal submission of applications for EU membership by Ukraine, Georgia and Moldova. On behalf of the Christian Democrats, we welcome the fact that the Committee on Foreign Affairs is unanimously in favour of this. We agree that, for its part, the EU should give the three countries a clear perspective of membership and that they as potential candidate countries should be given access to all the reform support that the EU can offer to future Member States. As the committee has said, we would like to stress that the three countries' applications for membership must be received seriously. It must not, however, be a fast track which skips important basic requirements that apply to each Member State. Existing rules and procedures must be applied, including the revised methodology for enlargement from 2020 with a clear focus on fundamental reforms. Otherwise, there is an imminent risk that there will be an A-team and a B-team in the EU. As a Member State, or a future Member State, we need to be able to demonstrate stable democratic institutions and respect the principles of the rule of law. There must be an administrative capacity and a well-functioning market economy. I quote from the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs: Through urgent management, the EU has confirmed the special position that the three countries are unfortunately taking on as a result of Russia's aggressions. It also means that Member States will have a reliable basis for taking a position on a realistic continuation of the process. The committee stresses the need for the EU, pending the Commission's opinions, to step up its commitment to the three countries' reform efforts with the ambition of one day entering the Union. ..................................................... Pending this, of course, we continue to support our courageous Ukrainian brothers and sisters in their struggle for independence and freedom. I agree with the previous speaker: Ukraine belongs in Europe. Of course, Georgia and Moldova do. With these comments, I call for the proposal of the Committee on Foreign Affairs to be approved.
i-YU2TVjMKCh1roEVEDwWevw	Madam President, I would like On the Liberal side, we have been very, very positive and proactive in all the sanctions that have been imposed on Putin, Russia and Belarus and have wanted to see even more financial and military support for Ukraine. We still want that; I would like to start by stating that. It is clear that the situation in Europe is currently characterised by the handling of this dossier. I would like to begin with the speech that President Zelenskyj gave here in Parliament just recently. In his speech, President Zelenskyj looked forward and talked about the reconstruction of Ukraine. We fully support all the support we are currently giving to Ukraine, and we want to see more support for Ukraine to push Russia and Putin away and ensure that Ukraine wins the war. The attack war against Ukraine must stop. But it is clear that we must also help in any way we can in the post-war reconstruction of Ukraine. Madam President, I would like One thing I reacted to was that Zelenskyj invited Swedish architects, companies and other actors in his speech to come to Ukraine and help with reconstruction. Of course, building houses requires companies and architects. Someone is needed to carpentry, produce materials, and so on. But it is not really architects who have built the Sweden that Zelenskyj talked about that he likes. It is also not architects who have built Ukraine, but free people. It is free people who, in open and free economies in Europe, have built our prosperity. It is when millions of people are given the opportunity to pursue the goals of their own dreams that we can build strong societies, and that is how Ukraine will be able to rebuild after the war. What makes Europe so strong is that we are building our societies not by authoritarian leaders bringing forward their ideas and trying to make society move in a certain direction, but by allowing free people in open economies to build society themselves. We do not build society with Social Democratic, Moderate, Liberal or Center Party ideas, but let people's own ideas build society. That is precisely what Europe and Europe stand for: that we leave people free to shape their own lives. That is why Europe is strong. That is why the European Community is strong. The attack war against Ukraine is about Russia opposing the whole idea of Europe, all the values we stand for, all that have made us rich. They oppose Ukraine's right to decide its own future, and they oppose the Ukrainian people's right to live in freedom. They are opposed to both the European idea and the European security regime, which is why this war is not about Ukraine but about all of us who want to live in peace and freedom. That's why this war is our war, too. That is why Ukraine's business is ours too. Madam President, I would like For this reason, it is particularly important that what we are discussing today, i.e. the processes for more countries to be able to join the European Union, is moving forward. After all, we want more countries to enjoy the freedom that it means to be part of the European Union. More countries will benefit fully from the transparency of the internal European market. Goods, people, capital and ideas should be able to move freely across borders so that more countries can also be both rebuilt and built stronger for the future. Madam President, I would like The Liberals have proposed that Ukraine be able to have a specific road map in order to arrive at EU membership more quickly. We have also proposed this in the Swedish Parliament's EU Council. Of course, such an initiative needs to be taken together in the European Union, but it may be worth noting that we have also put forward such a proposal. There is no such thing in this case, but we think it is important that we do this together. It is positive that the whole Committee on Foreign Affairs, and hopefully the whole Parliament, are in favour of this opinion. What is now happening is a battle between authoritarian and democratic – a battle between Europe and our values against Putin and his values. In this battle, it is important that more countries turn their face to European cooperation and think that it is there that they have their future. It has been shown by the countries we are discussing today – Georgia, Moldova and Ukraine – that they are. But it is now important for the EU that the processes do not go too slow, both so that more countries see that there is an opportunity for a future in the European Union, and that none of these countries or any other country should think that it is impossible to join the European Union and therefore connect with, for example, Russia or any other authoritarian country. It is of course important that Europe and the European Union are open to more countries that join from this perspective too, that we should be the natural choice for those who plan to build a future in peace and freedom. Madam President, I would like I support the committee's proposal. I applaud the fact that our values – that all people should be allowed to be their own architects, architects for their own lives – are under threat right now. We want more people throughout Europe to live their lives in peace and freedom and on the basis of those values. That is why we are calling for this and hope that Ukraine and others will join the European Union quickly.
i-7Rw1hwJRFtaV4oGHn5A7iC	Madam President, I would like Populations equivalent to a Sweden or even more have been driven away from their homes to shelters in Ukraine. According to UNHCR, it's 13 million. Ukraine is defending today, now, our freedom and our security. They defend their right to choose the future, to choose the path of democracy instead of being the victim of the Russian dictatorship again, and the right to choose Europe if and as you wish. Ukraine must have our unequivocal support, financial, humanitarian and armaments. This is clearly a Swedish interest in security policy. At the same time, Sweden and the EU must now prepare a modern Marshall aid to rebuild a free, independent and democratic Ukraine. We have President Zelenskyj's words with us: The blue-yellow colors we have together. Ukraine's peace and future are also our peace and future. Ukraine and also Georgia and Moldova want to join the EU. Ukraine has clearly shown that a positive EU response to membership not only sends hope for the future but also signals that we are not prepared to leave them in the mirage of exclusion, which gives uncertainty about the prospects ahead. The Committee on Foreign Affairs chose the unusual situation in this exceptional situation, to issue an audit opinion on a communication from the European Council. We are doing so, as I see it, in order to demonstrate our common will to regard Ukraine as a potential candidate country under Article 49. Ukraine, Georgia and Moldova should be treated separately, not as a lump. It is positive to also ensure that the process up to membership is progressing. When some mention that there should be no fast track, I would like to draw Members' attention to the fact that the European Union has made itself known to have a very long queue of waiting and that the waiting time can be so long that you hardly believe it is possible. This experience has cost the safety of others as well. For our part and for the European Union, it is important not to signal that this is a process that can only go on and on, but it should be a clear and rapid process up to membership, and we will help in that work. The talk about avoiding fast-track leads many to think that they are back in the long queue of waiting. That is why I think it is important to be clear in that part. I am pleased that we have a single committee and that we can send the signal not only here in Parliament but also to the rada and others, that we see this before us and that we want this to happen in the near future. With this, I call for the committee's opinion to be approved.
i-2gVviWxprbjUKJiMWnZF6w	Madam President, I would like Thomas Morell has asked the Minister for Justice and Home Affairs whether he and the Government intend to review the levels of fines and fines in professional traffic. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. The government is determined that there should be order on the roads and has therefore taken a large number of measures since 2014. We have tightened up ordering responsibilities, made it possible to clapp vehicles, added resources to the police for more efficient roadside checks and led the work to get the EU's mobility package in place. Recently, the government also put forward further proposals to tighten sanctions against carriers that cannot show the right licence at the time. In addition, the government has already introduced one of the EU's absolute highest penalties for unauthorised cabotage transport. As a result, the government has gradually made cheating more difficult and expensive for rogue carriers. Thomas Morell reports on a case in Denmark where a Danish company and five people have been convicted on over 700 counts, including recurrent abuse of driver cards. In Sweden, too, there are tangible means of sanctioning and the possibility for courts to add up fines and fines from several different infringements, which together can amount to large amounts. As regards the sanctioning fee for unauthorised cabotage, it can be concluded that the Swedish sanction fee is higher than the Danish one. The government will continue to closely monitor developments to ensure road order and fight crime.
i-DGc6wjKTbrzQEDN5Mdnkot	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I shall begin by reading what is stated in Regulation 561/ 2006, Chapter 5, Article 19:中 Member States shall lay down penalties for infringements of the provisions of this Regulation and Regulation (EEC) No 3821/ 85 and shall take all measures necessary to ensure that they are implemented. Those penalties shall be effective, proportionate, dissuasive and non-discriminatory. There are a few words there that are very important. The penalties provided for shall be effective, proportionate, dissuasive and non-discriminatory. Looking at the case that was in Denmark, I would say that the Danes took good action to make it effective and dissuasive. The Danes have not made themselves known to discriminate. If you have committed an offence, you have to pay no matter where you come from. In Sweden we have a different relationship, and that is a bit unfortunate. We have company checks in one authority and roadside checks in another authority. Companies guilty of infringements of driving and rest times or other parts are controlled by the Swedish Transport Agency. There's the company that's supposed to prove its innocence. It is not always the authority that has read the law, and it may be difficult to protect itself against it. When it comes to roadside checks, it is rarely the police can go all the way when it is the question of foreign actors who violate the regulations in Sweden. If you can't make yourself understood with the suspect of a crime, you can't print out a ticket, but it will be a primary report to the prosecutor. When it lands with the prosecutor and the suspect has an overseas residence address, the case is closed, almost regularly, which means that there is no criminal penalty. If a Swede commits the same offence, it will be a punishment. It is either a fine or a fine; it does not really matter so much. The point is, then we have this thing that it discriminates. If it is now the case that A has committed an infringement and B has committed the same infringement, then the legislation must hit both. It must not be the case that one can escape across the border, and then nothing happens. It was a rather attentive case a few years ago, when the traffic police in Västerås stopped a vehicle where they could quite quickly see that driving and rest times did not match. The story of the driver did not match what was in the tachograph or in the shipping documents. The police found that the tachograph was manipulated. They had equipment that directed the information to the tachograph. The police seized the equipment and reported the company, which received a corporate fine of SEK 150,000. The thing was that the skier, who belonged in Bulgaria, refused to come to Sweden. It ended with the police having to return the manipulation equipment they had on the tachograph. It is quite unique for Swedish authorities to return a crime tool. That is not how it should be done. There must be clearer regulations and clearer sanctions.
i-JboEEMp1D2tznHD9f7DAga	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Thomas Morell for an interesting question. I think it is important that the rules we now implement should be clear and transparent and apply to everyone who drives on Swedish roads. The difference is that previously foreign truck companies that drove in Sweden received fines, which were sent to companies in Eastern Europe. It wasn't always they paid, and then you couldn't prosecute them. The big shift we made with the exchange of sanctions we had is to ensure that there are fines here on the spot. We are doing so not least with regard to the rules on posting so that we can demand on the ground what is now the EU's highest sanction rate. I note that in the interpellation, Thomas Morell tries to argue that there are higher fees and tougher rules in Denmark. I want to make it clear that we have more extensive controls in Sweden than in Denmark – I think more than a third more relative to traffic. We are doing more checks on tachographs. According to a survey carried out by the EU, 44 000 tachographs were checked in Sweden and 17 000 in Denmark. Denmark also has lower fines for unauthorised cabotage operations – a maximum of DKK 35 000. In Sweden it is 60 000 SEK, so we have the EU's toughest rules. I'm sure we can keep sharpening them. I am happy to take part in this work, because that is what we have been leading during this period. The problem for Thomas Morell has been discussed several times, Madam President. It is that Thomas Morell, who is an old Moderate politician but now represents the Swedish Democrats, still wants Ulf Kristersson to become Prime Minister in this country. This means that all these demands and wishes in terms of nailing those who cheat in cabotage and thus creating good conditions for good working conditions for truck drivers but also the fairest conditions for Swedish haulage is a little in vain – in the first place because a moderate government, as I understand it, has no ambition to do anything about professional traffic. Thomas Morell has also repeatedly been unable to account for the way in which the Swedish democrats impose these demands on a moderate-led government. In substance, I think this is illustrative. I think it is good that we find more examples that we may need a change of sanctions, because there should be equal penalties and clear penalties. We cannot have a regime where you go and drive and conduct illegal activities in Sweden and we cannot impose fines or fines. The whole process of exchange of sanctions has, of course, been precisely about this. That is why I am proud that we now have the EU's highest fines and that we have greatly increased controls during the time that the Social Democrats have led the government.
i-WRSaAE7bR6SBUCxzBZstsS	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. It is a little interesting that the Government says that we have the highest penalties. We raised from 40 000 to 60 000, that is true, but the problem remains when those who commit serious crimes slip across the border so that we cannot prosecute them. This has had the effect, as the Swedish Customs warned on three occasions last year, that the ports in southern Sweden take about two drivers a week that are affected by drugs that allow them to drive more than is allowed. These drivers come into Sweden to make a transport up the country and then back down again without taking their rest. They have multiple driver cards-- it's like a deck of cards in their pocket-- so they can hide the crimes in the tachograph. That is what has created this market for those who want to round the system – that we cannot get to them. Sanction fees in all honour, great, but we also need to be much tougher when it comes to stopping this type of activity. We unlock the clamps after 36 hours and hope to do the right thing. There are several cases that show that this is not the case. You wait that 36 hours, and when the police turn their backs on you, you go. It is interesting that the Government shakes its head. I have an example in my pocket, a case that I'm waiting for what it's gonna be like. This is the problem. You're supposed to stand until you've done the right thing. If you break the rules when you come to Germany, Belgium, France or Spain, you have to stand on the ground until you have done the right thing. You don't let go. The times I drove abroad by bus I was worried every time the police or BAG showed up in front of, because I knew: The smallest little they discover costs money, and you get standing up until you paid. But in Sweden we release those who have committed serious violations after 36 hours. The only time the clamp may remain in place until it is fixed is when there is a technical failure of the vehicle – poor brake, poor steering or something else – or when the tachograph is tampered with. Then the clip will remain in place, because it is a technical problem that must be solved before you can continue. But if we get into the crimes, we'll let the suspect go after 36 hours. It won't hold. We will then create a market for those who do not want to comply with the rules, and they will compete with those who are serious. We have to clean this business off the roads, and that must happen now, because with the situation we have at present, this is lucrative for those who circumvent the whole of the legislation. The legal text states that sanctions should be effective, proportionate, dissuasive and non-discriminatory. This means that no matter where you come from and what kind of crime you are guilty of, you have to pay for yourself – a fine or a fine. Then we can't let them go after 36 hours.
i-4JZeM5GVN3V5gneJGooUY1	Madam President, I would like This is a debate that began about two hours ago. For those who follow it, it may be good to know that there has been a pause. I have talked, Madam President, with Thomas Morell, about squabbling, about fines and about how we should ensure order and order in professional traffic. The government's starting point is extensive efforts to create order in professional traffic. Since we took office, we have introduced both penalties and the possibility to trample vehicles. In addition, we have introduced client responsibility, and we have achieved a substantial and substantial increase in police controls. V i has also negotiated common rules in the EU that are now being implemented, which are good for the Swedish haulage and transport industry but also for the drivers from other countries who drive in Sweden and now have the opportunity to have Swedish wages and agreements. My point in this debate has been that we have the EU's highest fines. We have the toughest rules in the European Union, and that is for the foreseeable reason. When the interpeller has chosen to highlight Denmark as an example, I have shown that, compared to Denmark, we have much more controls, higher fines and tougher controls. But it is good that more countries are making efforts to combat illegal cabotage. In his previous speech, Thomas Morell chose to point out that some people do not pay a penalty fee – that squeezing for 36 hours means not paying. It is nevertheless important to remember that before 2014 there were no vehicles that were trampled. When the Moderates ruled in this country, as Thomas Morell and the Swedish Democrats want them to do again, there was no squabbling. At that time, the most important thing was that transport should be cheap. At that time social conditions and wages were pressed and a transport labour market was created which was terrible and the whole development we have now seen with illegal cabotage. Now 90% of the clamps lead to transport companies paying the penalty fee. There are, as I understand it from the statistics I have received, five cases where the payment of a penalty fee has not been carried out. Of course there are five cases too many. I want to ensure that those who violate rules pay fines. But it's a radical difference from the order we had before, when we didn't have classing. Then a fine was sent to a Romanian trucker who never paid. Sanctions are now being imposed on the spot. Why do you pay? Well, because if the estate stands still for 36 hours, which it does, it's very expensive for the haulage company. It is not just about driver's wages or transport costs, but there is a value and contract that you have to relate to. So the experience we have is that we are very keen to pay. It is clear that there is an ambition to increase from 90 to 100 %, but 90 % is still a significant difference compared to what it was like before, when we did not have a clapping. So my conclusion in this discussion is that we will continue to ensure that there is order in professional traffic. We are now in a position to implement the mobility package, which we negotiated at EU level. Now we make sure that Swedish haulage industry gets fair competitive conditions and that Swedish wages and conditions apply to those who work in the Swedish labour market. The last is probably so important, because it opposed moderates but also Swedish democrats in the EU when there were discussions about the position of workers in Europe. For us social democrats it has always been a guide, and now we are finally getting better order on the Swedish labour market and in the transport industry.
i-Pw3GxtzMDWg3wsbQx6gCaa	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. So awfully many checks do not actually take place, you see if you look at the police's own statistics. In 2016, there were 61 cases of illegal cabotage, and in 2017 there were 65. Then in 2018 it rose to 221, and in 2019 to 238. It's not much to write home about. And that is because there are far too few checks out on the road. These figures could have been considerably higher if we had had enough control officials out there. As far as cabotage is concerned and those who are being trampled, there is currently a combination – possibly it is still there; I do not know – of a Romanian haulage company, which has been stopped and trampled by the police in Helsingborg. These are fines of SEK 80 000. Today they unlocked the clamps. The question is whether the car is still standing when the sun rises tomorrow morning or whether you left without paying and doing the right thing. We'll find out tomorrow. Tomorrow I will go out and meet my old colleagues in Västerås and discuss the situation that exists for the traffic police and what needs to be done to overcome these problems. If the Government has nothing special to do tomorrow, I'll have room in the car – it's just to go out and see how it goes out on the road and what work the control staff do. They are doing an outstanding job, but they are far too few to get to the problems on our roads with illegal cabotage and drivers driving far too long, manipulating tachographs, driving on multiple driver cards and so on. This is a huge problem, and it is not just a problem for the haulage industry, which is exposed to unhealthy competition – it is also a matter of safety for all of us who are on the road. I hope that the Government will strengthen the controls along the way.
i-SEb894YuyPTwbgsURbhrBs	Madam President, I would like We're strengthening the controls. There has been an increase of 470 % in controls on unauthorised cabotage. So there has been a substantial increase in controls since we took office. It is not a coincidence that both the Swedish Åkeri company and the Transport Workers' Association think that we are really on the right track when we are now making important efforts, both by increasing control and by introducing sanctioning fees, clapping and ordering responsibility, and not least by now implementing the mobility package. I myself will also be out tomorrow, in another place in Sweden, doing exactly this type of checks together with police and car inspectors. This is something that I also use. But I am not letting my own anecdotal experiences form the basis of political opinion and thinking, but I am basing myself on reports from our authorities, from industry organisations and from the factual evidence we have. It suggests that we have the EU's highest fines, that we have considerably more controls than neighbouring countries and that we have put in place tools that now give the police greatly improved opportunities to control professional traffic. I will work to ensure that we carry out even more checks. That's why we set up the investigation into illegal commercial traffic. Thomas Morell's challenge, Madam President, is that he will continue to fight for Ulf Kristersson to become Prime Minister in this country. He belonged to a moderate government that chose not to do anything to create order in professional traffic. On the contrary, it was called protectionism when we wanted reasonable rules on decent working conditions or, for that matter, fair conditions of competition. Since the Swedish Democrats have still not been able to explain, even in this debate, what demands they are making on Ulf Kristersson, I cannot interpret it in any other way than that Thomas Morell's strong commitment, however important it may be, risks leading to a government in this country that does not want to do anything to create order in professional traffic.
i-VqP4KuTtipffMsATNRrRy2	Madam President, I would like Jens Holm has asked me how Sweden will handle the outcomes in the two courts in Sweden when the issue will be addressed in ICSID and how much Sweden has budgeted for the costs of the process to defend the decision on Huawei in ICSID. He has also asked whether Sweden has contested Huawei's notification to ICSID and whether the government intends to overturn the investment agreement with China. The Swedish court proceedings concerning the appeal of the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency (PTS) by the telecommunications company Huawei are still ongoing in the Administrative Court of Appeal in Stockholm. The process in the Swedish court involves examining whether PTS's decision is compatible with Swedish law. The process in ICSID is about another issue, namely whether PTS's decision is compatible with the investment protection agreement between Sweden and China. Jens Holm writes that confidentiality is the main principle of an investment tribunal and that decisions cannot be appealed. I take it that Jens Holm is referring to arbitration in an investment dispute. The issue of confidentiality is not regulated in Sweden's investment protection agreement with China or in the arbitration rules. It is up to the parties to decide on the level of transparency. An arbitration can be blamed in the event of procedural errors, which can invalidate all or part of the arbitration. Jens Holm also asks how it is that a global company can sue a state that has followed the principles of the rule of law to the letter, how it is that legislation can entail a cost in the multi-billion dollar class and how it is that the arbitration process is closed to general transparency. The investment protection agreement is a right for an investor to have his claim tested. Liability can only arise if the law or application of the law infringes the investment protection agreement and this infringement results in financial damage. As indicated above, the arbitration process is not closed to general transparency unless the Parties or the arbitration panel so agree. Regarding Sweden's processing costs, the budget is approximately SEK 20 million for 2022. Sweden is likely to insist that Sweden's procedural costs of the dispute are passed on to Huawei. As regards the question of whether Sweden has contested Huawei's notification to ICSID, the Government has given the Chancellor of Justice the task of monitoring the state's rights and of bringing or having Sweden's action in the dispute. The Government does not comment on this ongoing dispute in substance. Jens Holm has also asked me whether the government intends to tear up the investment protection agreement with China. No such plans have the government. On the other hand, the intention is to replace our bilateral investment protection agreement with a modern EU joint investment protection agreement once the parties have agreed on one.
i-YNURcEDjS8dBHPeouez71c	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister for Energy for the answer to my interpellation. Perhaps I should say the Minister for Energy and Digitalisation, because it is more relevant in this particular debate. One might at least think that it is in order, that a company must be able to appeal a decision if the company disagrees. But arbitration is a bit special. These are not cases dealt with by the ordinary judicial system; they are dealt with by arbitration or investment tribunals. It's on the side of, completely outside, our regular justice system. In the case of Huawei, it is important to remember that it was a united parliament that revised the Act on Electronic Communications and our Privacy Act. We thus made it possible for our authorities to make submissions on and have views on which companies could expand the future 5G network. In short, we do not want Chinese and perhaps not Russian companies, some companies that we do not consider reliable, because they come from states where the state can effectively control the companies. Therefore, Huawei was not allowed to participate in building the 5G network. It was fully in accordance with Swedish legislation. It wasn't in the slightest two speeches about that. Huawei has appealed the decision twice to Swedish courts but has not won in any instance. The last case is still ongoing. What I think is important to address in this case is that Huawei can move on to an international investment tribunal and pursue the case there. In this way you can put a price tag on Swedish legislation. In this case, we want SEK 5.2 billion in compensation because we have simply followed Swedish legislation to the letter. Madam President, I would like Surely compliance with our legislation should not entail a price? Should large companies be able to sue states in international investment tribunals, where we do not have any chance of being transparent? It is surprising that the Minister for Energy and Digitalisation answers that it is up to the parties to decide on confidentiality. But exactly – if one party, in this case Huawei, says that they want everything to be classified, everything will be classified. Thus, in investment tribunals, everything is by definition classified, unless both parties want to open it up. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether the Minister himself has taken note of Huawei's complaint against Sweden in the ICSID General Court. Why can the Minister not answer whether Sweden has contested the lawsuit against Sweden or not? I think it is in the public interest to know that. Does the Minister think it reasonable that a multinational company should be able to file a multi-billion-dollar lawsuit against a state when it has already lost to national courts? Why should companies get an extra chance in investment tribunals?
i-AKZdYsMhJtzoAwvURjwQY2	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jens Holm, for the questions! The Swedish State is a party to this. To argue that Sweden would not be transparent is therefore not in line with the truth. Let me take another example, however. Legislation must apply. The country must be built by law, and bilateral relations must also be regulated by law and agreements. We can think that it would be a Swedish company that had invested heavily in China, after which the Chinese state had changed its legislation and perhaps directly ruled the courts – it is not all countries allowed to have the situation that we have in Sweden with independent courts. Swedish investors, Swedish companies, would then have lost large amounts because of a legislation that we considered to be incorrect but which the other state would think was reasonable. If we had lost in court because of something we felt was wrong, we would also have thought it reasonable to have our case examined by an independent party. This particular mechanism is the reason why the international tribunals, these arbitration procedures, exist. It is in order to guarantee legal certainty, in order to guarantee justice between parties even when it can be difficult. Madam President, I would like Jens Holm confuses that Huawei in this case considers itself to have suffered damage and therefore requests a certain amount with that Sweden will actually pay this amount. It remains to be looked at a long process. So far, Madam President, I can see that in all cases Huawei has lost its cause and has not been considered correct in his document instituting proceedings. We'll see how the dispute continues. It is, of course, in order that it is not governed by the state or by political decisions, but by independent courts and arbitration procedures. A system that creates uncertainty and a situation without independent courts, which, in the long run, will be if one objects to arbitration, is not a good way of building relations with the outside world. It is not a good way to build a functioning market in a country like Sweden, which wants many bilateral agreements. We want it to be an attractive country to invest in and for our companies to have the opportunity to invest abroad. We will create Swedish jobs and make sure that we can sell abroad. Therefore, Madam President, I think that Jens Holm confuses Mr Huawei's claim with the fact that this would be the truth. Of course, that is not the case in any court of law. There will always be people who have claims, and the court will judge on the basis of its procedure. When it comes to the question of whether Sweden has contested the agreement or not, the government has handed over the matter to the Chancellor of Justice, who should have the opportunity to do his work and run Sweden's case as well as possible. Therefore, the Government does not comment on the content of this. That should be quite obvious to this House, Madam President.
i-XS78XQ9i8uJR388cEHBHke	Madam President, I would like Khashayar Farmanbar says that it is about the rule of law and that this is a fair system. However, I would like to remind you that the corporate courts, as they are sometimes called, are an extremely questionable procedure. It is also disputed at EU level, where it has been found that a number of bilateral investment agreements between countries are not legally secure and are not up-to-date with the kind of legislation that can be expected from the rule of law. The Minister also replied to me that the investment agreement with China and other bilateral investment agreements must be re-established. Why? Because they're not legally sure. They give the companies every opportunity, but the states are only there with responsibility. The states really have everything to lose. I am surprised, Madam President, that the Minister is taking so lightly the SEK 20 million in tax money that we must set aside just to defend the laws that we have put here in the Swedish Parliament. Why should we spend SEK 20 million on this and hire two different law firms, one Swedish and one in the United States, just to defend that we make laws because a Chinese multinational company sues us? It does not even seem that the Minister himself has read the lawsuit against us, because he has not answered that. Has he read it or not? I'd like to know. In other words, the investment agreement procedure is not legally secure at all. It's not that modern way of settling disputes. They are to be dealt with in our national courts, and we are the rule of law. That is one thing about China, which is not a rule of law, but then the companies must remember that if they invest in China they take a very big risk. It's kind of part of the setup. But companies that are involved in Sweden can be absolutely sure, every day of the week, that we are a rule of law and deal with their practices in the way that a rule of law is supposed to do. I would like to remind you that the case of Huwaei and Sweden will be decided in the ICSID General Court, which is under the auspices of the World Bank. But it is, as I said, secrecy that is the usual form there. Anyone who wants to read Huawei's lawsuit against Sweden cannot do so, because it is not available on ICSID's website. Very many cases are not even handled there, but here in Sweden they are handled by the Stockholm Chamber of Commerce. There, procedures between states and investors are handled, and there is also total confidentiality. I don't think this feels like a modern and legally secure system. And I honestly don't know what bone the minister wants to stand on here. One moment he says that the system is legally secure and fair, the other moment he says that the investment agreements must be re-established. And if the investment agreements are to be remade, something is wrong with them. How old is the investment agreement that underpins the mood between Sweden and China? I think it's from the beginning of the '80s. It sounds like an extremely old and out-of-date deal. Is it supposed to decide things like this?
i-PeKxPBBFV9M4T6YW7cU6oN	Madam President, I would like Jens Holm says he gets confused by the answer, and I notice it on how he mixes up two parts. One is the investment protection agreement, which is an agreement that two parties, in this case the country Sweden and the country China, have signed to create a system where our companies should be able to act and trade with each other. The second part is that if you do not agree on the content of the agreement, you can say that you think that the other party has broken something in the agreement. In this case, there are two different countries and both agree, for understandable reasons, not to go to any of the courts of the two countries. Therefore, there is the next thing called arbitration, and there are a number of different arbitration tribunals. One of the most famous and proud of which I am – we have a long history of legal certainty in this country – is the Stockholm Chamber of Commerce and its arbitration, which forms the basis for a great many agreements. There is also ICSID, but that's another thing. It interprets whether one of the countries' investors has been disadvantaged by the other country in the agreement. Madam President, I would like However, when two countries sign an agreement with each other, it does not seem very strange that both want an independent party who will then interpret the agreement, not one or the other country's own courts. For Sweden, we can be sure that we have secure courts that are not politically governed, which we cannot be sure of anywhere in the world. If we want to give our companies the opportunity to have a fair assessment of their cases on an equal basis in countries such as China or in other countries with which we have bilateral agreements, we have this type of arbitration procedure. Similarly, we ensure that all countries that do business with us have the same legal certainty, because we know that we have legal certainty on our side. I assume that in the name of consistency Jens Holm does not want to give the same opportunity for Swedish companies that do business in China to have their case examined if Chinese authorities or the state decide on a discriminatory law. I am not saying that Swedish legislation is discriminatory. I do not think it is, and there Jens Holm and I are in complete agreement. But I can understand that other countries may have a different view. And I think it is reasonable to go to an independent court and have an arbitration procedure, as it is said, in order to have one's case brought. Let us not confuse an investment protection agreement with an arbitration procedure. The investment protection agreement was signed a long time ago. However, an agreement is valid until it is terminated or terminated. We want to renew the agreement, but that does not mean that arbitration as such is out of date. On the contrary, it is a modern and legally secure way of having one's case tried.
i-H1LtZhVzmGFCUGPjkTt8sp	Madam President, I would like One of the reasons why I raise the dispute between Huwaei and Sweden is that it is not a separate example. On the contrary, large companies are increasingly suing states in international investor tribunals. Our own Vattenfall has sued Germany twice, in one case for the decommissioning of nuclear power and in the other for the closure of a coal power plant, despite the fact that Vattenfall had already won the court in Germany and was granted compensation under that scheme. There are other examples in which large corporations sue states for inconspicuous sums. Countries must spend a great deal of money and energy just defending their democratically made decisions. That is the procedure that I find unreasonable. We are the rule of law. The companies will then have to go to the courts and procedures that we have in our rule of law. What's wrong with Swedish justice, Khashayar Farmanbar? What's wrong with our courts, our lawyers and our judges? Isn't that enough for Huawei, in this case? They have even gone to court twice in Sweden and lost. Why should they get an extra chance to sue us in an international investor tribunal where we have to take $20 million of taxpayers' money? We have to hire two separate law firms just to defend the right to legislate. I don't understand that. Why should we accept that confidentiality is the main principle so that we do not even know on what grounds Huawei sues us? The Minister himself obviously does not know that. He does not seem to have read the petition because it is completely classified. This is a procedure that we need to change.
i-F1GTDq7bFqS84nEGg5dWop	Madam President, I would like I note that what is said about confidentiality is not true. That is not the main principle. Confidentiality is something that the parties to the hearing can agree on or if the arbitration court itself wants confidentiality. Then there have been cases where there has been secrecy and cases where there has been no secrecy. I have now been asked a few times by Jens Holm about the content of the agreement, whether I have read it, what it means and what it says and so on. As I said earlier, the government does not comment on the ongoing process of the matter in the lawsuit itself. We have signed investment protection agreements not least with China, Germany and with a great many countries. They aim to protect investors against being treated unfairly or discriminatoryly in the interests of their own country. There is absolutely nothing wrong with our courts. They're excellent. But I can respect the fact that a Chinese company would feel dislocated in this. I would like to make a statement as to whether or not Chinese courts are safe. But I would feel very confident if our Swedish companies were given the opportunity to go to an international court if they ended up in a situation where they felt they were wronged or discriminated against in the court. It is precisely the transparency that such an agreement provides for both countries to enter. Being sued doesn't mean losing. But it offers opportunities for further investment in our country. This makes our country a free trade nation where we do business with many countries in the world. We don't do business with everyone. We obviously do not do it with Russia. In such a situation, there is also case law. Arbitration procedures have shown that Member States' legislation can go very far without compromising the investment clause. This applies, for example, to Philip Morris' lawsuit of Uruguay when it came to cigarette packs.
i-WMKQTMd1GyvyCbP8nNn932	Madam President, I would like Thomas Morell has asked me whether I intend to work for the government to take steps to balance the high fuel price so that Sweden ends up at the same level as comparable countries in Europe. Fuel prices have risen sharply over the past year. There are a number of reasons for this, including increasing demand for fuel as the economy accelerated after the pandemic and the price of crude oil has increased as a result of Russia's invasion of Ukraine. On Monday 14 March, the government therefore presented a package of measures to meet the high prices of electricity and fuel that we are now seeing as a result of the war in Ukraine. Part of the package is a proposal for a temporary reduction in taxes on petrol and diesel, as proposed by Thomas Morell. The proposal provides for a temporary reduction in fuel tax on diesel and petrol from June to October 2022 to the minimum permitted under the EU regulatory framework. This means that the price of petrol and diesel at the pump will be just over SEK 1 and 30 øre lower per litre, in addition to the tax reduction of 50 øre already in May. In addition to these tax reductions, the Government has proposed a major reform of the travel allowance and intends to propose freezing the reduction levels in the reduction obligation to 2022 levels and special fuel compensation to private individuals by car. One of the government's top priorities remains that Sweden should be at the forefront of the climate change transition. Since the situation we are in has suddenly arisen, and as a consequence of Russia's invasion of Ukraine, we also see that we need to support consumers at the acute stage. Sweden will continue to convert to fossil freedom through sustained work to phase out fossil fuels. Therefore, the government also proposes to strengthen the allocation for the climate bonus. Thanks to this addition, a person who buys an electric car will continue to be able to receive 70 000 SEK onor in financial support, and the pace of conversion can continue to be high.
i-DGDR6AzbxbKqUwqMFCD2nS	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. The situation we are currently in is particularly serious for those companies that depend on fuel. These companies are important for the functioning of our society. It is haulage companies, forest contractors and machine contractors that are expanding roads, construction facilities and so on. Fuel is needed for tractors and railway maintenance. There are lots of companies that are falling below the high fuel prices. I have looked at the price in Denmark today. For our part in Sweden, the pump price is currently SEK 25.57 per litre. In Denmark it is converted into Swedish money 20.93 SEK per litre. There is a difference of 4.64 kroner. If a tank in a truck can hold 600 liters, it is the difference in money 2 784 kroner. This is what the Swedish skier pays more than the Danish one. It is easy to realise that we will then find ourselves in a difficult position when it comes to competition. Compared to Poland, the difference in fuel price is SEK 12 per litre. Then the difference is even greater. The trucks that come from outside lie and drive up in Sweden. They have extra thoughts with them. Then they are driving in Sweden and taking the jobs that Swedish hauliers would reasonably have had. One of the major concerns in this is the reduction obligation. We can agree that war affects the world market price of oil. It's turning upside down. We see that changing from day to day. But the big problem in our situation now is the obligation to reduce. We are so far above Europe in general. It gets our price to push away so much in relation to that of the other countries. There is also another problem with the reduction obligation that was signaled quite quickly. I have received a report from haulage companies for what it means in the day-to-day operations. Fuel consumption of trucks is increasing. I'm going to read an example here from a trucker. It is a vehicle that lies and drives exactly the same distance with exactly the same goods each week. It's the last two years you've compared. It's a 480 horse Scania with trailer. It's 2520 miles a week. The measured fuel consumption in January 2020 was 27.1 litres per 100 kilometres. The amount of fuel in January 2020 was 2,731 litres of diesel. In January 2022 it was 37.1 litres per 100 kilometres. The amount of fuel in January 2022 was 3,276 litres of diesel. It's a 545 liter differential, and it's the same measuring period. The increase is 19.9 percent. The reduction has increased from 21 percent to 30 percent during the same measurement period, and the driver feels that he does not have the power in the engine so that it is enough in the counterlight. The reduction obligation during the measurement period has increased by 9 per cent, but consumption has increased by 19.9 per cent. Then there is another concern: the b rinsle filters squeak again so that you have to change them more often. It is also possible to change engine oil more often as this removes the engine oil. There has been no proper impact assessment of the large amount of biofuels in the reduction obligation. This has consequences: on the one hand, the price pushes away, and on the other, consumption goes up by almost 20 per cent. This increases costs. Now the trade association is talking about bankruptcy being two weeks away. You can't do this. Now the government has to do something!
i-QjG45fkH1GFkPUcKpAxehE	Madam President, I would like The current situation is difficult and strained; I believe that Thomas Morell and I share that picture of reality. That is why the government has proposed a tax reduction to the minimum level within the European Union. In total, it will be SEK 1.80 lower at pump with the 50 ear decided by the Riksdag earlier and the proposal made by the government on 1.30 – it is predicted that this noble chamber will accept it. Then we will have a reduction. For the very reason raised by Thomas Morell, we have also chosen to freeze the levels of the reduction obligation for next year. But let me say what I have said in the media before Parliament: I both love and do not love the reduction obligation. I do not love its effect to drive up the prices of fuel or that it leads to the use of more fuel, in so far as you do. It is an undesired effect, and it comes from the fact that we are currently producing too little of the biofuels that are needed. When it is produced too little of it the price becomes high, which in turn pulls up the total price. The way forward is to produce more biofuels and to be clear to the industry that there is a market for them to invest in and produce more biofuels. This was the part that makes me not love the reduction obligation, but there are also parts that are worth loving. It is that the reduction obligation is our best opportunity to get rid of oil sheikh and Putin oil in our thoughts. If we are serious about becoming self-sufficient and we are to stop being dependent on the oil sheiks in the Middle East and Putin in Russia, the reduction obligation is one of the better ways we can go in the long term. However, I agree that at the moment the reduction obligation is causing this by bringing up prices before biofuel production has come to an end and has become sufficiently high. That's also why we're freezing the level for next year. At the same time, we are fundamentally changing the travel allowance so that it will benefit those who travel far and live in the country. Private people who have a car get a thousand in compensation for fuel. If you live in the country you get 1,500 kroner. Thomas Morell was talking about an impact assessment. It has been done, and it will be done. In the system lies a control station that would have been by the end of this year but which the government has chosen to push forward as far as possible. It will give its answer in October in order to see what impact this has had. When we talk about skiers we should be honest: on the rice affects some. There may be one or two vehicles that carry an extra tank and thus also an extra weight and which therefore attracts more fuel, so the question is how profitable it is. But once they think in Sweden, they face the same price as everyone else. Instead, the big difference for hauliers is workers' conditions. It should be the same conditions for salaries and the same conditions in order to be able to sleep and get the daily rest period you need to have. That is what greatly distorts competition in Europe's haulage markets, and I note that Thomas Morell's support friend Ulf Kristersson is not quite on the track in terms of improving these conditions. Together with the measures I have presented, the government has also made sure to increase the climate bonus. This will allow us to continue on the road to the climate change we need to make.
i-YYsBDcoCACQv2qzjBd5EVh	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. But let us try to stick to the high fuel prices, because we are talking about an emergency situation for many companies. Whether you drive a forest machine, an excavator, a wheel loader, a truck or whatever it is, you face a huge problem. The price increase cannot be achieved, because the agreements bind you to a far too low remuneration. In addition, the limit on fuel cards has been lowered, so it also affects the liquidity of companies. If we are now going to move to biofuels, at least we will not be able to do that within 14 days, and that is the time horizon we are talking about. Now the government has to back down on the reduction obligation. Go back and lie down on the same level as Europe in general! Then we will come down to the price level so that we can compete. Those who drive into Sweden with extra tanks tanks not a liter in Sweden, because they have their own fuel depots where they smuggle in fuel. Time and again the government proves that it doesn't know how it works out there! The changes in the travel allowance are great for individuals, but when they don't have a job to go to, it doesn't matter so much. We are faced with a situation in which much of our business will fail. We won't have transport. We won't be able to go to the store and buy food. Farmers cannot produce the food we need, because it is too expensive to drive their machines. How difficult can it be to understand the situation we have? It's alarming. When the trade association goes out and says that the bankruptcies are two weeks away, every warning bell should ring in the entire Government Office so that you understand what this is all about. Back up on the reduction duty! Get on the same level as the rest of Europe! Then we can make a move from there. You'd be happy to talk about the conversion. I've been out to see hauliers who would be more than happy to buy electric cars. They are on the market; just sign a purchase contract and you get the car delivered. The problem is that municipalities and electricity companies do not have in their plans to expand the electricity grid, so you cannot charge the truck. Why buy a 4 million dollar truck that you can only go out and wash on the farm, because you can't drive it? It's not working. You need to be there to see what kind of situation we're facing. The students are more than happy to change, but they are not offered the opportunity to load. And it's not worth coming by with a small plug, but we're talking about 240 amperes in order to charge a truck. That's the level we're talking about. As long as it's not expanded, it won't be possible to change. In addition, one truck moves by definition over the surface to deliver goods. Then there must also be public charging points. Otherwise, you don't sort out your mission. To get through the situation we have right now, you need to back off on the reduction obligation, and you need to do that right away. Otherwise, we are facing a huge problem.
i-6CYN53GGiibP8PFsWvNzez	Madam President, I would like Thomas Morell talks about the measures not helping companies. Let me say that the reduction in fuel that we do at a total of SEK 1.80 affects companies, because it affects the price of the pump. Let me point out that the paused bnp indexation we do and the freezing of the reduction limits affect prices. There is a discussion, and it is actually something that we have looked over and continue to follow closely, about how much a reduced reduction obligation here and now would do for the price at the pump. Most fuel companies have already purchased their fuels for the year. The effect this would have is therefore highly unclear. I note that whatever Thomas Morell's motives are, perhaps the solution is not the tulipan rose that he gives it the appearance of being. Maybe it can have some effect, maybe it won't have any effect at all. But we see that in the long term it can have an effect, and that is why we have chosen to freeze next year's levels at present. The war against Ukraine has been going on for a month, and it is during this time that we have seen the greatest price increases and, above all, the greatest uncertainty on the market. The government is prepared to support both individuals and companies, but the market may also need to take up a new price position in terms of both energy and fuel if the conflict is prolonged. We are following this closely to see what a change in the reduction obligation or other measures will bring about the actual effect. Thomas Morell raised the problem of electric trucks. This is something close to my heart. We shall, of course, do our utmost to develop the elladd infrastructure as quickly as possible. But there is no quickfix– this is nothing done in one or two weeks. There has been work for a number of years on an electric corridor from Gävle to Germany. Large parts of it are in place, and that route would work, but we can agree that it does not work everywhere. And of course you need to be able to drive your trucks in more places. So let's work to make that work even faster. As far as farmers and farmers are concerned, in February the government submitted a proposal for an additional aid package for agriculture precisely because they have such high costs at the moment. It is SEK 1 billion that goes to compensate precisely for the high costs. This includes a refund on diesel with SEK 2 per litre. We will have a strong agriculture in Sweden. We will have food produced in Sweden. We're going to make sure we have strong truckers. That is why we are doing the measures that we have proposed and which I have presented today. Does it need to be done more? Yes, we follow the situation closely and see if we can do anything more, but let me also say that before we speak out loud, than the other solution, it also needs to be reviewed as to the actual effect that the solution can have out there.
i-JbE74TRkE19zHXWaeQUrz3	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. The effect we will see is that we do not get goods to stores, pharmacies and hospitals if the cars stop. That's the effect we're talking about, and it's no further than between 14 days and a month. Alwex is a large truck centre down in Växjö. Among their 70 partners, it is estimated that bankruptcy lies and lurks around the corner for several of them, because you do not get the payment you need to carry out the transport. This is a serious situation. It is not that you are driving a truck on the road because you think it is such desperate fun to drive a truck, but transport is the basis for each of us to be able to go into the store and buy our food, that the industry gets its transport so that the production can continue, that the hospitals get the equipment they need to care for patients, that the pharmacies have medicines and that the waterworks get the chemicals they need to deliver clean water so that we have it in the tap when we open it in the kitchen. That's what we're talking about, and that's what's about to go down. The government doesn't know what's going on. Of course, prices have gone up because of the war in Ukraine – there is nothing to discuss – but they go up as much for all countries in Europe, but Sweden is shooting itself out because of this reduction obligation. You must realize you did the wrong thing there. Back up and make a move, but don't wait, because it's going to be a huge problem for the whole community when the transport stops. When food does not come to the shops, when agriculture does not get its transports with milk and slaughter animals carried out – what do we do then? You have to ask yourself that question.
i-NQpFNMvMGjdApts8PEuR7x	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Thomas Morell, for your speech. The government has both taken care of the situation and has asked itself: How should we ensure that the transport industry works well in Sweden so that we get clothes for the stores, so that we get chemicals for the water treatment, so that our pharmacies have the funds and medical matter e l that they need and so that the hospitals get the support they need? What we're talking about here is that Thomas Morell and his party are fundamentally negative about us trying to drive Putin and oil sheikh oil out of our minds. They have always been against this, Madam President. It's nothing new. When we have made an effort to make Sweden more independent, they have consistently voted against this. We can agree that, in addition to the world market price, when biofuel production is currently not sufficiently high, it contributes to raising prices somewhat further in Sweden. We can agree on that. Therefore, we have taken a long list of measures such as tax reductions, freezing of the reduction obligation, improved fuel compensation, travel deductions and freezing of the bnp indexation in order to help the companies. In addition, we have special support for agriculture. We are doing this to help businesses but at the same time to save on our planet so that our children can grow up here. Having two thoughts in your head, Madam President, is perhaps something particularly bad, but I am proud to be able to do both the short-term and the long-term.
i-Wp8Lp2aGAacqjtg3HbXW5t	Madam President, I would like Jens Holm has asked me whether I intend to work for the EU to put an end to trade in Russian oil, gas and uranium. Jens Holm has also asked me whether I intend to go ahead of the EU and stop Swedish imports of Russian energy raw materials. I would like to begin by emphasising that Sweden has a low direct dependence on Russian energy. Sweden is a net exporter of electricity, and we have no strong dependence on Russian oil products. Vattenfall AB has announced that it will suspend imports of Russian uranium. Sweden is well prepared when it comes to energy supply as a whole, especially because we take the lead in electrification with the support of our domestic renewable sources of electricity. The situation in the rest of Europe is different, and the dependence on Russian energy is high in several places. For me, it is important for the European Union to show a united front against Russia, and solidarity within the Union is a cornerstone. The government is working to break the EU's dependence on Russia and fossil fuels as soon as possible. At the same time, we must be humbled that it is not easy for all Member States to find alternatives to Russian energy quickly. There are other Member States whose energy use contains a greater proportion of Russian energy, and an import ban would of course hit them harder. Having said that, Sweden does not object to a halt to Russian energy imports if the countries that have the greatest consequences want to do so. And, of course, Sweden continues to work to ensure that, as soon as possible, the EU will be completely independent of Russian energy imports, as proposed by the European Commission in the REPowerEU plan. Of the energy carriers that Jens Holm lists, it is mainly when it comes to natural gas that Sweden has a certain, albeit clearly limited, direct dependence on Russian energy. 2 per cent of Sweden's energy comes from natural gas, and about half of this is estimated to come from Russia. Sweden imports the gas in the West Swedish gas network from Denmark, which today receives most of its gas from Germany. A not insignificant proportion of the gas in the German and thus finally in the Western Swedish network originates from Russia. Sweden cannot control where the gas in the network comes from because we are affected by other countries' decisions and by how the gas network in Europe is built. It is not possible to stop imports of only Russian gas into Sweden. It is therefore also important to increase the domestic production of biogas that can help replace fossil gas.
i-UA7LEHZi9EbVnYHf1tz57G	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Minister Farmanbar for the answer to my interpellation. The Minister and I agree that Mr Putin war of aggression against Ukraine is disgusting. Civils are killed every day. Cities are being wiped out to unrecognizable. Millions have been forced to flee. In Russia too, the protests are great, although they cannot be expressed because Russia is simply not a democracy. We also know that it is the export of fossil energy that fattens Putin's war. About half of the Russian state budget is financed by revenues from oil and fossil gas exports. I read a statement that in one day Russia receives approximately SEK 6 billion in income from these exports. The Minister is right that our dependence on fossil energy from Russia is not as great as that of other countries, but we are involved in financing this vile war with our dependence on Russian energy. This dependence must be stopped as soon as possible. Moreover, it is particularly important to stop the trade in Russian energy because Putin cannot really finance his war machine with anything other than this revenue. The large currency reserve he cannot access, because that money is locked in dollars and euros in international banks. This is an example of very good sanctions against this war. I and the Left Party believe that the only thing straight is that Sweden is doing two things at this point. Sweden will push for an EU decision at EU level to stop trade in Russian fossil energy, in particular oil and gas. We also believe that Sweden, as an individual country, can take the lead, start to stop trading in Russian oil and gas and then hope that other countries can follow suit. To this, the Minister replies that he is not opposed to an EU decision on an import ban, but I would, of course, like to know whether the Minister and Sweden are actively pursuing this at EU level and whether it is addressed in every relevant context that we should have an EU decision to stop the trade in Russian fossil energy. I'd like the Minister to clarify that. It is also about Sweden's role. I was a Member of the European Parliament before I entered Parliament and know a little about how things work down there in Brussels, even though it was a couple of years since I was a Member of the European Parliament. Something I learned, namely that if you want to get something done in Brussels you should clean up in front of your own door. Then go ahead and show as a good example that it is possible to do so in a certain way. Then other countries will follow, and then you can bring the whole of Europe with you. We in Sweden could go ahead and say that we stop buying oil and gas from Russia. It is also a way of influencing Europe. I would like to ask the Minister: who in Brussels – which countries – is it really saying that we cannot do this in Sweden? What is it that resists Sweden's being able to go ahead and stop the import of what fertilizes Putin's war machine? Who is stopping us from stopping imports of oil and gas from Russia?
i-AER2gHZiNvSr8CWQGufSj3	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jens Holm, for the post! It should not be a surprise to either Jens Holm, me or anyone else that there have been and there are countries in Europe that have significantly closer links to Putin and Putin's Russia than we in Sweden have. However, during this horrifying process, following Russia's vile invasion war against Ukraine, I have been proud that the whole of Europe has remained together. Countries such as Hungary, which have been known to be very close to Russia and Putin, have aligned themselves with the coordinated, united front that the EU has set up. Our strength, I dare say, is precisely the unity. Our strength is the united facade that the countries of Europe have shown together with the United States, Australia, Japan, South Korea and several other countries. The united front has even led countries such as Switzerland to impose severe economic sanctions on Russia for the first time. I and Jens Holm agree that we want to end the dependence on Russian fossil fuels – and for that part of Russian energy imports entirely – as soon as possible. It is now, just to say that, zero percent nuclear fuel that Sweden imports from Russia. This is not the situation in Europe. I spoke last week with the Minister for Energy of Slovakia and the Ministers for Energy of several other Eastern countries that still have a great dependence on nuclear fuel from Russia. Last year, only 8% of the crude oil imported by us in Sweden came from Russia. The estimate is that we are already at significantly lower levels because we have voluntarily stopped trading, or because our companies have largely stopped trading. There may still be a certain percentage left, but we are down to very low levels. In total, we use 2 percent gas for our entire energy system. In January, about half of this gas was estimated to come from Russia. Last time I heard that we are down to just over a third of it, that it is going down and that within a number of months we can hope to get down to zero on imports of Russian gas. We have no business of our own with Russia on gas, but the gas is bought via Germany and moved on to Denmark. We buy gas from Denmark, and there the molecules may be involved with each other. It is no problem for us in Sweden that we are moving towards zero, but I do not want Sweden to become the country that breaks EU coordination by introducing its own rules on the joint sanction package. It's not about us not being good – it's a pretty small effort for us to show ourselves good and do what's right. But the consequence may be that those countries that have significantly closer links with Russia and have felt that it has been an effort to stand up on the common line of sanctions say: Check – if they can have their own line of sanctions that is easy for them, we can have their own line of sanctions that is easy for us and which means significantly greater energy imports from Russia. I do not want Sweden to be involved in this situation. I was asked in concrete terms how we are doing this in Europe. For my part, I can say that at every meeting where I have met my fellow ministers in the European Union, I have highlighted the importance of making Europe free of dependence on energy imports from Russia as quickly as possible. This applies not only to imports of fossil fuels but also to imports of nuclear fuels. The answer to that question is that I have done this at every meeting I have attended.
i-5wuoY1aTCzeRjtGNQeQqCg	Madam President, I would like It is great that the Minister addresses this at European level at any given time. The minister said we should make ourselves independent of imports of Russian fossil energy. My question, however, was whether the Minister also mentioned that we should stop buying Russian fossil energy now during the war. These are two different things. One is in the longer term; the other is a very clear political and economic signal. Let us look at the Swedish relationship. As far as statistics are concerned, I would like to nuance the information provided by the Minister a little. The Minister said that we have a low dependence on Russia, that what we are shopping is marginal and that we are buying much less than Germany, Italy and other countries. Of course it is, but still 8% of the oil comes from Russia. The gaseous gas comes in pipeline from Denmark, as the Minister says, and where it is difficult to separate the molecules from each other, so we have to push this issue internationally. But the liquid gas, LNG, comes here with Russian ships, often to power Swedish ships. I have received information from the Energy Agency that, according to the latest figures, we import about 500 000 tonnes annually, one third of which is from Russia. It's still quite significant amounts. Today, I received new information from the Swedish Energy Agency and SCB on aviation fuel. Apparently, we import about 1 million tons of aviation fuel each year. In fact, more than half of what we imported in 2019 came from Russia. So there are clear trade flows with fossil energy from Russia to Sweden. The fact that we import less than other EU countries should suggest that we are the country that should go ahead and suspend these imports. Now the Minister says that this is happening through the companies themselves. It's kind of consumer-driven. They are trying to renegotiate agreements and such things and make themselves independent of Russia. But we also need the political signal. We need to do as Biden in the United States and say: now we stop buying oil and gas from Russia! It is an important political signal. I am not buying what the Minister says about this endangering the EU unit. On the contrary, I would say that we would show that we fully support the package of sanctions that we have in Europe, and in addition we are doing even more than the other EU countries. We cut the ties with Putin, not a crown for his war machine! I am absolutely convinced – the Minister will be happy to correct me, because it is the Minister who is sitting at meetings with his colleagues – that other countries would welcome the fact that a country can take the lead in this way and show leadership. I would like to ask the Minister once again: does the Minister not think it would be a very good political signal, alongside economics, if we stopped imports of oil and gas from Russia? As I have explained, what we are buying is not insignificant, but we could stop it.
i-CdAfNw5RuqzzgHnLZxKbMp	Madam President, I would like To answer the specific question put by Jens Holm: Yes, there are countries that would welcome our behaviour in such a case, if we unilaterally run our own package of sanctions against Russia that goes beyond what we have jointly decided. There are countries that would welcome it for the same reason Jens Holm is presenting. There are also countries that would welcome it because they see their chance to run their own sanction package. There are two scenarios in which we find ourselves, and to see this is what real policy in Europe is really about. That is why the unity of the packages of sanctions is so important. If anyone needs my sincere exhortation, my will and my expressions of joy at stopping trading in Russian energy products, I can say: Yes, you certainly have both my gratitude and my joy. However, in addition to the joint sanction package, I believe that legislation is more harmful than useful in the long run. We can wave placards and say that we are good, but it can also open up for a number of countries further south and considerably closer to Russia to wave their placards and instead start shopping a little more, because it is becoming too expensive for our consumers. We didn't want to open that door. As far as the import of refined fuel, such as aviation fuel, is concerned, it is important to remember that in the sanctions package against Russia there is energy technology, that is, the technology that we know Russia does not possess itself and which we know is dependent on imports in order to continue refining crude oil into aviation fuel or other products. It will be possible to do so for another short period, but quite soon, when the products need to be replaced, the sanctions will strike very hard. This means that the Russian refineries will find it difficult, if not impossible, to continue refining oil products. I think this is a very important part. But let me come back to what Jens Holm is talking about. Yes, in order to do this, we should completely break our fossil dependence. It is about fossil fuel from Russia and from the oil sheiks in the Middle East. Then I would also like to welcome the Left Party. The Left Party should guard our most important tool to stop importing fuel from the oil sheiks in the Middle East and from Putin's Russia, namely the reduction obligation. Take care of it rather than want to abolish it or put it at a considerably lower level than today. It is, of course, a tool that makes it clear to the market out there that you should voluntarily reduce your use of fossil fuels. That's one way to do it. I welcome you to join that line. LNG, liquid natural gas, there's nothing natural about it. Let me say this in this noble assembly. It's old fossil dinosaur we're talking about even if it's in liquid form. There, imports from the USA and, in particular, Japan have increased sharply. I know that Germany is also talking to Qatar and several other countries. In the end, we need to get rid of this at all and move on to biogas and other solutions.
i-TD1pYAMhpso4Dg7pKayec	Madam President, I would like I fully agree with the latter. The war against Ukraine is also something of the death toll of the fossil state. Putin is doing everything he can to maintain his trade interests in order to continue selling his fossil energy when he knows that a large part of the world is changing. It shakes his empire in its foundations. You can build a climate perspective on this whole terrible war as well. That is why every climate measure where we invest in 100% renewable energy, such as biogas, is a way of ridding ourselves of such as Putin, dictators in the Middle East and so on. The Minister says that we should not have a unilateral policy of sanctions and that in Sweden we should not go ahead and stop the import of Russian oil and gas. But look at how South Africa was during apartheid, for example. The whole world united against the tyrannical apartheid regime. There were boycotts, sanctions and other things. But Sweden as a country went a little further. We showed leadership, and other countries followed us when we were courageous and took even greater steps. Palme's entire foreign policy was, of course, much about the courage to go ahead. Now, during Russia's war, we no longer receive Russian aircraft in our airspace. After all, it was individual Member States who went ahead and said that they were not welcome, and then the EU hooked on and stopped Russian flights to the whole of the EU. This shows that individual Member States can and should push ahead. I therefore believe that Sweden should take the lead in stopping imports of Russian fossil gas and oil, and that should happen as soon as possible.
i-81HutCQ3hb1JcmyZviiNH5	Madam President, I would like I think it was actually the United States that was the first country to say that Russian aircraft should not be accepted. They are not members of the European Union, but they are members of the United Nations anyway. The European Union therefore joined together in this process. I really appreciate that Jens Holm takes Palme as an example, and the fight we waged against the apartheid regime in South Africa. What unfortunately did not exist then was the EU. As a result, the European countries did different things. Perhaps it would have been faster if we had the EU then. Perhaps by then we could diplomatically negotiate a joint European package of sanctions against South Africa in order to carry this out. That's my point. When we do things together, it tends to be bigger overall effect than if a country– maybe a small country of 10 million inhabitants– goes off and does something more. It can then be done at the expense of the total not getting bigger. This is an assessment of these countries and whether Viktor Orbán really wants to be close to Putin or not. The government's assessment is that there is too much risk that we will see other countries in Europe that break the sanctioning rule if Sweden is the one that breaks the sanctioning rule. Therefore, unity is our way forward. What we can fully agree on, Jens Holm and I, is that the green transition is the way forward. I hope that we can continue to do this when it comes to the work on electrification, on biogas, on the reduction obligation and on the use of biofuels in the future.
