i-Q9PM56kPgbVNubgnXNd9Zo	Madam President, I would like Thomas Morell has asked me whether I intend to work for the government to allocate resources to build up a functioning control activity on its way. Thomas Morell points to various forms of organised crime in his interpellation: diesel theft, theft of construction machines and the export of stolen goods from the country. The government takes a very serious view of all forms of organised crime and works to ensure that law enforcement authorities have effective tools and resources to fight crime. The capacity of law enforcement has been strengthened by significant increases in the resources of the Police Authority in recent years. The Police Authority has never had more employees than now, and efforts to reach the Government's target of 10,000 more police employees in 2024 than in 2016 continue with full force. This is important in order to have a police officer present, not least on the roads. As road safety work is largely carried out in the context of external activities in local police areas and with regional operational resources, the growth of the Agency is important in order also to increase the resources for traffic work, including road checks. The investigation into checks on commercial road traffic, which was completed and referred to last year, is being prepared in the Government Office. I cannot anticipate the preparation process linked to the proposals in the investigation. On the other hand, I note that road safety work, including checks on professional road traffic, is a high priority of the Police Authority and that the number of checks on professional traffic exceeds commitments under EU regulations and has gradually increased in recent years. The resources of the Swedish Customs Agency have also been considerably strengthened in recent years, and the resources of the Agency have increased by 30 per cent since 2017. D a 1 August 2021, the Swedish Customs Agency also gained increased powers to intervene against offences that are outside the Agency's normal area of activity and are detected in connection with a customs control. This means increased opportunities for customs to act on, for example, the export of suspected stolen goods. There is also an investigation to consider whether the Customs Agency should be given additional powers, in order to improve the authority's ability to carry out its task effectively. That investigation shall submit its report by 16 May 2022. The Swedish Police Authority, the Swedish Customs Agency and the Swedish Coast Guard have had a joint government mission to strengthen the fight against international crime networks that commit criminal offences in Sweden. This has led, among other things, to the development of cooperation between authorities and to the Police Authority taking steps to improve its operational work in this area. In November 2021, the report "Actions in border areas" was submitted to the Government. In order to improve the possibilities for combating cross-border crime, the investigation proposes that the Police Authority, in particular, should be given specific powers in certain border areas, such as increased opportunities to conduct camera surveillance and to intervene for crime prevention purposes. The report has been referred to, and the matter is being prepared in the Government Office. If you as an entrepreneur or a private person suffer from a crime, it is important to report it. A criminal report is often a prerequisite for the police to be given the opportunity to investigate the crime and helps to give a better picture of the crimes that entrepreneurs are exposed to. It is an important basis in the police's work with crime analysis and in the crime prevention work. The government considers the growing crime of working life to be a serious social problem. It is about crime and infringements of the rules that result in people being exploited and mistreated in the labour market and serious entrepreneurs being run out of business by cheaters and criminals. The government has recently decided that the relevant authorities will set up regional centres against labour crime. This is how crime can be effectively combated.
i-PpZ8h2Xr7KyUyjMRXf32gW	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. I would like to begin by commenting a little on what was said at the end. It's important to report a crime. If the crime is not reported, there is no such thing. Then the police can't give priority either. But there's another concern in this. The government's picture of the situation is not consistent with what entrepreneurs are experiencing. It says this in the answer: the government takes very seriously all forms of organised crime and works to ensure that law enforcement authorities have effective tools and resources to fight crime. This is in direct contrast to how companies perceive it. In the survey, one third of companies say they never report the police. You can compare that with 2017, when it was a fifth. In 2017, 57 per cent reported that they reported all the crimes they suffered. This year the same figure is 29%. Furthermore, only one in four entrepreneurs believes that the presence of the police is sufficient. One fifth of them claim to have considered closing down because of crime. The majority of those who do not report crimes see no point in that, and this is where the danger lies. You don't think it's a good idea to report a crime to the police. You end up in an evil spiral. Since the crimes are not reported, the police also do not invest more resources. It can also be made wrong decisions by the government. Break-in and theft of fuel are common crimes that companies are exposed to. The survey was carried out in January of this year. I went to the traffic police last Wednesday. It was, by the way, on the unit where I myself did the practice once upon a time. The first two vehicles they got in the morning were still standing when I left the checkpoint. It was quite extensive crimes that the two had committed, so they were not allowed to continue. I don't know how it ended, but the police had to do with these two cars. In the middle of this, a third car came in. I talked to the driver, who told me that fuel had been stolen from the car at night. In this case, it was 100 liters. This corresponds to the current price level of SEK 2,642. Just a few days before it had been stolen 300 litres from the same car to a value of SEK 7,926. As a result, $10 (U.S.) has run the wrong way out of the fuel tank of that vehicle. This is one of the major concerns of haulage companies, farmers, machine contractors and so on. Their vehicles are basically rolling spare parts or fuel depots from which fuel is stolen. Given the volumes, it is unlikely that it is with passenger cars that you have been there and stolen. It takes a little bigger vehicles to get 300 liters. Earlier this week I met machine contractors in Sundsvall. They're experiencing exactly the same thing. They said there's no point in reporting a police report. The picture that the government gives in the interpellation response is not in line with what companies are experiencing. They feel that they are not being helped and supported by the authorities.
i-BeJJ2CJ55VRYi9mdzyP5F2	Madam President, I would like You can surely find entrepreneurs who can tell you about their experiences. But I also have to go on what the police deliver and do and what controls they perform. I must also look at the facts on which we are based. Many of these crimes are attributed to the international crime networks, which are based on Poland, Romania, Georgia and Lithuania. They can often focus on certain goods or certain machines they are looking for. In 2018, the Government commissioned the police, customs and Coast Guards to counter these international crime networks and increase efficiency. I can now see that much of this work has been successful, for example in the case of burglaries. About half of all burglaries in Sweden are committed by these international crime networks. Now the burglaries in Sweden are down to a record low level. There have not been so few burglaries in Sweden since 1975. There are probably several different reasons for this, but I believe that the police's work against these crime networks has been successful in that part. Morell says in his interpellation that he wants to see more checks on the way. I note that the police report to us that all these controls are increasing. For example, the inspection of trucks on the road has increased by 36 per cent from 2018. The control of driving and rest times for drivers has increased by 50 percent since 2018. Cabotage cases, i.e. that foreign trucks remain and ugly driving domestic transport in Sweden, something they are not entitled to, have increased by 35 percent. In my opinion, the efforts we have made on the police with more policemen, greater resources and increased opportunities have an impact. I think that should be said to those entrepreneurs who might ask themselves whether it is worthwhile to report it at all. Yes, it is. It is not only worthwhile to report; it is good to report, because then the police have something to work with. It will be an important basis for us to continue our fight against these gangs, not least for us to know where in the country the thefts are committed. It's important for the police to know where to concentrate their resources. Always report crimes – it is extremely important so that the police get such a basis! I can see that sometimes it is said a little laxly that it is not worthwhile to report because the police do not take it seriously. I say this is wrong. The police take all reported crimes seriously, and now, as has been said, they have more resources than ever before to investigate. I also see this in public confidence in the police, which is now a record high, and I think it is an effect of the public seeing that the police have been given increased resources and better opportunities to get to grips with this crime. Let us therefore help to ensure that this image also goes out to companies, that is to say: report crimes and help the police to deal with the criminal gangs by providing the police with the evidence they need to fight these crimes! Of course, we are continuing to expand our activities. In addition to the police, I also mention customs and customs resources, which have increased by 30% in recent years alone. Customs has also been given increased powers to intervene against what is being removed from the country, which is new legislation since 1 August last year. Thus, we are gradually strengthening the ability of law enforcement authorities to access these crime networks. But as I said, it also requires reporting the crimes you are subjected to.
i-XMg3rbo8NEvTcmVSnSQvjx	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. I agree that you have to report crimes that you are exposed to, because if you do not, it does not come into the statistics. In all the contacts I have with companies, I say: Report! - But it's no use. – Report, because if you do not, it is not included in the statistics. It should also be clear that the road is Sweden's largest crime scene. It's out there that all these criminals move. This is where you use the logistics available. The illegal traffic that is rolling in Sweden is used to smuggle drugs, alcohol, weapons, explosives and everything that can now be, and in the opposite direction stolen goods are coming out of the country. On Alarmtjänst's website we see that there are no small things that you steal and take with you out of the country. These are large machines – tractors, quadricycles, excavators and wheel loaders. It is not something you put on a trailer behind a passenger car, but it is set up in a trailer and taken out of the country. This is the concern, says Per-Per-Arne Nilsson, an old inspector in Västra Götaland who has been out talking about the crimes in the transport sector. The criminals basically have a list of orders they're supposed to pick up. Somewhere out in Europe there are receivers who should have these cars, loaders or whatever it may be. You go in and you pick up machines, cars and the equipment you're supposed to have-- it could be tire equipment at a tyre company or optician equipment-- and it's loaded into a trailer and it disappears across the border. The Öresund Bridge is classic. There they go out at night. My old chief of traffic in Gothenburg usually rages over it: At eight o'clock it is free to go out over the Öresund bridge, because then there is no one who controls. A situation has been created in which these criminal networks have been able to enter. It went so far that the CEO of Alarmtjänst wrote a debate article, where he said that Sweden is a smorgasbord for the criminals. All you had to do was go to jail and get what you needed. That debate article is still on Alarmtjänst's website, and I can recommend the Government to go in and read it. True, it is a few years old, but what is in it is still true. It hasn't gotten any better. If you look at the statistics, you can see that thefts of trucks and machines are at about the same level over the years. Just go inside and look. The page is great; I recommend it if you want to update yourself. It can also be noted that the insurance company If has pretty good knowledge of what they have to pay out for the item e r that is stolen. It then emerges that 55 percent of the crimes that IF was looking at were never reported – 55 percent! Why? Because entrepreneurs thought it was pointless to spend time making a criminal report. In the insurance company's statistics, you can see what's stolen, but it's not with the police. This is where it limps, and you make wrong decisions. The fact that there are not enough controls along the way has created the conditions for the criminals to move freely in Sweden and not be disturbed in their activities. I don't know how much the government drives, but I myself am about 3,000 miles a year. It's not very often I see a police control out there. I usually call my old colleagues and ask them where they are so that I can go and talk to them. But I don't see them spontaneously. There has to be a change.
i-Nd8heve7DBc3tpkRmQPt1y	Madam President, I would like I can assure Thomas Morell I drive a lot of cars. I love driving and I think it's fun. In fact, traffic controls happen to me from time to time and have been doing well in them so far, and I am pleased to see that the control activities on the road are now actually increasing as a result of the police having more resources and more employees. I think it's a bit difficult when your data is based on a private company, Alarm Service, whose entire business is selling alarms. The whole point is that you want to put a picture of everyone being afraid of being robbed in different ways. It's their entrance into this. So I am not going to make myself the voice of a private company whose sole purpose is to sell alarms. Perhaps you should take the information from there with a pinch of salt and instead look at what information we have from the authorities that fight these crimes. Then I can see that inspections on the road have increased by between 30 and 50 % depending on the categories we are looking at. As I said, cabotage has increased by 35%. Diesel theft is another question. I also requested statistics on that part. It turns out that the total number of thefts of fuel – i.e. both diesel and petrol – and both the cases where gasoline is being hosed out of a vehicle and then you are escaping from a petrol station – for various reasons have decreased by 80 percent since 2013. If you only look at theft of diesel from larger vehicle tanks, such as construction machines, you see a reduction of the reported crimes by 40 per cent since 2019. Thomas Morell says in his interpellation that thefts have increased in January, February and March this year as a result of the rise in diesel prices. I would like to say that the preliminary data we have from the police, which I have also requested, did not actually show this for January and February. Possibly there is a slight increase in March, but it is by no means an explosive increase. I think that, when dealing with and discussing this, the facts we have should be taken as a starting point. Then what Thomas Morell says may be that some are reluctant to report crimes and do not do so, but our common signal to these companies is: Report all crimes you are exposed to! It's a hugely important base for the police. It can help to clear up crimes and to know where to concentrate your resources. One thing that I believe has been of great importance in recent years is the merger of all police authorities into a joint agency that we carried out in 2015–2016. It made it easier to follow the networks across the country. I know that the police now have a much better intelligence service with regard to that part. If you see that a crime network is active, for example, in some parts of the country, you can, with the contacts you now have, better follow how they work their way down through geography. I believe that this has helped to clear up much more crimes. I mentioned the burglaries, which are at their lowest level since 1975. I believe that the police's work against them has been important. Customs has received a 30% increase in appropriations since 2017 and increased powers, but now we are looking through a current investigation into whether to give customs additional powers to access the crime networks.
i-GjZz6Ha7uVo7ocWioB3cLW	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. The government can be absolutely convinced that I urge everyone I have contact with to report crimes. It's the only chance to get any control on this. The crux is when they say that there is no point in closing that time because they only get one letter back that it is closed. Then it's something that doesn't work properly. The Government referred to the number of cabotage cases. If you count as a percentage, it is of course great fun to look at it, but if you look at the actual figures you can see that there were 61 reported cases of illegal cabotage all over the country in 2016. It was 65 in 2017, and it rose to 221 in 2018 and to 238 in 2019. However, these are extremely low figures that we are talking about in relation to the problems we have. This is from the police's own statistics available on their website. The only thing that the EU is demanding from Sweden when it comes to controlling driving and rest times is to look at 2 – 3% of the estimated working days in Sweden. Those numbers are pretty low, so it's fast for the police to control them. However, it does not describe the situation of the control itself, such as the control of cargo securing, weights, what it is, whether there is a permit, whether the driver is sober, whether the tachograph is manipulated and what it weighs. There are lots of controls that come about every time a vehicle is stopped. Then the EU figure for driving and rest times does not say much, because it is v i d the second control that the serious crimes are discovered. But those controls are far too few. Of course, an investigation has been set up, but you can hire people even if you do not know how it will be organised in the future. It's necessary.
i-8ZNA7MZ53zn17rBSAxHw67	Madam President, I would like Absolutely, but I have not talked about any EU figures or definitions, but I am talking about the police's own statistics. In cabotage cases, Thomas Morell mentioned the correct figure, 238 in 2019, but in 2021 we had 370 such cases. What I'm saying is that the increase has been 35% since 2019 and onwards. The business is thus growing in that part, and it is being controlled more. It is the same with regard to inspections of commercial vehicles. We had almost 15 000 such inspections in 2021, which was an increase of 36 percent since 2018. As regards the control of driving and rest periods, almost 22,000 such checks were carried out in 2021, which was an increase of 50 percent since 2018. What I mean is that we have an increase in controls on the way, in various forms and aspects. It is an effect of the major efforts that we have made on the police and which, of course, we will continue to do. The police will grow with a total of 10,000 employees from 2016 to 2024, and we are well on the way with that development. Nearly 800 more policemen are going out in just a few months, and we are now seeing how the number of police per capita in Sweden is increasing again. This is a consequence of the efforts we have made. We will continue to ensure that the police increase their efficiency and activity, because, as I said, it has bearing on the international leagues, which account for a large proportion of the crimes in Sweden, not least the the theft crimes. This will remain an important and priority for the government and the police.
i-2smX74GFbYtbVK2usMVrmY	Madam President, I would like Mikael Eskilandersson has asked me whether I intend to take the necessary measures to ban the presence of arranged cousin poison in Sweden. Tobias Andersson has asked me whether the government, given that it opposes a criminalising act, intends to take any other measures to counteract cousin marriages. He has also asked me if the government intends to take any steps to counter cousin marriages in clan communities. It should be a matter of course to decide freely who to marry. This government has taken more measures to combat forced marriages, child marriages and other honorary violence and oppression than any previous government. For example, there has been a special child marriage crime and a penalty for crimes with honorary motives. Only in February, the government decided on a bill with proposals to introduce a special crime for the repression of honour. According to Swedish law, there is no obstacle to marriage with a cousin. This has been the case for a very long time. In almost all European countries, marriage between cousins is permitted. The important thing is that no one, neither cousins nor others, should be forced to marry against their will. It's a crime to force someone to marry. It is not required that coercion consists of direct violence or threats, but the exploitation of a person's dependence may mean that the marriage is regarded as a forced marriage. Foreign marriages that are likely to have been concluded under coercion are also not recognised in Sweden. Of course, the rules can be applied to a cousin marriage that involves coercion. Combating honour-related violence and repression in all its forms is and will continue to be a high priority for the government.
i-7Y4zo5E5xLzSNJGquaUkjq	Madam President, I would like Recently, it appeared that the government chose not to go forward with a ban on cousin marriage. Morgan Johansson said on that occasion about cousin marriage: If you force someone to do something, it's already criminalised. That's why we're staying there. ..................................................... In my view, it is both regrettable and strange that the Social Democrats believe that cousins should marry each other. I understand when a liberal youth federation wants to test the limits of what can be argued for based on their ideology. Then, when they draw it to their head, they can argue that the individual should never be limited by collective or its morals, so at times they argue for everything from calendar and incest to necrophilia. It is relatively expected, but I had thought that the Social Democrats would see the slightly larger picture when it comes to cousin marriage and not stuck in the liberal individual perspective. My criticism of cousin marriage is not based on the fact that I wish to question what two adults in their minds use and without the influence of others choose to do together. My criticism is based on what the Swedish Democrats have previously said in motions and other things, that cousin marriage is part of the honorary culture and the power base of the clans. That is what, in my opinion, is problematic, not the free will of individuals to do what they want. Arranged marriages and cousin marriages are common in some parts of the world where clan communities are common and honorary culture has a strong impact on society. This is contrary to Western and Swedish norms and values regarding women's free choice and our view of marriage. As a large migration has taken place to Sweden from foreign cultures where these phenomena have been common, there is of course a risk that this will occur to a greater extent here too. This, in our view, leads to the need to legislate on this issue, but the government refrains from doing so. Instead, the government wishes to maintain the current regime whereby cousin marriages are allowed to be a legal part of the honorary repression that has established itself in the country. Only on 2 February, Morgan Johansson replied to a written question that the government does not intend to review the legal framework for cousin marriage, a response which he reiterates today in his response to this interpellation. I think this is problematic given that cousin marriages can be used as a means of cementing clan structures and risk having elements of coercion that are difficult to access with existing legislation. It doesn't take altitude for this. How does Morgan Johansson intend to access cousin marriage as part of the honorary culture that prevails in Swedish parallel societies and clans without criminalisation?
i-SYbg89atQf9yx959hUoViZ	Madam President, I would like It is interesting how Morgan Johansson angles the fact that the government has actually created much of the situation that we have through irresponsible politics for many years. The big problem with the government's actions so far is that in principle they have focused exclusively on the symptoms rather than on any solution. Women and girls are given the opportunity to intervene after they have been exposed, but very little is spent on prevention. And the penalty is so low that they hardly deter. Rarely do we see convictions, and more rarely do they lead to expulsion. Only 6 percent of marriages in Europe, Australia, and North America are entered into between close relatives. Thus, 99.4 percent of marriages are not cousin marriages or marriages between other close relatives. These figures from the University of Oxford are from 2015, but I have no reason to believe that they have changed significantly since then. The reason for the low figure of 6 per mille is that marriages made out of love are very rarely entered into between close relatives. In Europe, Australia, and North America, the culture is such that love is usually the governing force in the choice of partners. In other parts of the world, the view of marriage is sometimes quite different. When marriage becomes a matter for the family instead of the individuals to decide whether and when the family's honor and the clan's power become the basis for marriage, statistics look different. In the Middle East, North Africa and Central Asia, the proportion of marriages between close relatives varies from 10 to up to over 50 percent of marriages. So when Morgan Johansson refers to the fact that other countries in Europe have not introduced a ban on cousin marriage, we should also remember that they do not have the same problems with honour violence, arranged marriages and clan structures as Sweden has. In most countries in Europe, cousin marriages are still something that occurs only in isolated cases and often because of love. Unfortunately, in Sweden, the proportion is significantly higher than 6 per mil, especially in our suburbs. Marriage between cousins is used to create monopolies of power and clan structures, which in turn lead to more honorary culture and more threats and violence in our society. Only single cousin marriages are genuine and based on love. We can assume that if we assume that the figure of 6 per mil is correct. In principle, however, it is impossible to get to grips with the coercive legislation that exists and which Morgan Johansson has referred to here. The same argument on forced law was heard when we began to raise the issue of child marriage. At the time, there was also talk of forced law being what helped. The same argument then came up when we talked about polygamy. I am absolutely convinced that within a few years we will have legislation against cousin poisons, but it will probably require a number of further debates before the government becomes aware of the problem.
i-7CTd6wU1gjqxHNSeaQUrVL	Madam President, I would like With regard to the broad measures against honour crimes, I would like to point out once again that this government has done more than any other government to counter honour crimes. We have introduced a special penalty base so that all crimes committed with honorary motives will be punished more harshly than crimes that have not been committed with honorary motives. This is because, in these cases, the victims are in a more vulnerable situation, and they may have the whole family against them. We have introduced an exit ban, referring to what Mikael Eskilandersson said about us acting only after the crimes have been committed. That's wrong. The exit ban aims to prevent, for example, forced marriages and child marriages, but also genital mutilation. The possibility of an exit ban means that a young person can be placed under an exit ban if there is a risk. We are thus preventing this. It has already been applied on a large number of occasions since we introduced the exit ban a year and a half ago. We've introduced child marriage crimes. In the past forced marriages were criminalized, i.e. if you forced someone to marry. But child marriage crime means that it is enough for a guardian to let it happen, i.e. not to interfere if a child is married. The guardian can then be punished by up to four years in prison. It is a new crime that has been introduced. At the moment, a proposal for a criminal report on honour repression is on Parliament's table. The proposal introduces a specific crime with its own scale of penalties in order to bring up the scale of penalties for this repression. Then it is a question of perhaps putting together a number of minor crimes with a lower scale of penalties committed against the same person, and then this will be more severely punished. As I said, forced marriage is forbidden. It is not just a question of explicit coercion, but it is also forbidden to exploit a position of dependence and thus pressure people to marry. Foreign marriages concluded under coercion and children's marriages concluded abroad are not recognised in Sweden. We also have an investigation that is now looking at whether failure to report forced marriage and child marriage should also be criminalised. All this we have done, and we will continue to counter honour crimes in the way we have done in these years. What the Swedish Democrats are talking about here is really something else. Tobias Andersson expressed that it is not adults who are in the right mind but the influence of others that they are talking about. Actually, that's exactly what you're talking about—adults in their minds without the influence of others. That is what you now want to criminalise if these people would like to marry a cousin. Marriage between cousins entered into by adults of their own free will is permitted in Sweden. It has been allowed in Sweden since 1845. We're not alone. This is permitted in almost all other European countries. It is permitted in Germany, France, Spain, Italy, Denmark and Finland. It is also allowed in Norway, even if you sometimes hear the opposite. So there are no other Western European countries where this is prohibited. I think that we should focus on things that really matter rather than on symbolic politics. Then it is a question of getting to grips with the oppression of honour when these acts are committed, when people are forced into things that they do not want. That's what you're supposed to focus on.
i-SmMkwVbiug6YFiDbzbtYB9	Madam President, I would like I've had some debates with Morgan Johansson by now. And if it is a sentence that he always reuses, it is that this government has done more than any other government. He also managed to state in his speech that he believes that he is the most perfect Minister of Justice that Sweden has had. Maybe I don't share that reality statement. On the contrary, I believe that this government has had to do so much in a number of areas of legal policy, because Parliament has repeatedly addressed announcements to the government and said to the government: now you must act. Now stop sitting on your hands. Get started on this. The Parliament has thus dragged the government behind it, and then the government has finally chosen to act on some issues. This is what makes Morgan Johansson describe his work as Minister of Justice as the most perfect and the government as the one who has done more than anyone else. However, much has happened in this particular area, in other words when it comes to culture of honour and combating it, is a consequence of how widespread this is. It's a social problem. There are estimates that show that hundreds of thousands of people in Sweden live under the pressure of honor. Of course, we do not know the exact figure – I have asked for clearer data on it – but there are estimates that a considerable amount of Swedes suffer under honour pressure. This is a direct consequence of the irresponsible migration policy pursued and of the directly foregone integration policy one, that is, that more people have come to Sweden than we have managed to receive and that we have not made demands on those who have come here. Instead, Morgan Johansson and others have allowed a shadow society to emerge, where honorary culture is constantly present. It has gone so far that, for example, there have been brochures on how to be married to a child in Sweden, Madam President! Then it is well known that the culture of honour is widespread and that we have a major social problem in this area. It is clear that it is then positive that the government has come up with a few proposals. We will say yes to this with honour crimes, even if we think there is potential for improvement in the proposal. It is once again one of those issues in which the Parliament has dragged the government after itself. I do not think it can be said from this background that the kind of ban that I and my fellow Member in Parliament are talking about does not exist in other countries. It may not exist in other countries because the problems are not as great there. The problem with parallel societies is bigger in Sweden, and the problem of clan operations is bigger in Sweden – like that clans, when they pull it to their extremes, control the entrance to certain geographical areas through their own tolls. Then, if at some point, we know well how big problems we have in Sweden with honorary oppression, clans and parallel societies, and therefore perhaps we need to go further than what less affected neighbouring countries have felt obliged to do. However, I think this is interesting, because Morgan Johansson says that two individuals should be allowed to do what they want in this case. They're gonna get married even if they're cousins. But there are other occasions when Morgan Johansson does not think it is particularly important that individuals should be allowed to do what they want. As Swedish, for example, you can't go and buy a beer or a bottle of wine at Systembolaget on a Sunday; it is considered by the Social Democrats that an adult person – an adult – is not of age enough to do so. That kind of decision can't really handle people. On the other hand, you should marry your cousin, because that kind of decision is adult and adult enough to make. So I think logic is limping a little. There are some things that the government does not want to let adults do, but in this case it is obviously very important to let adults do what they want.
i-KDbbt2Uhv9qZapWVBZ2Fnb	Madam President, I would like I return to the fact that there are no bans in other countries. That is not really true if you look at all the countries. Denmark, for example, does not normally add cousin marriages to the basis of residence permits because they are imposed, and in the United States there are a number of states that have a ban on cousin marriages. So there are certainly other countries that have this kind of ban. As far as the rest of the legislation is concerned: yes, the government has introduced several laws! However, the exit ban has not always proved to be working so well, because it is issued so late that the girl has already left the country. When it comes to the offence of honour, which is intended to bring up the penalty value, it would not have been necessary if I and my party had been listened to from the beginning. We wanted to have considerably higher penalties for, among other things, children's marriages. Then I am absolutely convinced that there are a lot of good teachers. There are also many good police and social workers who face the problem of honour daily. But what I hear from them is that they lack the tools they need to deal with the problems. When authorities try to deal with the situation, the tools the government has given them are often not good. When the Equality Agency recently interviewed people with protected personal data, it turned out that three out of four, i.e. 75%, had their data leaked. This is, of course, not acceptable, and I assume that it will be corrected and improved. But the carelessness and problems are something that affects all vulnerable people, and it spreads in this group that you cannot trust Swedish authorities. You don't dare seek shelter. It is already known that many women do not dare to seek protection or help from the authorities because they have relatives or friends who work in social services and therefore suspect that their own family would find out if they are seeking help there. Young women who are under pressure of honour also know that their choice is often between accepting oppression or living locked up and hidden away for the rest of their lives. It is clear that it is not easy to break with such a structure, especially when the authorities in Sweden have such poor protection to offer. Children have been locked up with drug addicts and criminals, not because they have committed some crime, but to be protected from their own parents or relatives. Better tools than that have to be used, and it is the perpetrator who is to be locked up – not the victim. Of course, if you introduce a ban on cousin poison, there must be a hand valve, for as the statistics say, there are after all 6 per mille where marriage may be based on love. We are not interested in stopping any love marriages, but, on the other hand, we need to have legislation that can better access the forced marriages. What we are actually saying in our proposal is to investigate how a ban can be imposed; we are not saying that all the cousin poison should be 100% banned. Instead, you should look at what marriages you should focus on. It is also true that this does not only apply to cousin marriages; there are other marriages between close relatives you also need to look at, for it may not be better to get married to your uncle or the like. So this is a whole package that needs to be considered. In fact, marriage to one's sibling is already forbidden today.
i-NDPYDE4fUVvrA4bpwhp1Xz	Madam President, I would like It would be completely strange for me to portray myself as the most perfect of justice ministers, as Tobias Andersson said. Of course, I never express myself that way. However, this government – and Tobias Andersson also acknowledges this – has done a great deal. I lined up all the reforms we've carried out. It's about the grounds of punishment, the ban on exit and the child marriage crime. Now there is also a special proposal at Parliament's table to make the repression of honour a crime. It is wrong to say that this is because the parliament has been chasing the government. Actually, it's exactly the opposite. After all, the right side of this House has some sort of strategy that, when the government takes an initiative and is investigating something, hastens to produce an announcement on the matter. This means that the Riksdag says: What the government already does must be done – preferably even faster! It can then be said in retrospect that it was indeed the Riksdag that pushed the issue forward. That's part of the political game, I'd say. And that must be the case, because the important thing is that the reforms come in place, that the legislation comes in place and that we move forward the positions gradually, in substance. I want to correct a few things. Mikael Eskilandersson brings up Denmark. No, it is not forbidden in Denmark. It is not prohibited in Finland, and it is not prohibited in Norway. It is therefore not prohibited in our Nordic neighbours, and it is not prohibited in Germany, France, Spain or Italy. As I said, this is something that is permitted in almost all other European states. However, the question that could be asked to you in the Swedish Democrats is: What is your solution to the problem of honour and the repression of honour? But we know what your solution is, namely to send out those who are oppressed. They will be sent back home, as you put it. They are to be sent to their countries of origin. It is not very long ago that your party chairman once again began to talk about re-migration and repatriation. So it was not enough for us to have a very small number of asylum seekers at that time – that has now changed with the war in Ukraine, but then we had a very small number of asylum seekers – but you said that it was not enough by zero, but now it would be minus. Mikael Eskilandersson then says that it is a problem that some of those groups cannot trust the authorities. But if the Swedish Democrats had been left to decide, these girls would never have had a chance. It is the fact that they have been able to come to Sweden, to a country with the human rights and legislation that we have, which has given them a chance at all to break out of the oppression of honour. With the Swedish democrats' return policy and repatriation policy, those girls would never ever have a chance to break out of oppression. They would again end up in the Somali countryside and be exposed to genital mutilation and venom before the age of 15. It is the fact that they are in Sweden that means that they have an opportunity to break out of this. The fact that the Swedish democrats would roll their policy in this area and drive out people who are subjected to this oppression would be the worst development for the girls, and to some extent the guys, who are subjected to that oppression. We cannot allow that.
i-LrWJy1i1Fw3Jq6Jj88vqcz	Madam President, I would like Morgan Johansson asks the Swedish Democrats for solutions when it comes to honour culture. They're pretty obvious. Those who come to Sweden will adapt to Swedish society. If you come from a country where honorary culture is a normal, established part of society, you should leave those values, the ideals, when you come to Sweden. It's as simple as that. We can ensure this in many ways: through better SFI education, better social orientation, clearer requirements and better links in terms of living up to the obligations that exist here to take advantage of the opportunities that come in terms of remuneration, etc. We can do that. It would be incredibly important. We've never talked about sending out girls who are exposed to and suffering under honor. However, we would like to send out the perpetrators. There's a big difference. They want Morgan Johansson to stay. Furthermore, he does not want to ensure that the tools needed to access them are available. There's a difference between wanting to send out victims and wanting to send out perpetrators. And there's a difference between sending out perpetrators and keeping them. That's the difference between me and Morgan Johansson. Morgan Johansson criticizes re-migration. Morgan Johansson seems to think that it is the most natural thing in the world that anyone can come to Sweden, stay here and never be expected to return to the country where they grew up. A temporary conflict in a country on the other side of the world will thus give a lifelong right to remain in Sweden, even though the country concerned may need support in reconstruction after the war or conflict has ended. In addition, there are in Sweden, as a consequence of Morgan Johansson's politics, a number of people who live here illegally. We don't know how many. Maybe it's 100,000? We have no idea. They will, of course, be expelled. It is clear that we will have net migration from Sweden.
i-TnP5U45tWqvLQrJVvko1nL	Madam President, I would like The question we have to ask ourselves here is what we as a country really think. A ban on cousin marriage clearly shows us that it is wrong. There is a clear dividing line here. Either you're in favour of a ban or you're against it. You either stand on the side of the victims or you don't. It is a decision that should be taken from the point of view of the vulnerable. Real freedom for those women who are under pressure of honour only arises when we dare to make decisions that prevent clan structures from growing and that instead give freedom to the individuals. It is time for a government to take full responsibility. It's not nice not to take responsibility. I believe that within a few years we will have a ban on cousin poison. I would urge the current government to start working on this right now so that we can introduce such a ban shortly. We must take this issue seriously too. We cannot continue to allow women to suffer precisely genital mutilation, honour repression and other things in our suburbs. It is not at all better to be exposed there than to be exposed in one's own country.
i-LQLriPHXHk7RDZAuwNozmY	Madam President, I would like Tobias Andersson said I want to keep the perpetrators. What kind of a tricky statement is that? The government has just proposed new rules for expulsion due to crimes on the Riksdag table. They mean that more people who commit crimes will be able to be expelled and that they will be expelled for a longer period of time. When it comes to the connection and connection to Sweden, the threshold is lowered and so on. This government has never worked for the perpetrators to remain in Sweden, rather the opposite. Those who commit crimes in Sweden and are not Swedish citizens have no right to be here and to be expelled. It's as simple as that. When we talk about the crimes of honour, the problem for the Swedish Democrats is that if they had the power to decide, none of these people would have been in Sweden, neither those who are oppressed nor their oppressors – none of them. These girls had not been granted asylum in Sweden. With the policy of the Swedish Democrats, they would not have been protected at all, but they would have remained at worst in a war but at least in oppression in their home countries. It is because they have come to Social Democratic Sweden, with the values that we have, that they have a chance to break out of the oppression of honour. But if there are any who are concerned by hearing the Swedish Democrats talk about re-migration, that they should be pushed back and thrown out of Sweden, it is precisely those girls and sometimes guys who are subjected to honorary oppression. They are the ones who are deeply concerned about what will happen if the Swedish Democrats gain power in Sweden. No, we're going to continue to build up the legislation to counter honorary repression. Proposals for new reforms are on Parliament's table. We also have priorities for police and prosecutors with regard to these crimes. That's where the focus should be to stop this criminal behavior.
i-5rxW8U6mKhGTfaokWkBxMw	Madam President, I would like Lotta Johnsson Fornarve has asked me if I will call up the Moroccan ambassador in Sweden and protest against the violations of Sultana Khaya and her family as well as against other Western Saharas. She has also asked whether in international contexts, such as the UN and the EU, I will raise the issue of human rights violations in the Western Sahara occupied by Morocco. Furthermore, Johnsson Fornarve has asked whether, in my bilateral contacts with Morocco in particular, but also countries which have a decisive influence on the development of the region, such as France and Spain, I will address violations of human rights in the occupied Western Sahara. She has also asked whether I will once again raise the issue of extending the mandate of the UN Force Minurso to include human rights. I would like to emphasise that the government supports the UN-led process aimed at achieving a fair, sustainable and mutually acceptable negotiated solution that satisfies the right of the Sahrawi people to self-determination in accordance with international law, including UN Security Council resolutions. I welcome the appointment and acceptance by both parties of a new UN envoy, Staffan de Mistura. My hope is that the envoy will be able to relaunch a UN-led political process. It is urgent that the envoy be supported by the parties and the international community in their efforts to relaunch a political process. The latest report by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on human rights, democracy and the rule of law in Western Sahara, published on the Government's website in June 2020, clarifies that human rights violations occur in Western Sahara. It is particularly evident for those who are working for the sovereignty of the Sahrawi people. Sweden stressed the difficulties for human rights representatives during the review of Morocco in the UN Universal Review Mechanism 2017. Sweden, among other things, recommended Morocco to ensure that its opinion, press, opinion, assembly and association were respected, including for those expressing views on Western Sahara. The recommendations must be heeded. The next review of Morocco will take place in November 2022. The UN Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights defenders, Lawlor Lawlor, has commented on the case of Sultana Khaya and stressed that human rights defenders working for human rights linked to Western Sahara must be allowed to operate freely without themselves being affected by human rights violations. We have raised the issue with Morocco. Sweden is committed to international efforts to promote the protection of human rights defenders. At the UN Human Rights Council, a resolution on human rights defenders was negotiated during the Council session in February – April 2022. Sweden was active in the negotiations. In the EU's dialogue with Morocco, democracy and human rights are important components, and the issues raised in the Joint Declaration adopted in the context of the EU-Morocco Association Council in June 2019. Within the framework of the renewed EU partnership with all countries in the Southern Neighbourhood, issues such as gender equality, good governance and the promotion of human rights are fundamental elements. Sweden highlighted these issues in the preparation of the new neighbourhood policy. Dialogue with France and Spain takes place within both the UN and the EU. We are engaged in an ongoing dialogue with Morocco on human rights and our international legal approach to Western Sahara. Our Embassy in Rabat travels regularly to Western Sahara and also meets representatives of civil society organisations. The Embassy has recently visited Western Sahara. V i regularly discusses human rights issues also with Morocco's representatives in Sweden. With regard to the government's actions regarding the mandate of MINURSO, our efforts during our time as a member of the Security Council in 2017–20 18 contributed, among other things, to the inclusion of the humanitarian situation in the refugee camps in Tindouf, the strengthening of cooperation by the parties with the UN Office for Human Rights and the inclusion of women in the political process. The government's view remains that Mr Minurso's mandate should also include a review of compliance with human rights.
i-DFScpcqJrMd8e7SGHcQpPL	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for responding to my interpellation on Morocco's human rights violations in the occupied Western Sahara. The answer is in many ways positive, although I am not fully satisfied. It is more than time for the long-term conflict to be resolved. The Sahrawi people have waited too long. Since 1975, in violation of UN resolutions and opinions of the International Criminal Court in The Hague, Morocco has occupied about two thirds of Western Sahara. According to the UN, Western Sahara is a non-self-governing area to be decolonised. In 1991 the UN negotiated a cease-fire between Polisario and Morocco, which meant that a UN-supervised referendum would be held on the independence of Western Sahara. It is a referendum that has not yet taken place because of Morocco's constant procrastination and sabotage of the peace process. After a long period of tension due to Moroccan aggression and violations of the cease-fire, the cease-fire was finally broken by Morocco in November 2020, and a low-intensity war is now under way again, which is in danger of stepping up further. I share the Foreign Minister's positive view of the new UN envoy, Staffan de Mistura, and hope, like the Minister, that he will be able to relaunch a UN-led process that will bring about the promised referendum. There is no other real solution. It is important that Sweden really actively supports the work to speed up the referendum. The Swedish government could also comply with Parliament's 2012 decision to recognise the Sahrawi state. It would strengthen the negotiating position of the Western Sahara. Since the ceasefire broke between Polisario and Morocco on 13 November 2020, 160 violations of human and political rights and women's rights in the occupied Western Sahara have been reported. It is violations that can continue without the knowledge of the world. Journalists and human rights organisations are not allowed in, and the UN Force Minurso does not have a mandate to monitor human rights. A clear and attentive case of these crimes is the case with the leading human rights activist Sultana Khaya. Six days after the ceasefire was broken, on 19 November 2020, Sultana Khaya was arrested at a checkpoint at the entrance to the city where she lives when she was back from a medical examination in Spain. She was then forced into house arrest in her own home. On arrival, Moroccan security forces attacked her 84-year-old mother. They hurt her and prevented her from going to the hospital. The next day, her sister and niece were attacked by officers, stationed outside Sultana Khayas's home. Even their right to medical help was violated. Since then Sultana Khaya and several women in her family have been placed under house arrest under permanent supervision, without any order and without prosecution by the authorities. They are not allowed to receive visits and are physically assaulted with kicks and punches if they try to leave the family home. The constant siege of the family and the ban on entering or leaving the home are confirmed by Human Rights Watch. Madam President, I would like The terrorism against Sultana Khaya and her family have been going on for 16 months. It is now high time that the world protested against this serious violation. The least Sweden can do is summon Morocco's ambassador to Sweden and call for the serious violations of human rights that Sultana Khaya and her family face daily.
i-DsvZKd4fnGoAXZo3Sb33Sj	Madam President, I would like Respect for international law is a cornerstone of foreign policy, as is respect for human rights. This is obviously in relation to Western Sahara, which is a decolonisation issue at the UN. The International Court of Justice adopted an advisory opinion on the status of the area in 1975. This means that the international community does not recognise Morocco's claim to sovereignty over the territory. Sweden continues to support a fair, sustainable and mutually acceptable solution to the issue of Western Sahara, which satisfies the Sahrawi people's right to self-determination in accordance with international law, including UN Security Council resolutions. Sweden and the EU are in favour of a political process to find a solution to the Western Sahara issue, and we support the UN's efforts. The situation on the ground, as Lotta Johnsson Fornarve points out, looks worse than in a long time. Following the events in Guerguerat in autumn 2020, Polisario has declared that the 1991 ceasefire is no longer in force. There is a risk of military escalation with negative regional consequences. The UN Secretary-General's former envoy, Horst Horst, achieved progress in talks between the parties as late as 2019. Unfortunately, he had to resign shortly thereafter. But his work shows that an emissary makes a difference to finding a long-term political solution. It was therefore very gratifying that a new UN broadcaster could be added in autumn 2021, including after several calls from the Swedish side. My hope is that the new envoy Staffan de Mistura will bring about a fresh start for a UN-led political process. At the beginning of the year, the messenger made a tour of the region and visited Rabat, Tindouf, Nouakchott and Algiers. It is urgent that the envoy be supported by the parties and by the international community in their efforts to resume a political process. This is something that Sweden consistently addresses within the UN and the EU and in our bilateral contacts. I myself met with the UN envoy de Mistura after his trip and confirmed our support for his work. We are also engaged in an ongoing bilateral dialogue with Morocco on human rights and our international legal approach to Western Sahara. It is a dialogue that is particularly important precisely because we have different views on international law in relation to Western Sahara. As I mentioned earlier, democracy and the rule of law on human rights are also important components of the EU's dialogue with Morocco, and the issues were raised in the Joint Declaration adopted at the EU-Morocco Association Council in June 2019. Issues related to democracy, gender equality and good governance and the promotion of human rights are fundamental elements of the EU's renewed partnership with all countries in the Southern Neighbourhood. I agree with Lotta Johnsson that Mr Minurso's mandate should include an examination of the fulfilment of human rights. That is the government's view, and we continue to express it.
i-82TqUsY59r3pCWNFLKW8gn	Madam President, I would like I thank the Foreign Minister for his reply. I very much agree with the importance that there is now a UN messenger, and that it is a very good envoy who has been appointed, I am absolutely convinced. I would therefore like to ask the Foreign Minister whether she will support the process of holding a referendum on the future of Western Sahara and help to speed it up. It is, of course, welcome and good that Sweden is committed to the UN in order for Morocco to ensure that human rights are respected in the occupied Western Sahara. It is also good that Sweden is involved in the UN Human Rights Council and that Sweden will be the driving force for a resolution. It is also good that the Embassy in Rabat regularly travels to Western Sahara and meets representatives of civil society organisations. However, the problem is that most Western Saharan organisations are banned by Morocco. Only a Sahrawi organisation on human rights is allowed. There is no doubt that the attacks on Sahrawi activists have increased sharply in connection with the broken ceasefire, according to Amnesty International. Moroccan authorities, for example, have intensified the monitoring of several human rights defenders and journalists. One of the victims is the previous winner of the Right Livelihood Award, Aminatou Haidar, which has recently been subjected to illegal interception by Morocco. When Aminatou returned after receiving her prize here in Stockholm, she was subjected to severe harassment and persecution, and this is not the first time that Aminatou has been exposed. She was arrested blindfolded for three years and seven months without her family knowing whether she was alive or dead. She was subjected to torture and threats and released without trial and without being informed of the motive for her detention. UN Special Rapporteur Lawlor Lawlor has appealed to Morocco to stop the wrong criminalisation and violent harassment of activists who only exercise their human rights through non-violent protests. Moroccan police, security agents and the military have been involved in the physical and sexual abuse of women. There are also public campaigns aimed at slandering female activists, and Sultana Khaya is one of these victims and the case that has become most widely known and noted. Apart from having been subjected to arbitrary detention, for 16 months the Khaya sisters have been subjected to attacks of various kinds, such as raids and interventions, without legal protection in their homes. During a raid on 10 May 2021, for example, the police vandalized the house and seized all laptops, televisions and even cash. Sultana has been an activist for many years and has repeatedly been subjected to physical, psychological and since 2021 also sexual violence by Moroccan security agents and police. Already in 2007, when the 27-year-old Sultana was a student in Marrakesh, Morocco, and one day she handed out fliers in Western Sahara, she was arrested by the police. She was beaten so badly that she lost one eye. It is high time that the outside world vigorously acted to stop the abuses in the occupied Western Sahara. Sweden should call the Moroccan ambassador in Sweden to express our protest. I would now really like to ask the Foreign Minister whether she intends to do so, which I think is extremely important. Sweden must also intensify its work in the UN and the EU and, through its bilateral contacts, step up its efforts to bring about the promised referendum.
i-2obQb3wHZmxznjj67WbJUE	Madam President, I would like Sweden has an ongoing dialogue with the Moroccan Embassy and the ambassador in Sweden, where we express our views on human rights in Western Sahara, for example. Since the interpellant talks about human rights and the terrible thing that has happened to Sultana Khaya and also her family, I would like to take the opportunity to tell you a little about what Sweden is doing to support the Sahrawi people within the framework of our assistance. It is an important instrument for strengthening the human rights of vulnerable refugees. Sweden is a major donor to the refugee camps in Tindouf. I have visited the camps myself in different rounds, so I know how bad living conditions are. I usually say you're being held hostage by the rest of the world out in the desert. In fact, it is not worthy to grow up under circumstances such as those of the Tindouf refugee camps. The frustration in the camps is growing, which also contributes to the increased tension. But our aid fills the function of making life something more tolerable. In 2021 we gave 29 million to the refugee camps in Tindouf. Above all, we use a channel via Oxfam, which carries out various actions, such as those we have talked about, as well as peace efforts, food security and so on. Another effort that I would like to point out is our multiannual support to Oxfam, which is about the refugees themselves being actors in development. The people of the five Sahrawi refugee camps have formed committees that consult the inhabitants of the camps to define needs and then design projects that meet society's overall priorities. The participants in the committees have received various types of training. What I find particularly interesting is that in the committees there are over 80% women, and most are younger, aged 20-30. This contributes to improvements in the camps. We also make contributions via Olof Palme's international centre, Forumciv and the Swedish Mission Council. Another example is Sweden's support for the Christian Peace Movement to strengthen networks and promote conflict resolution without violence and increase understanding of young people's rights throughout the Maghreb region. We also have workshops with several other countries in place. We have also supported mine management and support in connection with covid-19. I would like to say that Sweden is very active in various ways on the Western Sahara issue, both in terms of human rights and in terms of peace efforts and the humanitarian situation.
i-3bXb8FgABUZzHaC6fE82X3	Madam President, I would like I very much agree with the importance of providing assistance to the refugee camps, which I have also visited on several occasions. I can testify to the dependence on external aid and support and the need to increase it, because many people are suffering from malnutrition in the refugee camps today, not least children and women. That is why more needs to be done. I can also testify that it is a great frustration that nothing is happening in the peace process. Something that we were constantly told was the importance of Sweden's recognition of the Sahrawi state, how important it would be to instill new hope for the future of Western Sahara. But now the interpellation is about human rights in the occupied Western Sahara. Sultana Kayha has become a symbol of the peaceful resistance of the Sahrawi Liberation Movement. For over 500 days, she and her family have been under house arrest, solely because of her commitment and work for human rights and the right to independence of Western Sahara. Sultana Kayha and her family are an example among many. Morocco constantly exposes the Sahrawi civilian population to systematic harassment, threats and persecution – something that can go on without the intervention of the UN Force Minurso, because they lack a mandate to monitor human rights. Independent journalists are rare. I would urge the Foreign Minister to ensure that Sweden intensifys its work in the EU, the UN and in its bilateral contacts in order to bring about the promised referendum on the future of Western Sahara. Pending that, the Minister should call the Moroccan ambassador in Sweden to protest clearly against the serious human rights violations that are taking place against Sultana and other activists in the occupied Western Sahara.
i-DsZeBUJNzzvsefG35s1o6w	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking Lotta Johnsson Fornarve in my final speech for raising this important issue of Western Sahara and human rights, because as long as the conflict is not resolved, we also need to discuss this issue in the Swedish Parliament. I repeat that we are in dialogue with Morocco and also with the Embassy in Sweden on how we view this issue. We often do not have the same view of human rights and international law, but we still think it is important to have the opportunity for an open dialogue. Sweden continues to support a fair, sustainable and mutually acceptable solution to the question of Western Sahara, which will satisfy the Sahrawi people's right to self-determination in accordance with international law and UN Security Resolutions. I can assure Lotta Johnsson that together we will continue to work for a good solution that includes the possibility of self-determination for the Sahrawi people.
i-9TTnwwrif6F4sX2i3ELRqM	Madam President, I would like Tobias Andersson has asked me what measures I intend to take in my area of responsibility to address the crime against companies and whether I intend to take any measures to compensate the traders who have incurred increased costs after having been subjected to crime. The government's priority is to act with full force to break segregation and repress the violence and crime that threaten the community. All authorities shall have the tools, employees and powers necessary to combat crime. This is part of the work of mobilising the whole of society to break the segregation that drives young people into crime. The Government has made several efforts to strengthen the Swedish Companies Registration Office's ability to both complicate and prevent financial and organised crime. Let me give you some examples: In 2018, the Swedish Companies Registration Office was commissioned by the Government to report its preventive work against financial crime and possible measures to increase the prevention of money laundering, terrorist financing or other financial crime. In 2018, the Swedish Companies Registration Office was also commissioned in dialogue with other authorities and industry to develop methods and working methods for increased controls on the registration of company data. The registration of false information in the register of the Swedish Companies Registration Office enables rogue operators to conduct fraudulent activities and commit financial crime through companies. False record data also impairs the ability of law enforcement authorities to fight crime, as it becomes difficult to find out who actually operates in the companies. In addition, the Government has recently established an investigation under the directive as a criminal tool, which investigates, among other things, whether the Swedish Companies Registration Office's controlling role should be increased for a crime prevention purpose. In addition, the investigation will assess whether a new special penalty on company creation should be introduced. In the budget proposal for 2022, the Swedish Companies Registration Office's funding was strengthened so that the agency can develop a new review tool that will be able to identify risk matters in real time. The tool will provide more opportunities to prevent the recording of false data. Crime against the business community is serious, not least in view of the very high costs involved. In order to create a long-term and structured crime prevention work involving the whole of society, the government has developed the national crime prevention programme Together against crime. Industry and companies play a significant role in crime prevention in a number of ways and are therefore important actors in the fight against crime and insecurity. It is also important that companies otherwise have good conditions for their operations. The Government does not intend to take any measures to compensate entrepreneurs who will have increased costs after having been subjected to crime. To curb the crimes requires a full-scale mobilisation of the entire community.
i-8QHrb18DiAczD96auydzVz	Madam President, I would like Crime is spreading in society. In recent years, an increasing focus has been placed on this area of policy. The fact that problems concerning law and order are raised is no wonder. More and more individuals are involved in their everyday lives. I think everyone knows someone who's been hit by crime. In addition, criminality has increasingly come to affect businesses and social institutions. Police today describe crime as a direct threat to the system. It is not just something that you are exposed to as a private individual, but it threatens the whole of Swedish society. Companies are forced to invest in security-enhancing measures rather than in their activities. Systematic fraud affects individuals and businesses, but also the benefit system and other parts of the public sector. Already before, the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise has estimated that the crime targeted specifically at business involves a cost for Sweden's companies of approximately SEK 100 billion per year. There is a lot of money that traders are forced to spend today on other than their core business. As a result, growth and development will have to stand back with lost tax revenue and more unemployed than necessary. A recent report, Crime against Entrepreneurs in 2022, highlighted this problem. The report came from the Entrepreneurs on March 21st. The result in it reinforces the gloomy picture of crime as a wet blanket over business. Madam President, I would like I'm going to line up a few examples of the results in the report. Every other company with employees has been subjected to crime in the last five years. Only one in four entrepreneurs believes that the presence of the police is sufficient to provide security. Nearly one in five entrepreneurs is considering closing down as a result of crime. Nearly one in five entrepreneurs is thinking about closing down. It's worth repeating. In addition, the propensity to notify is reduced. Today, 70% of entrepreneurs say that they have refrained from reporting crimes to the police. On the question of why they have renounced this, they state that they see no point in reporting the crime. They feel that it still does not lead to anything or that it only takes time from the regular operations that also need to be carried out despite the crime exposure. We are talking about a situation where every other entrepreneur has been subjected to a crime and where a large majority of the victims have not known that it is worthwhile even to report the crime they have been subjected to. In practice, this means that today entrepreneurs are forced to take the bill for the shortcomings that exist in Sweden. These are shortcomings that could have been avoided by political decisions or, to a greater extent, by political decisions today. I would like to ask Mr Thorwaldsson to what extent he feels that the government he represents, but also the former Social Democrats, has a responsibility for the situation that has arisen.
i-pLUopdFECwumHGaNtjsfi	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Tobias Andersson, for a very urgent debate! This is a scourge for many entrepreneurs. The assessment is that it has been a scourge for a very long time. The first time we encountered this type of fraud against companies and entrepreneurs was already in the 1970s and 1980s with the so-called Congo letters. I guess that's where that kind of crime started. It has since grown somewhat violently. I was very surprised by the statistics myself. Almost every other company in Sweden has been affected by this type of crime in recent years. Madam President, I would like This is not something we can touch easily. It also points to one of the major problems, Tobias Andersson, when you say that it is a type of crime that is not reported sufficiently. Tobias Andersson points out one of the things where we need to make sure that we can get a better basis for combating crime. I think there is a small shame factor for companies and entrepreneurs to report. If you've paid for a fake act, it's not something you want to stand by. You think you should have seen it. It affects you twice because you do not report to the police and the authority that it has taken place. This means that the Crime Prevention Council points out that it is very difficult for it to follow up crime against entrepreneurs because there are large holes in reporting crimes. Therefore, the report submitted by the Entrepreneurs a few months ago is very important. The government's strategy is in two ways long-term. The most important instrument that the government has is to work through its authorities. In this case, we have worked intensively to get better control of the companies as such. I have personally made a visit to Sundsvall to meet the agency that should be able to work on this in everyday life. Unfortunately, however, they themselves say that they spend a great deal of their working time on clean controls of companies that are not involved in crime. They get very little time left to control what are bluf companies that are created in the sense of being criminal towards Swedish entrepreneurs. They have over 1.2 million registered companies, and the Swedish Companies Registration Office needs more resources. We also provided increased resources in 2022 to enable them to focus more on crime against entrepreneurs. Madam President, I would like So this is part of a larger picture of crime in society. The important thing – and the entrepreneurs themselves point out – is that we get more visible police in society so that crime becomes something you dare talk about. When tools are lost on a construction site – call the police and tell them that someone has stolen something during the night instead of picking up new tools and taking the cost in the company! Once you have paid a bluff aktur – register it so that we can get better ground! This will help us to find out how to fight crime in the longer term. The important thing is to build a strong society and that we have a strong police force. 10 000 police workers, with whom we seem to be able to finish in the mid-2020s, are an important step on the road to getting more visible police officers in society. They can also deal with everyday crimes. Because, Madam President, it always begins in everyday crimes. As long as you don't go after those who steal the first drilling machine on a building, neither will anyone go after those who steal the entire building sheds. It is important to start in everyday life and to combat crime in this way. We don't take it easy, we do everything we can. We are happy to receive good advice, tips and ideas, and, with the authorities at the forefront, we will ensure that we can also repress the crime that affects businesses.
i-Lou5LfCTiLtRuHAGTSBQPB	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking Mr Thorwaldsson for the genuine approach to this issue, in my view. This is a debate that I have had many times, only in my years in the Committee on Economic Affairs and now in the Committee on Justice. To an increasing extent, I felt that this was what I wanted to discuss when I was working on economic policy issues and meeting traders. They wanted to discuss the crime that affects them instead of, let us say, VAT rates and rules. It was pushed further and further down the agenda, while crime and general security and security for employees and staff became a more important matter of substance for traders and their activities and conditions of operation. I hope, of course, that Mr Thorwaldsson will now, in his relatively new role as Minister of Economic Affairs, ensure that he will intensify his work in dialogue with the Minister of Justice in this area. This is, as I have said, something that I and others have highlighted for a long time, and I miss some measures. Until now, Karl-Petter-Petter Thorwaldsson has primarily concerned corporate crimes, i.e. more financial crime, fake invoices, rogue traders who deceive others and so on. But there is also another aspect. I was struck by what it could mean in practice a while ago when I met an Ica dealer from a vulnerable area in Gothenburg. He spends 6% of his annual turnover on security-enhancing measures and fighting crime in the store. He hires security guards to follow the staff home or to the nearest public transport station. In other ways, he gets to establish security in the store, and of course it is a great waste and a lot of theft. Six per cent of annual turnover is an enormous sum. It is more than he does in v inst and definitely more than he can take out in dividends or otherwise replace himself with. In the long run, it is not possible to operate a business under these conditions. And what then, Madam President? What happens when you're forced to shut down and the calculations don't add up? Food will still be needed in the vulnerable area. Then comes another player, and that operator is at best gray and at worst black. That operator will not be engaged in any business activity in the manner in which it is to be carried out. It may be the type of operator that sells what has previously been stolen from the Ica trader. There we have a problem: We have parallel societies in Sweden where the serious traders are forced out. Sometimes they are forced out because they are exposed to so much crime that it is not worthwhile to continue. Sometimes they are forced out because there are pure threats and pressure to leave the area or not to establish themselves there in the first place. These threats and pressures then come from a clan or a criminal network which believes that it itself has a monopoly on carrying out various forms of economic activity in this geographical area. This means that we risk getting – and to some extent already have – areas in Sweden where no completely white business is conducted. Those who grow up there do not see what it means to be a serious entrepreneur and do the right thing. An entire area wakes up every day and sees crime happening in front of the eyes. It becomes incredibly problematic for the children and young people who grow up there to find their own role models, to seek a serious job, to pay the tax you should and to ensure that everything takes place according to the rules that should apply in Sweden. This is a social problem. I would like to hear what additional solutions Karl-Petter-Petter Thorwaldsson has when we talk about the business environment in the parallel societies that are actually emerging in Sweden. This applies not only to the rogue entrepreneurs who deceive other companies, but also to the opportunities to carry out proper economic activities in the first place under the conditions that exist in far too many vulnerable and particularly vulnerable areas in Sweden.
i-GyqxZb9fqrQQMRb9xFBj2E	Madam President, I would like I think that Tobias Andersson points to the right connection in this speech as well. There is a clear link between the crime we see in Sweden, often in vulnerable areas, and the criminality that affects traders. There has been an uneven fight between crime and technological development and changes in the business world that both work environment work and companies together with authorities have worked with very intensively. Fortunately, Madam President, it has also been quite successful over the last decade, a little bit more. A decade ago, Tobias Andersson and I had probably debated robbery against CIT companies in the Parliament's pulpit, because it was the great crime of the time. It hit the industry extremely hard, but of course it also hit the driver of the transport extremely hard. Many people have been scarred by the crime that existed at the time. But at the same rate as it made it technically impossible to get over money, money became colored and cash decreased, crime moved to the store. We've heard a lot of witnesses about personal robbery in stores, and I've met many of the victims myself. It is often employees who work alone in the shop at night who are subjected to robbery. It is different how people take that kind of crime, but there are those who are afraid of the rest of their lives when they have been subjected to a robbery in their shop at night. I've met some of them myself. There have been limitations in cooperation, and in the retail sector cash has been separated from the possibility of robbing. Fortunately, this type of crime has been reduced, as the report shows. The solution, as Tobias Andersson points out, is that we are dealing with the roots of crime – where it begins. Every criminal must be prosecuted. The Government of Johansson has tightened 70 laws in recent years precisely to overcome the increased crime, not least gang crime and what Tobias Andersson described in vulnerable areas. It exists for real, and it is a crime which, of course, also spreads to the local Ica dealer. If you do not have respect for what is yours and in the middle of everyday life in general, it is of course easy to also shoplift in stores. For a store in such an area, Madam President, that may mean the difference between being able to operate and not being able to do so. Municipalities are also given increased responsibility for identifying and being part of how to facilitate economic activity in vulnerable areas. I think it is good that we have the first law enforcement close to the citizen and in the residential areas. This is an entirely new task for the municipalities. They are not quite up and running with it yet, but I hope that it will contribute to a better mapping of what crime looks like so that we can do as it should be done. Crime should be combated and prosecuted as much as possible.
i-Qqhgeq9TqSudG7SjnCntTX	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Thorwaldsson, for a constructive discussion! What I would like to highlight in my last speech is also one of the questions I raised in the interpellation and which we may not have touched on very much. For those traders who are forced to spend part of the annual turnover – in the case I mentioned earlier, it was 6 % – on establishing security and covering the costs of the thefts, etc., that means that society has failed. Politics has failed. It has not been possible to establish security. It has not been possible to ensure that crimes do not occur to this extent. It has allowed vulnerable areas to emerge where serious economic activity is forced out. The individual traders probably feel a sense of hopelessness, which I think leads to them stopping reporting crimes. As I mentioned, 70% of crime-stricken entrepreneurs have abstained from reporting. In practice, this means that traders today take a cost that the state, politics, the police etc. are actually responsible for. This mainly concerns politics. We have not been able to ensure that we have a Sweden where there is security and where traders, private individuals etc. are not affected by crime to the extent that is happening today. The responsibility for covering this up today lies with traders. They're the ones who take this cost. It is not politics that replaces them because they are forced to have protective measures, get rid of goods or whatever it may be. I know that Mr Thorwaldsson said in his reply that the government does not intend to replace them, but I still think it is worth thinking here: Is it reasonable for entrepreneurs today to be responsible for the political failures caused by Mr Thorwaldsson's party and others?
i-JBa3VQpTc26vj7Jk1V55jn	Madam President, I would like I did the best I could to answer the question honestly in the interpellation answer. The main reason is that this follows the same order as other types of crime. Of course, companies have the same right and opportunity as others under the Compensation Act to claim compensation for the crime they are subjected to. This can be done both in criminal proceedings, as is usual, and in civil proceedings. In addition, companies as well as ordinary individuals have the opportunity to insure their business. Thus, large amounts of these losses come to the company via its insurance company. It would, of course, be much more effective, Madam President, if we did not have crime from the outset so that we did not have to pay out these large sums of money to companies, but that is the way forward. If there is no one who can be prosecuted for the crime or if that person lacks funds, an entrepreneur can also ultimately apply for compensation for crime damage from the Victims' Agency. It follows exactly the same pattern as for you and me if we are exposed to a bicycle theft or other crime in everyday life. I think it is important that we have the same system for entrepreneurs that we have for everyone else. In addition, the incentive to insure their activities would disappear if one knew that there was a state that covered the cost of crime. I think that would be a very bad way forward. I tried to be honest in my answer, and I can say it one more time: we do not intend to tighten up the law in this area.
i-9weZ5E8Myo9QJTJLeNj2DP	Madam President, I would like Ola Johansson has asked me what measures I intend to take to secure the availability of building materials in the long term so that Sweden can hold back the development of costs, reduce the housing shortage and, at the same time, reduce climate emissions. A sustainable and reliable supply of building materials is a prerequisite for maintaining the high rate of construction. Promoting climate change and creating the jobs of the future is also a priority for the government. The resulting situation of Cementa's operations in Slite demonstrates the vulnerability of the construction sector to disruptions in cement supply. In the future, however, these may be vulnerabilities linked to other inputs and activities. In order to strengthen the resilience of raw materials supply and promote more resource-efficient construction, the Government implements several measures. F clay authorities have been tasked with carrying out an in-depth analysis and mapping of the demand for cement, the availability of limestone and cement and the logistical conditions for imports. In addition, Sweden's geological study has been commissioned to identify measures that can increase the availability of, and facilitate the provision of, alternative binders to concrete. Vinnova's research grant has been increased by SEK 35 million per year 202 2 – 2024 for a targeted investment in research and innovation on recycling, recycling and the development of new and alternative building materials. The Government has also commissioned Boverket to map and analyse how the reuse and recycling of construction works, building parts and materials can be improved and propose measures to promote circular construction. In addition, construction and demolition waste is one of the priority streams in the Government's strategy for converting to a circular economy. In order to accelerate the climate transition in the construction sector, Boverket has been tasked with reviewing how the application of climate declarations can be extended and how the introduction of limit values for the climate impact of buildings can be accelerated. The government also provides support to the association Trästad Sweden to increase knowledge about industrial wood construction as there is potential to switch up the industry e l la woodbuilding t. The supply of wood raw goods in Sweden is good. On behalf of the Government, the Swedish Competition Authority has investigated competition in the construction materials industry in the light of the increasing prices of construction materials. The Authority notes that certain building materials markets are characterised by a lack of competition, which has a significant impact on the price development of building materials. The Competition Authority's report and proposals are currently being prepared within the Government Office.
i-NxNMpL4vex1JhTMx2reuTs	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. One dare not think that limestone mining on Gotland must stop when the current condition expires. In order to be able to carry out the climate transition in Sweden and Europe, it is essential that we have access to our own large-scale production of cement in Sweden. It is a good thing that scenarios in which imports must be carried out are being examined because this may become a reality. However, for this to be possible, sampling capacity for cement and concrete from different parts of the world is needed. New infrastructure is needed in our ports, with cisterns. The cost of this amounts to billions, not to mention the time it will take to get all this in place. And where should such a facility or facilities be located? Madam President, I would like Finding alternatives to cement and concrete as building materials is important. It is known that the climate impact of concrete far exceeds that of wood. But the cement industry's ambitions to achieve climate neutrality should also be recognised and appreciated. Concrete is important for our other community building, not just residential building. The Cement issue, Madam President, will also be discussed next Friday when Mr Thorwaldsson comes to the House to debate another interpellation from me on this issue. There are many other factors that affect housing construction. This debate could also be about material availability, recycling and costs. The prices of wood are affected by the imports we no longer want to see from Russia. Parkett is the lack of because much of the oak parquet is produced in Ukraine. But otherwise the sales to private individuals are good, according to Construction materials dealers, despite increased costs. Resource efficiency is perhaps the safest way to keep costs down and reduce climate impacts. The best building material is what does not need to be taken to the construction site, i.e. what does not need to be used. The second best should be what is reused in its original form, and the second after that comes the material that is recycled or produced from recycled material. It is between 12 and 13 million tonnes of the building materials we use that become waste, of which 0.6 million tonnes of hazardous waste must be disposed of. That is, of course, unacceptable. According to Boverket, about half of all waste is recovered. The rest is put on landfill. A good example of recycling is foam glass, that is, crushed car glass, which can be used for building foundations and replace concrete if the building is light, for example in wood, and it is about a few floors. As far as costs are concerned, the life cycle should also be taken into account. It is not self-evident that the most inexpensive building materials are the most cost-effective. The choice of materials may also depend on the functioning of the housing market and its incentives to renovate, build at low costs and build for the demand that exists, i.e. the conditions for those who have to build and manage housing, for those who own and rent out to people, for those who build to sell and, not least, for tenants, homeowners and rightholders. The Center Party, in cooperation with the Government, has ensured that there is a green deduction that promotes climate-friendly investments in solar cells and charging opportunities, for example. Perhaps the choice of sustainable and recycled building materials could also be promoted with similar deductions for individuals and industry. This is something that, among other things, the Construction Materials Traders are proposing. My question concerns access, cost and climate impact as well as the impact on access to housing, so it is broad. I wonder how the Government views incentives to save and reuse building materials to a greater extent.
i-GC1CSrfFMThxm6V2PvzB6L	Madam President, I would like Thank you to the honourable Member for some very interesting and good comments. The availability of building materials is, as far as I can see, perhaps three things. Firstly, it is about ensuring the availability and efficient supply of existing traditional building materials. Secondly, we need at the same time to increase the proportion and opportunities for recycling and recycling of building materials, just as Ola Johansson is concerned. Thirdly, and I think that is at least as important, we must ensure that new and sustainable building materials are produced and that they can be used, not least wood, in more types of situations. In my initial reply, I mentioned a broad palette of the efforts made by the government in these three areas. I was going to take this opportunity to say something more about at least one of the areas in which we are working and which I believe are of importance to several of these three perspectives. It's about the forest. As I said, I was already into this in my first reply, but the forest plays a particularly important role in producing alternative building materials. I know from previous conversations that the forest is also close to Ola Johansson. We can now see that we have a positive development. The number of multi-dwelling buildings in wood has steadily increased in recent years. Wood construction has gained market share, and nearly 20 per cent of today's newly built apartments in multi-residential buildings are built with wooden frames. There is potential, as I said, for continued increased industrial wood construction. Therefore, the government is carrying out several initiatives to stimulate this. For example, what I just mentioned with requirements for a climate declaration aims to create better conditions for developers to choose climate-smart building materials, such as wood, in new buildings. The government also supports Trästad Sweden with SEK 2 million in 2022. The government has also recently decided, I believe, yesterday on a proposal for certified construction design companies and to introduce them into the praise and construction process in order to increase the predictability and efficiency of construction processes. This proposal is considered to facilitate industrial wood building operators who have a high degree of standardised or repeatable design and manufacturing processes. Of course, the situation that has arisen on Slite, as Ola Johansson says at the outset, shows that society, especially the construction sector, is vulnerable and dependent on a commodity and a single producer. Then, of course, as Ola Johansson says and as he will debate with Minister Thorwaldsson, there is no simple and short-term way to replace production on Slite. That is why the government decided in November to grant Cementa an extended and limited permit to continue its activities on Slite.
i-W3rZAyst8YxFrEc1biZJKG	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I am going to go further in my discussion here and say that there are many different factors affecting the cost, and it can be said that in a construction project it is not quite clear what the cost is. From the b ygg material industry there is evidence that entrepreneurs have to relate to different forms of discount schemes in order for the projects to go together. The mere fact that their choice of material is influenced by something other than the function and real cost of the material is ominous. They try to hide labour costs with materials and vice versa. The government knows what I'm talking about. A healthy market economy should, of course, promote transparency and freedom of choice for the client. This is part of the construction sector that we also often accuse of being inefficient. As the Government points out, various measures to promote industrial construction may be a solution to this, but, as is well known, site building can also be industrial. Another aspect that also affects material costs is different certifications and markings that exist both nationally and perhaps especially in Europe, including for chemical content. As with all other things, the purpose is good and created to provide the consumer with information, for example about the sustainability, toxicity or climate or environmental impact of a product. Many of the labels have similar aims but require each producer to have his products tested regularly. The costs of verifying, certifying and labelling will ultimately end up on the bill for the end customer. It is also something that the building materials industry testifies to. It is good and important information of course. It is the data on which certification is based that is the most important and perhaps not the label itself. It should be the task of the government to work to clean up and simplify even among the labels that exist at EU level. It's my record to the government. As we note, despite the labels and high ambitions of one fifth of Sweden's climate impact, the construction sector stands for the manufacturing of the material together with the operation of the building itself. The government cannot base its housing policy solely on subsidizing housing. There is a need for radical reforms in the functioning of the housing market. It may stand to be repeated in the light of the discussions a year or two ago. With my interpellation today on building materials, I would like to point out not only the risks of material scarcity but also the need to keep costs down and create good conditions for all actors in building, property and administration, and for tenants and those who own their homes themselves or jointly. Since I have one minute left of my speaking time, I would like to come back to this with the forest. It is commendable that the Government speaks well of the Swedish forest. The forest captures and binds the carbon dioxide in a building as long as the building remains. If you can also reuse the building material after the number of years that the building can remain, it is also an environmental benefit of course. A crucial question is, in fact, what conditions we provide for Swedish forestry to be able to be carried out effectively. Will the Swedish forest be sufficient for bioenergy, building materials and other types of need for composites and other things that we can use the forest for? It is also an important issue to deal with. The question is what the government's real ambitions are to promote wood construction with forests and forest policy as a tool. It may not be the responsibility of the Government, but I would like to hear the Government develop some thought about this.
i-89v4AwBqNAYk3JHHFbmStX	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ola Johansson! It is clear that it is just as Ola Johansson says that it is the content and information of the certificates that are important. It is also important for us to get to reuse and circular streams of the material that you know what it contains. In order to relate to what I see as the main issue in this speech, i.e. the cost of building materials, it is true that the honourable Member says that building costs have increased rapidly over a number of years and that construction materials have accounted for nearly half of this increase. Of course, some of the increase can be linked to specific events. The cost development of certain building materials has been influenced by the covid-19 pandemic. Closed production facilities and disruptions in global logistics chains contributed to a sharp rise in the price of wood products and reinforced steel in 2021. The construction companies have also flagged in an open letter that the war in Ukraine will have a major impact on the Swedish construction market. However, the exact impact and extent of the current review is not possible, but, of course, it is expected that increased energy and fuel costs will have an impact on building costs, but it is also considered likely that prices of building materials will be affected. The fact that the costs of building materials have increased rapidly over a long period of time indicates, as Ola Johansson says, that there are competition problems in the market. Against this background, the Government also commissioned the Swedish Competition Authority to investigate this particular issue in the spring of 2020. The assignment was finalized in December 2021. The Competition Authority concluded in its final report that there are challenges for effective competition in the building materials market. This involves a lack of competition in the construction materials industry as well as in the construction industry as a whole. In addition, it is noted that contributing factors to market inefficiencies are low productivity, low target group variation and a volatile build-up rate. It also highlights a number of factors that the honourable Member also highlighted linked to a lack of transparency in remuneration contracts where material costs are hidden and that different forms of discounts and remuneration agreements hamper effective price formation and product assessments. The government is currently preparing the report within the Government Office, but I believe that the issue of the volatile construction act, mentioned as one of the factors of inefficiency in the building materials market, may be worth stopping at in this debate. Housing construction is, of course, a cyclically sensitive industry. If the economy goes down, housing construction usually goes down. Thus, in many countries public support is provided to maintain a minimum rate of housing construction. In Sweden, we also had such support that could have contributed to more stability in the construction act in the long term – investment support. Until February this year, just over SEK 19 billion in investment aid has been granted to over 53,000 rental dwellings. The abolition of investment support by the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats here in Parliament will have consequences in the form of fewer rental dwellings around the country. This also raises the question linked to the Swedish Competition Authority's report on the abolition of the property can also increase the cyclical sensitivity of Swedish housing construction, which could, unfortunately, have negative effects on the efficiency of the building materials market.
i-SkAyrgXGMt9xzEa7uSgrVD	Madam President, I would like It is not surprising, of course, that investment aid appears in a debate on housing policy. After all, this is basically the only measure of the Social Democrats and the government to increase housing construction. Such aid may, of course, be available, but the risk is that investment aid will contribute to sustaining building costs. After all, construction costs are replaced by investment aid, and the lack of investment aid can also be a challenging factor in keeping costs down, for example in the case of building materials. It is important that the Government takes up the Competition Authority's report, which is probably something that we need to take into account, and I assume that the Government will take action in this regard. As this is my last speech in this debate, I would like to point out that it is important for as many people as possible to be able to ask for a home that they can pay for themselves – that an opportunity be offered to get into the housing market. Building materials and costs are, of course, a means. We need a variety of options. It is up to everyone to decide how and where to get a dwelling. Building materials, labour costs, costs for planning and high demands in the Planning and Construction Act are also factors affecting construction costs. The risk of appeals is also such a matter. There are a variety of factors that influence this. Finally, I would like to stress the importance of having and maintaining a Swedish cement industry with high environmental standards. If this is not possible, we must quickly ensure that imports are made from countries from which we can feel comfortable importing. Above all, we must have a forestry policy and a construction policy that promotes the use of domestic materials and the recycling and recycling of building materials. Thank you for the debate so far.
i-K5FaKMoSiPh1j2WotJg5ve	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would also like to thank Ola Johansson for this exciting debate. We have a very similar view of what is important in this area. I heard that not least in the last speech by the honourable Member. Sweden, of course, needs more housing in the whole country as ordinary people can afford to live in. An important part of this is to ensure that we have long-term good access to sustainable and cost-effective building materials. As we have been in the debate, there is no quick and easy solution, but I think the good news is that the solution lies in two things that we are very good at in Sweden, namely innovation and innovation. Sweden will improve the recycling of construction works, building parts and materials, and the Government is determined to promote circular construction. This is absolutely necessary, as the construction sector accounts for 35% of all waste in Sweden if mining waste is excluded. We will also find new climate-smart and cost-effective materials to build with while using the climate-smart materials we have, such as wood, in a better and more efficient way. More materials on the market benefit competition, but it is also an opportunity for a new Swedish green industry to grow throughout the country. Who knows, the millions that the joint effort today is dedicated to research and development of new materials and construction methods may grow to the next major green Swedish industrial companies? That would be good for the jobs. That would be good for housing. It would also ensure the delivery of construction materials in Sweden.
i-DHP9wYZFwC6Hs19evyKVys	Mr President, I would like to Ola Johansson has asked me what measures I and the government have taken to streamline Lantmäteriet's work on building. As Ola Johansson notes, for a long time there has been criticism of Lantmäteriet's processing times when it comes to property building. The Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed state property formation and made recommendations to both Lantmäteriet and the Government on what measures should be taken to streamline operations. The number of cases received is largely determined by external factors that cannot be directly affected by the enforcement legislation or by Lantmäteriet. The scope of issues that need to be addressed in the context of the different cases of building formation is affected, among other things, by changes in other legislation, population development and mobility, technological development, external incentives and economic conditions for landowners to agree. It is therefore in the nature of the system that processing times may vary over time. It is important that we have a stable, legally secure and functioning process for building construction where one of the cases is handled within a reasonable period of time but without compromising the quality of the decisions taken. The changes in the relevant regulations that the Swedish National Audit Office recommends the Government to implement are in several parts complex and involve extensive and time-consuming work. The charging model is closely linked to the regulatory framework for services, so a balance needs to be struck in the order in which any changes need to be made. The Swedish National Audit Office's report is now being analysed in the Government Office. The Government will then return to the Riksdag.
i-4ouptuLuJGxbA9FXNExnwW	Mr President, I would like to We in the Civil Committee are of course looking forward to examining the Government's letter as soon as possible due to the devastating criticism that the Swedish National Audit Office made against the building construction in Sweden. This is something that has been mentioned for a long time by various parties in the Swedish parliament, not least the Center Party. While there is a criticism of what surveying activities deliver, one should also show great appreciation for the great and important work done by surveyors and map engineers at the agency and at the 39 municipal surveyors. Since the 17th century we in Sweden have been in order in the building. This is something that ensures ownership, which is important for the Center Party. It strengthens the individual vis-à-vis the state and various commercial interests. There are 3.3 million properties in the country. It should also be said that Lantmäteriet manages the assignment with digitalization with this honor, and it will strengthen the possibilities to plan and build in the future by providing us with a more open and efficient planning and construction process. It is my hope that this work will also lead to a faster and more efficient execution, but we have not yet seen that result. The Government of Danielsson is cautious in its criticism and is holding back what the Government intends to take action. And it's natural. The government will return, but I expect the government to take the problems of Lantmäteriet more seriously at that time. It is mainly the long processing times and also the size and predictability of the fees that have prompted the Swedish National Audit Office's review. According to the review, the time that a matter lies with Lantmäteriet without even entering six months – six months! – and overall, the average processing times are around one year. This has been the case for the last decade. So we have not seen any improvement. Waiting times to obtain additional documents from the owner and, for example, the municipality are considered to be a reason, but in fact the person who receives a request to complete a case is in a hurry. Thus, the documents come back to Lantmäteriet quite quickly, where they are again lying. According to the Swedish National Audit Office, time thieves are present in surveying operations, including when a matter is moved from one case officer to another, and that is what takes time. There is also a shortage of surveyors. Why this has happened, perhaps you government representatives can explain. Is there a lack of training for surveyors? Is work as a surveyor not attractive enough in terms of tasks, challenges and income? Is there something that's affecting you? Why do government employees stop surveying to start work in the perhaps more highly paid and interesting construction industry? Does Lantmäteriet have the resources they need to be more efficient, or is it something other than budgetary spending that is needed? There needs to be an investigation which this time aims to reform Lantmäteriet's activities fundamentally. These are questions I want answers to. I would also like to say, on behalf of the Center Party, that we have not made a major contribution to the Lantmäteriet in order for them to graze the processing times. We believe that the solution should be found in another way. But if once and for all they are able to graze the queues, and then you can see that the queues do not develop again, an additional supplement may be justified. As I said, I understand that the Government is not prepared to deliver all its answers. I look forward to them coming in the letter that we will eventually have to deal with here in Parliament.
i-AGWmQxDzF8oNZGGs29VRHe	Mr President, I would like to We in the government see, as I said, that the Swedish National Audit Office's report is a good help for the government in its continued work. Like the honourable Member, we will come back to Parliament in more detail in the usual order. However, I would like to say: When Statskontoret evaluated Lantmäteriet in 2017, it also led to measures from the government. We have therefore already implemented important measures. Let me give you a few examples. First of all, just as the honourable Member himself is concerned, we have started extensive work to digitise the entire civil engineering process, which includes the building of buildings. Digitalisation is extremely important for the efficiency of building formation. The first step, just as Ola Johansson is concerned, is that information used in the community building is digitised, standardised and made accessible in a uniform way. It will simplify the exercise of authority and shorten processing times, not least as it will be easier to submit more complete applications. Secondly, as Ola Johansson is concerned, we need more surveyors. The lack of competence is a major challenge for Lantmäteriet today. Few trained surveyors, greater labour market mobility and more potential employers are contributing to skills shortages. In 2018, the Government therefore provided funds to open a new surveying programme with a legal focus at Uppsala University. This is an important measure. It is not a measure that will have an effect the following day, but in the long term it is important for the competence of surveyors. Thirdly, Lantmäteriet has made extensive changes in its own management in order to achieve more efficient processes. Among other things, the cases that come in all over the country are now being distributed to exploit the production capacity of various offices. This has led to a levelling of the hand egg levels across the country. Experienced administrators have also started to organise themselves in networks to make better use of their expertise in handling difficult cases and to support the activities in general and the less experienced administrators in particular. Progress is moving in the right direction, but it is not as fast as you would like. There are still major problems with long processing times, but cases are now being dealt with more quickly. Above all, the cases are solved more than the cases that come in. We welcome this development, but work must continue. One thing that is a priority, as the honourable Member also points out, is the waiting from the entry of a new dossier to its allocation to a case officer. It forms part of the total duration of proceedings. It is a priority to minimise that time. Ola Johansson himself points out that it can constitute half the processing time. Once it has gone down, we may be able to reach more acceptable processing times.
i-QHaJ5n2zvYGRCyV4qsLLN6	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. To the audience in the gallery, I would like to explain that what we are now discussing is Lantmäteriet. They are the ones who draw maps and decide and register who owns land and what it is allowed to be used for. It is very important for property rights, that you know who owns land, because land is perhaps the most important thing we have. There is a need for efficiency improvements and liberalisation in this area. A review is also needed in order to simplify and streamline and modernise the laws and regulations governing surveying activities. For example, it must be possible for actors other than the Authority to take over parts of what is currently the responsibility of Lantmäteriet. We have 39 municipal surveying. That number hasn't increased for a very long time. There is a demand within some municipalities to develop such an activity. It also needs to be easier for municipal surveying companies to carry out their activities. Municipal collaboration on surveying should also be allowed, so that we do not have a municipal monopoly in that business. In this way, costs can be reduced, processing times reduced and proximity to citizens increased. After several announcements, the government has finally proposed a way for community associations, road communities, to decide for themselves on the participation of those who run and own a road together. We welcome that. And we hope that the government will listen to those of us who also want to allow the community associations to decide to redistribute the compensation resulting from changing the participation rates between the different shareholders. This is something we will come back to when this issue is discussed in Parliament. But the question of percentages is also a good example of how one should view the exercise of authority in Lantmäteriet. It is a question of being able, when justified and not restricting or risking ownership or legal certainty, to transfer more decisions to those closest to them and that it will be the task of the authority to record the changes and register them, but not always to carry out the basic work. Perhaps this is an area where Lantmäteriet needs help, support and pressure on the issues. It is not only the parliament with its opposition, which we in the Center Party are considered to belong to, that should take responsibility for it. The government must also do more. Perhaps the Lantmäteriet, as I said earlier, needs an addition to its budget to graze what is in the backpack after the corona and the items that have been collected. But the Center Party has not set aside any funds for it in this budget. We believe that we must first have more efficient surveying on the ground, which can better manage the funds that are available in its budget. For us, it has been more important to strengthen rural areas in our budgetary efforts and to ensure that there is an increase in housing construction throughout the country. It is a question of cutting-off from farms and that the 45 000 km of individual roads managed by road communities receive good and adequate support from the state.
i-N3iz3BFyX7FE7pUsZtdCbo	Mr President, I would like to As I have said, I share the view that the time for obtaining a building formation decision is not satisfactory. I have also had many talks with municipal representatives around the country since I took office, expressing frustration over the length of the proceedings. I can understand why the individual municipality sometimes sees that the solution is to get a municipal survey. That is not to say that it would solve horizontal issues, such as the national lack of competent surveyors. It's a complex issue. I also note that the Swedish National Audit Office makes certain comments that are linked to the possibility of forming municipal surveying authorities. We will look at them, just like the other comments that have been received from the Swedish National Audit Office. However, with regard to the length of proceedings, I think it is important to bear in mind that the cases vary in scope and complexity. These can range from minor adjustments to the boundary between two summer cottage properties to the redemption of land and changes to hundreds of properties in large infrastructure projects, such as the Stockholm bypass. Perhaps, for natural reasons, they often make – the Swedish National Audit Office does – comparisons between the time it takes to get a building permit and the time it takes to get a building formation decision. However, I would like to point out that it is a bit unfortunate to do so and that the National Audit Office does so. These are different processes with different interests to monitor and different conditions to implement. It is, of course, important that property formation meets society's expectations in terms of time, cost and legal certainty. Naturally, much of the debate is about time and cost – perhaps it is also easiest to have views on it. In the long term, however, it is important that the decisions taken by the Authority are of good quality, that they meet the requirements of legal certainty and that they ensure, as the honourable Member has done, the basis for community credit in the area of immovable property and that it is maintained. Property formation is largely a service function. It often contains many issues that need to be resolved within the framework of individual cases, and the nature and scope of the issues are influenced by the development of society. These external changes are something the legislation on building construction has increased, but this does not exclude the need for some simplification and rationalisation in the current regulatory framework. Proposals concerning Landmäteriet's real estate development activities are currently being prepared in the Government Office, including questions about coordinate property limits and digital transfer documents at property purchases. In some parts these are complex issues. A review of them is a comprehensive and time-consuming exercise, but work on these issues is currently underway in the Government Office.
i-3aLDum2eGEhcRLRhxTicNJ	Mr President, I would like to I thank Minister Danielsson for his answer. There are, of course, a variety of cases. Perhaps it is the easiest thing to do in road transport, and that is why we are finally letting the collectives decide for themselves on percentages – something that we have been asking for for for a long time and for which we have been working for a long time. There is also a difference between cutting off a summer cottage plot or changing the property boundaries in order to do something in a summer cottage area and drawing up a power line throughout Sweden to be able to distribute energy from where it is produced to where it is used. The latter is a major issue that also requires a lot of property redemption, and then surveying is very important. In large infrastructure projects, such as when municipalities are going to implement large plans and develop roads and the like, there is of course a readiness for the preparation to take time. As an infrastructure investor, you then have an opportunity to plan for it. Not infrequently, the state is behind it too. But for the individual summer cottage owner, a delay is something you may not take up when you plan to expand your summer cottage or when the summer cottage area's community will pull out a road. Here there is reason to consider how Lantmäteriet can better meet this, and I believe that the 39 municipal surveyors can help Lantmäteriet. The challenge in recruiting surveyors is that the organisation is centralised and is located in Gävle. Decentralization of Lantmäteriet's activities can therefore be the way forward. Thank you for the debate.
i-WbHW38cF1TNBE4rgch6nod	Mr President, I would like to I think that we basically have the same view: we need a functioning property formation throughout Sweden. Long processing times are a problem for society as a whole; we are very much in agreement on that. As I said, the government has therefore given Lantmäteriet several assignments that are about improving the monitoring of operations and producing analyses of the performance of operations. To finish where I started and not repeat all the actions that I have already ridden in this debate, I will return to the Swedish National Audit Office's recommendations, which in several parts are complex and involve extensive and time-consuming work. The Government is now analysing these views and will then return to the Riksdag in regular order on the matter. Thank you for the debate.
