i-e71d1cf45918bacc-0	Mr President, I would like to The fight against international terrorism is something that concerns all of us. In Daish-controlled areas there are systematic violations of human rights and brutal violence of an unprecedented kind. This also affects us in Sweden, for moral and human reasons, but also for national security reasons. The UN Security Council has long been paralysed by the conflict in Syria, but after the terrorist attacks in Paris in November, the Council was still able to rally. UN Resolution 2249 calls on all Member States of the international community to take all necessary measures on the territories of Syria and Iraq controlled by Daish to prevent terrorist attacks. Immediately after the attacks in Paris, France requested support from Sweden in the fight against Daish. The USA has also expressed its wish for an increased Swedish contribution. The Moderates found that the government's response to France's request for aid in the fight against Daish was insufficient. The grant is so limited that only part of it will require the approval of the Riksdag. But it is equally urgent that the parliamentary parties have the opportunity to have a broad debate and dialogue with the government on how Sweden best responds to the international community's call. There are many questions that we want to discuss in this House with all parliamentary parties and where we want answers from the government. That is why we have asked for this topical debate. I would like to start by focusing on three issues. Firstly, what is the government's analysis of Daish and other similar organisations' threats to Swedish society? Secondly, what concrete measures has the government taken in connection with the UN resolution? Thirdly, how do we live up to our responsibility to fight Daish – a global threat to peace and security of an unprecedented kind?
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-9	Mr President, I would like to Ladies and gentlemen! Already when the government took office, in autumn 2014, we began to investigate whether and how Sweden could expand its efforts in support of democracy and human rights and against Dae sh. Until the spring of last year, Sweden acted in three ways: Firstly, we acted politically in order to reach a long-term solution to the underlying political problems in the region that have given Dae sh foothold. We support the political processes that will eventually eliminate the breeding ground for terrist organisations such as Dae sh. Two Swedes support the important efforts of the UN envoy Staffan de Mistura. In order to increase the conditions for successful talks in Geneva, we have prepared comprehensive support for Syrian women in order to increase the opportunity for their demands to be taken into account, and we support the participation of civil society representatives in Geneva. Here I must express my concern that if Russia's bombing and questioning of the opposition that has gathered around the negotiating trail are allowed to undermine the talks in Geneva, it will add to the attractiveness of the extremists. We are also working politically by working towards an inclusive and cohesive Iraq, which, with strengthened democratic institutions, makes it possible to influence the country's many different groupings, both religious and ethnic. The emergence of a legal society is essential in order to combat the terrorists in the long term. And a long-term sustainable solution in Iraq must be political, based on the full inclusion of all ethnic groups and religious minorities in political life and fully respected. Secondly, we are acting humanitarianly to resolve the emergency crisis on the ground, to alleviate suffering and distress. We have given and continue to provide comprehensive humanitarian aid. We have contributed SEK 1.9 billion in humanitarian aid for the Syria crisis. We have contributed SEK 345 million through various Syrian crisis-related development efforts. We are increasing our support by an additional SEK 1.7 billion over five years through the new Syria crisis strategy. We also take steps to prevent possible sympathizers from travelling to the region for the purpose of participating in terrorist acts or training. Thirdly, Sweden, as we all know, has taken a great deal of responsibility through generous reception of refugees. Since 2011, Sweden has received 120 000 asylum seekers from Syria. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. It is clear that military efforts are also needed to stop Dae sh. This is why the government already examined Sweden's ability to participate in the military education efforts against Dae sh. At the beginning of April, we submitted a bill to this Parliament proposing that we take part in the military training operation in Iraq, which was supported by the Parliament. And we welcomed the opposition's support for the operation. I recall that at that time the opposition expressed some self-criticism at least because the previous government had not been able to deliver what the new Swedish Government has now proposed. For a few months now there has been a Swedish armed force with 35 people in place. They are participating in the military training operation carried out by the Int ernational Coalition against Dae sh. The November terrorist attack in Paris is referred to as the worst attack on France on French soil since World War II. And France, as the first EU country, has ever been active in its Article 42(7) of the Treaty on European Union. Sweden was among the first Member States to respond to France after several consultations with parliamentary parties, and Swedish support is among the most substantial. The military components consist of strategic and tactical air transport, contributions to crisis management operations, such as in Mali, to relieve France and material support now being prepared according to specific decision-making arrangements. What we are offering is in demand, in accordance with international law and effective, and our contribution has been welcomed by France. But perhaps the Moderates consider themselves to know better than the French Government and Minister of Defence Jean-Jean-Yve Le Drian. On 20 January, he wrote to the Swedish Government:... je tiens, par la présente letter, à vous exprimer toute ma reconnaissance et celle du goovernement from c ais pour cette importante contribution. (...) la Suède confirme une nouvelle fois sa volonté d 中 assumer seen responsabilités en matière de sécurité européenne. ..................................................... In Swedish: I would like to express my gratitude and that of the French Government for Sweden's important contribution to the substantial support given by the Swedish Government following France's call for Article 42(7) of the Treaty of Lisbon. Sweden reaffirms, through its support for our bilateral relationship and within the framework of EU and UN cooperation, its commitment and responsibility for Europe's security.
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-28	Mr President, I would like to As this House is well aware, terrorism poses a major threat to both states and individuals and ultimately to the values on which our open society is based. The fight against terrorism must be carried out where it occurs, but also against the members and sympathizers found in other parts of the world. According to the Global Terrorism Index, 32,685 people were killed in terrorist attacks in 2014. The number of terrorist offences in the world increased by 80 per cent in 2014, and this trend continued in 2015. So what we can see is that this is something that is increasing and not decreasing. It is estimated that 30 000 people, probably even more, have joined Daish from outside in Iraq and Syria. 21% of these are said to come from Europe. Terrorism is also a major contributor to the huge flows of refugees we have seen in recent years. From the countries with the most terrorism, there are also the largest flows of refugees. The increasing terror and the feeling of an increased threat of terror are changing the way we all look at the world and our security. It challenges our open society and our systems and puts new demands on action both at home and in the world. The question of how to fight Daish is more topical than ever. The attacks in Paris in November apparently mean that Daish's terror in Europe has entered a new phase where even ordinary citizens are regarded as legitimate targets by terrorists. Only yesterday Europol announced that Europe is living under the greatest threat of terrorism in over ten years and that Daish is planning a large-scale attack in Europe again. This is where I want to come. Since the threat is so great, we obviously need to take action in Sweden with national legislation and preventive measures. We must also look at our responsibilities. It is in our interests and in the interests of the European Union to do together everything we can to combat Daish. In addition to protecting ourselves, we must also show solidarity with others, as stated in Article 42(7) of the Treaty of Lisbon and as formulated in the 2009 Declaration of Solidarity. After the Paris attacks, Article 42(7) has been tested for the first time, and we Moderates think that the Swedish response was inadequate. At the same time, there is a UN Security Council resolution that is important, because here the Security Council has been able to get together. The conclusion is that together we must get together in strong action to fight Daish on the ground in Iraq and Syria and take effective action to prevent new terrorist attacks in other parts of the world. Before Christmas, the Parliament took a decision on an extension of the Swedish educational effort in Iraq. It's good, but it's not enough. More needs to be done. Sweden can and will help in the fight against Daish. In order to do so, of course, we must first have an analysis in place, an assessment of all factors. What is the situation in the region? What is the situation in Sweden? What resources do we have at our disposal? Can Sweden give better priority to its efforts? That is why I have asked the question of what the government's analysis looks like after the Paris attacks and not least after Europol's assessment yesterday. What is the threat to Sweden's security? We've already had an attack. Fortunately, it failed. It was the suicide bomber on Drottninggatan a couple of years ago. Now the threat is even greater. What, then, is the government's overall assessment? What responsibility does Sweden have in the fight against Daish? A great deal of effort is needed here. A great deal of what the Foreign Minister described in his speech is very good. Political action and courage are needed, diplomacy and negotiations are needed, aid is needed and, of course, support for the peace process is needed. It also requires military means, as the Foreign Minister said. Has Sweden done enough? Or can we, together with the other Member States of the European Union, do more? It is about everything from putting a stop to financial flows in the area of legislation that support terrorist organisations, to how we build security in the best way. Has the government taken any concrete action on the occasion of the Security Council resolution? Has the resolution had any effect on how the government views Sweden's contribution? The Minister for Foreign Affairs has said that there is a grey area in international law when it comes to contributing to the fight against Daish. Is the Secretary of State sticking to that? How can Sweden, as we think, be a driving force in the EU's work against international terrorism?
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-47	Mr President, I would like to It is positive that the Moderates have come to realize that something needs to be done. When, in an interpellation debate in 2012 or 2013, I asked a moderate minister what they wanted to do about the terror trips, I was told that the Moderates and the government were satisfied with how it was. Now a few years have passed and new insight has come, and just thank and receive. We are here to debate Sweden's participation in the fight against the Islamic State. It is a struggle that must be waged on several levels. Military defense is sometimes likened to home insurance, and most people do not see it as very wise to stop paying the premium just because there is no fire in the house at the moment. That is how most people look at insurance, and we verige democrats definitely do it. We also pay the insurance premium by increasing the defence budget by 18 billion over a four-year period compared with the government's proposal. There are those who consistently fail in their analysis of reality, and there are the other seven parties. Since the '90s, they have dismantled our defenses to unrecognizability. The Swedish Democrats, on the other hand, have been asking for years and years about the importance of having a functional, well-equipped defence precisely for the situation we are facing. We have received a reply that it is not necessary because there are no military threats against Sweden – or as the former Prime Minister put it: the defence is a special interest. Conscription was also abolished by the previous government. But now you suddenly want it back, or at least parts of the previous government want it. Mr President, I would like to I can only say that our assessment was always the right one, as in so many other cases. However we design our support for France's efforts, the most important factor will be the almost total lack of everything: equipment, vehicles, spare parts, ammunition and personnel. Sweden has a weapons system that is world leader, JAS, and France requested if we could send this system for reconnaissance missions. But Stefan Löfven said no because he and his predecessor didn't bother to pay the insurance. Regardless of how much Sweden would like to contribute, all the other parties in this House have made sure that we do not have much to contribute. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats recognised long before all others the need to take a concerted approach to the fight against IS. Almost exactly a year ago, when the Riksdag discussed the first bill on the education effort in Iraqi Kurdistan, the Swedish Democrats launched a follow-up motion with proposals for an overall IS strategy. We also summarised the proposal in a debate article. Unfortunately, we did not have to deal with the motion for a resolution, which dealt with the fight against IS, because it was considered to be outside the scope of the proposal. No one was interested in publishing the article either. But now we are here debating just such a strategy. While, of course, we are pleased that the government is finally taking seriously the threat from IS, we note that it has not been able to perform much here other than in the area of migration. There you have walked in SD's ligaments, albeit too little and too late. The government has put forward proposals for terrorist travel – unlike the previous government, which was satisfied with the then laws – on the reception of training and funding. It is to be welcomed that this has finally been presented. However, the Swedish Democrats believe that the proposed legislation should be tightened up. The penalties for this type of crime need to be tightened and the exception for minor cases removed in relation to the financing of terrorist activities. Furthermore, terrorist travel must also be punished when travelling to the country of nationality of the offender, which will not be the case with the current legislative proposal. The government's reasoning in the bill that such a law would violate the form of government or other international rules prohibiting exile is confused and naive. We want the Swedish Defence Radio Agency to be able to conduct signal reconnaissance even during preliminary investigation. We want recruitment and funding violations of the standard level to be included also for coercive measures and secret readings. We want to withdraw the citizenship of terrorists. Even if they only have Swedish citizenship, they should be made stateless. We want the criminalised area of terror propaganda to be expanded. Terrorist travel goes both ways, both outward and inward. We saw this in Stockholm 2010 and most recently in Paris. Nothing indicates that Sweden has ceased to be a target for such activities. The threat of terrorism will only increase, not least if we contribute to the French-led effort. Better tools are therefore needed to protect Sweden and Swedes from foreign and local terrorists. Finally, I would like to say that the financing of IS must be hit harder. The government should be familiar with the question of Islamic State funding. Time Magazine has reported that IS makes hundreds of millions of dollars a year on refugee smuggling across the Mediterranean. It is supported by naive European politicians who welcome the illegal trade and even ensure that the EU, its Mediterranean neighbours, Italy and Frontex become an active part of refugee smuggling activities by helping smugglers of refugees to bring illegal immigrants here to Europe. It must be stopped immediately.
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-69	Mr President, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, honourable Members of Parliament, you who sit in the gallery and you who see this debate on television at home! Thank you for listening! I would also like to thank the Moderates for requesting this important debate. Friends! There is something called shepherd mentality, that is, that everyone runs in the same direction, does the same things and contributes the same things but misses everything else that is also important. Therefore, it is important to have the helicopter in the air and look at the bigger picture. We've seen it before. For example, look at Libya! Then the international community ran in the same direction. You were supposed to send battle planes. Sweden sent JAS. But then what happened? Yes, the media light went out and so did international support for the people of Libya. Those who would be involved in building the country did not receive the help they needed. Instead, the country became a breeding ground for terrorism. You can't bomb yourself to peace. This is where we and the international community must look at the broad, albeit complex picture and take responsibility for a whole. We could liken it to a patchwork that needs to be sewn up by humanitarian, political, military and aid-related elements in which each in the sign of solidarity contributes some bits. Not everyone can do the same. Mr President, I would like to Paris, London, Stockholm, Beirut, Istanbul, Bamako, Baghdad – the list can be made long. We must stand united in the fight against terrorism. In this context, we welcome UN Security Council Resolution 2249. The resolution reflects the UN's appeal to all Member States to combat by all means permitted under international law and the UN Charter the threats to international peace and security for which IS, Daish and the terrorist attacks, among others, are fighting. The resolution underlines the obligations and responsibilities of States to combat terrorism and the financing of terrorism. Mr President, I would like to Sweden's contribution to counter terrorism is based on a balanced mix of efforts. Some are the military, for most people have probably realized that Daish cannot be corrected. Here, Sweden has previously contributed to the military training operation carried out by the coalition against IS in northern Iraq. Since August 2015, Sweden has contributed 35 people – an assignment that has been extended throughout 2016. Sweden's contribution in northern Iraq is to educate and advise the Iraqi security forces. Sweden has responded to France's request for support on the basis of the request made following the bestial attack in Paris on the democratic order, freedom and culture of the modern world. Sweden was quick in its response, shortly after Germany and the United Kingdom, and has responded to the requests made by France on the basis of the EU solidarity clause. Mr President, I would like to Terrorism often has its breeding ground in decaying states. We have seen it clearly not least in Iraq and in Syria. Now Tunisia may also be next – the country where the Arab spring began but where hopelessness and violence are taking over more and more. Daish cannot be dealt with without resolving the crisis in Syria. Mr Al-Assad's attempt to violently suppress peaceful and legitimate demands for democratic reforms brought the country into the worst armed conflict of our time and the greatest humanitarian disaster. The decaying Syria is a breeding ground for Daish to grow. We support Staffan de Mistura's efforts to broker peace. We also contribute directly with the diplomatic support that Sweden gives to the peace process in Syria through Birgitta Holst Alani, who, at the request of the UN Secretary-General, will help UN envoy Staffan de Mistura to broker peace. Emphasis must also be placed on the importance of taking into account UN Resolution 1325. Peace cannot be sustainable if 50% of the population is excluded.
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-81	Mr President, Members of Parliament and audience! This is an important debate and dialogue about the conditions in our surrounding world and the threat that we face together in Sweden but also in European cooperation and in other countries that work for peace and democratic development. Following the terrorist attacks in Paris in autumn 2015, France appealed for help and support from other EU Member States. The heinous terrorist attacks were not just an attack on Paris and France, but on our entire open society. For the Center Party it was obvious that Sweden would show solidarity with France and quickly respond positively to their request for support. At the beginning of December, the government invited the opposition parties for a first discussion on what Sweden's response to France's petition could be. Our starting values in these discussions were that France's explicit needs and the Swedish Armed Forces' assessment of these should be the basis for what kind of support Sweden should provide but that the support would be solid. We also believe that issues relating to Swedish security interests and the life and health of Swedish citizens require broad political agreement. We had welcomed a broad political agreement. We therefore regret that the government rejected a broad cross-block solution when, after talks, it chose to close the discussion just under two weeks. Instead, the government relied on the support of the Left Party, which landed in a rather thin solidarity package that neither reflected France's needs nor our capacity. We could do more. The failure to establish a broad political consensus in this House is regrettable and a departure from the previous ambition of cooperation on these important issues. The entire package of strategic air transport in 50 to 100 hours, two staff officers and a little more is estimated to cost about SEK 40 million. We in the alliance parties and in the Center Party were in favour of that. But we also wanted the government and Sweden to offer France a broader palette of support, such as reconnaissance efforts with a JAS plan in 2016, within the framework of international law and under a clear management structure. For the Center Party, a broad offer was important, as it involved responding to France's request under Article 42(7), as well as the request received from the United States. We were open to discussing ways of strengthening the basic package and finding appropriate funding for this. What the government chose to proceed with is a minimalist solidarity, where the wallet had to determine the size of the grant – not Sweden's capacity. It is not just the Center Party and the alliance parties who think so. The Swedish UN Association criticised the size of the grant and called it insufficient. The Center Party has said that we want to look at how we can best share the resources available to us in Sweden within the framework of international law and contribute as effectively as possible to the fight against Daish. This could include, among other things, reconnaissance efforts with JAS, but also other measures. We can see that Germany chose rather quickly to do more. They deployed reconnaissance flights and expanded their operations in Mali considerably. Mr President, I would like to This action by the Swedish Government raises some questions. One of the most important questions is whether the government expects the same type of support on the basis of the solidarity clause, the same amount of support from other countries within our cooperation area in the event of something similar affecting Sweden. This is the first time the principle has been applied. It can in itself become a precedent for what level of support and help one can expect. It is basically about what we ourselves in Sweden are prepared to give. We also agreed to continue the effort in Iraq – we think that is very important – and to continue working in the whole region also with humanitarian efforts. That's the foundation. But we also need to look at additional opportunities and tools in the fight against terrorism and what is being done by Daish in the region, among other things. We can fight this only through collaboration – broad collaboration – with other countries. Ultimately, our answer is also a message to the outside world. When we do not manage to bring together a broad and clear majority, it says something. It's a signal for foreign policy. It says something about where we stand in Sweden when we are dealing with this type of petition. I hope that this spring we will be able to improve this work together in order to go further in the fight against terrorism.
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-92	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. As you know, Article 42 of the Treaty on European Union contains seven points on the common security and defence policy. I quote from it: In the event of an armed attack on the territory of a Member State, the other Member States shall be obliged to provide assistance and assistance to that Member State by any means available in accordance with Article 51 of the Charter of the United Nations. ..................................................... Perhaps it is true that the Left Party was against the Treaty of Lisbon – for quite good reasons. Nevertheless, Sweden as a nation is, of course, bound by this Treaty, and so do we. Having said that, however, I would like to say that the Treaty actually plays a smaller role for us. With or without a treaty: when France's request came, we repeatedly said that it was self-evident for Sweden to assist France, because it is obvious to us that we should assist every democracy that is subjected to acts of terror and that is asking for help. Initially, I would like to take another quote, perhaps taken from a surprising source: The right of self-defence and the reference to Article 51 need not necessarily imply............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ This right to opt out of purely military action also applies to NATO under the famous Article 5 of the Washington Treaty, which is sometimes forgotten in the political debate. ..................................................... The quote is drawn from Defence Policy cooperation – efficiency, solidarity, sovereignty, that is, Tomas Bertelman's report, and this particular quote is from car. 2, written by the international legal expert Professor Ove Bring. This means that the legally binding commitment in Article 42(7) does not in itself have to mean a military action. It is quite important to emphasise and remember that. It has sometimes been discussed whether there is a legal grey area here. Of course, it is questionable whether this clause on the armed attack on its territory is applicable when a terrorist organisation such as Daish commits an attack in a country and self-defence is then interpreted as being attacked in a country with a completely different government which is itself in armed conflict with the same organisation. That's what makes it all the same that you should be a little thoughtful. This is also why the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' international legal adviser, Ambassador Marie Jacobsson, points out that the UN Charter's ban on violence is being undermined if any terrorist attack is to be considered a go-ahead for action in individual and collective self-defense under the UN Charter article 51. That should also be borne in mind. What would such a practice, if it sat down, mean for all sorts of regimes? Well, an excuse to strike against real or imaginary opponents who are always called Well, the Left Party has not opposed this interpretation – I would like to emphasise this – neither before nor now. However, Daish is an entity that is hardly foreseen, either in the Treaty of Lisbon or elsewhere. Nor has the Left opposed the support measures that have been announced so far, because we believe that they are based on international law, as I have said. Sweden's response was the third of the other 27 EU Member States, and it was of a positive and substantial nature, as France has confirmed. So we cannot consider it to be either slow or inadequate. Just today, we heard that the decision might have been made too quickly. Criticism has been a little different on that point. The sad thing is that, as in almost all debates of this kind, there is almost exclusively talk of military means, although it is probably the least effective in combating terrorism. I think it was good that Pernilla Stålhammar raised many of the questions. We must not forget humanitarian aid and development cooperation. The Left Party would like to further develop is not more fighter planes over Syria – there are already quite a few from many countries today – but humanitarian support for the only effective counter-force in the region: the very hard-pressed Kurds, who are being bombed by Erdo中an in the NATO country of Turkey, are fighting Daish in Iraq and being pressured by them in Syria, because it is on the ground that this battle can be won. While it is said, I would like to stress that any violation of international law, of the laws of war, must be condemned regardless of who commits them. The Amnesty report the other day is a memento and a reminder of how violence easily breeds more violence. We are therefore in favour of what is called UNDP human security. This means that more fighter planes over Syria will not be the solution to the conflict. Karin Enström concluded that we have had a terrorist attack in Sweden. No, we have had several: Trollhättan and arson against existing and planned refugee camps. There is real terrorism today in Sweden.
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-108	Mr President, I would like to There is no doubt that Daish is the worst scourge of our time. Of all the horrifying news about Daish's activities in Iraq and Syria that I have heard, the task of systematically taking children with Down's syndrome is to light the very worst news. Mr President, I would like to It is in this way that Daish differs, not only from other brutal regimes, but also from other terrorist organisations. When people who commit crimes against international law normally try to hide their activities or at least morally explain them, Daish does just the opposite. They do so, and they cannot have enough opportunity to show the outside world exactly what they are doing in all its bloody details. It is because of these atrocities that Daish can never become part of a political solution in this region. It is therefore extraordinary that the title of this debate is precisely the fight against Daish. There is a broad coalition, led by the United States, which has been targeting IS for quite some time. Now it is believed that these air attacks amount to a number of over 8,000. We note that they seem to have an impact, both on the Daish economy and on their operational mobility. At the same time, however, it is important to emphasise that these air attacks have not been decisive so far. What is crucial, as Stig Henriksson was very correct in his speech, is of course the struggle on the ground – boots on the ground. This is nothing new, but it has been similar in regional conflicts in recent decades. Amnesty has made accusations against the KRG. All such allegations of violations of international law should be taken very seriously. However, I would like to point out that, last week here in Parliament, Supreme Commander Micael Bydén replied to a question that, to the best of his knowledge, would give rise to suspicions that the units with which the Swedish soldiers work would engage in such a thing. Mr President, I would like to During the autumn, the Liberals wanted to go further in terms of support for eshmerga. It is good to have training of solar attens and military units. But on the eshmerga we also need other support, not least in the CBRN area, that is to say, protection against weapons of mass destruction. We know that the I.S. has been using chemical weapons against the eshmerga. It would be reasonable for us to respond to the need for protection that the units have. The same applies to assistance with logistics and, of course, with medical supplies, but also with weapons. It is important to point out that there is probably no moral difference between training for Eshmerga's soldiers in armed combat on the one hand and delivering weapons on the other. In my world, these things are roughly equal. The discussion on aid to France ended as usual with Sweden leaving other countries to do what is difficult, what is expensive and what is risky. According to the government, an operation with Swedish Gripen aircraft was requested. It was also possible, Mr President. There was a rapid response alert on F 21 in Luleå from 1 January. But we finally said no. Mr President, I would like to Then I wonder the following. If the government had originally decided that this would not be a Swedish contribution, why was it so clearly recorded in our first negotiations? Why was it pointed out that this was in demand of France and fully possible, given our own readiness? As part of the multifaceted support provided by Sweden, the Minister for Foreign Affairs refers to the generous reception of refugees, which marked at least large parts of autumn 2015. It is important that we in this House do not forget our responsibilities here at home. It's about housing, it's about school and it's about work. If young people who have just come to Sweden cannot see themselves in the future with jobs, with housing and with family, we have, Mr President, created the best possible soil for extremism in our country as well.
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-119	Mr President, I would like to In the tracks of the Arab spring, space arose for the terror cult Daish. Daish is the worst and, unfortunately, the richest terrorist organization the world has ever seen. Daish's systematic mass murder of Christians and Yazidians is nothing more than genocide. The fundamental motives of the terrorist cult are clearly stated and aim at the ethnic and religious cleansing of all that does not fit into the narrow definition of the Salifist Sunniislam. The killings, rapes, kidnappings, the destruction of cultural and religious history, and the demands of submission are designed to destroy or expel Christendom. In practice, it is about all the people who make up the Chaldean, Syrian and Syrian minority in Iraq and Syria. The number of Christians in Iraq has fallen from 1.5 million people to 500,000 in the last ten years. The rest have been killed or forced to flee abroad. The situation in Syria is similar to that in Iraq. At least one third of the country's 600,000 Christians have been forced to flee. As has been said before, not only does this, but you also pump out the news as much as you can. You can't get enough of it. Mr President, I would like to Friday 13 November last year I remember very well, and I think I share that with most Swedes in our country. As for myself, my little three-year-old daughter would be anesthetized when one text message more horribly than the other one fell in. Then what happened in Paris? France met Germany in a friendship atch. In the middle of the game at. 21. 20 the first explosion outside the arena followed by two more explosions. A man is killed. But we know that they were going to do something much more terrible. With automatic arm one in hand, two men open fire 21.25 against a bar of rue Bic hate. The shooting continues towards the restaurant across the street. There 15 people died. A minute later, five more people are killed in a restaurant a bit away. Five minutes later, another shooting takes place at a bar and 19 people are killed. It's time. 21. 49 begins the massacre in the concert hall. The terrorists are shooting right into the audience. About a hundred people are taken hostage, and 89 people are murdered. A total of 130 people were killed and 350 injured in this terrorist attack. Mr President, I would like to On the basis of this appalling attack, on 17 November, France chose, for the first time in the history of the European Union, to call upon the EU's solidarity Article 42. 7 in the fight against Daish. It states that if a Member State were to be subjected to an armed attack on its territory, the other Member States would be obliged to provide assistance and assistance to that Member State with all the means at their disposal. The Secretary of Defense quickly went out promising substantial military support. We Christian Democrats thought, then as now, that we should have heeded the call for reconnaissance assistance that came from France and also from the United States for the help of JAS 39 Gripen. However, the government did not listen to that. Instead, as we all know, there was very limited support. It was 50 – 100 SAC hours with transport flights, i.e. five or six transport flights with C-17. It was a small reinforcement with some staff officers in Mali and one – I say one – Herculesplan in Mali, which will not come in spring or autumn but in 2017. This is a contribution that many feel borders on a mockery of the idea of European solidarity. The question within the government seems to have been: what is the least we can give without clearly stating that this is by providing support under Article 42. 7 of the EU Treaty only applies to others, not to us?
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-128	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. This is such an important issue that we would really like to be able to discuss whether the opposition parties have more proposals to combat Daesh. Do they have a different analysis than the government has? I've been trying to describe how we've been following the three tracks from the beginning. As far as the political track is concerned, our work is highly appreciated – we are one of the few countries that actually also take initiatives such as ensuring that women have a voice in the peace negotiations. We contribute constantly with support to Staffan de Mistura's work and so on. I think we are an appreciated and clear voice in all that work. As far as the humanitarian trail is concerned, no one can question us. If anyone thinks we should do more and have more proposals, I would like to say that I have not heard any more proposals from the opposition about what we should do politically to strengthen this. We are having a good discussion on the reception of refugees, of course, and that discussion will continue. It's good. I think Allan Widman has made an intellectually honest contribution here. Nevertheless, he says that the opposition, what he understands, did not oppose any of the efforts proposed by the government, but has constantly tried to say that it was too late. In fact, it was one of the first efforts. We were the third country, out of 28, who went out and said what we intended to work with and what proposals were on the table. You have not opposed it, but you have said it should be a JAS plane. Otherwise, it's like it doesn't count. Allan Widman points out that, on the other hand, it does not seem to be helping to the full in the fight against Daesh, but it is about boots on the ground. Then perhaps you suggest that we send soldiers there who become boots on the ground, or what are we going to do? Is it just a JAS plane that's the whole difference in view of what we're going to do to fight Daesh? As I am happy to come back to, we are also looking at what legislation we need to have. I do not hear any proper, objective proposals, but you are constantly trying to get along with this that it has been too late and too little. It's not like that. Compared to what all other countries contribute, this is a substantial contribution, and it is surely France that should decide what it thinks. We have received no more than thanks and praise, both for being quick and for the way in which we have been constantly engaged in dialogue with France. It's like we're discussing what we're best at. What can we contribute immediately? The first thing France asked for in terms of aid was backfillers and the replacement of its efforts in Africa – in Mali – and in Iraq, as elsewhere. That was the first thing France asked for, and that is what we are responding to. I therefore find this debate sad. We have such an important task in common, namely to formulate a policy that is coherent. Perhaps we should be able to make it a little more substantial in that case. Can you perhaps hear suggestions? What do you think should be added? Allan Widman has, in fact, formulated some interesting suggestions that I think we can discuss. Otherwise, however, you only complain about things that are not even correct. Finally, Mr President, I would like to say that Sweden, like other countries, will henceforth use the name Daesh for this terrorist organisation. As President Obama has said, ISIL is not Islamic. 中 – – – And ISIL is certainly not a state. In fact, it is an organization that only works with hate, threats, violence and terrorism.
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-137	Mr President, I would like to We asked for this debate not to point the finger or find the wrong one in the first place, but to together and in peace and quiet – so much peace and quiet it can now be in a chamber debate – see what the development of the last six months and year and the increasing threat of Daish in particular have for Sweden, for the EU and, of course, for the region. We asked for the debate in order to discuss ways forward. That is why I have chosen not to focus on the support the government finally decided on would be the answer to France's request. It has been discussed, and I have noted that we thought it could have been done more. But we are putting it a little aside for a while, because it is actually more than just what France asked for help from the other Member States. We also need to discuss what this means for Sweden and our security. What else can we do? What can we fill up with? The political trail is obviously one of the tracks, and so is the humanitarian trail. Here we cannot stress enough the importance of supporting the UN process and now hope that the Syrian opposition can start talks, even if it looks dark. The same applies to humanitarian aid, where the government has now established a Syria crisis strategy. It will be very difficult to reach the groups you want to reach, but that does not mean that you should not try. At the same time, we must see if there is anything more we can do. For Sweden, the EU is the closest arena in trying to face common threats. This is indeed a common threat, and then we must also find common solutions. It is about finding everything from whether there is more on the military side to whether there is more we can do nationally and on the part of the European Union and the United Nations in terms of achieving financial flows. It is amazing that an organization like Daish can sell oil, cotton and other types of raw materials in the world today, when everyone knows the threat it poses. Funding is a basis for Daish to continue its activities. The main purpose for us in this debate is therefore to hear just how the government – for it is the government that has the main responsibility – sees what responsibility Sweden has in the overall struggle. What can Sweden do nationally? Here in other debates, not particularly foreign policy, we have discussed everything from stricter penalties and new legislation to preventive work, which is of course very important. Then, however, there is the next part, which is what we are running in Europe. As I said, it is a question of chasing funding and financial flows to see if Europe and the EU can do more in terms of other types of aid, in addition to aid and the political process. I do not think I have received an answer to this. Nor do I think that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has answered the question of what assessment and analysis the government has made of what UN Resolution 2249, which was adopted just before Christmas, means. In fact, it calls on every nation to review this – it says that they call upon Member States to do what they can to stop the threat. It is for our own sake and for Europe's sake, but of course also for the sake of the people most affected, namely those who live in Iraq and Syria.
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-144	Mr President, I would like to Sometimes the name of things can be important. People usually call it Daish instead of IS and are proud that they call it a state or Islamia, as the Foreign Minister said. But I don't know if the Foreign Minister has looked at what Daish really stands for. In Arabic it means al-al-Dawla al-Islamiya fi al-Iraq wa al-Sham-Sham, i.e. the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria. You say Daish and feel proud, fine and sweet that you use a different designation, but you say exactly the same thing as the Islamic state stands for when you say it in Arabic. I don't know how much it's gonna help. IS and Syria are not synonymous. At the bombing on Drottninggatan in Stockholm in 2010, the terrorist referred to IS, and this was before the war in Syria. It may also be added that the person was a physiotherapist. You wish he could have got a job in Sweden. Sometimes when you talk about terrorism, some feel that it happens when states fall apart or that the will to carry out terrorist attacks has to do with poverty or something like that. But that's not true either. There need not be any congruent states for terrorism to be on the agenda. Iran and Saudi Arabia are two telling examples that this link does not necessarily need to be strong. When it comes to terrorism in relation to poverty, there are many poor countries in the world. There are some countries that stand out in their capacity to produce terrorists or to support terrorism. There is an ideological link here. For example, the 11th September terrorists. They were highly educated individuals. The London attacks in 2005 were carried out by middle class people, one of whom was a doctor. Yasir Arafat was a terrorist of rank. He had a long career of terrorism, and he was educated in London. The Journal of Economic Perspectives showed in 2003 that terrorists are often more wealthy, and that the more wealthy are more in favour of terrorist acts. The same applies if education is taken into account. It was also shown that the Hizbollah terrorists generally have a higher level of education than the general population. The probability that the poor would commit terrorist acts was less. For several years in a row, the Swedish Democrats have increased humanitarian aid in areas where Sweden can make the greatest contribution, i.e. the situation of the people suffering from what is happening in Syria and Iraq. We are investing 9 billion more than the government, and a share of this money would go to the conflict area down there. Mrs Wallström spoke of refugee opposition as a struggle against IS. But the reception of refugees is a disaster for Sweden. It is also a breeding ground for IS in Sweden, which has somehow become a haven for terrorists. An important difference is probably just about funding. Care should be taken to ensure that the EU works with the Mediterranean pushbacks in order to send the boat immigrants back to Africa. This would put an end to the profit industry for IS, among others. The JAS plan could be used. They could be used for reconnaissance purposes, for example, to knock out oil - containing tankers that make a lot of money from IS. We haven't done that either. This with a border-free Europe, mass immigration, when Sweden supported Gaddafi, and Libya that fell became a haven for terrorism and for the money machine when immigrants are sent across Europe. That is where we are going to make our efforts, and then we could hit IS funding.
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-154	Mr President, I would like to This is an extremely important debate and important challenges ahead of us. Sure, I agree that broad political solutions are the very best. But somehow, it seems that the Alliance has hooked up with JAS. JAS, JAS and JAS were the solution to everything instead of looking at the broad picture. I wonder very much about that and would like to hear some sort of analysis from the Alliance representatives as to why they have been so caught up on the JAS plane alone. It is quite liberating to hear Karin Enström talk more about the broad picture. We have heard Allan Widman raise other aspects. I agree with what the Foreign Minister said about the need to look at the broad picture. Sweden was quick with its response. We also responded to what France asked for. If Sweden needed help, we wouldn't get any help because we didn't send any JAS planes. I don't understand this. I can imagine that we would not only want fighter planes to help if we had to invoke the declaration of solidarity in the future. I think we would like to have the broad picture, the patchwork that I talked about in my previous speech. Therefore, I would like to take a moment to move forward with what Sweden is actually doing in relation to Daish and the conflicts in the Middle East. A huge number of people are on the run in the world today. A lot of people just run away from Daish's reign of terror. Only a few make it to Europe, but many more make it to the countries around them. Then it matters that Sweden is the country in Europe that receives the most asylum seekers. It also plays a role that, at the same time, we safeguard aid and continue to be the largest donor per capita. It is also important that the government spends money on humanitarian aid at a time when the lives of people, especially women and girls, are at stake in underfunded refugee camps. On Folk och Försvar i Sälen, someone said that earlier one could expect to get a food broadcast in Jordanian refugee camps once a month. Nowadays, the food broadcasts come once every two months. Just as important as supporting the work of countering Daish is the work of stabilising the areas that have been freed. There is a need for rapid action to trigger the basic support needed by the civilian population and support for those who actually dare to return. In order to fight Daish, we must also instill confidence in the future of those who will build the region after the war and those who seek refuge in Daish because they see no other future. Through the recently adopted strategy for Syria, Sweden is investing 1.5 billion in aid to the Syrian crisis. In a new way, we are now marrying humanitarian aid with long-term aid. It is an aid that benefits both Syria and the surrounding countries. This is extremely important. Different UN agencies will deal with aid. The needs in Syria are enormous, and the situation is very difficult. We and many other donors believe that we must nevertheless try to face these difficulties. Today, 2 million children in Syria do not attend school. It is very difficult for people to make a living outside the war economy at all. Sweden will therefore contribute to providing basic public services such as education and livelihoods inside Syria where possible. The strategy increases our support for civil society and for the democratic forces that are crucial for preparing for a sustainable peace and working for a future democracy.
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-165	Mr President, I would like to There are many important points raised in this debate. What is essential is that we conduct the dialogue here at home on what will be needed and what is needed in the near future and in the longer term. Last year we had negotiations on the direction of defence policy over the next five years. At that time, it was suggested that we reduce international efforts and increase our focus on our geographical neighbourhood in Sweden and the Baltic Sea region. That's what happened, but with some adjustment. We invested additional money, but for this period it is a smaller amount for international efforts than it has been in the past. That is also why the economic space is very limited. Therefore, the framework was also 40 million in the level of ambition that the government in this step chooses to provide as support – this in order to continue the work after what happened in France. One question I would like to ask the representatives of the Government is how the Government will work this year to ensure that there will be room for further possible international efforts with financial resources. Clearly, we need to focus on our neighbourhood based on the decision that lies, so that the Swedish Armed Forces can continue to work here at home, in the Baltic Sea region and in other areas where we work together to contribute to security. But we also need to continue working in order to be operational in international operations, and that requires money. It is a very important issue here and now to have with you for further talks. How do we get rid of more funding, and how does the government intend to deal with this issue? Then it is very well-sound and good work done on the basis of what the Minister has presented on humanitarian action. It's a big effort. There's a lot of things reaching a lot of people in need. The reports that come out show that there are many here and now have great needs on both the food and clothing front. It is a vulnerable situation in refugee camps and in areas both within Syria and in Iraq. A recent report from Amnesty International presented the situation in areas that had previously been under Daish's rule but where after Peshmerga forces entered instead – what has happened to the population and what has happened in individual cities. The brutality that occurs is not just about one side, but about several sides and in several ways. It is extremely important to ensure that the funds that Sweden contributes to humanitarian aid are handled carefully and properly when they arrive, given that there are so many interests that are being fought. There is uncertainty about how best to manage this all the way. We need to be able to ensure that the help we provide in no way benefits the wrong purposes and fuels abuse of the type reported by Amnesty International. Then I also want to talk about the long-term perspective. We need to contribute. That is also why the question of reconnaissance flights came. That discussion is being conducted because it was a petition. But I also think that we need to focus on what has a lasting effect when it comes to people's attitudes towards each other, their consciousness and attitudes. How are we going to work to get into the fundamental problem of such terrible conflicts?
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-172	Mr President, I would like to We need to develop our support for the democratic groups which still exist in this area and which are struggling in a fierce headwind. It is good that the Minister for Foreign Affairs should address political aid, humanitarian aid and also the military aid we are actually giving today by training peshmergor. Like I said, I don't think fighter planes are the answer. Karin Enström made a wise connection when she spoke about terrorism, which creates the flow of refugees. But we're gonna back the band one more step, I think. What has created both these phenomena? Yes, they are in every way extremely unsuccessful and costly wars in Afghanistan, Iraq and Libya. They have created huge flows of refugees and have also been the breeding ground for terrorism. We must learn something from that. There's been a little talk of money. There is a budgetary problem in this support. It is worth recalling that we would have had an additional 50 million to take action if we had not taken the unfortunate decision to continue the failure in Afghanistan. Speaking of money, it is fascinating to see a rather united silence on Turkey's very strange role. They're actually funders of Daish. That Daish is a much better name than the Islamic state has nothing to do with showing yourself good, as someone might think, but it has to do with Daish sounding the same as a word in Arabic that means trample or crush. The supporters of Daish absolutely do not want that word to be used. That may be reason enough, albeit certainly a detail in this context. But back to Turkey's role! It is a NATO country that primarily bombes its own population but also raids Syria and creates further chaos in the airspace there. Above all, however, there is good reason to suspect that even Erdo中an's family is involved in oil smuggling from Daish-controlled areas, thus financing terrorism. So there are few good powers, but many who have very dubious agendas. I would like to say something about terrorist acts in Sweden. I can only say that I find it a shame that in the Swedish parliament there is a party whose representatives cheer on, affirm and try to facilitate terrorist acts in Sweden against intended or existing refugee camps. I think that all political forces should distance themselves from this. In conclusion, the Left Party has not opposed France's request or the government's response to this request. We will test every further step proposed on the basis of the principle of international law, the effectiveness of the fight against terrorism and the security of Swedish soldiers and Sweden.
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-180	Mr President, I would like to I think it is excellent that Stig Henriksson reminds us that terrorism has many different faces. Of course, it is valuable that all parties distance themselves from what has happened in Trollhättan and our refugee homes around the country. Mr President, I would like to Whatever Sweden had offered in the form of aid to France, it is my conviction that the French Government had expressed its gratitude to us. That is how international relations work, and I think many of us realise that. Of course, it is correct that four or six Swedish reconnaissance planes had made no decisive difference in this operation. But it would have been visible and clear. As I said in my first speech, it had been associated with risks, not only risks for the military personnel who would have carried out reconnaissance missions in the region, but certainly also increased risks to the Swedish community. And that is what is at the heart of solidarity – not having to stand alone, but knowing that there are others who share what is costly and risky. I therefore believe, Mr President, that the JAS aircraft would have played a major role on another plane, on a more political and moral level, albeit not within the framework of the military operation. As Daniel Bäckström said in his first speech, it is important to remember that the examination of the 42.7, the defence clause, will have a strong precedent, no matter who gets hurt. I asked the Foreign Minister a question in my first speech, but I did not really feel that it was answered, so I had to ask it again. In the negotiations, the government presented Swedish reconnaissance plan as a much-needed effort by the Swedish side and also a very possible effort with regard to our rapid response preparedness. Why would you do that if you were to turn it down in the end? Stig Henriksson was at a public-law discussion in his first speech. He noted that defence and security was not an area in which the EU functions supranationally. That is quite correct. One cannot force individual Member States to carry out one or the other in this area with binding effect. But Stig Henriksson misses that there is a moral obligation and that it is in this context the most important thing. In addition, Mr President, it can be said that Sweden as a member of the United Nations is actually bound rather heavily by a resolution which deals with intervening with the fight against Daish with all the means at its disposal. Mr President, I would like to The opposition received criticism that we did not point to concrete alternatives where Sweden could have done more. I pointed out a number of those dealing with medical supplies, CBRN equipment and peshmerga weapons. I am also sorry that when we tried the training effort in Iraq last time in this House, the government could not bring itself to say that it was long-term and that Sweden's commitment down there was long-term. I wonder: Is that view still there?
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-188	Mr President, I would like to It is clear that the solidarity clause enshrined in the EU Treaty, Article 42(7), weighs lightly in Swedish considerations. The question will certainly arise in both the Nordic and Baltic capitals to what extent there is reason to deepen military cooperation with Sweden, a country that seems to take so lightly its commitments. It also rhymes badly with the image the government wants to paint by Sweden as a serious partner with the USA with which it is worth having a deeper collaboration with. Unfortunately, since Sweden is not a member of NATO at present, our foreign policy is based on the said declaration of solidarity. It is therefore of the utmost importance that Sweden also acts in solidarity with the countries in crisis, whether it is an armed attack from foreign power, terrorism or an environmental disaster. Not acting in solidarity greatly undermines Swedish foreign policy and our chances of getting help in the future. Does the Minister of Foreign Affairs not think that this will have consequences for Sweden's position internationally? What the government has now done is to send a very clear signal that will have an impact on what kind of help we can expect to receive in an armed crisis directed against Sweden. Mr President, I would like to On the one hand, to talk about a rapprochement with the United States, and, on the other hand, to reject the requests for fairly specific assistance received is a bad tactic to build cooperation with the United States. Mr President, I would like to It has been said that we are lending equipment. In Svenska Dagbladet, January 12, ÖB says that the Swedish defence has access to modern precision bombs against land targets that France has asked to borrow from Swedish stores as part of the military support package. So it seems that we are going to lend bombs to other countries that are going to fight IS. But we ourselves do not even put up with the search that France and the United States have asked for. The message that we are sending out is this: We leave it to others to do the tough job, what needs to be done if Daish is to be stopped. To let the sons and daughters of other countries risk their lives because we are too fine to stand up in the fight against Daish is, in the eyes of many, nothing but hypocrisy. Finally, I would like to agree with Allan Widman's proposal, which was also endorsed by the Christian Democrats. We must greatly extend our support to peshmerga. It is about medical equipment and protective equipment against chemical weapons – we know that they have used mustard gases, for example – and weapons. This is long-term work that needs to be done. Former Minister of Foreign Affairs Carl Bildt recently stated that we are facing the 30-year war at worst. Then it wants us in Sweden to do what we can and do when we are in demand.
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-197	Mr President, I would like to Ladies and gentlemen! Maybe I was a little too quick to commend you, best Allan Widman. To be honest, this doesn't make any sense. Sweden would contribute something that you claim would not have any military significance, entail increased risk for those involved in the operation, such as the pilots, increase the risk for Sweden and be very expensive, and we would do it for show. Vous avez sous-estimé les Fran ç ais. You've underestimated the French. They're wiser than that. The discussions and dialogues we have had with France have been about: What is Sweden best at? What can you do to help France? I do not think that they would be able to write us a letter saying, for example, that they thank you for the substance of le soutien très or le soutien significatif, that is, a significant, significant and substantial support, and even with the best of diplomacy would not use that language if they did not mean it. They haven't made demand lists. They have said that these are examples that countries can contribute. We have had a very good discussion with France. This doesn't really make sense, to be honest. Sweden is part of the coalition against Daesh. We are members of the coalition's core group, which brings together some twenty of the major contributors to discuss the efforts and ensure that we reach the goals. There we can discuss: how are the efforts to combat Daesh developing? What is the best contribution we can make? It'll be a little one-sided. Of course, Karin Enström, we'll do the analysis. We do that all the time. From there, our Syria strategy has also run, which is a comprehensive five-year strategy. Of course we are doing all the things you have asked for. We hope that we will be able to do so in greater political agreement. But then we also need to be a little more mindful of what we are proposing.
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-201	Mr President, I would like to It was very good that the Foreign Minister mentioned the coalition. That's what I was going to bring up. It hasn't been up for discussion. Sweden is in the coalition against Daish. But we really hear very little about what work is going on there. How is the work coordinated, and what is Sweden's role? I would like to ask for more information and discussion on this. Is there any reason to reconsider our role in the coalition? Is there a reason, as the Foreign Minister opened up to here, to look at if there are more things that the coalition can do and more things that Sweden can contribute beyond what we are doing now? On the basis of a hopefully wise analysis, it should be concluded that we must be able to do more. The threat is not decreasing, it is increasing. Then our firm belief is that Sweden must be prepared to use additional military means. That is why we should initially look at: what military action could we further assist in the fight against Daish? It was clear in the request from both the US and France that it was a certain type of aid that was requested. Whatever it is, it's over. Now it is like how we jointly help not only France but ourselves, the European Union and the rest of the world to fight this organisation. Daish's brand is built on success. Anything you can do to weaken the organization is important. That is why we must also be able to consider military means. I have asked a question about precisely the UN Security Council resolution, which is so broad. What else can we do? Has the government taken any action or done any analysis of what the call to all Member States means? I haven't had an answer to that. We can do more, and we will do more.
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-206	Mr President, I would like to It sounds good when people get up and talk warm to fight terrorism in different ways. It gets a little hollow when we have quite a few parties in this House who actively and directly, and also probably consciously, support terrorism and terrorist organisations. We have a government that has shocked aid to the Palestinian Authority, which pays salaries to terrorists. It is an authority that is openly and eager to commit terrorist crimes and kill as many Jews as possible. We have the same parties as in the City of Stockholm decide to give terrorists priority in the housing queue, which may not be the world's best way to fight terrorism. We have immigration, massive immigration, to this country, which creates a breeding ground for terrorism, when at the same time we have a bunch of parties which, in the same spirit, call for and support the structures which fertilise terrorism. They support segregation, among other things, with the creation of Muslim free schools and mosques popping up like mushrooms out of the ground. Again: When people talk about what Sweden can do to help, the discussion is often very much about Sweden's defence. The simple truth is that, apart from the Swedish Democrats, every party has consistently dismantled Sweden's defence to a ridiculous level. There doesn't seem to be any direct self-awareness. There is no one who says sorry or admits that they were wrong. Nobody says we were wrong. Perhaps compulsory service should not have been abolished, as people were eager to do. Maybe we shouldn't have done what we did to the defense for so long. There is no understanding whatsoever that you have done wrong for decades. If you do not have this insight, the problems will not be solved at all. Nor should the voters give any further confidence to the parties that have been in charge of this policy for decades, because this indicates that their analysis of reality is seriously flawed. Then the voters should look for new alternatives.
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-211	Mr President, I would like to In most wars, the opponents have at least one thing in common: no one really wants to die. But how does one fight an enemy who wants to die and who believes that taking several others into death reaches Paradise? That question must follow us, and the answer must be that we must never forget the loneliness of the outcast man — man's eternal quest. We need to do everything in our power to catch those who are entering the yarn of radicalisation. We need to counter the ugly breeding ground of terrorism and offer them another option in the name of indivisible human rights here at home and in the world. Thank you for the debate.
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-213	Mr President, I would like to When other EU countries are attacked and asking for our help, it goes without saying that we should assist in the best way and on the basis of the conditions we have, but also those that we can create. With experience of the work of the past few months, there is more to be desired for the coming. The efforts now being made and to be made will be evaluated according to the Government's plan. It is then important that this evaluation should also identify what will be required in the next step. At the same time, we do not know what we will face this spring. The events that have taken place over the last six months show the surprises and the unpredictable. With this experience, it is extremely important to think ahead and to be prepared for things to happen both in our neighbourhood, here at home, and in the other countries of Europe. We therefore need to be prepared for this, and we need to work preventively to prevent such unforeseen events. The practical action, however, says more than many spoken words. The practical action shows our real will, our ability and our attitude. It can also explain some of our understanding, commitment and attitude. This greatly affects the image of Sweden what we can do in practical action to help people in vulnerable situations. It is people who suffer terrible abuse. We must do everything we can this year to contribute to stability and to give clear signals – signals that increase security here at home, within Europe's borders, in our neighbourhoods and not least in the Middle East. Thank you for a very important debate, Mr President.
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-219	Mr President, I would like to Allan Widman and I disagree about a lot of things. We disagree on the JAS plan and about sending weapons to Peshmerga. One could say that we have an arms export legislation that needs to be taken into account in this context, in order to express itself diplomatically. On the other hand, I do not think that support for international law has been a major problem in the actions proposed. Allan Widman says that I have forgotten the moral obligation, but I want to repeat what I said in the introduction: with or without a treaty – when France's request came, the Left Party repeatedly said that it was obvious to us that Sweden would assist France because it was a democracy that was subjected to terrorist action and that is asking for help. I think that is a moral position. I also think that Allan Widman, in his introductory speech, well-intentionedly extended the debate to include what we can, should and must do in Sweden in order to drain the ground for terrorist activities that come from Sweden. Finally, Kent Ekeroth condemned parties that support terror and terrorism. I thought for a moment it was self-criticism. But I was wrong, at least on that point. I would also just like to remind you that military service was put on hold before my time in this House. But as I understand it, it was with a few votes overweight, so not everyone agreed in the other parties either. Thank you for an interesting debate. We will have reason to return, as they now always say in the television news. I would just like to point out that Sweden came third out of 28 countries. If the handball E.M. is doing just as well as it is now, we can be proud.
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-224	Mr President, I would like to For many years I have had the privilege of visiting both Swedish troops abroad as well as a wide range of countries and representatives of both military and civil defence. There has never been a lack of compliments on any of these occasions for what Sweden does and what we stand for. I believe that it is part of international relations to show courtesy and gratitude. On the other hand, I am not prepared to put so much faith in what the Minister for Foreign Affairs says: that it is only the content of aid that matters. So it is not the sacrifices, and it is not the risks. It goes without saying to me that when you expose yourself to risks and suffer losses together with others, this is the core of security policy. That is what makes large countries with a lot of resources such as the United States, Germany and the United Kingdom rapidly and very resolutely engage in supporting with the most heaviest, the most costly and the most risky efforts when France so requests. Mr President, I would like to I, too, would like to thank you for the debate and to conclude that I have still not received an answer from the Minister for Foreign Affairs to my question. If the government were to say no and Sweden didn't send any fighter planes or reconnaissance aircraft – it's the same platform – why was this option so clearly held up? Why did the Minister of Defence go out of his way and call for measures with substantial military content?
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-227	Mr President, I would like to Solidarity is originally a French word. Briefly summed up, you can explain it like this: One for everyone, all for one. Is this not precisely what the solidarity clause on which France is now relying is based? One for all, all for one. If Sweden does not want to stand up for freedom and security with the skills we have and that are being demanded in such a heavy crisis as France is now in, what signals do we send? When are we going to stand up for a nation that v i has promised our solidarity and when we expect others to stand up for us? It is not impossible that in the short term it can affect the possibilities for deeper security policy and military cooperation with our neighbours in the Nordic and Baltic countries as well as the United States. The government's decision to barely give even symbolic support to France does not respond to the declaration of solidarity, and that puts Sweden's credibility and security at risk. The Minister for Foreign Affairs says that France is satisfied with the response that has been given. I would like to agree with what Allan Widman said earlier that the Foreign Minister should be well aware of the diplomatic language. It may be something to remember for the future that you do not insult a country.
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-230	Mr President, I would like to Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you for this debate. I would like to answer the concrete question from Karin Enström about how we handle the coalition and what we do in this core group that we are part of. I believe that two issues need to be raised, and I believe that one is funding, as several of you have mentioned. How are we going to get to the fact that Daesh is financed by dealing with oil and not least slaves? We need to do more to deal with this. The second issue that I think needs to be raised is about something a little more long-term, deeper and more difficult, and it is an inter-religious and intercultural dialogue that, in the long term, also affects our understanding of each other. It is a much more difficult and profound issue, but I believe that it will eventually have to be dealt with. Can we create institutions and platforms for this? We have, of course, analysed the Security Council resolution, which does not advocate the use of force. You should remember that. There is no explicit mandate of this kind, but we have always been careful that there must be such a people's legal basis, and it does so in other ways, in terms of our efforts both in Iraq and in Syria. Yet we should be careful in how it is used, especially when we want to intervene on the territory of another country. I share the commitment that has been shown in this House to combat Daesh, and I think you will correct your view that we would be late and do too little. It doesn't make any sense. We need to put an end to these merciless ravages that Daesh stands for – the rapes, slavery and misogynism that can be seen in this. That's where we need to help each other. When we can leave the matter of accusing each other behind us, we can also gather around forward-looking measures. That is one of the most important tasks we have. We are also pleased that we could have a new national strategy against terrorism, and there was, of course, an agreement with the Moderates, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Christian Democrats. We're happy about that. Let us hope that we can create a new dialogue on this.
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-245	Mr President, I would like to Ladies and gentlemen! Allan Widman has asked me what measures I am prepared to take in order, as Mr Widman puts it, to have supranational decision-making in the UN Security Council for two years, to have the same clear parliamentary basis as such decision-making within the EU. I would like to begin by stating that the UN Security Council has the same powers as it has had since its establishment in 1945. These powers may mean that the Security Council, with binding effect for Sweden and all other UN states, can decide on matters that concern us as well as other countries. This applies regardless of whether Sweden is a member of the Security Council or not. Increased transparency and openness in the work of the Security Council is a priority for the government whether we are elected to the Council or not. In the event of a possible membership of the Security Council, the Government intends to demonstrate with concrete action the importance we attach to these issues, both in international contexts and in national processes. The election of the non-permanent members of the Security Council will take place in June, and it is only after that that it is necessary to draw up the precise arrangements for carrying out the work. Sweden has served three times in the UN Security Council, two of which are currently under government. My starting point is that the usual procedures for anchoring in the Riksdag should also apply this time.
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-249	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for your detailed answer. Thank you, too, for the fact that the answer contains a wide range of emphasises on the value and importance of transparency and transparency in the exercise of supranational power by the Security Council. What concerns me a little, Mr President, is that, despite a good introduction to the reply from the Foreign Minister, it comes to the conclusion that it will be a customary procedure of anchoring the Parliament in the event that Sweden enters the Security Council. This sounds a little defensive to me, Mr President. I had enough idea from the outset that we would like to move forward the positions and that, not least, the Minister for Foreign Affairs would like to do so both in terms of transparency and support from Parliament, as well as in terms of transparency and support from NGOs involved in this area.
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-252	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for his reply and for the clear message that the government will work to increase openness and transparency in the UN and that it will continue to shape contact with the Riksdag, which is something that we Members of Parliament appreciate. I would also like to thank Allan Widman for the opportunity here to debate the issue of Sweden's candidacy for the UN Security Council. The UN is an important pillar of Swedish foreign policy. It is not the only one, but it complements other pillars of foreign policy. It would be a great opportunity if we had the chance to join the Security Council as one of the non-permanent members for two years. This is an issue that is approaching its crucial point. The vote will take place in June, and it is an important time until then. I am pleased with the very broad support that the candidacy has had in the Foreign Affairs Committee but also in the whole Parliament since the application was submitted by the previous government. But I am even happier about the enthusiasm and commitment that this government, led by the Prime Minister and Foreign Minister, has shown to drive Sweden's candidacy in a constructive way. Sweden may be a small country on the outskirts of Europe, but in the UN context we have a very impressive CV and a proud history. Ever since Folke Bernadottes's time, Swedes have played an important role in the UN, not least through the nearly 100 000 Swedes who during the year have served in 120 international missions in 60 countries. Other people we should be very proud of and who have been prominent over the years are Dag Hammarskjöld, Rolf Ekéus and Hans Blix. This also applies to current and prominent people like Jan Eliasson – who is now at the top of the UN-scraper – Anders Compass, Staffan de Mistura – whom we can well half take credit for – and Birgitta Holst Alani – who will now assist De Mistura in Syria. We are also one of the largest contributors to the UN per capita but also in actual figures. We are quite proud of that. Sweden's CV will probably help us now that we are competing with Italy and Holland for a seat in the Security Council. I would like to take this opportunity to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs: why is it important that Sweden joins the Security Council? And what questions will we prioritise when we take up the position there?
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-259	Mr President, I would like to If Sweden is elected, it will be 20 years since we were last a member of the Security Council. Firstly, we are running for office because it is ultimately about Sweden's voice in multilateral cooperation. It is a pillar of our foreign policy. The Security Council is in many ways the epicentre of world politics. We commend them, and as we all know, we yell at them when we feel that there are shortcomings. But it is also the only UN body whose decisions are legally binding on the Member States. Secondly, we are running for office because Sweden is the sixth largest donor to the UN and a strong voice for global peace and development, as well as for UN reform. Thirdly, we are running for office because for two years we would then have the opportunity to push and influence matters and to help the Security Council act where necessary. A decisive effort is being made for peace, including the governance of the 16 ongoing crisis management operations. I would like to say something about information, because Allan Widman's question was about how to conduct the consultation and information. Last time, the Committee on Foreign Affairs provided continuous information at least once a month. It was mainly the head of the relevant department at the Ministry for Foreign Affairs who presented the issues dealt with in the Council, and there was an opportunity for questions and discussion. If we are elected, we must of course have a working form for information and, where appropriate, also a foundation in the Riksdag, in accordance with the laws and regulations in force. We must also ensure that we can fulfil Council membership. There are very many meetings and very short lead times, as it must be in the Security Council. In 2015, 167 meetings took place in the Security Council. 64 resolutions were discussed. 56 were adopted unanimously. And 128 press statements were made. What we are doing now is learning from, for example, Lithuania, which has now completed its membership of the Security Council. We'll check with them. What has happened recently is a lot about civil society. And, of course, media coverage is quite different from 20 years ago. It is to be added and learned from countries that have modern experience of what it means in practical terms. It is not possible to build exactly on the European model. It is very heavy and surrounded by a completely different regulatory framework. In that case, of course, we must – that is the government's intention – get a system in which the Riksdag is properly informed and given the opportunity to express views.
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-266	Mr President, I would like to I cannot speak on behalf of the President-in-Office. But I suppose the Riksdag would welcome all possibilities for information and feedback if Sweden were to take a position on difficult decisions as a member of the UN Security Council. These may include both reports to composite committees – foreign and defence – and reporting to the whole House when particularly important points have been or are to be dealt with. It is my conviction that it is a strength for Sweden and Swedish negotiating positions every time a minister can go to Brussels and say that the Swedish Parliament is behind the view expressed by the Swedish Government. I think it would work in exactly the same way with regard to the Security Council. I make a benevolent interpretation of what the Foreign Minister says about trying out new forms. I sincerely hope that there is an opportunity to advance positions here, not least for the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the innovation represented by the Foreign Minister within the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Mr President, I would like to Having said that, I would like to thank you once again for your reply.
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-270	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for his reply. I would like to devote my second and final speech to once again emphasising the broad support that exists in the Riksdag for Sweden's candidacy. It is a joint commitment that the Riksdag and the Government have to work to ensure that things are going well. Allan Widman and other members of Parliament! We may perhaps have different opinions about parts of foreign policy, whether the JAS plan is only a salutary one, whether French diplomats are just polite or both polite and sincere in their answers, about various efforts in aid and whether a shovel should actually be called a shovel even by the foreign minister. But the UN is an important arena for Sweden, and that the UN has a vital role to play in peace-prevention conflict resolution and security-building is beyond doubt for all parties in this Parliament. That is precisely why Sweden should be included in the Security Council. Of course, we want to influence as much as we can in those forums that are of greatest importance. The UN, of course, has its shortcomings. The Security Council, not least, needs reform. The effectiveness of certain parts of the organization is rightly called into question. The war in Syria very much shows the disastrous consequences of the failure of the international community and the Security Council to agree on a way forward. But the UN is the forum we have. And we must have reasonable expectations of the UN. I would like to conclude by quoting Dag Hammarskjöld who said that the UN was not created to bring us to heaven but to save us from hell. With this, I would like to thank you for the opportunity to take part in this important debate.
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-277	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank Allan Widman and Olle Thorell for their fine and important contributions. It is a strength for our candidacy that it has the backing of both the Riksdag and our Nordic neighbours. This campaign is about our voice in multilateral cooperation and about shouldering our global responsibility. It goes without saying to us, through the previous government, to run for office when it is our turn to aspirate in a place in the Council. The next opportunity lies very far in the future. I believe that we are seen as a constructive and bridge-building activity. This is the experience of Sweden's commitment to solving global challenges. We are also working for a Security Council that can be more effective, more transparent and above all more representative. It is an important message that we are sending out now that we are talking about our candidacy. Of course, we must look at how, when we sit there and use our seat in the Security Council, we can ensure that we anchor, inform and discuss with Parliament in particular, but also civil society, in order to solve security policy challenges and other challenges in the world today.
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-281	Mr President, I would like to Jörgen Warborn has addressed the situation of creative industries and the ongoing review of the EU copyright acquis. He has asked me if it is true that the government is not actively pursuing issues within the EU in relation to the review of copyright and piracy. He believes that the government is passive in this area and wonders how this comes from the fact that creative industries are growing in importance and building their business model on intellectual property rights. Let me begin by saying that Sweden is a successful country in terms of cultural and creative industries such as the music, film, fashion and computer game industries. The revenue of the music industry continues to grow, and the computer gaming industry has grown by an average of 39 percent annually since 2006. Cultural and creative industries are industries of the future. They contribute to a richer society, both economically and culturally, and are also valuable for how Sweden is perceived abroad. The issue of measures to strengthen Swedish companies in the cultural and creative industries is highlighted in the export strategy launched by the government last September. It can also be mentioned that, among other things, creatives and entrepreneurship are highlighted in the strategy for the work with the Swedish image abroad developed by the Swedish Board for Sweden Promotion abroad. The Commission's work on the review of copyright started in 2012. The development of new technologies presents great opportunities but also challenges for cross-border access to copyright-protected material. The Commission's work spans a large number of complex issues in an area where there are strong opposing interests. It is likely to have contributed to the fact that the Commission has only now presented something more concrete about what it intends to do and then in the form of the Communication Towards a more modern and more European framework for copyright. The Commission has also proposed a Regulation on cross-border portability of online content services. The government has been actively involved in meetings with the Commission and in other contexts on the basis of the information available on the Commission's intentions. The main focus of the Commission's work has been to facilitate the cross-border use of copyrighted material in the EU. There has been concern that this approach could result in a deterioration for rightholders, especially if it would involve major changes in fundamental copyright or even full harmonisation. The government has worked to protect copyright and has pushed the line that efforts should be made where there is a real need instead of major changes being made that are not requested and that even risks worsening the situation of rightholders. It is important that there is a balance between the interests of both rightholders and users. The government therefore welcomes the approach set out in the Commission communication, i.e. that it chooses to make proposals on specific issues while continuing its analysis work. It is also in line with what has so far emerged mainly from Swedish copyright stakeholders. The message has been referred. The government will, of course, continue to work actively to ensure that the forthcoming Commission proposals are geared to the desired direction. In the further work, it is important to work to ensure that increased harmonisation does not lead to unnecessarily increased administrative burden for rightholders, users or consumers and that improved copyright protection is combined with effective protection of individuals' privacy. With regard in particular to the issue of piracy and other infringements of intellectual property rights, the Government welcomes the Commission's focus on those who infringe on a commercial scale. The proceeds of these infringements must be limited.
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-289	Madam President, I would like The Minister's reply confirms that the government is not pushing any question within the EU to improve the creative industry in the area of copyright. It is true that the Minister says that the creative industries such as film, music, computer games, literature, the communications industry, fashion companies and others are important and growing companies in Sweden. Since Sweden has successful creative industries, it would be hoped that the government took the opportunity, now that copyright is to be modernised within the EU, to actively drive some of the sector's perceived growth barriers within the EU. However, the image I have received from the Committee on Economic Affairs now confirms the Minister – that is, no active move from the government in the area of copyright infringement. I believe that these companies will be even more important in the future. Sweden thus has much to gain from the government taking a clear stand for strong copyright as these companies build their entire business model on intellectual property. Here I wish we could see more from the government. In its communication of 9 December, the Commission stated that it considered it necessary to adapt copyright rules to technical realities where necessary. One example in Swedish legislation is that we do not allow the downloading of copyrighted material from an illegal source, but we allow streaming of the same material. In the light of the Commission's view on technological reality, I wonder whether the government shares the Commission's view on adapting the legislation to technical reality and whether the government is considering reviewing the legislation around streaming. My second question concerns the Commission's strategy to follow the money. The method is thus to stop revenue flows to those who make money on a commercial scale from copyright-protected material. In this respect, the Commission has the objective of reaching final agreements with stakeholders already in spring 2016. Does this mean anything to the Swedish Government's actions?
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-297	Madam President, I would like It is, of course, the opposite. We are not only very active in this process; we are also much more active than the previous government was. As Jörgen Warborn points out, the creative industries are extremely important to Sweden as a result of the cultural values created in art, music, film, literature and design. It is an ongoing creation of what is our cultural heritage and that ultimately helps to define Sweden as a nation. This is extremely important to us. But there are also great economic values. Sweden is in many ways a musical power and has a much more prominent position in the field of music than our relatively small population would point to. But that also applies to film and literature, not to mention fashion and design. I was in Davos last week at the World Economic Forum, and the first thing that happens when I get out of the car in Davos is that I see a big H&M store. As long as it gives you a picture. It's nice to see that Swedish companies, regardless of their area, take as much for themselves in the world as they do. In addition, we stay well on the new arenas, for example in the computer game industry. It is enough to mention Mojang with Minecraft and King with Candy Crush to show how successful we are. Those working in these sectors must have good conditions. The most important of these is that they have the opportunity to get paid for their work. If a writer cannot get paid for his work, he will not be able to continue writing. If a filmmaker cannot get paid for his work, he or she will not be able to continue making movies. This undermines the economic basis of culture. But not only that – it will eventually damage our cultural heritage. That's why copyright is central to this government. If you ask me what the Swedish Government is pushing and what its priorities are, my answer is that it is primarily to safeguard copyright – much clearer than the previous government. You may remember when Fredrik Reinfeldt was asked about file sharing in the election campaign in 2006 and replied: We do not want to criminalize a whole generation of young people. At that time he sent a signal that for that government, the bourgeois government, copyright was not so careful, not so important. For us, this is extremely important. We have that vision. We're protecting copyright. For example, we do not want to see a trend towards not being able to license film country by country, something that the Swedish film industry has had concerns that the copyright review could lead to. Now the European Commission is not on that line. On the contrary, we are following a strategy that we can support in many ways and in which we have been the driving force. It is not a major change in the system, but it is limited to trying to find the problems and make a point-by-point effort to solve them in practice. This applies, for example, to portability, i.e. if you have paid for a streaming service in one country, you should be able to bring it to another country. It is about being able to resolve such practical issues. That is exactly the strategy we want to see. In doing so, we also welcome the European Commission's entry into the area of piracy, following the money and making it more difficult to finance these pages. The government's priorities are therefore to safeguard copyright, to solve practical cross-border problems and to clamp down on the pirate sites. We do. What does Jörgen Warborn really want?
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-308	Madam President, I would like The Minister mentions a number of outstanding companies in this area, and I share the view that they are truly successful. The Minister is also talking about filmmakers, and this is precisely one of the areas where there are major challenges. Too many people in Sweden download or stream material from an illegal source. That's where I don't have any suggestions. I hear the Minister say that it is important and that the government is active, but words are not enough. I don't notice anything in action. The Minister asks me what my proposal is. I have put forward three different proposals in previous debates. They concern streaming, blocking of sites and reviewing the scale of penalties. There are, of course, no proposals for sharp legislation, but I propose that the proposals be examined to see if we, like other Nordic countries, can find solutions to bring piracy down to levels similar to those of the other countries. I have four questions for the Attorney General. Firstly, as far as the strategy of following the money is concerned, I have argued in the past that, after judicial review, we should be able to block sites with illegal material. The government has chosen not to watch, but has been awaiting a verdict. They have now fallen. Is the government prepared to act? Secondly, how does the government see that the state-owned company Telia is likely to transport illegal material in its networks and is likely to host some such material? Does the government have any thoughts about the follow-money strategy regarding Telia? In plain language: Does the government intend to act because Telia, which is largely owned by the state and managed by the government, should not make money from the illegal material? Thirdly, the EU has invited a consultation on these issues. I understand that, among other things, the governments of the Member States can fill out a fairly comprehensive survey on these issues. My simple question is whether the government intends to submit the survey. Then I do not mean that any other authority, the PRV or the like, should do so, but my question is whether the department responsible – I suppose it is the Ministry of Justice – will answer the Commission. My fourth and final question is more open in nature. In our last debate, the Minister concluded by saying that I am prepared to take further action, particularly at European level. What efforts does Morgon Johansson want to go on with?
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-314	Madam President, I would like I pointed out that the previous government had not pushed these issues at all. Instead, we had to take over and drive them. On the file-sharing issue, Fredrik Reinfeldt's reply showed that copyright was not very important to the bourgeois government. This concerns a series of questions, including the one raised by Jörgen Warborn, about the blockage. The Moderates sat in the Ministry of Justice for eight years but did not push the question of blocking at all. On the contrary, the information I have shows that the Moderates, during their time in government, were against going forward with the blocking issue. Perhaps now there is another policy. You may have changed your mind. Jörgen Warborn should know that among those who pursue these issues, copyright holders, it is well known that the attitude of the former government was very passive. This was, of course, due to the whole privacy discussion. There are some liberal groupings which, especially when we discuss file sharing, think that it is some kind of human right to assimilate everything that is online. There were also representatives of the former government. The current government is much clearer. Let's say we protect copyright. You have to get paid for your work. The question of blocking is subject to continued judicial review. It is true that there has been a district court ruling, but it has been appealed and the case is now before the Court of Appeal. We have to wait for that process. I do not rule out that we on our part may need to take further action on this issue, but before taking any such initiatives we have to wait and see how the right process goes. Let me sum up: we are safeguarding copyright in the European negotiations. Among other things, it is a question of trying to ensure that we do not, for example, end up in a situation where the licensing possibilities currently available country by country are undermined. That would be very bad news for, among other things, the film industry. We're pushing to try to squeeze the pirate pages. So if we understand that it is the Commission's idea – it is a process that is going on – to try first and foremost to use some kind of self-remediation mechanism, that is to say, to get stakeholders to act rather than resort to legislation. It is not yet on the Commission's side. We must wait and see what the Commission comes up with. Finally, it is a question of solving the problems. Instead of looking at major system changes, we must try to solve practical cross-border problems, such as portability. It is a clear and simple agenda we have from the Swedish Government. It is much clearer than the one the previous government managed to perform.
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-322	Madam President, I would like The minister reviews the former government. You could possibly do that when you're a minister. I could review the current situation, but I do not think the industry is very impressed by the fact that we are talking about the past. The industry and copyright holders probably want to know what the government is thinking for the future. I do not think it is clear enough that the government is vigorously pushing these issues. Blocking was mentioned. Yes, the Minister can see in motions from the Moderates that we now want to see blockage. Furthermore, the Minister says that there has been a lack of clarity within the previous government. The question is whether the reason for the current lack of power is that the two parties in the current government have a slightly different attitude to copyright. Possibly so. The Minister says to protect the copyright area. I believe that, given the great piracy that is taking place, we must strengthen copyright. I think that in the debate we have been confirmed that the government is not pushing any real issues within the EU to improve for all those companies that rely on copyright. I have made some suggestions in previous debates and continue to do so. Unfortunately, however, I see a government passivity in terms of legislation. The government and the Minister hide behind court proceedings or work within the EU. The question also seems to be being sent between the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Justice. I do not think anyone in the government is acting with force. I am pleased that the government believes it is important to protect copyright, but it is worrying that it is just words and no action. In order for us to deal with the thefts from creators, the government needs to come up with initiatives. Finally, it would be good if the Minister commented on what I said about Telia and followed the money.
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-328	Madam President, I would like We have a very close dialogue with rightholders, both at the level of officials and at the political level. They know what questions we are pushing and that we are doing so forcefully. At the same time, I have to say that the first time we met them-- it was at the level of state secretaries-- they were extremely frustrated that nothing had happened in, as they said, half a decade, that is, five years. They were extremely frustrated with the situation because the previous government had not been able to deal with these issues. Since the previous government did not get to grips with the issues, we must do so. As I said, our priorities are clear. We're protecting copyright. That's how I put it. I might as well say that we want to strengthen copyright. It is more a matter of wording. It is central to us, it is the one we drive hardest, and we say in the negotiations with the European Union that it is a question of solving the practical border problems rather than of creating a large new system that risks undermining copyright. So solve the practical problems instead, and squeeze the side of the pirates. As far as I know, the European Commission's line is to find a sector-specific solution, a self-remediation mechanism that ensures, for example, limiting the possibility of advertising on the pirate sites. This is what they want to get at rather than those who carry the information itself. We'll see how effective this is. Then we will certainly have reason to come back to the question of blocking. In my role, however, I have to wait for the legal process that is now under way. I am not going to anticipate it, but I am not ruling out further measures.
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-332	Madam President, I would like Erik Ottoson has asked me whether I intend to commission the Swedish Transport Agency to review and propose improvements to the regulatory framework for the use of light unmanned aircraft. He has also asked whether I intend to commission the Transport Agency to communicate the regulations that apply more clearly to the pilot drone, and whether I intend to take any steps to create a safer existence in the airspace regarding the risks and opportunities that drones bring over the next 2 – 3 years beyond what Easa will eventually propose. Since I last discussed these issues with Erik Ottoson in November, the European Commission has presented proposals for a new EU aviation safety regulation on 7 December 2015. The proposed regulation includes a framework for drone regulation and mandate for the European Commission to develop detailed rules through delegated acts. On 18 December, the EU Aviation Safety Agency Easa presented a technical opinion on more detailed rules. At the moment, the proposals are being analysed by the Government Office and the Swedish Transport Agency. As I informed Erik Ottoson of in November, the Swedish Transport Agency is also examining whether the proposals require some changes to the Swedish regulations for unmanned aircraft. Cooperation and dialogue with the industry and other authorities about the challenges but also the opportunities drones create and how best to handle this is of course important. I have previously informed Erik Ottoson of the dialogue that exists between the Government Office and the relevant authorities on drone regulation. A further example is the workshop The Swedish Transport Agency organised on 20 January 2016 on flight with drones in control zones, where the four certified air navigation service providers in Sweden, including the Swedish Aviation Administration, participated. Of course, it is also important that users of drones know the regulations that exist. The Swedish Transport Agency therefore disseminates information through, for example, its website, contact with toy stores and the flyer Fly safely with your drone. The Agency also conducts a dialogue with the operator association UAS Sweden about the events that have taken place and how to improve aviation safety. I agree with Erik Ottoson that these are urgent issues, but I note that a very active work is already taking place within the framework of the Swedish Transport Agency's regular activities. I do not, therefore, intend at present to initiate any further mission to the Authority.
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-336	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It is true that I and the Government have discussed these issues in the past. They can stand to be discussed. There are very many different dimensions in the problems that can arise and in the opportunities that emerge when drones become more common, cheaper and easier to access. We must, of course, give priority to the protection of safety, while at the same time ensuring that we are able to seize the opportunities created by drones in the form of better public service and commercial opportunities. I hear what the Government says about the activities that are now taking place in the Government Office and at the Swedish Transport Agency. That is very pleasing. What is happening at EU level is far from addressing all the aspects that will need to be taken into account in drone traffic. Mainly, consideration is given to issues relating to the international approach to drones with common standards, security systems and other things taking place on an international basis. There will still be a lot left for us to take care of at national level when the international work is done. I have in a previous interpellation debate – I think it was also with Minister Anna Johansson – quoted my father, who, when I was a kid, used to say: Look around! You live in the Stone Age. In just a few years you will look back and think that we were hopelessly out of fashion where we are today. I think the same is true here. We're in the starting pits when it comes to the drones. In a few years' time, we will look back and wonder why we were not more farsighted. Madam President, I would like The problems that arise also inhibit the development of drone operations. If safety in the air cannot be guaranteed, it will also hamper the reputation of this form of technology and of the conditions it will have as a market player. There is a need for clear rules in the long term. What will now be regulated at EU level are those that are deemed to involve a greater safety risk. You go down from the previous definition, 150 kilos, and now you start talking about things that can be presented with or without significant risk. But what falls below the level at which the EU intervenes is, for the time being, a national matter. There are great opportunities here but also great risks. This is something that it is extremely important to relate to. My question to the Government as a follow-up to this will be: Is the Government satisfied with the regulations and security situation we have today? Can she say with certainty that, with the regulations we have today, she does not see any unpleasant accidents occurring in the future?
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-344	Madam President, I would like I'll start by answering the questions. The regulatory framework we have today is not enough, because, as Erik Ottoson mentions, progress is fast. We're still at an early stage of drone development. Of course, these activities will need to be regulated more or differently when we see where developments are going. We need a regulatory framework that does not hamper technological development but at the same time guarantees security. This applies to privacy, aviation safety and other issues. Of course, all regulations need to be constantly improved and developed, especially in areas with such strong and rapid technological development. Unfortunately, even in areas where regulations are very clear, accidents sometimes occur. The existence of a regulatory framework is not the same as compliance with the rules at all times. The Swedish Transport Agency's work on informing about the rules that exist and making recommendations on how to perform drones is very important. Of course, most drone drivers do not want their operations to pose a risk or a danger. As great as we have in this area, there is no guarantee that accidents or infringements will not occur. In no single area can we guarantee that there will be no accidents, whether on our roads, in shipping, in aviation or with drones. The work of the Swedish Transport Agency, where you are active at many different levels and in many different areas, is very positive. When I go through the questions that Erik Ottoson is asking in the interpellation and the questions that have been asked before, I see that they are all about areas where there is active work going on. In other words, what is missing are not political initiatives. There is a need for the Authority and stakeholders to take forward the work that is currently under way with a high intensity. It is also important that the regulations we draw up are in line with the regulations in the EU, not least in order to meet the need for clear and clear rules, something that Erik Ottoson himself calls for. If we were to find ourselves in a situation where Sweden takes precedence over a number of areas and regulates in a very clear way and it then turns out that it is contrary to the EU acquis, it would mean either that we have to do it again, at the risk that people do not know what applies from one day to the next, or that we are dealing with a framework where one thing applies in one country and another thing applies in another country, which, of course, would be a major obstacle in terms of standardisation and so on. All in all, I would say that on all the points where Erik Ottoson calls for activity and action is happening right now. I can stand in the speaker's seat and be completely safe with that.
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-351	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for the development of ideas in this area! I believe that the Government and I have a slightly different view of how the issue should be dealt with. Until we have the common European rules, it will be two and a half to three years. That's how long it's gonna be before you get all the way through. It is valuable time that can involve both problems and really big problems if it wants to hurt itself. It is against this background, among other things, that the interpellation has come about. In all likelihood, we need some kind of transitional solution, some form of interim rules, which will enable us to better guarantee the safety of airspace during that period of time. Two and a half to three years is a very long period, especially in terms of technological development. You can fly a lot of drones in the two and a half to three years. Then it concerns the Swedish Transport Agency's information efforts. Yeah, well, just before Christmas, they started getting started. The Government describes them as comprehensive and good. I'd like to say, you've finally woken up. They are far from extensive enough. Having dialogue, as described by the Government, with sellers and toy suppliers in Sweden will certainly have its benefit. I'm sure it has to be done too. But what is needed is a considerably broader dissemination of information, including to those who have bought it via a foreign website and received it delivered by mail. E-commerce is hardly an unusual phenomenon when it comes to this particular form of technology and how to absorb it physically. The information resources targeted must also meet those who get it here without buying it in stores or via a Swedish website. I think it's very important to remember that. As far as international rules and standards are concerned, the Government and I fully agree with each other that it is very important to have the common regulatory framework. But, as I said, they'll be in place in two and a half to three years. And there are things that we already see, based on the work carried out within the framework of Easa, that will be unregulated in that form of regulation. When we see it right now, it is reasonable for us to get to grips with it and ensure that we do not come as third or fourth on the ball, but guard ourselves for the future. We will then assume our responsibility for aviation safety even in relation to those parts which are likely, or certainly, not to be regulated at European or international level. This is something that we must tackle on the basis of the principle that we protect aviation safety, that it always comes first. But it is also a question of there having to be a good chance of doing this safely. There are a number of interesting proposals coming from stakeholders in this area. The Government itself, based on my interpellation, has mentioned UAS Sweden, which is an industry organisation in this area and has a number of ideas. The Swedish Civil Aviation Authority also has a number of ideas on how to solve things. And Minister Morgan Johansson, who was here in the Chamber earlier, has set up an investigation into precisely the cameras on board drones. So far so good, but this requires a certain form of political leadership. In fact, if we are to deal with the legislative issues that are required, which will not be covered by European regulations, it is something that policy will have to deal with. As far as I am aware, the Transport Agency does not even have legislative power over that part of the aviation legislation.
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-358	Madam President, I would like No, of course it is. The Swedish Transport Agency or any other authority has no authority over legislation. On the other hand, the Swedish Transport Agency has advice on the regulations that are issued regarding handling and other issues concerning, for example, handling of drones. In this area too, it is actually the case that the Swedish Transport Agency is working on exactly what Erik Ottoson is asking for. There is contact with the Swedish Civil Aviation Authority, with other stakeholders involved in airspace issues and with stakeholder organisations. You spread the information you have in different channels. Of course, it is not just toy shops, as was not demonstrated by the interpellation response. It has an updated and more user-friendly website. And, as I said, there are frequent contacts with various stakeholders. This obviously also includes looking at whether there is a need for additional legislation or for other types of regulatory changes that the Swedish Transport Agency itself does not have. This is, of course, part of the work that is being done to draw attention to it and to proceed with it. But there is nothing today that makes me think that there is reason for the government to act and give further assignments. On all the points raised by Erik Ottoson in the interpellation, work is ongoing within the authorities responsible for these issues. If, in the next step, it could mean the need for legislation, it would obviously be a political issue. But it is good if you first get an overview and find out what type it is. Just saying legislation does not make it any happier, but it is good if you have an idea of what it is that needs to be legislated on, based on the experience that it does.
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-362	Madam President, I would like I would rather say this: I think we have great reasons to worry that things cannot come about more quickly than the Government is now announcing that they can. Should the Swedish Transport Agency conclude that something needs to be done in the legislative field as well, it will need to be investigated on the basis of the processing requirements we have with regard to new legislation. It will need to be threshed through the political mills in a couple of turns. Before we have anything for a decision in this House, in case it is needed, the risk is that there has been a very long time and that we have a situation in the airspace that proves to be unsustainable. You can choose one of two starting points as a politician. Either you decide to be at the forefront and drive the development or you decide to get in the back seat and ride with their authorities while driving. It is regrettable that the Government chooses the second variant, which relies entirely on the authorities to flag if any form of political ambition is needed. Personally, I think that the political ambitions are something that we politicians should stand for. The Government's entrances and starting points in this debate do not demonstrate any direct political initiative on these issues. They say: Yes, if the Swedish Transport Agency flags something, we will certainly do so. But where is the political ambition? I believe that there is a need for a rather clear political ambition in terms of this form of technological development. In this respect, I believe that this time too, I and the Government will end the debate by disagreeing.
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-365	Madam President, I would like I'd say I'm not in the back seat. I do not do that on this issue and not on so many other issues either. On the other hand, I see no reason to act politically on issues where extensive work is already under way at government level. There is a reason why we have chosen to have expert authorities in Sweden, namely that they will sort out a lot of detailed issues that do not necessarily require political decisions. The political ambition is very clear. We will ensure that we have regulations and a handling of drone issues that enable us to promote technological development and promote the use of drones that can bring new jobs and smoother transport solutions. It is also a question of ensuring that we have a safe airspace. That is the political ambition. Moreover, should we have to take political initiatives on legislation, it would be based on the fact that the regulatory framework we have today does not lead to the political objectives. We're not there today. The Swedish Transport Agency is working on the issues. If there are issues in this area that show that further action needs to be taken that also requires legislation, it will of course be taken up to the political level. I don't know what Erik Ottoson's picture of what we're supposed to have our authorities for. Should we as politicians and, in my case, as ministers in every detail govern exactly what they should do? Well, then I don't share that picture. It is probably just as Erik Ottoson says: We do not entirely agree. But it's fun that we at least agree that there are drones, that they are important and exciting and that they need to be properly regulated.
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-369	Madam President, I would like Edward Riedl has asked me what measures I have taken to promote the green conversion of aviation while ensuring good communications throughout the country. Well-functioning and sustainable transport throughout Sweden is a priority for the government. This includes reducing the climate and environmental impact of transport and aviation. Of course, it also includes ensuring good accessibility throughout the country. The government has taken several steps to achieve this. By its very nature, aviation is an international phenomenon. A large part of the work is therefore carried out within ICAO, the United Nations Aviation Organisation. Sweden and other European countries have been pushing for a long time to limit the climate impact of international aviation. In 2013, the ICAO General Assembly decided to introduce a global market-based instrument for international aviation from 2020. At the General Assembly of the autumn, the detailed design of this global system shall be decided. Sweden, through the Swedish Transport Agency, has also been a leader in ICAO's work on developing global CO2 requirements for new aircraft. Nationally, the government has begun work on developing a Swedish aviation strategy on the role of aviation in the transport system. The strategy is based on transport policy objectives as well as government targets on the EU's lowest unemployment rate in 2020. The study on a tax on air travel will review the possibilities for how a tax can contribute to achieving the environmental quality target Limited climate impact without jeopardising the goals of jobs and development and good accessibility throughout the country. The Government will continue its work internationally and nationally to reduce the climate and environmental impact of aviation. It is a central task for aviation to continue to be able to meet the need for good accessibility throughout the country.
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-375	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Since the 1990s, Sweden has reduced greenhouse gas emissions by 20 per cent while the GDP has increased by 50 per cent. However, we can see the most amazing developments in aviation. There, emissions per passenger-kilometre have decreased by approximately 70 per cent since the 1960s. The continuing objectives of the aviation industry are high. It is intended to reduce emissions by 11⁄2% annually by 2020. Today, the most modern aircraft produce about three deciliters of fuel per passenger per mile. In my interpellation, I ask the Government what measures she has taken to promote the green conversion of aviation and at the same time secure good communications throughout the country. In the Minister's reply, Madam President, I cannot see a single measure by the Minister to actually promote the green transition. The minister listed much of what previous governments have done. International cooperation is important, but it is by no means the Minister's credit. On the other hand, the Minister draws up the government's planned aviation tax, which, on the contrary, risks stopping the introduction of more environmentally friendly fuels in aviation. It was not the benefit of the alliance government, but the aviation industry itself took the initiative to start using better and more environmentally friendly fuels. However, these are more expensive. It costs the airlines more to use these fuels, and what the airlines themselves say is that when they introduce a flight tax, the airlines' margins are obviously reduced and, according to the industry itself, they will probably have to stop using the more environmentally friendly fuels. It is a bad policy for the environment, and it is a bad policy for good communications throughout the country, because a flight tax will make travel more expensive. Madam President, I would like I would like to ask the Minister whether she would like to introduce a flight tax, even if she sees that it actually contributes to exactly the opposite, i.e. worse environment and less communications in our country.
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-380	Madam President, I would like In addition to what I mentioned in my interpellation response, there are, of course, many other things going on. With regard to alternative fuels and these types of issues, this responsibility is largely in other ministries and under the responsibility of other ministers, such as the Minister for Energy, where the Energy Agency has a number of research projects and where it takes an active part in developing new fuels. Trafikverket, which is located under my area, has an active part in, among other things, Karlstad's development with a fixed tank station, and also from Vinnova there are projects that are ongoing. So there is work going on here that is very positive. Nevertheless, I think it is clear that, since this is an international sector in which international competition is also taking place, it is important that the existing international regulations promote a change. Although Swedish airlines or the Swedish aviation industry are very far-sighted and go ahead, one cannot do so in a way that undermines economic competitiveness in the long term. That is why the international regulatory framework and to really push ahead in international but also in the EU context are very important. It is both regulatory and, for example, regulation of new aircraft and their CO2 emissions, but it is also a question of, for example, moving forward on the issues of the Single European Sky, which, when you can choose shorter and more efficient routes, can also contribute to reducing emissions. As far as air tax is concerned, it is very clear in the directives that it should contribute to the objective of reducing CO2 emissions and that the tax should not be designed in a way that jeopardises growth and accessibility throughout the country and, of course, jobs. This means that if the investigation comes up with a proposal that does not contribute to the reduction of greenhouse gases and threatens jobs, growth and accessibility, the government will not adopt such a proposal. The directives for the aviation tax investigation are very clear. For example, airlines using fossil-free fuels are likely to face better competitive conditions than those that continue to use traditional aviation fuels. The way in which the tax is to be designed is still not clear, but the directives on what the tax should achieve are clear and clear, so please wait with the scare propaganda about what it will mean until the investigation is completed with its proposal. The directives for the investigation are clear: Air travel needs to reduce its negative climate impact, but this must not be done at the price of threatened jobs, threatened growth and threatened accessibility in parts of Sweden. It's very simple.
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-385	Madam President, I would like I would first like to say that I naturally share the Minister's view that international cooperation in the field of aviation is a good thing. That is what has meant that we have been able to have a positive development in terms of the environment but above all safety in the field of aviation. The Minister answers that the fuel issue is not primarily under her jurisdiction, but other ministers are responsible for this. I know that this is the way to divide the work of the government, but the question remains. If you do some actions, it will affect other things, and that is the basic question. Again, most of what the Minister lists are things that previous governments have done and things that take place in international cooperation. None of what the Minister himself points out is really the minister's own merit, and that is what I asked for. What is the Minister doing to promote the green conversion of aviation? Much is going on, but we get very few examples. When I ask for examples, Karlstad comes forward, but Karlstad started during the last term of office. It was not thanks to the alliance government, but it was at least during the time of the alliance government. I still cannot see that the Minister and this government are in any way in favour of any policy on the green conversion of aviation. On the contrary, it's what I said from the beginning. My question was whether the Minister will introduce a flight tax, even if that means the removal of green fuels. Then the answer is that the directives are clear. I have had a debate with the Government's Prime Minister's colleague, the Minister for Finance, on air taxes. The Minister of Finance was clear during that debate – but that may have changed, it's several months since we had that debate and the government may have changed its feet – and she replied that air tax was a fiscal measure, that is, it wanted to get money into it. That makes me wonder when I hear the Minister for Infrastructure here saying completely different things, that is, that the tax should be designed so that money comes in, as the Minister of Finance probably wants, but it should not affect communications around the country. The introduction of a tax is likely to be more expensive. I find it difficult to see any other outcome of a tax. At the same time, I wonder what is happening to the green fuels. If the airline tax will in any way knock out the green switchover, can the Minister consider not going ahead with the airline tax?
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-392	Madam President, I would like Of course, the purpose of a tax is for the state to collect money. Otherwise, other ways of regulating income are chosen. It is clearly stated in the directives for the investigation that the purpose of the tax in addition to withdrawing money to the state is also to promote the transformation and that aviation should achieve the environmental objectives of reducing the climate impact. It is also clearly stated in the directives that this must not be done in a way that threatens jobs, growth and accessibility. There are currently routes where there are other options that are less environmentally friendly. It is clear that economic instruments can also influence people's choice of how they travel. It can also be about optimizing routes or having higher filling levels in the plan. There is, of course, much more to be done to both reduce costs and reduce climate and environmental impacts. I am sure that it is also possible to achieve things by means of economic instruments, which are partly a tax. The directives are clear. I guess it's good if both I as Minister and Edward Riedl, interpellantly, wait for the investigation's proposal before we start discussing the detailed design. It will be speculative, and it will really be a discussion in the blind. None of us know what the investigation will suggest. What we know today is what kind of directive it has been given. We can discuss that, if Edward Riedl wants it, but we can't discuss what the investigation will come up with.
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-396	Madam President, I would like During the debate we have had, the Minister has not listed a single example in which she or the government has in any way taken the initiative for a green conversion of aviation. That's too bad. There have been many good examples of things going on, which have been started by previous governments, which are being done internationally, but nothing about what this government intends to do to contribute to a green conversion of aviation. I also understand, Madam President, that the Minister does not want to talk about air tax at all. Nor would I want to do that if I were in the minister's clothes. There's no one in the business who wants the airline tax. On the contrary, it does not contribute to a better environment, as some parties say. Rather, it is likely to contribute to exactly the opposite. The environmentally friendly fuels, which are more expensive, are being phased out, as the aviation industry is in the process of rolling in. The Minister mentioned the positive example in Karlstad. It is because the airlines themselves are prepared to take the cost that it can happen. But it will be impossible if a flight tax is introduced. Then the margins are reduced for airlines and they can no longer afford to carry out the green changeover. That's too bad. I understand that the Minister does not want to talk about air tax because there is no positive thing about air tax, not for the environment, not for good communications throughout Sweden, not for jobs and growth. There is nothing positive about air tax. Of course, we will continue the debate when the investigation is in place. But remember the purpose of the investigation. It actually aims to introduce a flight tax. The Minister of Finance made it very clear that the purpose is to raise money. Then nothing happens but that the conditions of aviation are adversely affected.
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-399	Madam President, I would like I'm not so surprised that Edward Riedl opposes a flight tax. My experience is that Moderates almost always oppose all kinds of taxes. I think tax can be a good instrument. It is also an effective way to raise money to the Treasury that makes it possible to invest in research into alternative fuels or different types of bonuses – malus systems. There's a lot at the planning stage. I and the Minister for Energy held a joint hearing last autumn on alternative fuels. It did not specifically apply to the flight, but to the whole route. An exciting development is taking place here where, of course, with the help of the state actors that we have at our disposal, we will contribute to positive development. It's about Swedavia, who can do a lot. The Swedish Civil Aviation Administration can do a lot of things. Even our authorities, such as Vinnova, can promote and support and ensure that the development can be faster for the alternatives that are now available. If I were Edward Riedl, I would be a little careful to make a clear statement about the consequences of a tax without any single proposal on how such a tax should be designed. Edward Riedl says that a tax will mean that alternative fuels will be phased out. What does Edward Riedl have to do with that? I would suggest that we resume the discussion once we have seen the results of the ongoing investigation. I cannot be sure what it will come up with, and nor can Edward Riedl. What Edward Riedl says in the speaker's chair today is pure speculation.
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-405	Madam President, I would like Edward Riedl has asked me at what time the government intends to begin the construction of the Norrbotnia Line. The question is posed in the light of the fact that, despite the Prime Minister's promise that the construction of Norrbotniabanan would take place, the government has not made any provision for it. Edward Riedl asked me in March last year a similar question, whether I was going to work for the government to make proposals for the construction of the Norrbotnia Line to begin during this term of office. Norrbotniabanan is a strategically important infrastructure investment. The Government intends to carry out the construction of the runway within the framework of the next infrastructure plan. This is about a first stage between Umeå and Dåva. The ambition is for this stage to begin during this term of office, probably in 2018. This also presupposes, of course, that there is an existing railway plan for the route. The Government is now in the process of taking a comprehensive approach to the investments in the infrastructure during 2016 in a proposal and the development of the next national plan for the development of the transport system 2018 – 2029. In this connection, the Government intends to specify the implementation of the construction start of Norrbotniabanan.
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-408	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking the Minister for his reply. The construction of Norrbotniabanan between Umeå and Luleå is the last step to connect the coastal railway in northern Sweden. When the track is complete, it will be an important part of both goods and passenger transport. In this way, it contributes to jobs and growth throughout Sweden. I continue to try in various ways to get word from the government regarding the construction of the Norrbotnia Line. I continue to do so because I believe that the government is not giving sufficiently clear answers in this area. Before the election, individual representatives of the three Red-Green parties competed to explain how quickly the construction of the Norrbotnia Line would take place if they only won the election. Soon it has been two years, and there is still no concrete promise of whether or not to start construction during this term of office. The Minister also replied today that she cannot promise to start construction during the current term of office. Before the elections, it sounded on the Minister's party colleagues that the shovel would in practice be on the ground as early as Monday after the election, if only the voter's confidence was gained. As I said, it is now almost two years, and the construction of the Norrbotnia Line has not begun. Madam President, I would like Before the elections, the Social Democrats promised that they would not introduce a flight tax. Now the government is investigating the introduction of a flight tax. Before the elections, the Social Democrats promised that they would not increase the tax on petrol. At the turn of the year, the tax on petrol was raised. Before the elections, the Social Democrats promised to start building the Norrbotnia Line. So far, not a single meter of railway rail is in place. As I understand from the Minister's reply, there is no concrete promise that the construction will begin even during this term of office. I intend to be difficult, and I will ensure that the Minister does not forget the Norrbotnia Line, because it has been promised by her party to the electorate. Madam President, I would like My question to the Minister is basically very simple: can she promise that the Norrbotnia Line will start to be built during this term of office, or is this in danger of becoming another one in the series of all the promises that this government has made during its time in power?
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-416	Madam President, I would like It is welcome to sober up with the Moderates, or rather with Edward Riedl. I don't know if the Moderates are behind this. The previous government was very careful to tell us that a Norrbotnia track was not on any plane. It is for this reason that Norrbotniabanan is not included in the current action plan that the Swedish Transport Administration has presented. Norrbotniabanan was also not included in the infrastructure bill presented by the previous government. On the contrary, Anders Borg spoke of over-investment in railways. When Fredrik Reinfeldt was in Saunaträsk, he told us that the track would probably not be built, unless the business community in northern Sweden contributed significant amounts. Nowhere else in Sweden has such demands been made on the business community, that one should set up and build state infrastructure. But when the railway was to be built in Norrland, the moderated government thought it appropriate to make such demands. But, as I said, it is a welcome reprimand on the part of Edward Riedl that he is now pushing this issue. Earlier he could not use such big words when talking about Norrbotniabanan. Edward Riedl is trying to make a point that we would have promised to build the track right after the election. Edward Riedl and I can both agree on one thing: Stop the stupidity! No one has believed that one can begin to build a track the day after the election when there was not even a railway plan in place. We have now received money from the EU and raised our own money from the state to manage to complete the plan for the route from Umeå to Skellefteå. That work, which was under way, stopped the previous government. At the same time as stopping it, the Finnish Transport Administration was forbidden to continue its work. The group that was in charge of that planning simply received other tasks. It was the policy of the last government: Stop for the Norrbotnia Line! Now there's another sound in the bark, and we're gonna get back to work. But we must start by planning the course, and Edward Riedl knows that very well. Then he doesn't have to deal with the stupid outcomes that we would have claimed that you can start building the track the day after the election. I appeal to Edward to stop this nonsense and instead discuss the banana conditions, if Edward Riedl thinks this course is so important. We also need to discuss how to develop a Norrbotnia track. In his speech, Edward Riedl also talked about airline tax. Enough for the Norrbotnia Line to go fast, but it is not a high-speed railway, and it is definitely not a flight. So it has nothing to do with each other. That's the interpellation you had up earlier. I guess that'll have to be the order of the argument. In the case of petrol taxes, the previous government raised it three times. You never said anything about that in any election movement that you were going to do. The fuel tax has been carried by all governments as a cross. It has been increased when there has been a need to strengthen revenue to the state. With this, I would just like to say that I think it is a very welcome response from the government that the aim is to start building the Norrbotnia Line during this period. For my part, I have heard the Swedish Transport Administration say that this will be done.
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-426	Madam President, I would like If I were the representative of a party that was responsible for the current national plan for the development of the transport system, I might not have been as clever in the speaker's seat as Edward Riedl is. There would have been significantly better conditions for getting a quick start on the construction of Norrbotniabanan if it had been included in the current national plan, the plan decided by the previous government in 2014. The former government did not think that Norrbotniabanan should be included in the national plan as it should not be given priority. The current government prioritises Norrbotniabanan. In the 2015 budget bill, we stated that it should start to be built. In addition, we have endorsed an EU application concerning the Norrbotnia Line in order to start work. Right now, work is underway to develop a railway plan and a construction document, railway plan for the route Luleå– Umeå and construction document for the route Umeå – Dåva. This means that the conditions are quite good for building start-up during the current term of office, most likely in 2018. But since I, as a minister, cannot or will not produce such acts, I cannot, of course, promise that they are ready. However, I have said on a number of occasions, and I repeat this again today, both in my interpellation response and now in the further discussion, that the Government's ambition is for the first stage of the Norrbotnia Line to start construction during the current term of office. Election promises are important. They show voters what direction the different parties want in politics. We have actually delivered on many of our election promises, especially on the most important issues, such as more resources for school, more resources for more people to get into work and a focus on investing in what builds Sweden strongly for the future. In the area by area, the government delivers policies that strengthen Sweden and its inhabitants. But with election promises, it is also the case that you have four years to deliver. Whether the government has delivered on all election promises or not may well be appropriate to evaluate for the 2018 election. The pace we are now keeping I feel very proud of. I am also looking forward with great confidence to the fact that such an evaluation will come out very well for the government, despite the fact that we have a parliamentary situation which may well be considered the most difficult and difficult to manage in Sweden's modern parliamentary history. Don't worry about the election promises of the government parties, Edward Riedl! But please support us in the continued work to get the construction started by Norrbotniabanan! Feel free to influence those in your party who have been counteracting this construction for quite a few years!
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-432	Madam President, I would like Leif Pettersson from the Social Democrats says that there was probably no one who thought it would be very fast to start building the Norrbotnia Line. I will be frank and tell Leif Pettersson that I believe that the voters in Norrland understood your election promises exactly that way. I remember many debates in which we tried to reconcile the discussion on both funding and timetable for how quickly it is possible to build or not build rail. But it was red-green politicians who went out and promised that in practice the shovel would go on the slopes as soon as the election was won. It doesn't look like that right now, but just the opposite. There does not seem to be any railway during this term of office at least. Leif Pettersson's upper words in the speaker's chair make me genuinely worried. Is it in this way that the Social Democratic Party stands on this issue and therefore thinks that attacks are the best defence? The reason why I am referring to air taxes, petrol taxes and so on is that these were the things that the Social Democrats promised before the elections not to introduce. These are the electoral promises that have since been broken. Then the facts are important in this discussion as well. In fact, it was the Alliance Government that went down to the EU and negotiated what then gave us the possibility of cofinancing. It forgets both the Minister and Leif Pettersson conveniently. The Moderates have not been opposed to railway efforts. But we've been talking about how you need money all along. I have also done so at home in Norrland. Fine words and fair promises are not enough. In the end, you have to have money to build infrastructure. That is what has caused the Swedish Transport Administration to put its thumb on this issue again and have announced that they cannot proceed in the work if no funds are made available or made available. As a result, the debate has been reopened. When Anders Ygeman was responsible for infrastructure issues in the then Social Democratic opposition during the last parliamentary term, I asked him in this House how many kilometres of railway the Social Democrats were planning to build up until 2029 with the promises they had made. Anders Ygeman replied that the promise was 9 kilometres of railway within Umeå municipality until 2029. It is far from the 270 kilometres of railway needed to complete the Norrbotnia Line and get between the two cities in Norrland that it is all about. Madam President, I would like Perhaps the Minister or Leif Pettersson can answer how many kilometres of railway they intend to build by 2029 if the Social Democrats are allowed to take part in the government.
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-439	Madam President, I would like It was best for Edward Riedl to add the last: If you are allowed to decide, there will be no miles at all. History has clearly shown that. It is very important that we ensure that we continue to have a red-green government in Sweden, so that we can bring about some railway construction. The maintenance of railway is important enough. We must all emphasise that. We've got a hugely neglected maintenance. But there are also routes that need to be rebuilt. There, the Norrbotnia Line is a very important part. With regard to the promise of when to start building railways, I can say that we were very clear before the elections that we had to put in place a railway plan. We tried to get the previous government to agree that we would at least have to complete the plan through the cities – Skellefteå, Piteå and Luleå. But you couldn't even agree to that. There are large land reserves in the cities that lay a dead hand over planning. Now I hope that we can get this plan in place as quickly as possible, so that the land reserves can become a minimum in which the railways will be drawn up. This means that we will take a few steps closer to the realisation of the course. I've been in contact with the Swedish Transport Administration and asked them when we can start with this track. Their message has been that this will be able to begin in spring 2018.
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-443	Madam President, I would like The planning work for the transport system in Sweden takes place in four-year cycles. A government comes to Parliament with a bill sometime in the penultimate year of its term of office. Then the Riksdag decides on the bill. The government then returns with a prepared national plan. So did the former and the former government, and so will this government. This means that the current plan for the development of the transport system in Sweden was adopted by the previous government in 2014. And there's not the Norrbotnia Line. The current government has difficulty influencing the way the previous government presented the national plan. On the other hand, we are working to develop a bill for the Riksdag and eventually also decide on a national plan for the next planning period, which runs from 2018 until 2029. Already in the 2015 budget bill we stated that Norrbotniabanan should be included in that plan. We have also stated that construction will start during the current term of office, i.e. before October 2018. This remains the government's ambition. Therefore, we also welcome the fact that the Swedish Transport Administration is now working on developing a railway plan and construction plans to be able to put the shovel on the slopes, or how you now choose to put it, so that we get a construction start for Norrbotniabanan this term of office. That is the government's explicit ambition, and we will continue to work for this. As I said, it would also have been easier to implement this project if the previous government had pushed the issue as ambitiously as Edward Riedl is now doing in opposition.
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-446	Madam President, I would like I would remind you once again that it was the Alliance Government that went down to Brussels and negotiated the possibility of co-financing the Norrbotnia Line. It got Norrbotniabanan into what is core network that enables EU co-financing. Within the framework of what the Alliance presented before the election – which was then called the construction of Sweden and which today is the Swedish negotiation – there was railway in northern Sweden, i.e. Norrbotniabanan. The reason why Sweden is now doing nothing in this area is that the government has announced its intention to build Norrbotniabanan. There is no reason for Sweden's negotiation to negotiate something that the government has already said it intends to implement. Those are facts. But I understand that the government and its representatives in the Riksdag would rather talk about previous governments and what the Moderates have thought or have not. It seeks to reduce the mistakes that have been made in one's own government position. I put a question to Leif Pettersson and to the Minister, to whom neither of them chose to answer. How many kilometres of railway do the Social Democrats want to build by 2029? I can only interpret the lack of answers in one way. It has been planned to bluff northern Sweden. It has been planned to build 9 kilometers and nothing more. If you would like to build more than 9 kilometres of railway – the Norrbotnia railway consists of 270 kilometres of railway – you would guess to say something here. I ask again: is there anyone who can give an answer to that, or is it a fraud for Norrland that is likely not even to be carried out during the current term of office?
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-451	Madam President, I would like I would like to draw the attention of Edward Riedl to the fact that the government does not provide any information either on how many kilometres of road, how many roundabouts or how much of anything else we intend to build during our term of office. We will take a position on the national plan 2018. We may not even be there to answer the question of how many kilometres to build. It is more about pointing out which objects to implement in 2018 – 2029. Of course, neither I nor any of the Social Democratic Members of Parliament are in the pulpit of Parliament talking about how many kilometres of railway the next national plan should contain. We'll get back to that in 2018. But we have given a clear message regarding the construction start of Norrbotniabanan. There is the ambition to start construction during the current term of office. I hope that Edward Riedl is happy and happy about that message, because that is exactly what Edward Riedl has asked for.
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-453	Madam President, I would like Erik Ottoson has asked me what I intend to do to make it easier for public transport passengers to choose between different market operators, for example, through the competitively neutral system that Samtrafiken currently manages. Erik Ottoson has also asked me which of the tools I will be using in order to promote a situation where it is easy for the traveller to choose between different public transport operators without having to use different booking and payment systems. In February 2015, an internal investigation at the Ministry of Economic Affairs presented a number of proposals aimed at improving the possibilities for information on travel options and price information for public transport trips from a traveller's perspective. The proposals were referred in spring 2015. I note that there has been a development with industry-wide initiatives and that for some time now there has been an established independent sales channel for public transport trips via www.resrobot.se where travellers can plan travel and buy tickets for public transport throughout Sweden. However, it takes time to change familiar patterns, and most travellers still turn to the previously well-known sales channels. As there has been a positive development through industry initiatives, I am not currently planning any action. I intend to follow this issue and do not rule out taking further action in the long term if the issue of reservation and payment systems persists as an obstacle to the choice of public transport operators by travellers.
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-456	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. The Government knows that public transport is a matter that is close to my heart. I think, like the Government, that this is one of the most important parts of how we should above all make our cities work well in the future, but also in how we can make it more attractive to live in the countryside and sometimes opt out of the car. Especially for rare travellers who opt out of the car on occasional occasions and instead choose public transport, it is important to be able to get help to plan their entire journey and be able to take part in the entire range of public transport that exists regardless of who it is operating. That is, in fact, the background to my question on how we can stimulate this further. The Government mentions in its response r esrobot.se as an industry-wide initiative. I believe that both the Government and I welcome the industry-wide initiative. What you should remember when you talk about it is that it was driven by a clear signal policy from the Ministry of Industry and her predecessor, Catharina Elmsäter-Elmsäter-Svärd, who was then Minister of Infrastructure. She said that if it is not the case that the industry itself is working this out, we will have to resort to political means to push forward that form of neutral platforms to find its public transport journey. This led to progress on this issue and the industry-wide initiatives were brought forward. It preferred to do it yourself without being forced by legislation. I think that is basically very good. What one would like to call for, however, is that Anna Johansson as Minister chooses to continue the clear signal policy pursued under the previous government and pursue this all the way into goal. The current problem with, among other things, this platform, but also a number of other platforms available, is that they are not being marketed. They don't get space because each entrepreneur and performer sits on their own platform and keeps on their cards. What I would like to call for from the Government is a political ambition for how we proceed with this. She says that she does not rule out using more tools in the future if it turns out that it does not solve itself. If you look at the situation now, there is not even any hope that it will solve itself. The alternatives that exist that are competitively neutral do not have a positive trend, a trend or any factor that would suggest that a positive trend could arise, but rather stand and stammer where you are. That is why I would like to call for the continuing policy of signaling, which was pursued during the time of the Alliance in power, which led to the point where we stand now. But this needs to be taken forward. I would also like to hear what the Government has in mind about the possibility of doing with this form of ticketing and payment systems, and perhaps also with booking systems and travel planning systems in the same way as other necessary infrastructure such as bus stops, train stations, rails and by all means roads. It says that access to the form of digital infrastructure that we are actually talking about on the same terms should be provided for anyone. At present we have state, municipal and county-run companies that exclude other actors from showing their departures on some or more lines because there is no such requirement.
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-464	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by agreeing with Erik Ottosson's view that it is important that there are platforms where travellers can get an overview of how the journey can be undertaken but also book tickets and solve their entire journey at once. What is the origin of the interpellation is that the traveller should be able to choose between different competing companies on the same route. I actually see a much bigger and more important function. It is a question of sometimes moving across borders where there are different public transport companies operating on, for example, one side of a county border. In an extension I can also see that there is a need to be able to combine trips with different types of vehicles, i.e. that you ride regional trains a bit of the route and perhaps metro, bus or tram another bit. You might want to add a taxi to your home. Maybe you want a rental bike or something else. That is what they call intermodality and Mobility as a service. It is something that I think will definitely be a very important work in the future to facilitate people's ability to make wise and balanced choices and to make travel work as smoothly as possible from door to door. This is indeed a development area, and I can assure Erik Ottoson that I am pushing these issues forward. This applies to the department, where we have been focusing on the issue throughout the time that I have been a minister of state. I have also had a dialogue with a number of different actors, even with some form of underlying understanding that if this is not solved voluntarily in the industry, i.e. offers the benefit to travellers, we are prepared to proceed with measures of a political nature. It could be legislation, and it could be measures of a different nature. More steps need to be taken in this direction; we are in complete agreement there.
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-469	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, Minister. I very much welcome this message, because I think that is exactly what the public transport industry needs to hear both on rail and on rubber wheels. No matter how you choose to travel, I think it's a welcome message from the Government. I share her ambition and her vision of intermodal travel, which I think can take real speed and become something really attractive at the moment we go from having manually controlled and driven vehicles to having completely autonomous vehicles operating entirely on demand. Lined traffic may not always have to be the norm, but rather we are talking about a door-to-door service provided in the intermodal way described by the Government. In such a public transport landscape, the opportunities and also the benefits of having more than one operator in a defined geographical area will increase even more. The conditions for it to be a well-functioning market will also increase even more. That is why I can see that there are reasons to take clear steps already today where we see opportunities to let other players on the market who are involved in providing what is sometimes even a better service, a better price or a shorter driving time because of the choice of certain stations along the way. It may be other such initiatives that can be used to call on the incumbents who are essentially state or municipally owned. I think there are many advantages to be gained. One example that could be drawn is that if you start a bus line today you have the opportunity to do so at two weeks' notice as long as you notify the regional public transport authority. However, the possibility of marketing the line is limited. It is a capital-intensive activity and there will have to be extensive advertising campaigns to market such a line at all. Where people still go looking for their trips, they won't be able to find it. When Stockholm County Council made its first regional public transport strategy, this discussion came up. What do we do if an actor comes and wants to be part of the travel planner that Stockholm County Council provides? Then you had to leave the question open. But we know what SJ has done. It is a state-owned company, for which the Government does not have corporate responsibility. But she has colleagues who do. SJ closes out operators from the market and from using SJ's travel planners while other actors, who have a better relationship with SJ and who may not compete as clearly and thus is a threat, may be part of the travel planner that exists on sj.se. This is of course a problem for those who are going to enter the market and offer new and better services to those who want to travel by public transport. If we are to raise not only the standard but also the status of travelling collectively – because I think it is one of the key factors in how we get more people to travel collectively both within counties and across county boundaries – I think we will have to work more precisely in terms of competition but also active measures. I welcome the initiative and the message from the Government, and I call on her to be even clearer about this towards the industry. Take, for example, Resrobot, who has a major problem with not being financed because the actors feel that it is better to keep on their own. However, with the Government's announcement, the incentive situation ceases to apply.
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-477	Madam President, I would like I dare to say that the industry has understood the message because I have presented it, not in this kind of public context but in different types of dialogues. Of course I will continue to do so. I believe, however, that there are more things that affect the extent to which people choose to travel collectively. The studies carried out show, for example, that such things as convenience, predictability and reliability are crucial factors. In this context, we can say that we are talking about coherent timetables with fixed departures, for example, so that we know that at about the same time each hour we can expect a bus or train to arrive. It is also the case that you do not have to stand at a switch, but that it is synchronised departures. It is another factor that makes it easier, more predictable and easier to plan. It is clear that with a wide range of actors planning without coordination, it is not certain that this particular objective will be achieved. Competition may have its value, but competition as the only means of increasing public transport travel, I dare say, is not very successful. There are examples in the world that show that when you have released competition completely free, there has been total chaos where what has been the focus has definitely not been the passengers' ability to plan and feel security with their trip. However, we still agree on what the interpellation applies, i.e. the possibility to take part in both timetables and fares via a neutral platform and also to be able to buy tickets so that you can easily get from door to door. With regard to the issue of the existing companies and the extent to which they are to provide this platform, I think the way in which the Moderates relate to community-owned and private activities is interesting. If someone, such as Erik Ottoson or someone else, chooses to start a bus company, it is quite obvious that the responsibility for marketing this business lies with the person who starts the company. Somewhere there is a strange mischmash of highlighting market forces and competition, on the one hand, and imposing other requirements on a company such as SJ, which operates on market and commercial terms, on the other. What they have built up with other money, they are apparently to provide to other actors. The Moderates rarely, I would say, impose such demands on private operators. That is why I believe that the way forward is to build platforms that are not linked to a specific company or operator but are neutral. That's about how the aviation industry works, where you can find a number of different platforms where you can book your trip regardless of which airline you want to travel with and so on. Such solutions will emerge; I am absolutely convinced of that. I think we need to continue to engage in dialogue with public transport authorities and companies in order to speed up progress, but I do not think that the solution lies in forcing individual companies operating on a commercial basis to release their platforms for free.
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-484	Madam President, I would like If we start where the Government started, around what incentives it is that drive people to choose public transport over other modes of transport, I agree entirely with her. That's a little bit what I meant by better service. I may have used a collective word for what the government then boned out, and it was good that she did. On the second question, which the Government concluded with, it is after all the case that SJ during the period in which it was State owned worked up, for example, its reservation platform and that form of system. Even if SJ is on the market and is acting as an actor right now, we cannot rule out having an undue market share from the time when it was state owned and had access to tax money to carry out its business. That is the principle on which I am speaking. This becomes even more relevant when we talk about the regional public transport authorities operating their own services where, on average, half of the public transport costs go through the tax bill. Both a Social Democrat and a Moderate can safely say that there is a lot of tax money going into this. Perhaps a platform of this kind to reach out to travellers should rather be something that is considered to be a competitively neutral service to which all can be connected, for the necessary compensation of course, in the same way as happens on many other occasions. It is not that SJ has been free in competition at all times and that there is no history to take into account here. There are many other times when things have been liberalised and sometimes there has been a need to think again – was it 100% right? I am the first to want to return to such thoughts.
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-489	Madam President, I would like I think it is preferable, after all, to develop completely neutral platforms that are neither linked to individual companies nor to public transport authorities, precisely because the need to be able to find travel that spans a fairly wide range of opportunities is great. I do not think that the regional public transport authorities or any individual company are best placed to develop such public access platforms. I return to what is at the heart of this discussion, namely that we agree on the need for platforms where you can easily plan and buy your trip and that dialogue with the players in this market continues to provide passengers with a much better service than today. The platform that exists can be further developed and it can be better marketed, but I also believe that there is room for more platforms that can offer even wider service offerings.
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-492	Madam President, I would like Edward Riedl has asked me what measures I have taken to reverse the negative trend and reduce the number of aircraft flying out of Sweden, and when I calculate that Sweden will accede to the Cape Town Convention in accordance with what the Government has previously announced. As I have previously replied to Edward Riedl, I think that a more even distribution of the registration of SAS aircraft in the three Scandinavian countries would be desirable than is the case today. However, the way SAS chooses to register its fleet is one thing for SAS's board of directors. SAS is a Scandinavian airline. To talk about flagging out as long as all planes are registered in Scandinavia, I think is misleading. I have also replied to Edward Riedl that looking only at the registration fee you can see that it is lower in Sweden than in both Denmark and Norway, so there are probably other factors than the registration fee that are behind it. Sweden will accede to the Cape Town Convention on 1 April this year. I am convinced that this will be a strong incentive for SAS to increase the proportion of aircraft on Swedish registers.
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-497	Madam President, I would like Thank you, minist rn, for your answer! If we take SAS as an example, which is the big company, we see that they have 80 of their 121 aircraft registered in Norway. That's a significant part of it. If SAS is to be believed, it cannot be ruled out that this development continues. You work, as the Minister describes, on a commercial basis, and you choose to register aircraft where you find it most beneficial. This means that if Sweden gets a flagging out of aircraft, we lose tax revenue and base for our authorities who charge fees for these planes. I have asked the Minister what measures she intends to take to reduce the flag. I'm sorry to hear this answer, I have to say. I sincerely believe that the Minister's answer, that there is no problem if there is a flag to other Nordic countries, is problematic from a Swedish context. Sweden needs tax revenues and bases for regulatory fees and monitoring of the aircraft fleet. What happens is that if SAS continues to register aircraft preferably in Norway but also in Denmark we lose revenue and funding. If you ask the airlines, they answer that the major obstacle is the Swedish stamp tax. I agree with the Minister that access to the Cape Town Convention is very important. It will be a basic foundation for where to register your aircraft in the future. But it is the stamp tax that is the problem, because it is so much higher in Sweden, and then you choose to register the aircraft in other countries. Then the question, Madam President, is whether the Minister would like to review the stamp duty so that airlines actually choose to register in Sweden. Otherwise, we will soon have a complete flagging-out of aircraft from our country.
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-501	Madam President, I would like I did not say that it is not a problem, but what I said was that since SAS is not a Swedish company but is co-owned between the three Scandinavian countries, it is difficult to talk about a flagging out in the real sense of the word. However, the government also sees that it is positive that companies choose to register their aircraft, and their ships for that matter, in Sweden. This is also why the government is now preparing for Sweden to accede to the Cape Town Convention. The ambition is that it will take place on 1 April this year. As far as stamp duty is concerned, there are a number of different charges and taxes that can affect where one chooses to register aircraft. But it is not so simple that it is possible to break out just a few and say that here it is more or less beneficial, but it is important to make an overall assessment. My assessment is that with Sweden's access to the Cape Town Convention, the conditions for more companies to register aircraft in Sweden will also be better. It also provides airlines with considerably better opportunities to make the necessary investments, for example in aircraft types that are less environmentally damaging than old aircraft types. This is an important step in both strengthening the Swedish aviation industry and in a transformation within the industry.
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-504	Madam President, I would like As I said, I agree with the Minister on the importance of the Cape Town Convention, but I believe that it should only be seen as a basic foundation in which we will have a reasonably level playing field between different countries. Norway was earlier than Sweden, and it has certainly contributed positively to Norway in terms of the number of registered aircraft there. But it's only part of it. It is still more advantageous in Norway than in Sweden. You can break out whatever parts you want, and that is what I intended to have a discussion with the Minister about, that is, if she sees any ways of doing this. Then I highlighted the stamp tax, which I know the airlines themselves are highlighting as a strong competitive disadvantage for Sweden. If the Minister has other thoughts and ideas on how to make it more beneficial to register aircraft in Sweden, I think it is positive. As I said, I only delivered stamp duty as an example of what the industry itself highlights. I am rewording my question to the Minister, Madam President, and asking instead: does the Minister intend to take action so that we increase the flag to Sweden and this flag-out does not continue?
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-507	Madam President, I would like I have already answered that question. I believe that Sweden's access to the Cape Town Convention is such an important step. And as I said in my answer, the registration fee is lower in Sweden than in both Norway and Denmark. If further things need to be done, we will probably look at this issue in the work on aviation strategy that is currently under way in the framework of the Ministry of Industry. The results of this will be presented later this spring. It also focuses on other issues, such as the environmental impact of aviation, accessibility throughout Sweden and many more. But one should of course look further at the future of Swedish aviation, in the sense of Swedish-registered aircraft. The government currently has no plans to take further action. However, when the Cape Town Convention is in place, it is reasonable to evaluate how it has affected the companies' willingness to register plans in Sweden. Until that is done, we do not intend to look at further measures.
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-510	Madam President, I would like I've asked the Minister for Infrastructure a lot of questions about the government's aviation strategy. It is gratifying that I have here an answer about the possible content of it, at least on this particular point. If the government's only measure is to implement the Cape Town Convention, which Norway and many other countries have also joined, I do not think that will be enough. Then the flag will continue. And then we shall have to continue this debate. But it's a shame it's going to have to go that far. There will be obvious problems. Sweden's economy may not stand and fall by the fact that we have flights registered in other countries. But it does, of course, affect when tax revenues are reduced. It will also be serious for the fee-financed authorities, which will ultimately have no plans to charge the fees. Then there will be problems with solving those parts. As I said, we will have little reason to come back on this issue. It is a pity that the government does not listen more to the companies that do not flag the aircraft in Sweden today, that they do not listen to what they would need. The Cape Town Convention is the basic foundation, but it will not reverse developments.
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-514	Madam President, I would like What will happen after an action has been taken is, even in this discussion, speculation. I maintain that I think it is wise to wait for the introduction and see what result it will bring. We will, of course, follow developments. Nevertheless, I believe that the Cape Town Convention is an important parameter in this matter. There are, of course, other aspects of aviation issues. We will certainly have regular discussions in this House on a number of them. I will follow the flight strategy work with great interest. There are many important issues for aviation to sort out. What place will the flight have in the future transport system? What measures do the authorities, government and industry need to take to ensure that aviation is more climate-smart but also contributes to accessibility, jobs and development in our country? So this is only part of a larger issue. I hope and believe that the implementation of the Cape Town Convention will have a good effect. But I am, of course, prepared to look further at the question of whether that would not be the case. Let's just wait and see.
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-518	Madam President, I would like Anders Åkesson has asked me how I view the consequences for Swedish cross-border infrastructure if road corridor Ring 5 in Denmark is scrapped. He has asked whether I believe that there is reason to give Sweden's negotiations a developed mandate to negotiate several alternatives to a new fixed link between Sweden and Denmark in order to find the best possible solution, whether I intend to enter into talks with Denmark to deal with the issue of a new link with a view to finding possible solutions for the remaining alternatives and whether I believe that a future relationship with Denmark should primarily address the need for railway capacity or road capacity. These questions are raised in the light of the fact that in December 2015 the Danish Parliament had a first reading and debate on a proposal to lift the Ring 5 road corridor. As I replied in an interpellation debate just over a year ago, the existing Öresund link has capacity problems, making it vulnerable to events such as bad weather, railway failures and accidents. At the same time, a new relationship is associated with significant costs and requires a great deal of commitment from the Danish side. The directives to the Swedish negotiation also show that rail availability and capacity may need to be strengthened towards the continent in the long term by a further fixed link across the Öresund. It is also clear that the conditions for such an investment need to be further explored and that Denmark's commitment to the issue is crucial, regardless of future assessments. The Swedish hearing therefore has the task of initiating and holding talks with representatives of Denmark on an additional fixed link between Sweden and Denmark and to submit a proposal for a process for further handling of the issue. The Swedish hearing has recently submitted its second interim report. It provides a progress report for Sweden's negotiations with a new fixed connection across Öresund. It shows that the Swedish negotiation has so far conducted an investigation work unilaterally on the Swedish side, in order to get a good basis for decision regarding both existing infrastructure's use and capacity and how long the capacity can last based on forecast assessments. The Swedish negotiation plan is to continue the work in 2016 to update information about, among other things, construction costs, socio-economic effects, environmental conditions and possible financing methods for connection across Öresund. The Swedish hearing intends to return with results of the investigation assignments during 2016. The interim report of the Swedish hearing is now in broad consultation until the last March, at the same time as we analyse it within the Government Office. The Swedish Transport Administration's so-called focus data for infrastructure planning for the planning period 2018 – 2029, which was submitted to the Government on 30 November last year, is also being consulted. This will form the basis for a proposal this autumn with proposals for the orientation of infrastructure planning and the financial framework for the planning period. When the Riksdag has established a direction, action plans are followed in order to develop a cross-road national plan and county plans for the transport infrastructure. Determination of the plans is expected in spring 2018. The Government will take a position on the question of concrete measures in the forthcoming action plan. In light of what I have now presented, my answers to Anders Åkesson's questions will be that, based on the Swedish hearing's report, I perceive it as that the Swedish hearing already has, and sees it as part of its mission, to study various alternatives in relation to a new fixed relationship between Sweden and Denmark. This work includes, among other things, highlighting the consequences for Sweden if the plans for Ring 5 are discontinued and studying whether a future connection with Denmark should primarily address the need for railway capacity or road capacity. Based on what emerges from this work, there is a better basis for further discussions between Sweden and Denmark. I have recently taken the initiative to cooperate with the Nordic neighbours on cross-border infrastructure and transport. During my visit to Copenhagen a few weeks ago, when I met my Danish colleague, we also agreed to cooperate on further measures to strengthen the development and integration of the Öresund region.
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-528	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Minister Johansson for his answer. The background to my interpellation is that cross-border passenger transport down to the continent across Denmark is something of a fundamental in Swedish infrastructure planning and has been so for a very long time. The plans for what to do on the day the full capacity of the Öresund bridge has been taken up have also been built on that. There is a thought of some kind of fixed connection between Helsingborg and Helsingör. It has in turn built on Ring 5, the western link past Copenhagen down to the continent. Our Swedish national planning has built on this. One of the assignments to the Swedish negotiation is, as the Government says, to look at the prerequisite to build on this. The time when the Öresund bridge's full capacity is in use is soon here, perhaps especially as we can expect increased pressure when the Danish-German connection over Fehmarn Belt is built. There is talk of increased transit links, goods, on the route from Oslo along the Swedish west coast and down over Denmark towards the continent. This will require a new fixed link across Öresund, and, as the Government says, this is a Danish-Swedish project that requires a high level of commitment in both countries. It was against the background of what I interpelled when it became known that the Danish Parliament, the Folketing, could clearly be in the process of removing some of the conditions for Ring 5 and thus a fixed connection across the Danish mainland down towards Germany. For those who go in and look at the assignment or the investigation directive to the Swedish hearing, Madam President, it becomes clear that it requires a Helsingör – Helsingborg connection. The negotiators themselves write in a memo from September last year about the Öresund link that the task is to report the financial conditions for a new HH (road and rail) connection, including alternative financing opportunities. A little further into the material they write that, based on previous focus on Swedish and Danish government level, Region Skåne's political orientation and so far produced investigative material, Helsingborg – Helsingör seems to be the geographical starting point for further studies of a new fixed connection between the countries. That is why, Madam President, I once again thank the Government for its answer. That confirms my question. But in what way, I would like to repeat, have they communicated with the Swedish negotiation about the new situation in Denmark so that the Swedish negotiation does not investigate from a condition that possibly does not exist? That's the interesting part.
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-536	Madam President, I would like The Swedish hearing naturally keeps up-to-date with what is happening in various areas that affect its mission. This has not been the subject of any specific discussion between the government and the hearing, but I assume that the Swedish hearing will remain up-to-date. However, I would like to remind you that what has happened in the Danish Parliament is by no means the repeal of Ring 5, but what is at issue is that three smaller parties have expressed such a desire. However, this does not apply to the three major parties. Nor does it apply to the current Minister for Transport in Denmark, Hans Christian Schmidt, so there is no imminent threat of this road reserve being lifted – at least not in the near future. I am also convinced that there is a need to strengthen political contacts between the Swedish and Danish Governments, but also between the Swedish and Finnish Governments and the Swedish and Norwegian Governments on cross-border work commuting and freight transport. As I mentioned in my reply, I have initiated a joint ministerial meeting – not to synchronise or put together our respective plans, but to keep each other informed and identify common challenges that may need common planning processes. As I said, I have also taken the initiative of bilateral contact with the Danish Minister on how we can strengthen the development of the Öresund region beyond what is currently happening for the Öresund Bridge, that is, that we have been forced to reduce access temporarily. This has also demonstrated the need to have a strategy for how we move forward. We have come a very long way in the integration of the Swedish and Danish sides of Öresund, but we are convinced that there are further things we can do. It can be about transport infrastructure, but it can also be about regulations, tax rules, ticketing systems and other things. I have taken the initiative to meet the Danish Minister and continue to discuss the common needs and challenges we face. I have so far had very constructive and good talks with the Minister and hope that it will continue. However, we in the Swedish Government cannot, of course, have any significant influence on how the Danish Government or the Danish Parliament, Parliament, chooses to handle its transport planning. We may possibly have comments. But I would not have appreciated the Danish Minister telling us in Sweden what road reserves we should have left, and I assume that the Danish people want to prevail on such issues. That is why we really have no way of influencing this. We do, however, have a great interest in discussing common issues in this area.
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-543	Madam President, I would like The Minister himself raised the issue of integration in the Öresund region. It is clear that it is currently extremely strongly influenced by the ID requirements imposed unilaterally by Sweden. It is another issue, but of course it disturbs the relationship between Sweden and Denmark. After all, it is a Nordic Border Union that has lasted for decades that hux fluxes are torn up, and we know that creates problems for the transport teams, both ferry traffic and fixed connections. But to return to Ring 5 and international traffic planning, you can say, because that's what it's all about: Building bridges is like dancing tango– it takes at least two, and it's good if you dance at the same pace and in the same direction. It is clear that it facilitates whether Swedish planning for international transport infrastructure can anticipate and have a good dialogue with and insight into our neighbouring countries' corresponding planning. Otherwise, planning becomes impossible and almost meaningless. We both know that the Swedish negotiation is a very large infrastructure project that we expect to be included in or linked to the infrastructure proposal that the government is expected to present in the autumn. Of course, it is a good thing if it is aiming reasonably right and is in agreement with the Danish colleague of the Minister on the part of the common coast or the Öresund region where a link can be established. I do not really have the same picture of the importance of the Danish initiative. I note that the Danish Parliament, like the Swedish Parliament, is committed to this issue and is involved in infrastructure planning. It is discussed to remove something that has been a foundation in international relations for a very long time: call 5 west of Denmark. That is why I have to repeat the question. Does the government and the Swedish negotiation look at any alternative solutions in the event that what the Minister presents as a small political force may after all be larger and successful? What is the Swedish government doing in such a situation? Our high-speed train has to land somewhere. It's not supposed to stay in the Öresund region.
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-548	Madam President, I would like As I said, it is in the assignment to the Swedish negotiation to look at different alternatives, and the negotiators themselves note that they need to investigate both what the capacity looks like in the existing connection, when there may be a need for further connection and where and in what way it can be implemented. It should not be forgotten that the interest from the Danish side to stand for the connecting infrastructure at a Helsingborg – Helsingör connection has been quite lukewarm. Part of this obviously depends on the environment in which such a railway would cross Denmark. That is also one of the reasons why I have initiated talks with both the former and the current Minister for Transport in Denmark. I see the need and the need for political convergence as best as possible on joint projects and challenges. The Fehmarn B Belt link will of course be an extremely important link to Continental Europe also from a Swedish perspective. The prerequisite for us to be able to use it for better functioning both rail freight and passenger transport down to Continental Europe is that we have a link through Denmark that works. This is indeed a highly topical issue on which I intend to continue to discuss with our Danish friends. But I think you should have some respect that the burning interest that Sweden possibly has in coming to when the Fehmarn Belt connection is built may not really be shared by Denmark. They're busy, you might say, getting the connection in place. This does not mean that we should not continue to reason. I understand that there is a constructive spirit to discuss joint efforts both with Denmark and with our other Nordic neighbours. It is becoming increasingly clear that we are an integrated region. We will need to strengthen our regional links in those parts where we have cross-border traffic and extensive commuting, and not least freight transport. It will be a focus area for the government in the future.
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-553	Madam President, I would like Thank you again for the answer and the discussion, Minister. Sweden is one of the most export-dependent countries in the world. This requires that we can export, land or sea, the ball bearings, Volvo cars, forest products and other things that we manufacture. In this case, Fehmarn Belt will be a key investment that we cannot afford, but it has Danes and Germans. At the same time, the Danes have certainly predicted quite a lot of traffic over the Fehmarn Belt link, which in turn provides traffic charges and is largely based on co-planning, Scandinavia-Denmark Continent. Dialogue with them cannot be completely impossible. I'm sure they're not prepared to make a bad deal. If I interpret the Government so that the mission to the Swedish negotiations and the Swedish infrastructure planning is to look at several traffic alternatives over Öresund, I will be calm, but I would like to get it confirmed. I would also like to ask whether there is a corresponding understanding on the Danish side. We both know that the Danish side has been lukewarm for a long time in terms of a western connection past Copenhagen. Is there a corresponding understanding of Scandinavia-Denmark-Germany, about Fehmarn Belt and the opportunity to make money on that connection? It will certainly facilitate the dialogue in that case. If I interpret the Government correctly and it is clear for the Swedish negotiation and other infrastructure planners to look at several alternatives, I am reassured.
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-558	Madam President, I would like If it is clearly stated, one can possibly think about, but of course it is part of the mission to see how we can strengthen capacity in the Öresund region. It is a natural part of it that if one sees that one cannot arrive at a path for various reasons, one must of course investigate other possibilities. I maintain that a Danish interest and active participation in such a discussion are essential if we are to take steps forward. I therefore hope that we will have constructive talks at ministerial level between Sweden and Denmark, but also between authorities, to ensure that we have a planning that goes hand in hand and to strengthen Scandinavian cooperation and the relationship between the Nordic region and Continental Europe. This is definitely in line with the government's ambitions in this area.
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-560	Madam President, I would like Hans Wallmark has asked the Minister for Strategy and Future Affairs and Nordic cooperation if there has been any specific analysis of how the new temporary ID rules and transporter responsibility are hitting Nordic cooperation in general and the Öresund integration in particular. Furthermore, Hans Wallmark has asked if the Minister for Nordic Cooperation had previously had contacts with his Nordic co-operation colleagues in general and the Danish Minister for Co-operation in particular with a view to the Swedish decision to introduce ID controls. Finally, he has asked how the Minister for Nordic Cooperation will work towards border barriers as a priority area for Nordic cooperation in the light of what is now happening in the Öresund region. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. The background to the decision on ID checks was that the government considered that important societal functions were under threat due to the large number of asylum seekers in late autumn. The provisions aim to ensure that basic social functions are not eliminated. The preparation of the Act(2015:1073) on special measures in the event of serious danger to public order or internal security in the country, as well as the regulation governing the identity checks, were carried out for a short period of time as circumstances required this. Prior to the Government Decision of 18 December 2015 to adopt the Act and decide on the Regulation, the Danish Ministry of Transport was regularly informed by the Government Office. On 11 January 2016, I visited the Öresund region and met the Danish Minister for Transport and representatives of Region Skåne and Malmö. On 21 January 2016, I met again with the Danish Minister for Transport at an EU meeting in Amsterdam. The government's intention is that the provisions on ID controls should not apply for longer than is necessary to ensure that important societal functions are not threatened. The impact on integration and development in the region is, of course, reduced if the controls are short-term, but it is not possible today to say how long the need for identity checks remains. There is still too little time left for a proper evaluation of the new rules. The integration process that has emerged in the Öresund region since the Öresund link opened in 2000 is very important for Swedish-Danish relations, and work has long been going on to remove border barriers to job creation and growth. We therefore work closely with our Danish neighbours to further strengthen the dynamic development of the Öresund region. I have also recently taken the initiative to cooperate with the Nordic neighbours on cross-border infrastructure and transport, and at my meetings with the Danish Minister for Transport, I have agreed to cooperate on further measures to strengthen the development and integration of the Öresund region.
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-567	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. As noted, I originally asked the Nordic Minister for Cooperation Kristina Persson, because I wanted to highlight the dimensions of Öresund integration and Nordic cooperation in connection with the ID controls. Now Kristina Persson can't answer, or she won't answer. It was similar a few months ago when we had the Nordic Council session in Reykjavík. Then Margot Wallström could not come, and they had to send Kristina Persson. It is a little strange that the government is sending people other than those who are expected to answer some of these questions. It'll be a little too much hip, hip and a little too much jump, jump. It does not strengthen respect for the government, Madam President. If you were proud of what you had done, of the efforts you had come up with and the practical solution you had then, it would have been good if several ministers had explained how you thought and what you had done. In practice, only Anna Johansson has to answer for the government's policy. It is perhaps a rather strenuous task. I think that more ministers should have stepped forward and highlighted the different dimensions of this. Madam President, I would like The Social Democrats sought government power in 2014. The Social Democrats gained government power in 2014. That is why the Social Democrats must be evaluated as to how they use government power since 2014. It is therefore appropriate to look at how the rules that came into force from 4 January have been implemented. For those living in the Öresund region, for those who are the daily commuters, it is a big deal. It's a big deal because it's meant to be a mess. It's getting harder. There have been delays. There have been great uncertainties. This is not so much true for them to Copenhagen, but for those commuting from Copenhagen. It is important, Madam President, to show clear leadership when there is a row and people are worried and concerned. That was one of the starting points for my interpellation, namely the contacts that have been tried to create, what they have tried to do to prepare for this. It is no secret to Minister Anna Johansson that I have also asked some written questions about exactly what meetings have been held. I got the last answer as late as today. As I understand it, Anna Johansson as a minister did not have any ministerial contact before the rules were introduced on 4 January. It would have been interesting to know if Kristina Persson had had any contacts with the other Nordic co-operation ministers or specifically with the Danish co-operation minister. Madam President, I would like I came from Helsinki today, from a meeting of the Nordic Council Bureau. One issue that is regularly discussed in the Nordic context is how integration and Nordic cooperation are affected by the way the rules have been implemented in Sweden. That is why we should have seen a clearer leadership responsibility on the part of the Swedish Government. Not least, there would have been a need for clarity for those people who suffer from uncertainty, who are suffering from delays, who ask themselves whether or not they are on the train. Therefore, one could still ask Anna Johansson, who may represent the entire government and all dimensions of this with ID controls: Is there anything that you self-critically can look back on and say that you could have done better? Is there anything in the implementation, the rule application, that could have been said could have been done better, so that you could have reduced uncertainty and uncertainty? In addition, I asked a very specific question in my interpellation: before taking the decision and issuing the directives, was there any reflection on how this affects Nordic cooperation and how people perceive it?
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-577	Madam President, I would like This is, in fact, a fairly important issue. In the last 25 years, regional traffic here in Sweden has increased by 200 per cent. So much more the Swedes travel within the region. Recent enlargements of the labour market have occurred many times over. It is therefore interesting to see how this affects. If you have been commuting at some point in your life, as I have done for a number of years, you can see that 10 to 15 minutes are very important. Therefore, this issue must be dealt with with with great respect for those commuting. I would like to say something to Mr Wallmark. This measure is important, it is important that you do it right and that the government does it properly. It is now clear that the great fears that existed before 4 January have not been resolved to the extent that it was warned against. It has become better than what we were warned in the Committee on Transport before border controls were introduced. Hans Wallmark says that we must evaluate what we Social Democrats have done. For eight years we have had a government led by Fredrik Reinfeldt and the Moderates, who had as their main objective to reduce taxes. For those of us who live in Norrland, like me, there are no customs duties or border controls on the way down to Stockholm, but it is one and the same country. Yet the journey times for the trains have grown longer during the time that Hans Wallmark's party belonged to the majority here. There are no controls or police that stop the trains, but still travel times have increased. For 25 years regional transport has increased by 200 per cent. In just 15 years the journey time by train from Sundsvall to Stockholm has increased by between 35 and 40 minutes. Most of this happened during the reign of your party, Hans Wallmark, when maintenance of the railway was not a priority. You have to see the overall picture. When you talk about Nordic cooperation, it would be good if you had a picture of how it is in Sweden. As I said, travel time has increased by 40 minutes. While we have built the bridge to create a larger labour market area, we have reduced opportunities in Norrland.
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-584	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by thanking Mr Wallmark for his concern for my person, that I alone have to answer for the government's policy. I do not know how it worked in the bourgeois government of its day, but in our government we have the order that it is it who is responsible for an issue. And I'm in charge of this question. I do not think it is particularly troubling to answer questions about it. I do not mean that this is a measure that the government has wanted to take or that we have had as a goal, but the task of a government is to take responsibility. This means that sometimes you also need to make decisions that you don't love or feel very proud of but that in a situation that has arisen are of necessity. This is such a decision. I am proud that, as a government, we act when necessary. We take the responsibility that the Swedish people can expect. At the same time, I note that the Moderates, whom Hans Wallmark represents, agreed with the Government on the need for this particular measure until the decision was taken in the Swedish Parliament. It did not vote against, because it understood, of course, the need for the measure to be put in place, but it chose not to participate actively in the decision. There you can talk about leadership and responsibility! To return to the subject of the interpellation, I would like to say that we have quite close contacts with the Danish Government. I have met the Danish Minister on a couple of occasions, and there have been other contacts before. One should also remember the background to the decision being made. There are today some who claim that it should have been done much earlier. There are some who claim that we should have done things this summer or even many years ago. It should be remembered, however, that it looked pretty good until September. It was a high level of reception, but it was a manageable level. During the months of October and November, something very dramatic happened in the reception of asylum, when a large number of people – 80 000 people – applied for asylum in Sweden for two months. At that point, the government saw itself forced to take dramatic and drastic decisions to get the reception right and to ensure that our social systems were able to do so, not only in the emergency situation but in the long term. This is the background to the fact that we did not have any eons of time to anchor this and investigate it in the long bench, but we had to make a decision quite quickly. I would like to say that the Danish Government understands that Sweden has taken action. In my contacts with the Danish Minister and with regional representatives of the Municipality of Malmö and the Skåne Region, there is a great understanding that the measures were necessary, while, of course, there can be views and suggestions for improvement on individual parts. We are very open and we are happy to take part in such a discussion on how we can ensure that this works in a way that reduces the disruption as much as possible and that contributes to the full effectiveness of the measure without, for example, affecting commuters more than necessary. It should also be recalled that if we had not taken these measures, it would probably have had even more devastating consequences, even in the longer term, not least for the region that Hans Wallmark now claims to be protecting.
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-592	Madam President, I would like Jasenko Omanovic uses parables with cancelled trains and traffic that do not go. It's a dangerous argument. This government will also be evaluated on the basis of the trains that do not come and the trains that do not go. Nor do I think it is an argument when you put different parts of the country against each other. What is now happening in the Öresund region is about the uncertainty and uncertainty that it entails when implementing these rules. I don't think that's a joke, because it's a serious matter for the people in question. I am therefore abstaining from further domestic politics with Mr Jasenko. Then it applies to Minister Anna Johansson. Yeah, that's it. These are individual parts that form the whole. Although the Government is assigned this responsibility for the entire Government, my questions were just about Öresund integration and Nordic cooperation. I still think that's relevant. I share the view that we need to ease the pressure. There the Moderates have been most constructive. We have participated in agreements that have been concluded with the government parties. We have also continuously made concrete and constructive proposals on how to do this. But the government can't run away from its responsibilities. It is here and now that the decisions made by the Riksdag are implemented. When there are problems and difficulties, it is the government that has mismanagement. It's like I said again. The Social Democrats have sought government power. The Social Democrats have been given government power. Then the Social Democrats must also be evaluated for how to manage the government. That's where my criticism comes from. I also note that there has not been more talks at ministerial level before the rules were introduced on 4 January. Madam President, I would like At least in my world it's an advantage to talk to each other if you're going to do something big, serious and dramatic. It is quite clear that the way in which the government has introduced these rules has come to affect a whole region. It has also, as far as I can judge, come to affect relations between Sweden and Denmark, not least between Swedes and Danes. These are concrete issues that have been highlighted in the debate down in the Öresund region. I want to make that up to Anna Johansson. There has been a request for some form of financial compensation to the region. Is it something that the government has been reflecting on since the rules were introduced on 4 January? There have been criticisms of how control is carried out at a specific station: Hyllie. You do it first on Kastrup. Then you do it at Hyllie station. Is there any possibility of not having that dual command? Another request has been to check passports and ID documents on trains when they leave Denmark and are on their way to Sweden, so that time can be shortened. Is that something the government is reflecting on? These are concrete proposals that have arisen in the debate down there. It would have been interesting to hear just how you view this. This is, once again, a decision made by the Riksdag, but it is implemented and implemented by the Government. That's why you can't take that responsibility away from yourself. On top of that, Madam President, some day ago Minister Ygeman himself stated that this could have negative consequences for the Öresund economy. Apparently, at least someone in the government circle has been thinking about it. Then I would like to return to my first question. I wonder what it was like to think about these rules and how they were to be implemented. I wonder if there was anyone in the government circle who said: How can this affect the sense of Nordic cooperation? How can this affect Öresund integration? Or were there issues that were completely uninteresting in the Council of State Committee?
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-601	Madam President, I would like No, I'm not talking about cancelled trains, but I'm talking about that the journey from Sundsvall down to Stockholm has become longer, 40 minutes, because of all the things I mentioned last time. I do not think Hans Wallmark is honest as he is now trying to change it to about cancelled trains. No, the journey has grown longer. I made that comparison-- it's 40 minutes longer travel time. I took up the journey between Sundsvall and Stockholm in relation to what we see in the Öresund region. I've been down to visit that region. It was interesting when Region Skåne would invite us there. We were then invited to Copenhagen to show what an integrated region it is, what cooperation it has and how successfully it has worked with it during these years. I have just one thing to add to this debate. If other Nordic countries had taken on their responsibilities on the refugee issue, we would not have had to do this today, because then the distribution would have been even between the countries.
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-604	Madam President, I would like I do not know what speech Mr Wallmark listened to when I replied a moment ago. But I think most of the others who heard me didn't realize that I was making any attempt to evade my responsibilities. On the contrary, I repeatedly stressed the importance of a government taking responsibility and of a government also taking decisions that are not necessarily comfortable or casual. This government takes that responsibility. And I stand on behalf of the Socialist and Environmental Party Government and say: we have taken responsibility, and we will continue to take responsibility for that issue. Of course, this type of action has effects that are not positive for the movements in the Öresund region. However, I maintain that the consequences of not taking the measures would have been much worse, especially in the longer term. We are in close contact with my Danish colleague, whom I mentioned, whom I have met. I do not perceive that we have a bad relationship – quite the opposite. There have been constructive talks in which we have listened to the views of the Danish side. We have also tried to describe what measures we are taking to minimise interference. I also have close contacts with the region and municipality in Skåne to listen to: What is it that we can possibly change for this to work better? On the other hand, when it comes to the precise design of the controls, our attitude has always been: Those who are going to carry out the work are probably far better placed to make an adequate assessment of exactly how this is to be done than we as a government. That is why we have left it to carriers to decide for themselves how to carry out the checks and to our authorities to lay down regulations on the requirements they impose on carriers. That doesn't mean we're passive. In his recent question, Hans Wallmark highlights what is perceived as double controls, that is to say, once on Kastrup and then once in Hyllie. It is an issue that is being worked on quite intensively at the Government Office. The reason why there are two controls is that there are two completely different functions. What happens at Kastrup is not the exercise of authority where someone should establish a person's identity. What happens at Kastrup is that the transport companies check that a person has an ID before the person enters Sweden. What is happening on the Swedish side is that the Swedish police carry out internal border control, which means establishing the identity of persons to ensure which persons enter Sweden. Work is under way to see: Are there practical and legal conditions for simplifying this management? Work is also under way in some other areas. It is about how we can take other measures to strengthen the integration of the Öresund region. There is also ongoing work on issues relating to different types of compensation or compensation and so on. There, of course, I continue to have contact with those concerned. But speaking of responsibility, yes, we make deals. The question is, what are they worth? We had an agreement on identity checks that the Moderates chose to crawl out of at the eleventh hour when decisions were to be made on the matter in Parliament. It's not taking responsibility. It's not about making a deal.
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-611	Madam President, I would like Many thanks for this exchange, Anna Johansson! What worries me is the murmuring voice that many people feel in the Öresund region. It's about the festive speeches that we give – it's not just about Anna Johansson, it's about me and everyone else who's involved in Nordic issues, Nordic cooperation and Nordic integration – and that this kind of thing then happens. When the reality becomes different from the way the numbers are designed, it is clear that there is a risk of frustration. Those of us who have worked with Nordic issues for a number of years have done what we have been able to do to roll back a number of border barriers in different ways that have made movements between countries more difficult, not least in the Öresund area. Then the problem is, as Anna Johansson will admit, and I think she has already done so in some sense, that this of course creates difficulties and is perceived as obstacles. The important thing is then what you can do to ease it. How can this be handled in a better and simpler way? Madam President, I would like Nevertheless, I appreciate hearing that there is work going on in the government circle to see how to deal with Hyllie, that it may be possible to carry out checks on the trains so that the dual control function might perhaps be abolished. This is a strong request from many in the Öresund region. The question that the Government did not address – but she can do that in her last speech in two minutes – is this with the financial compensation and whether there are any such plans in the governing body. Then, in other contexts, I will have to look for the Nordic Minister for Cooperation Kristina Persson to ask what background reflections were made about Nordic cooperation and Öresund integration and what long-term consequences this has for Nordic cooperation.
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-617	Madam President, I would like I note that no alternative proposals have actually been made by Mr Wallmark. Somewhere the Moderates realize the need for this action. The Moderates were there all the way. A deal was made and agreed to the proposal – until decisions were to be made in the Riksdag. That's when you chose to crawl out. It is sad and regrettable. The Government obviously has an ambition that these measures will have as little negative consequences as possible, but when we introduce border control of this kind, it will obviously have negative consequences for both commuters and businesses. However, our assessment is that these disruptions are significantly less extensive and significantly less harmful than the option of not implementing these measures in the longer term. I mentioned in my previous speech that there is also work going on on various types of compensatory measures that we will come back to, alongside also refining and developing how the controls themselves are to be carried out. There, of course, work is going on both in the authorities and in the transport companies to make this as smooth as possible. There is no ambition from the government to implement these measures to make it more difficult for the Öresund region. The problem has been that the challenge that we had to deal with originated in that region, and that is why it was also where we took action. I stand for the policy we pursue. I will do everything I can to make this as easy as possible, but I am proud that we as the government act when it is necessary and take full responsibility for Sweden. We will continue to do so.
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-622	Madam President, I would like Lotta Finstorp has asked the Minister for Higher Education and Research what she intends to do to make the validation of competences in health care professions more effective. Furthermore, Finstorp asks what the Government thinks about the Moderates' proposal that responsibility for the validation of the licence professions in health care should be transferred to the Swedish Council for Higher Education. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. There is an urgent need to streamline the processing times for validation of healthcare training outside the EU/EEA. For this reason, the government is making several efforts in this area. In order to maintain high quality and patient safety in Swedish healthcare, there must be a systematic review of the knowledge of these individuals before Swedish identification is issued. The National Board of Health and Welfare is responsible for assessing whether the applicant has the knowledge and skills required in accordance with current legislation. However, the validation process itself consists of several steps, where responsibility lies with several different actors. As the number of asylum seekers has increased in Sweden, applications to have their foreign healthcare education tested and to obtain a Swedish licence have also increased. The number of applications for identification from this group has doubled in the last three years. This, combined with the fact that the documentation is sometimes inadequate or non-existent, makes the investigation work of the National Board of Health and Welfare more difficult. Against this background, the government already allocated SEK 18.5 million last year for the agency to shorten the processing times for the first decision regarding whether an education outside the EU/EEA is equivalent to Swedish health care education. In 2014, the National Board of Health and Welfare allocated more than SEK 13 million from its administrative grant for this activity. In the 2016 budget proposal, the government proposed an investment of SEK 65 million in 2016 to streamline the entire process, from the first application for equivalence assessment to a decision on a Swedish licence. From 2017 onwards, SEK 42 million is calculated annually for the purpose. Supplements thus correspond to a considerable increase in resources for this area. The Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare works to shorten its processing times by streamlining internal processes and improving information vis-à-vis applicants. In addition, the National Board of Health and Welfare has launched a dialogue with all relevant actors in the field to ensure the efficiency of the entire validation process. The discussions include knowledge tests that are part of the validation process. The tests shall cover all medical licence professions and aim to test the basic knowledge. The Government has a special focus on supplementary education for people with completed foreign education corresponding to a Swedish higher education course, which today includes courses for doctors, dentists and nurses. These training efforts are reinforced during the current year by allocating an additional SEK 25 million, including study funding, for the purpose. The budget proposal for 2016 is estimated for the same purpose at SEK 75 million in 2017, SEK 220 million in 2018 and SEK 340 million in 2019. This includes, among other things, the possibility for more people to participate in the existing training courses, but also the development of training courses in more professional areas, including supplementary training courses for people with completed foreign psychological education and biomedical analyst training. In parallel with this work, a so-called fast track for the 21 regulated health professions has been developed by the social partners in cooperation with the Public Employment Service. The purpose of the fast track is to ensure that the path to the labour market and the identification of newly arrived persons with a regulated healthcare profession is predictable, legally secure and as short as possible. The fast track is based on the largest groups newly arrived in the area, i.e. doctors, nurses, dentists and pharmacists. The fast track should enable information about the way to Swedish ID to be provided systematically and already when applying for a residence permit. Swedish education starts early and is followed by opportunities to study in vocational Swedish. So-called introduction courses for the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare's proficiency tests are organised as a support for the test and professional competence assessments should give the individual better opportunities to practice during the validation process. As regards the future structure of the national validation work, long-term development work is currently ongoing within the Government Office. Among other things, a validation delegation has been set up. The mission of the delegation is to follow, support and drive coordinated development work in the field of validation at national and regional level. Overall, the efforts made in the validation process within the framework of this year's budget represent a significant strengthening. The government has a regular dialogue with the National Board of Health and Welfare on the matter, and we are now getting indications that the process is becoming more effective. The rapid arrival of new arrivals means a profit for both the individual and society.
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-633	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. More efficiency is needed in assessing and complementing skills so that people can start working earlier and that we can meet recruitment needs in healthcare. Therefore, the Moderates have proposed that the responsibility for the validation be transferred to the Swedish Council for Higher Education, which is responsible for a large part of the university validation. Many people who come to Sweden today have a short educational background and limited experience from a labour market that looks like Sweden's. In 2014, 36 per cent of those with an establishment plan had nine years of education or less. Within the group there are major differences. Some have nearly nine years of education, while others have only a few years of education, which is because they come from countries in war. Several large groups of immigrants have a higher level of education than natives, not infrequently in a lack of employment in the Swedish labour market. We know that the county councils are really screaming for doctors, psychologists, specialist nurses and teachers. It comes daily to Sweden people with that competence. All the expertise they bring is invaluable to continue to build Sweden strong. For every year that goes without validating and exploiting their skills, the betrayal of both a labour market with great recruitment needs and the individual is increasing. The discussion on the need for faster validation has been ongoing for several years, despite the efforts made in this area. I am grateful for what the government has done. It goes without saying that the more people come, the more resources must be allocated to the National Board of Health and Welfare. The government has certainly done that. But somewhere in the system, it's still wrong. It must not go too fast to validate. Then you can miss out on quality. It is extremely important in health care. I lacked an answer to one of my questions. I can repeat my question and hope to receive answers during the debate. What is the Government's view of the Moderates' proposal that responsibility for the validation of the licence professions should also be transferred to the Swedish Council for Higher Education? The reason for my interpellation is that just before Christmas I met five Syrians in the square of Eskilstuna. They are specialist doctors in gynecology and dermatology. Someone's a dentist. They applied for a licence more than a year ago. Their affairs are stuck with the National Board of Health and Welfare. The message they have received is that there will be new legislation. This has meant that the National Board of Health and Welfare has put away a number of matters with examination certificates and so on. Their business is stuck in the process. Now they have been told today that the National Board of Health and Welfare will look at their affairs. These five highly skilled residents who speak well Swedish and who have specialist expertise needed in my county council and in other county councils are incredibly worried about losing competence. If you are a specialist, you need to work in your field all the time, operate, participate in further training and so on. They're talking about getting a taxi card and starting driving a taxi so they don't have to go for support when the time of the establishment plan is over for them. What does the minister say to them? We need them, and they need to get started and work. Somewhere there's a bug in the system.
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-643	Madam President, I would like Let me start by thanking Lotta Finstorp for having awakened the interpellation. This is an extremely important subject for the government, not least because the government parties went to elections and shaped the government to reduce unemployment and increase employment in Sweden. This is also extremely important from an individual perspective, just as Lotta Finstorp describes. I have also met doctors and other groups of health care training who are just saying that their hands are atrophy because they go day in and day out, month in and month in and maybe year in without being able to use the knowledge and experience they have with them. This is also why the government is making these major investments in the National Board of Health and Welfare. As far as I am aware, in modern times there has not been an increase in funds dedicated precisely to the work of validation in this way. This year we are talking about a nearly five-fold increase in funding compared to 2014. It is also important to point out that with the new Director General of the National Board of Health and Welfare there has been a fresh start in the work. The Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare has reviewed its processes and quickly got a new way of working that I think I see already starting to produce results. I very much hope that we can greatly reduce processing times for those individuals who want to get to work quickly and not least in order for the healthcare sector to meet its recruitment needs in the future as well. Regarding the specific question put by Lotta Finstorp, whether the responsibility for the validation processes should shift from the National Board of Health and Welfare to the Swedish Council for Higher Education, it is one of the options we are looking at in the Government Office. However, as preparations are still under way and we have not reached any decisions on this issue, it is far too early for me to say what direction the government will take. Even if the government were going in the direction that Lotta Finstorp points out, to transfer responsibility to the Swedish Council for Higher Education, it is still important to focus on what we can do here and now to strengthen the processes and shorten the processing times. A transfer of responsibility takes at least a couple of three years. During that time, we must ensure that we strengthen the activities of the National Board of Health and Welfare.
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-650	Madam President, I would like Then I understand why I didn't get the answer to the question. There is a preparation going on, and of course we will wait for it. It is good that it is included in the preparation's task to look at the issue of letting the Swedish Council for Higher Education have the main responsibility for all validation. It's interesting to look at Norway. Norway is often mentioned as a good example in terms of validation. The volumes are not as large in Norway as in Sweden, but we can look in the neighborhood. I heard a number of years ago that 60,000 different professions can be validated in Finland. Maybe there are good models to look at so we don't have to invent the wheel on our own. The highly educated Syrians I met said they're specialized. They already have specialist skills in their degrees, but now they have to go through the same procedure as those with basic education. The Syrians say that in view of all new arrivals, the specialists should be allowed to go on the fast track. We share the government's view that this must be done without reducing quality requirements. It's important. Now I don't know how long the fast track has been running. It would be interesting to hear from the Minister whether there is any difference. Has it gone faster or not? The five specialists I met earlier emailed me the other day and told me that they had finally been told by the National Board of Health and Welfare that the process for their part has begun to roll. We are not going to discuss authorities here, but they have been trying for almost two years to find out why nothing is happening to their grades. The grades are available from the National Board of Health and Welfare. The answer from the authority is that you don't know. It's not okay. Nevertheless, the authority must be able to answer that this is due to an accumulation of cases. In this case, it had been said that it was because new legislation was coming, and then cases were turned around. But now it's rolling anyway. Effective validation is an important part of integration. Soon we will move from the large volumes of migration – which will certainly continue for a long time – into the integration part. It's a huge challenge. For those people who have a specialist education in deficiency professions, where Swedish county councils really need people, it is extremely important to get them started right away. They can be bridge builders to their countrymen and those who speak the same language. We need their skills in every way. SKL and SCB have compiled what is actually needed forward. There will be about half a million people missing in the welfare sector. For example, in municipal health care, including social services, there will be 144,000 missing in 2022 according to SKL and SCB. Thank God there are people coming to Sweden! We really need each and every one of them. In health care, 89 000 people have to be employed, and that is because of retirement. We are also becoming more people in the country who need care, care, social services etc. We need to get to this so that there is a good roll on the validation instrument.
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-659	Madam President, I would like It sounds like Lotta Finstorp and I agree in many ways. When it comes to those doctors and dentists who have not been informed and where the process has delayed, I find it difficult to comment on individual cases. But, as I said, it is important to point out that the National Board of Health and Welfare has had a very strained situation. There have simply been too few handlers. In addition to the process that may not have been up-to-date and in addition to collaboration and cooperation that might have needed to be renewed and modernised, there have also been too few administrators. Among other things, it is for what this new money has actually gone. I hope that this will be one of the points that the National Board of Health and Welfare will be able to address in the new work that has been started. The fast track was presented by myself and Minister of Labour Ylva Johansson before Christmas. We did this when the agreement between Arbetsförmedlingen and the social partners was completed. The fast track is rolling now, so it is far too early to tell what effects it has. But the hope is, of course, that it will have great effects. What all the actors involved believe is that the time from the time you go into a validation process to the time you come out and work in health care should be shortened by maybe several years. It would be great if we could do this. One can only count on which socio-economic – alongside people – v inster it is possible to do that these people get out of work faster. Let me also say something about the recruitment needs that we face. They're big. I have no reason to question the figures that exist. We should also know that we have major challenges ahead of us with the supply of skills already today in the healthcare sector. That is precisely why the government has begun work within the framework of the national pool of skills provision. We have gathered relevant actors in the healthcare sector, ranging from trade unions, professional preparations to employers, representatives of private health care providers and also patients from user associations to discuss together what problem images look like. Is it something that needs to be changed in responsibilities between, for example, the state, county councils and other actors? What can we do together to solve the problems and challenges ahead of us? What would need to be added to meet the recruitment needs that we see? We've had very good conversations in the groups. We have dealt with everything from the content and dimensioning of education to how we use our resources in health care. On the basis of these discussions, I believe that we have the opportunity to give agencies the task of allocating funds in the budget processes, but also, of course, in close collaboration with not least Sweden's municipalities and county councils. We will address a large part of the challenges we face in the area of recruitment.
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-665	Mr President, I would like to I note that we have a common understanding that we need to be more effective, absolutely, and that is very much the case. I heard that half of the new arrivals who have come here recently will have work within eight years. This means that the other half will have no work within eight years. The Landstingen already has a huge need for highly educated healthcare professionals. I wonder if a fast track could be introduced as soon as people arrive in Sweden. Of course, the validation must be done with quality, and we also agree on that. When processing times at the Migration Agency increase as more and more people go to Sweden, it is important to offer the conditions for getting a job as quickly as possible. Therefore, we believe that the Migration Agency should be given a clear mission to focus on jobs in the placement of asylum seekers. If a fast track could be introduced, one might think directly that people in health care should come to an asylum accommodation in the region where health professionals are needed. Even when asylum seekers are assigned to asylum homes, there should be a fast track. SFI education needs to be strengthened. Those with long university education are often very good at learning languages faster. One should not place everyone in SFI and believe that everyone has the same conditions. Today they are better at it, but earlier the doctor read with the non-university student, perhaps not even primary education.
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-671	Mr President, I would like to We absolutely agree that we should be able to do more, but it is also important to remind the House, not least, that, given the great reception that has taken place in the autumn, it has often been about making the most basic functions work and satisfying the most basic needs. It may have been difficult to make the little extra that had often facilitated not least the validation process. That is also why it has been so important to get to the breathing room that is now starting to give effect. We see a reduced number of asylum seekers, but also greater opportunities for Swedish society to take care of and start establishing the people who come here. Now we have a period ahead of us where we need to turn and turn every stone. Much of what we have so far talked about in this debate is precisely the role of county councils. Landstingen plays a huge role. There are many very good examples around the country where county councils have gone ahead to design systems, procedures and processes to identify who has a care education or experience. What does it look like? Then you have to be able to organise Swedish education or find internships in order for people to be able to get into the business more quickly. I think this is very positive. The experiences from Västra Götaland, Kalmar and other places we now take with us at the central level to see how to spread good examples and make sure that what works in the individual examples becomes a standard across the country. I welcome Lotta Finstorp's interpellation and look forward to working together on these issues.
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-675	Mr President, I would like to Sotiris Delis has asked me whether there is readiness and willingness to ensure that the vaccination programme is maintained and whether I have an action plan for how I and the government intend to address this challenge. I would like to begin my reply by emphasising the importance of vaccinations in maintaining public health in Sweden. The resulting lack of certain vaccines is serious. So far, public health has not been affected, but the situation needs to be addressed in order to minimise the risk of it happening. However, the problem is not an isolated national problem, and the causal link is complex as drugs are mostly handled in a global market. The issue is the subject of discussions at both EU and global level. The general vaccination programme for children is successful and effective both in scope and coverage, and it is essential that it continues to be so. According to the Disease Protection Act, county councils and municipalities are obliged to offer the vaccines covered by national vaccination programmes. This obligation is also to procure and ensure the availability of vaccines necessary for the implementation of the programmes. Since autumn 2015, Sweden's municipalities and County Councils (SKL) have been working together with the relevant authorities to secure vaccination availability in the short term as well as in the long term. The authorities at national level working with the national vaccination programmes shall assist county councils and municipalities in managing and facilitating a situation where a lack of a vaccine threatens or a deficiency has already occurred. For example, the Public Health Authority, which has a national coordination responsibility, must assess the suitability of alternative products that replace vaccines in case of deficiencies in the programmes and make adjustments to national vaccination programmes in consultation with the Swedish Medical Products Agency and make priorities for how vaccines can be used in cases of shortage. The MPA reviews and decides on applications for licences received. To the extent that it appears that alternatives to vaccines are available in the general vaccination programme for children, it is the Swedish Medical Products Agency that will handle licence applications for replacement vaccines. The Swedish Medical Products Agency has, on behalf of the Government, mapped residue quotations of medicinal products and analysed what they depend on and how information about them can be made available in a more systematic way in order to facilitate the handling of deficiencies. A report was submitted to the Government in May 2015. The report was submitted on 12 January 2016 and must be answered by 15 April. SKL has published on its website what measures they have, together with the Swedish Public Health Agency and the Swedish Medical Products Agency, to ensure the availability of vaccines in the short term but also in the long term. These include: The Swedish Public Health Agency, the Swedish Medical Products Agency and the Swedish Municipalities and County Council have endorsed a joint recommendation that vaccines for infants should be prioritised. The Swedish Public Health Agency has made recommendations for children most at risk of being exposed to tuberculosis to receive vaccines. In order to improve conditions to ensure the availability of vaccines in the short term, SKL has proposed to recommend county councils to make a volume estimate for vaccine orders for 2016 and 2017 as soon as possible. SKL also starts an investigation into how future procurements can be conducted to ensure long-term availability of vaccines. My assessment is that the current division of responsibilities between the actors in the field is clear. I welcome the measures taken and coordinated by SKL with the support of the relevant national authorities. The aim of the measures is to address the consequences of the emerging shortcomings in vaccines and to prevent them from reoccurring. I will continue to follow this issue closely both nationally and internationally.
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-685	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Government for its answer. In fact, we could have ended this debate here and now by the Government promising here and now that the Public Health Authority would have a clear mandate to be responsible nationally for coordinating vaccine purchases. But the government doesn't. In his reply, he shares my assessment of the seriousness of the current situation. He refers to many other things, including added investigations, international shortage trends, challenges in handling, etc. What is missing is what I and many with me, such as the parents of one-year-olds and five-year-olds at home in Jönköping and elsewhere in Sweden, had expected: the power and determination to act. The Government concludes its answer by saying: In this way, the Government has referred itself to the public gallery by its own force. This suggests that the Government is careful not to point with the whole hand, although he should perhaps do so and even though the question – if I point to it – is about life and death. The Government knows that today's system is neither health economic nor cost-effective. My questions remain, Mr President. Why do we not have a national reserve for vaccines? Why is the purchasing process managed and in practice controlled by 21 regions or county councils? Why does the Government not take the impression of the Norwegian and Finnish models, which are based on coordinated national vaccine purchases? Sweden has, as you know, received 160 000 new people in 2015. Forecasts remain uncertain for the current year. These people also have vaccination needs. What's the government thinking? We have had deaths in pertussis in Sweden in infants. In the United States and Britain, pregnant mothers are vaccinated to protect babies. We in Sweden do not. It is urgent, Mr President. The risk of an epidemic increases while the bureaucratic mills roll. Each decision on the matter has, according to the initiated assessor, a lead time of a maximum of two years. So when we make a decision today, it will be effective in two years' time. Happily, hepatitis B vaccines come, as recommended by the World Health Organisation since 1992. It is entering the paediatric vaccination program, according to today's information from Sydsvenskan. The situation is deemed serious. Deliveries for the short-term need suffer from disruption, and for the long-term need no deliveries are guaranteed. The government has now become accustomed to very slow decision-making, or worse: passivity. Vaccines save lives and create protection. Is the Minister, in addition to the promise to personally follow developments, prepared to become part of vaccine reality?
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-695	Mr President, I would like to This is a very urgent issue that we now have to discuss. As I said in my interpellation response, vaccines are many times the basis for maintaining good public health in Sweden and, of course, also globally. But to simplify the problem as severely as Sotiris Delis does, I do not think it will be beneficial. It is not something that will make it easier for us to find solutions to the problems and challenges that we are seeing today. As I tried to say in my answer, we live in a globalised world. These are preparations and vaccines procured in a global market. Centralising procurement will not help. It will not solve the problem of shortcomings in obtaining vaccines. The system we have today and the division of responsibilities between central authorities and regions and county councils is a system that works in many ways. Now it is about seeing what we can do to improve this by, for example, exchanging information on a larger scale and being more forward-looking than hitherto. I don't believe in playing the whole ocean storms and redoing the system. I believe that, at worst, it will take an enormous amount of energy and energy without leading to the necessary vaccines being produced to help, not least, children and young people.
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-698	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government, but that is exactly where we differ. I have in my hands a report from the investigation service regarding vaccinations. I just ordered this report because the situation was deemed so serious. I have also interviewed a lot of people, including the chairman of the CDC, who works at home in Jönköping. He confirms that the situation is serious. No, it's not about the whole ocean storming. Responsibility lies with us as politicians when it comes to protecting the lives of our citizens. For me, preventing the risk of epidemics and being well prepared is a duty that requires direct action and is not a bureaucratic exercise. The CDC Act does not have an individual perspective, but the focus is on protecting the population. In these national contexts, we should ensure that the system and responsibility are coherent and concentrated, so that everything works quickly and efficiently. In contrast to the Government, Mr President, I believe that there are unclear mandates that lead to shortcomings in the programme and hence inefficiency of the programme. There are ambiguities in mandates between the Public Health Agency, regions and county councils when the Public Health Agency is responsible for preparation, while regions and county councils are responsible for purchasing through meetings with even individual suppliers. This point of view divides infectious disease doctors in Sweden. They also call for clarity in the matter where there is a risk of life. The Government is well aware of this but nevertheless avoids taking the rod into its hands. What is interesting in this context is that it is an organisational issue. No matter how the government or the signatory wants to look at things, reality speaks a different language. We have sales and no guarantees that the pace of vaccination programs can be maintained in 2016 and 2017. What really really boosts the stress hormones in me is the lead times. When the Government makes decisions today, it will take about two years until the decision is implemented in reality. It's about young lives. It was said that it is playing a game of the whole sea storms, or how the government wants to formulate it, to raise the issue here. But deep down, I think the Government shares the assessment.
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-706	Mr President, I would like to I am sorry if I was unclear in my answer. I think it is a good thing that the question comes up. It is important that it is discussed. The vaccination programme is the basis for good public health. I got caught up in the reasoning that the lead times today are far too long. I am the first to sign that we often have very long lead times. I would like things to go faster with a great many processes in political decision-making. What Sotiris Delis uses as a reasoning is that the lead times in the current system would be too long and that therefore one must do it from scratch and have a central purchase of vaccines. However, may wonder how long the lead times will be to get to that order and remake the system. It is also about a couple of three years before you could be in a situation where you can have central purchases. The question is: Isn't it better to make sure that today's system works a little better? We can remedy any degeneratives that exist and find out if there are any misunderstandings or deficiencies in liability relationships between different parts in order to be able to access the vaccines that would be needed more quickly. Would it not be better than for us to hope that a whole new system that might perhaps be in place in two or three years' time will solve the situation we are facing right here and now? I think that is the main issue. That is also why my efforts have been to review the current system and how we at national level can support the regional level in meeting the lack of vaccines. It is also, of course, about collecting information, being helpful and reviewing what we can do to strengthen the Swedish position in the global market. That is a better way to go than in a situation of shortage to start redesigning the system. It is better to make the system that already exists work better.
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-711	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for the discussion. I think the government is trying to create a shortcut. It's not about doing it again. As I understand it, the Public Health Agency is relatively new in its role. There is evidence from Sweden's Municipalities and County Council on vaccine deficiency etc. What you can possibly look at is how the coordination between the Public Health Agency and the different regions and county councils works. With my eyes and ears, I note that there may be a form of competition among all these 21 authorities. When competition creeps into those situations, you create some inefficiency. I've heard of each region or county council meeting separately with the suppliers. Then it gets even worse. Probably it's not about redoing the whole system. But it is important to, allow me to use the expression, find the bugs in the system. I'll get back to the feeling I had. I believe, deep down, that the Government and I have a common thinking platform. It's just a matter of action. Two years' lead time may be justified. But if justified, we may lose control of the situation. Then the risk of an epidemic could come out of nowhere. It would be very embarrassing and boring for the country.
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-715	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased that the debate has taken the turn it has taken. Now we seem to be beginning to agree on what needs to be done. We are not going to redo the system from scratch, because it takes a lot of time and energy. Rather, we should concentrate on making the current system work better. That's exactly what Sotiris Delis says. Today, the Public Health Agency has a coordinating responsibility. Among other things, it is about collecting information and reviewing what it really looks like with the needs in the coming years. It is also about being able to help when making purchases in a market that has unfortunately suffered from a shortage situation. I think the best way forward is to work in the existing structures. It is a question of ensuring that cooperation can be improved where it needs to be improved. Above all, it is important not to play out the entire sea storms and to redo any system from scratch. I think that would be deeply unfortunate. I am pleased to note that, although this has been a difficult situation over the last year, it has never threatened public health at any time, but has managed to overcome the situation. I think that demonstrates the robustness of the current system. It shows that we have a good foundation to stand on for the future as well. To conclude, however, I would like to say that although I believe in the present system, one must always be able to look with critical eyes. We know that global health threats are likely to become more common in the future. We need to constantly rethink the way we work and the systems we have in order to meet health threats and safeguard Swedish public health.
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-720	Mr President, I would like to Barbro Westerholm has asked me what I intend to do to counteract the harmful effects that cannabis use can bring. It is now almost five years since the Riksdag adopted the Government's proposal for a comprehensive strategy on alcohol, drugs, doping and tobacco policy for the years 2011 to 2015. It is therefore time to take new steps, and the government will shortly present a renewed but continued comprehensive ANDT strategy for the next five years. In the spring of 2015, I invited four hearings to hold a dialogue with stakeholders on future challenges in the ANDT field. The hearings included representatives from authorities, the scientific community, municipalities and county councils as well as civil society organisations. These, together with other evidence, have been the basis for objectives and orientations for the 2016–2020 strategy period. Cannabis is the drug most abused. Use of cannabis is more common among young people than among older people. Therefore, children and young people are the most important target group for cannabis prevention. Cannabis use among young people is low compared to other countries in Europe, and we see no increase. At the same time, however, we know that cannabis is more common among young people in big cities compared to the rest of the country. Therefore, in 2012 – 2015 the state financed an investment in the three major cities of Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö. The aim was to promote joint preventive work against cannabis through, among other things, skills enhancement among those working with young people and in health care and treatment. At the same time, the Public Health Agency was tasked with compiling research results and evaluations of the actions carried out, particularly in relation to cannabis use, and to disseminating knowledge of effective methods and strategies in terms of both prevention and early intervention. By taking advantage of and disseminating the knowledge we have now gained, as well as continuing to monitor and evaluate the efforts made, good conditions are created for the continued development of the cannabis prevention work throughout the country. The county administrative boards' ANDDT coordinators and the process leaders that exist to develop drug abuse and addiction care are important resources to support the work of municipalities and county councils to combat cannabis use and abuse, especially among children and young people. Sweden also promotes a public health-based policy through cooperation within the EU and the UN, but also in bilateral contacts with other countries. Sweden has also strengthened the WHO by funding a Swedish national expert working in the areas of prevention, care and treatment until April 2016. In order to further strengthen knowledge in the area of cannabis, Sweden has hosted international research meetings on harmful effects on the health of users of cannabis on two occasions. My ambition is to increase engagement and activity in the ANDT area to contribute to the Government's goal of closing the irreversible health gaps within a generation. In order to achieve this ambitious and important objective, both the equality and gender perspective must be clarified and permeated by the continued ANDT work at all levels. Efforts to protect children and young people against their own and others' harmful use continue to form the basis for health promotion and preventive ANDT work.
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-729	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. The reason I raised the issue before the strategy is to be presented in a couple of weeks' time is that attitudes to cannabis and its risks vary in society and also vary over time. I felt that it is essential that cannabis is not removed in the strategy. We have alcohol, tobacco and other drug abuse to discuss. Let's look at cannabis historically. During the 60's we got a peak. At that time, 15 - 16 percent of boys and girls, young people, used cannabis. It was during the hippie season. Then the question was addressed, and the figures dropped. Today it is quite low, about 10 percent, but there are still not so few in grade 2 in high school and 9 in school who have tried cannabis. Unfortunately, not least in my own party's youth federation, I meet demands for legalisation. There are young people in other groups who also raise this requirement. We are lovers of freedom, and we should be free to choose how we live our lives," they say. Then they have no idea, Mr President, that if you become addicted to drugs, you are free. Then the drug has taken power over your free will. If you look at cannabis and compare it with alcohol, many people think it's the same thing. However, alcohol is quickly burned in the body, while cannabis remains for weeks. It can also cause flashbacks several weeks after use, as the symptoms may not even be linked to the use of cannabis a few weeks earlier. If you look at the other side effects list, you see addictive, doubled risk when driving, panic anxiety and discussion about whether it can cause schizophrenia or if it only has schizophrenia-like effects. There are also malformations in newborns. If today we had been given cannabis as a drug for pain relief – there are some who claim that it is good for pain relief – I doubt that we had registered it as a drug. Perhaps we had provided it with huge warnings, or it might have only been possible to obtain a licence. This is nothing to play with. There are reports, which are not scientifically documented, that some insanity acts that have been committed in Sweden have been committed under the influence of hashish. I'd like to see more research. Is this a hypothesis that can be dismissed, or is it true? What I would like to hear more about is the information strategy to reach out to today's young people. I would like to hear the Minister, who is quite young himself, raise the issue.
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-736	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank Mr Westerholm for raising the issue. It is extremely important, and I am pleased that we can also discuss it before the government presents the ANDT strategy. On the other hand, I would like to say straight away that, with regard to the concrete measures and activities which are in fact somewhat below the level of abstraction of the ANDT strategy, we will have to return to the debate. What I would like to highlight as a prerequisite for the debate that needs to be conducted – rather than talking about what we would have to do in information campaigns at school and the like – is the overall responsibility that I think national policies have to be able to have a debate and an offensive policy at international level. I believe that, given the globalised era we are living in, and given how we all – not only young people but all – bring us to life's debates and influences from other countries and other continents, it is important to see what role Sweden can play at an international level to curb the liberalisation trend that we have seen over a large number of years. I would argue that the liberalisation trend that we have seen has, above all, two different characteristics. One comes out of a kind of resignation for a development that you think has gone out of control. Perhaps this is particularly true of the countries of Central America and Latin America, where there are major criminal syndicates that are partly due to poverty and think that perhaps it is time to legalise because the war on drugs has simply failed. The second breeding ground for the wave of liberalisation we can see comes from more ideologically convinced settlements, where some states in the United States, but also some countries in Europe, are pushing for legalisation with precisely the motivation that Barbro Westerholm raises about the individual's free choice. Where, then, has Sweden been in the international debate? I would argue that a mistake on the part of Sweden has been that we have allowed ourselves to be identified as an extremist in the company of countries such as Saudi Arabia, Russia and others. Sweden's intentions have been discredited precisely because Sweden has often taken the same position as the said countries. This also calls into question Sweden's commitment to human rights. I think it will be important, not least in the run-up to the meeting, Youth, which is to be held in the UN this spring and in the run-up to further work, that Sweden can move from the corner in which it has allowed itself to be painted into becoming a bridge and having a dialogue between the various interests that exist in the world – not to compromise our principles, not to upset the good and fundamentally very good conventions that exist at international level, but because we cannot allow the debate to take place on the basis of extreme positions. We must take it on the basis of science and tried and tested experience, and we must find what we can do to move forward in order to protect public health in the first place.
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-742	Mr President, I would like to This was music to my ears. My next question to the Minister was about the international, but the minister preceded me here. We have a proud history of working against drugs in various forms. Bror Rexed, Director General of the National Board of Health and Welfare in the 1970s, really became a big name in the UN system and WHO when it came to dealing with drug abuse but also of psychotropic substances. I am pleased if Sweden takes back this baton and makes a name for itself, because the drug liberalisation that exists in some countries in Central America and other countries – the Netherlands is one of them – is something that we must clearly distance ourselves from internationally. Mr President, I would like to I'm happy with the answer, and tonight's late. I think both of us who stand here will be happy to move on to the next question. But if the minister has something to fill up with, I'm listening.
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-745	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased that we can highlight the international perspective, because, as I said, this is all connected. Ever since I took office as a minister, I have had the pleasure of meeting between 20 and 30 of my health ministers around the world. On every occasion, I have raised the issue of drugs – how to look at the international conventions and how to look at the work we are facing. I have been pleased to note that the fears that have been raised from several quarters – it is envisaged that there will be a broad aggravation of the conventions and that there will now be a willingness to tear them up for a more liberal interpretation – have been disappointed. There is no such ambition on a broad front. On the other hand, many of the Health Ministers are more or less in a position where there is a strong domestic opinion that pushes for legalisation. You have to have arguments and rye in your back to resist this. I think that Sweden can do that, but then Sweden must increasingly act as this bridge between different perspectives. Let me also say that at the same time as we must have an international perspective when we talk about these issues, we must also be able to look at the Swedish methods and policies. We must be able to be self-critical about what has not worked. What we are talking about here, cannabis and preventing children and young people from starting to test cannabis at all, Sweden has been successful in. At the same time, we must note that we have been worse in the case of heavy drug users and drug-related mortality. I believe that, in order to maintain confidence in Swedish drugs policy and a popular commitment to and support for drugs policy, we must concentrate on those parts where we have not been as successful. This is not least why the government has now made proposals to reform the law on syringe exchange in order to facilitate more syringe exchanges. That is also why we have commissioned the National Board of Health and Welfare to review why the drug-related e-mortality rate is increasing – not only to state that it is a problem but really go down at the individual level and see what we could do differently. As I said, by making policy interrelated, from the preventive work described in the ANDT strategy to health care and international work, I believe that we can better meet the challenge we face.
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-750	Mr President, I would like to I take this as meaning that the municipal veto for needle exchange will be removed. I, who have been working on the issue of syringe exchange since the late 80s, are pleased to see that people who are trapped in drug abuse can now be helped not to suffer from hepatitis C and HIV.
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-751	Mr President, I would like to I hope that everything goes well and that it will be the result.
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-752	Mr President, I would like to Mr Westerholm has asked me what I intend to do to ensure that people with rare diagnoses can have access to optimal treatment, particularly with orphan medicines. Initially, I would like to say that I agree with Mr Westerholm that there are problems relating to the care and treatment of patients with rare diagnoses. Among other things, it is about how healthcare is organised and about expensive medicines. My assessment is therefore that no single measure will be able to solve the whole problem picture. In the Government Office, a preparatory work is currently under way to test how support for patients with rare diagnoses and their relatives, within the framework of the regular structures, can be improved. The National Board of Health and Welfare has, among other things, a government mandate that includes making proposals on how to organise the National Function for Rare Diagnosis (NFSD) after 2017. The assignment will be reported in April 2016. The report of the study on highly specialised care (SOU 2015:98) also forms part of the review of the field of rare diagnoses. The report proposes that the National Board of Health and Welfare be given the task of appointing a special group to review all rare diagnoses known in Sweden and whether diagnosis and treatment of these can be assessed as highly specialised care and should therefore be concentrated to a greater extent than today. As regards the pricing of medicinal products to patients with rare conditions, there is a particular problem. In a value-based pricing model, they will rarely be able to demonstrate cost-effectiveness, although they may be medicines for the treatment of very serious conditions. However, when deciding on subsidies, the TLV shall also take into account the principle of human dignity and the principle of need and solidarity. In the vast majority of cases, the Dental and Pharmaceutical Benefits Agency has decided that orphan medicinal products should be included in the benefits when they have received such an application. The report on Medicines for Animals, Mechanical Doses and Rare Conditions (SOU 2014:87) proposes a specific pricing solution for medicines for rare conditions. However, in its referral, TLV estimates that it is possible to find solutions within the framework of TLV's development of value-based pricing for these medicines as well. As Mr Westerholm mentions, funding is another difficulty in the field of medicines for rare conditions. The state grants the county councils a grant for the costs of medicines within the benefits. In the agreement on the state's contribution to the county councils for the costs of the pharmaceutical benefits, there is a special treatment for medicinal products used in the treatment of diseases that are very unevenly distributed between county councils and where their use can entail a significant additional cost for an individual county council. Ultimately, however, it is the county councils' responsibility to allocate the budget within the framework of their activities so that patients with rare diagnoses also receive effective care and treatment. Development work is ongoing in several areas and at different levels to improve the care and treatment of patients with rare diagnoses. As I mentioned at the outset, I do not believe that the solution is contained in any individual measure. Strategic development of the area requires a careful analysis of the development and proposals on the government's table. Only then can the government decide on possible measures.
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-759	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank you for your answer. This includes a variety of problems. These diseases occur for perhaps 1 in 10,000 inhabitants, or less. There are a few hundred different states known. Some perform early in life. Second diagnosis late. People then, for perhaps many years in life, have health problems that no one really knows what to do about before they are diagnosed. The Minister mentioned Ågrenska, which is a national centre of expertise for rare diseases. But it is more of a meeting place for children and young people with such permits and their families. It is not specialized in which care services are to be provided. Before Christmas, a seminar was held at the Swedish Medical Products Agency. An employee there, who has worked a lot with orphan drugs for these particular conditions but also for cancers of various kinds, held a seminar. I thought that there were some pretty good suggestions on how to continue to work. To begin with, treatment must be based on medical needs. There are social needs too. However, when health care is to be provided, it is the medical needs that are involved. It should be science- and evidence-based treatment. It was also clear that diagnosis and initiation of treatment had to be centralised. What can be done locally and what needs to be done at a specialised centre can then be addressed with a health centre where the person lives. The Minister mentioned Måns Rosén's investigation into highly specialised care. I think we need to have rich centres for the various groups of permits. Göran Stiernstedt's study on effective care also goes in this direction. Diagnosis-based registers are needed for those centres to be able to follow treatment results. There is for some of the health problems. Some patient organizations have built up their own registers. Some have been taken over by the county councils. But the state should make sure it exists for all the permits. It was also stressed that it is important to have treatment objectives, to decide to apply a treatment but also to be able to end treatments that have no effect. The care doesn't work that way for these patients. This is what I intend to touch on when it comes to diagnostic treatment. I will come back more specifically to the medicines in the next post.
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-769	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank Mr Westerholm for the interpellation. As I said in my reply, we are currently looking at what the national function should look like after 2017. This preparation includes all the issues raised by Barbro Westerholm. It is worth mentioning that work is currently under way to set up centres for rare diagnosis in the respective healthcare region. That's a good thing. It can often boil down to being a resource issue or not having access to skills in areas where it can be difficult to find, precisely because it is about rare diagnoses. However, setting up regional centres is still a step in the right direction. I also think it is important to see the other changes that we are making in health care. It is about everything from looking at how we are going to proceed with Måns Rosén's investigation of highly specialised care to the work that is going on in forming larger regions. It is important to see that the situation of people with rare diagnoses will be helped by the development work that is going on in many areas of healthcare. This means that we can concentrate more knowledge and experience. It will definitely benefit those suffering from rare diseases today. I think it's a good job that's going on. I have explained too much in my answer. These were some complements. As I keep coming back to, I think the key is that we should not believe that there is any single solution that will meet the needs. It is precisely by making various measures across a broad spectrum that we can tackle the problems.
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-775	Mr President, I would like to The experience of the Regional Cancer Centre can also help us in this context. The Social Affairs Committee is following up on the progress of this parliamentary decision. It is effective in creating such knowledge-rich units. In the case of medicinal products, orphan medicinal products represent a fairly small part of the total drug bill. However, when it comes to the treatment of an individual patient, a clinic may say that it cannot do so within the budget it has received. That is regrettable. In the field of medicinal products, European medicines control has speeded up the authorisation process. There is a Patient and Consumer Council within the European medicines control where there are representatives of various rare diagnoses. They are helpful in the evaluation of these preparations. Registration times have been shortened there. It is approved that it will be beneficial, that the benefits exceed the risks. Then the medicine comes to Sweden, and there the MPA does everything to speed up the approval. But then patients can't get the drugs because the price issue comes in. How does TLV assess the health economy for those individuals? Not everyone can be in professional activities. Health economic ways of assessing whether it is economically profitable encounter clear ethical problems. Now we are in favour of the orderly introduction of the very expensive medicines. But it also takes a long time. There are other models. In Norway, as I understand it, the state pays during the first two years of registration to avoid that discussion. In the meantime, you will gain more experience with the preparations. Of course, those who use the funds are closely followed up. There you can enjoy a patient register. So we need to find a better method than the slow one we have today. I know there will be a bill quite soon and hope for a solution. It is possible that the Minister cannot tell us about it yet. But I still want to get this reflection out. This issue is also on the agenda of the National Council on Medical Ethics. This is a small part of the drug bill, but for the reason that it becomes so expensive for a single clinic or hospital, the preparations do not come to the patients within a reasonable time.
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-782	Mr President, I would like to There are several parts to what Mr Westerholm has to say that I would like to comment on. Some are TLV's work. Development work is currently under way at the Agency – when, on the basis of value-based pricing, it carries out its analyses and sets prices, it is also necessary to look at what could be done to take greater account of orphan drugs in the context of development work. I think it is positive that this issue is being addressed, because it can help us along the way. It should also be said that within the current system, i.e. within the framework of the state grants of 22 1⁄2 billion that the state grants to the county councils for pharmaceuticals within the benefit, there is a so-called joint and several financing of individual medicines between the county councils. This is one way to deal with an uneven distribution of patients who require expensive treatments so that an individual or individual county council will not be hit extra hard. In many cases orphan medicinal products can meet the criteria for being included in this joint and several funding, and these are, of course, also included. What it boils down to and what has often been distressing in individual cases, where we may think the bureaucracy is working against the individual, is exactly what Barbro Westerholm mentions: Individual clinkers have had to bear large costs that they could not really afford, and they may have felt compelled to find solutions that have not been of benefit to the patient. Here it is important to stress that county councils have the opportunity to budget in a different way so that they do not place the entire responsibility on individual clinics or hospitals but actually take joint and several responsibility within county councils. From a county council perspective, orphan drugs are not a very big problem, not even for the smallest county councils, but it is at the clinic or hospital level that they can possibly overturn a budget. For the county councils as a whole, they should not, and it would actually be worth looking at what budgetary techniques could be used to take overall responsibility.
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-788	Mr President, I would like to When the Riksdag decided in 1998 that the county councils would take over responsibility for the medicine bill, the idea was that the county councils would become more cost-conscious and ensure that medicines were not overused or misused. Then we did not see that this would lead to this complication. I think that prior to the authorisation of a medicinal product, we should require the pharmaceutical company to demonstrate in a transparent manner what the various parts, research and so on, have cost to get a registration. In fact, that was the case a long time ago– then one had to present this in a clear way. A perhaps a bit wild idea: there will be a research proposal for which the Minister is not fully responsible, but one could imagine that there will be an investment with state funds in research on the development of medicines for rare diagnoses and that the state will therefore follow in what it costs and what resources are required from the beginning. Then you get your own experience of where it all lands. There are certainly many more ideas, but this is not the last time we are discussing this issue.
i-e71d1cf45918bacc-792	Mr President, I would like to This is definitely not the last time we are discussing this issue. It is a major challenge, not only today, but also for the future. All ideas, whether wild or not, are welcome even if Barbro Westerholm naturally understands that I cannot answer either bu or ba in this debate. I am very pleased with the commitment shown by Mr Westerholm and others on this issue, because, as I said, the pharmaceutical issue is a strategically important issue for the development of the future healthcare system. This is a fantastic development in which, with the help of new drugs, we can cure and alleviate in a way that previous generations have only been able to dream of. At the same time, we are facing organisational, administrative and economic challenges where there is a risk that medicines will become a cuckoo who eats up other activities. We have to deal with this issue at different levels in order to take advantage of the benefits that exist without any other treatment or activity being pushed aside. This is what we work with at national level but also in very close cooperation with county councils, not least through SKL. Thank you again for the interpellation, Barbro Westerholm! We will get back to you on the matter.
