i-0c08096bded3fe5a-16	Madam President, I would like Mikael Oscarsson has asked me if I agree with the Army Commander's assessment that we can be at war within a few years. Furthermore, Oscarsson has asked me if, if that is the case, there are decisions and re-priorities that need to be made and if there is reason to allow the Swedish Defence Committee to start working already in 2016, given the international situation we are experiencing and the conclusion that we can be at war within a few years. Let me begin by pointing out that, as late as 15 June 2015, the Parliament decided on a new defence policy direction. The single most important thing is to increase the operational capability of the armed forces and to ensure the overall capability of the total defence. Bi- and multilateral defence and security cooperation is deepened. Closer cooperation in the Nordic countries and with the Baltic States as well as with other countries and actors in our neighbourhood helps to strengthen security in our part of the world. Let me also note that the Social Democrats, the Environmental Party, the Moderates, the Center Party and the Christian Democrats have supported the political agreement on the direction of defence from 2016 to 2020. This defence decision clearly marks the deterioration of the security situation in Europe. The defence committee found that the development of security policy is complex and unpredictable. The defence decision, which the Parliament endorsed last year in broad political agreement, states that an individual military armed attack directly against Sweden is still unlikely. However, the defence decision states that crises or incidents involving military force may occur and that threats of military attack can never be ruled out. Russia's aggression against Ukraine means that the risk of these has increased, including in our neighbourhood. However, I do not want to speculate here and now on scenarios or probabilities. Let me note, however, that the deterioration of the security policy situation has already led to a change in the demand for Swedish defence capabilities. The defence goes from an intervention defence to a defence that is more clearly directed towards the national defence dimension. The new focus is to create a modern total defence to address the challenges and threats arising from the changing security policy situation. Total defence is the activity needed to prepare Sweden for war. The defence decision taken involves both financial reinforcements and a re-prioritization of the Swedish Armed Forces' activities. The units of war must be designed primarily to be able to face an armed attack. To this end, the Government has decided on a direction for the Swedish Armed Forces' activities in the coming period. It shows, among other things, the importance of all military units being trained in their entirety during the period. Furthermore, there are clear requirements for preparedness and availability to be able to mobilise all military units within seven days of a decision without a prior withdrawal. In addition, the Government has taken specific decisions regarding instructions for military defence planning and civil defence, as well as mandates for planning for total defence. We are only one month into the new defence decision-making period. We must now focus on actually implementing the recent decisions. The government is following security policy developments, and I will set up a new defence committee in good time before a new defence decision is made.
i-0c08096bded3fe5a-23	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Defence, for your answer. The reason for the interpellation is Anders Brännström's invitation to the ground battle days 2016, which also had a big impact in our media. It has been stressed before that there is no direct military threat to Sweden. But as the Minister of Defence read out, with the world situation that we are experiencing, and which is also reflected in the conclusion of the decision, we can be at war in a few years' time. I think that underlines the seriousness of the situation we are in and that it is also more urgent to overcome the shortcomings we have than we have previously thought. There are other things that I could list that underline the seriousness. The other day NATO revealed that it was indeed a fingered nuclear attack directed at Sweden Easter 2013. We have the continuing fighting in Ukraine. We have Russia's commitment to Syria. We have the greatly increased activity of the northern Russian Navy, that is, in the Murmansk area. We have the increasing number of preparedness exercises taking place in Russia. Russian emergency controls are becoming increasingly common. There has just been a start in south-west Russia with 15 000 men involved. It clearly shows that Russia's ability to deploy military operations quickly has increased in a way that we have not taken into account. Russia is also setting up three new divisions in the western military area, that is to say in our area, with 30 000 men, 200 - 300 tanks and 200 artilleria. It can be compared to our own two brigades with about 12,500 soldiers. It also comes to five missile regiments and three army regiments. What the defense committee said was that the risks are increasing in our neighborhood, and the army commander said it in an even clearer way. It requires us to review the efforts we make on defence. There could be serious reasons to speed up a number of urgent measures. Another question to consider is whether it is reasonable to put heavy defence investments at the end of the planning period. Is there reason to see if they can be brought forward, given the challenges we see? There are also some gaps that would have to be filled, and one could of course make a long list. But what would be needed is for our corvettes to get a qualified anti-aircraft. The air force's base organization would need to be expanded so that we can have a functioning system of air force war bases. The planned combat group on Gotland should be able to get a comprehensive composition with artillery and anti-aircraft. We should, as soon as possible, acquire a qualified medium-range anti-aircraft, such as Aster-30. Maybe the Secretary of Defense can tell us when it's in the planning. What's the situation? It takes time to implement it and make it work, so it would be very good if we could order it in good time. Of course, it is also A and O that our staff cadres are fulfilled. It's about practice and a whole series of other things. The question is: is there any of this that the Minister of Defence might consider looking at? And can we also expect the Defence Committee to start working on this already this year in order to be out in good time before the next defense decision?
i-0c08096bded3fe5a-32	Madam President, I would like The defense decision came into effect on 1 January this year, Oscarsson. Now we stand here in February, and you have some kind of delivery list on huge amounts of one and the other. You are almost approaching some kind of level where it is easy to deliver this with immediate effect. We've made a defense decision in which you yourself belong to the majority. My main priority is, unsurprisingly, to ensure that what is now decided is delivered. That is the big challenge. Now it's about buying all the things we've decided. It's about delivering the exercises we agree on. It is about doing a wide range of things that will ultimately enhance military capabilities. I think the wisest thing is that we as politicians are now making sure to support the delivery of what has already been decided, and not just indulge ourselves in possible things that could have been delivered in a wider economy. We will have a lot of work ahead of us to do what we have now agreed in Parliament. I can promise you this is a deep priority at the Department of Defense. We will continuously report on this in the defense group, which you yourself are part of, as you probably also know. For me, priority is now delivery, not new wish lists. It will take time to deliver these things. It's not just snapping your fingers, and then the bridgecars will stand there and the exercises will be done with immediate effect. It requires both planning and resources, and it requires staff. What we've done is make a decision about a trend break. This trend break is also Oscarsson himself a part of. We will now concentrate on trying to find out what we have decided. We have a total of 17 billion to dispose of until 2020 to be implemented. It is 10.2 billion that we agreed on and 5.5 that has remained in place since the previous government. If we do not concentrate on it, there is a great risk that this will be one big mischmasch where there will be neither one or the other and where we drown in wish lists, new investigations and constructions that will make there nothing in the end effect. As I said, it is better that we now concentrate on delivery. With regard to the risks of war and other matters, I cannot go into speculative reasoning about what it looks like and what the risks are in one, two, three or four years' time. I am content to state what we have stated in the Committee on Defence: we are in a more serious situation. What you're listing about practice activities going on is definitely not news. This has been going on for a long time, and it will continue in the future. We will have to live with this kind of relationship. All that you have listed, at least for me, is not really a single piece of news. Then the question is how to deal with this. Then it is probably best to implement what we have said in a calm way and then deepen our bilateral, multilateral and other cooperation and ensure that we build a protection network around our country. It is better to concentrate on implementation than new wish lists. There will be a time for that too, and that is when the next defence committee will be set up. It will be put in place well in advance of the next defence decision.
i-0c08096bded3fe5a-40	Madam President, I would like The starting point for the interpellation was the remarks of the army commander and his invitation. It is just as the Minister for Defence says: The defence decision that was made here recently was an important trend break. It is the first time since the Cold War that the Swedish Armed Forces receive more money. I saw an interesting report last week where the army commander referred to the 1936 defense decision, which was also a trend break. After World War I, no one wanted to believe that it could happen again, but the 1936 defense decision was thus a trend break. However, it would turn out, says Anders Brännström, that you did not have the time you thought. You didn't think there'd be a war so close to it. It is precisely this, Minister of Defence, that is why I want to discuss this. I do not contradict the decisions we have made, and they are important. But at the same time, we must be able to take on board what the army commander says so clearly. We need to see if there are things that we need to change and some priority we need to do to improve the defence capabilities that we want to strengthen. It is said, as the Minister for Defence said in his reply, that the war units should be designed primarily to be able to face an armed attack. That's good. I read out a list of what's happening in our area. In any case, I think that at a time like this there is reason to self-critically see what we have and what we need to do in the next step in order to correct the situation and close the gaps that I have listed. It is urgent to take action; this is underlined by the decision in Finland yesterday. A Finnish ÖB shall be able to call in 25 000 reserveists on its own initiative if necessary without prior notice. This is an event that we are seeing right now, and we should look at whether there is a reason for early investment. Are there the resources that we need in view of the situation? The Security Policy Report of the Defence Committee was mainly produced in 2012 and was presented four years ago. There's a lot – especially all the things I'm listing – that weren't there then. Then the question is: are there things that we need to do and measures that we need to take to ensure that we are stronger? There are a number of questions in the investigation currently under way. I am thinking of human resources, where we see that the system we have today is not working. We will not be able to fulfil this. We have 6,000 vacancies, and as the forecast looks, we are well ahead before we will have fulfilled cadres. Without filled dressings we cannot practice, and without exercises we do not have the effect we should have. An investigation is under way, and it is important that it is quickly brought forward so that we can have a change. My hope is that it can be something like the system that exists in Norway and Denmark. Logistics is another area. We received a report the other day in the committee from Statskontoret, which was a devastating criticism of the system that now exists. There is also an investigation into this, and it is important to see that several of these systems were introduced at a different time. Now we are at a time of increased threat, and then we must quickly get changes so that we have a defence capability that is good enough.
i-0c08096bded3fe5a-49	Madam President, I would like Major General Brännström says we can be at war with Russia within a few years. And of course, no one can say that he is wrong. It is, as you know, difficult to see, especially about the future, as it is said. But the essential thing is not this, but the essential thing is: Is this a realistic scenario? His boss, the Commander-in-Chief, does not consider it reasonable to express himself in this way because he himself says that there is no direct military threat to Sweden today. It is interesting to think about the somewhat alarming tone of the debate. What is the scenario Mikael Oscarsson sees in front of him? Is it an isolated power attack on Sweden? Then say it, and we'll have to think about how realistic it is! Or what other scenario is it to be planned for in the face of this almost violent armament? I can't help but ask myself a question. I would also like to put it to Mikael Oscarsson and some other defence debaters. Is there ever anything other than rearmament within security policy measures? Security policy was once, I understand, much broader than that. I think everyone will acknowledge this on Sundays, but there is rarely any debate on how to reduce conflict risks, counteract international tension and prevent threats and armed conflicts from arising. It should be at least as important, and of that one hears very little in the debate. I simply wonder why.
i-0c08096bded3fe5a-53	Madam President, I would like Of course, we should have great respect for the security situation. It is quite clear that Russia is a cause for concern. But at the same time, I think you shouldn't blow it up too much. We have managed to stay out of war for 200 years in Sweden. It's in itself an achievement. This isn't the first time it's been a tense situation in our neighborhood. Russia has, of course, been a problem that has raised concerns in the past too. Of course, we should take the problems seriously and do what we can to keep our defences up to date, but I would also like to agree with what Stig Henriksson says about the most important thing being that we prevent war. I don't think we're scaring Russia by arming. I do not think that in itself would prevent an attack, even if we should, of course, do so if necessary. But I think the most important thing is to see how we can prevent tensions from increasing. This is not just about the threat to Sweden, it is about the tensions in the immediate region, and there other countries are worse off. We have already seen what has happened in Ukraine, and the Baltic countries feel fear. I believe that Sweden can play a major role in preventing war not only in Sweden but also in our neighbouring countries in the immediate region. Sweden has not been known as the country in the world that has had the most capacity when it comes to defence. Nor have we had nuclear weapons, and yet we have managed to stay out of war for 200 years. I think that is important to bear in mind in this context. The fact that we could be at war within a few years was not a direct move but more an answer to a question that was that we cannot rule it out. I think we can never completely rule it out. Anything can happen, but it's not likely to happen. As the Secretary of Defense says, we have made decisions to strengthen our defence capabilities. These are cross-party decisions, which I believe is important for stability so that there is no twitching in this. But I think that the most important thing is not to continue along this road and to upgrade more and more, but it is more about how we can prevent war in our neighbourhood, not only against Sweden but also towards our neighbours. I do not think that the solution is that we should start directly creating alliances at the expense of others – the NATO issue is of course topical here – but I think it is at least as important to ensure that the tensions between NATO and Russia, for example, are reduced and that we cooperate within the EU, which is also, one might say, an alliance. Although it is not binding to use arms if another country is attacked, there is of course pressure to help each other. We have already seen examples of this in recent times. I would like to conclude by saying that we absolutely should not take the situation lightly, but this one-off statement that we can be at war within a few years, I do not think that we should blow up to too large dimensions, because then I think it can have the opposite effect. Panic is dangerous in this situation. It's about being calm and preventing war.
i-0c08096bded3fe5a-60	Madam President, I would like It is basically only the former bourgeois government that could possibly be fooled by the notion that things cannot happen again. The kind of misanalyses that were committed back then have now been left behind. I would also like to note that the staff supply that Oscarsson is now criticising was a decision he himself was involved in taking here in Parliament. It was a bourgeois overweight for that decision. Logistics issues were also something that the previous government pushed through. So it is the legacy of your and your comrades' reign that we are now dealing with, Oscarsson. We've set up investigations with immediate effect to sort this out. At the same time, you're standing here and almost sounds like I'm choice-handed on this issue or I'm not delivering fast enough. Unlike the previous government, we were going to do this thoroughly so that what we are proposing will work. It's important what kind of reality you give here. It takes time to build military capability, but it's fast to destroy. That is precisely why I believe that we should concentrate on implementation rather than on new investigations and an almost panicky climate of debate. Here we now have a decision that all units should be trained. So it's a pretty big effort. We're going to have a war-worthy demand on all of them. We're going in different directions to renew the entire grenade launcher range. We're supposed to be able to spread combat aircraft divisions between air bases. We've ordered two new submarines to be built now. We're going to modify two other submarines. We have the entire JAS Gripen system that we have ordered. We have the sub-hunting capability to be graduated. We have the establishment on Gotland. We have the entire base plate delivery to the Swedish Armed Forces, which only it is quite extensive. We also have the delivery of short- and medium-range anti-aircraft. We also have a long line of other things to clear up. To say that work to increase military capabilities would be lacking is to give a picture of this that does not really match reality. We will be busy with this. If we are to have any credibility for future discussions on any new initiatives to be related to what it looks like in terms of security policy, we must also show that we are able to deliver what we have actually agreed on. I have been clear to both the Swedish Armed Forces and other authorities that the most important task now is to deliver this decision so that it is actually implemented. Regarding the security policy analysis, you can read the defence preparation report and the directional decision. I'll read you a short piece. It is difficult today to assess how far the Russian leadership is prepared to go in its expansive policy as well as how much Russia itself is capable of maintaining its ambitions given the growing economic problems and the reactions of the outside world. Russia's illegal annexation of Crimea without officially making any territorial claims on Ukraine in recent years demonstrates the unpredictable nature of Russian policy. This makes security policy developments even more difficult to predict than before. ..................................................... We are therefore in a difficult situation to predict, as we have made very clear here in the orientation proposal. I think that this is an important starting point for why we need to deliver military capabilities and why we now need to deepen all our cooperation. I think we are on a good foundation with the specialization bill, and if we deliver this, we will break the trend.
i-0c08096bded3fe5a-69	Madam President, I would like The reason for this interpellation debate was the statement made by the army commander and also what he said when he received a question that he reflected over and then put in relation to the 1936 defense decision, when it turned out that you didn't have the time that you thought you had at the time. Then I think it is natural to ask this question in the Swedish Parliament and raise the thread. Don't we have as long as we've been thinking? Do we need to make adjustments? I have not criticised the Minister for Defence, and I have not said that he is a choice-handed person, but I have listed problems that exist. I know there is work going on, but it is such a time that we have to take this very seriously. Stig Henriksson wonders if I think an attack is planned directly against Sweden. No, I don't think so. But ÖB has also made it clear that if something happens in the Baltic States, Sweden will not be able to stay out of it. If they are threatened, Stig, Sweden is threatened. We're connected. It's not a moat between us. We're connected. That is also why we need to discuss NATO membership. We need to strengthen our defence capabilities, but that will not be enough. We also need to become a full member of NATO. However, we must take this into account in another discussion. However, this is an important discussion that must be able to take place. Hillevi Larsson wondered about the prevention. If we have a strong defence, we get a threshold, and that reduces the Russian desire for adventure in our neighbourhood.
i-0c08096bded3fe5a-74	Madam President, I would like It was clear that we should not plan for an isolated major power attack on Sweden – from any direction then, reasonably. Yeah, it's serious about the Baltics. If I were a politician in the Baltics, I wouldn't sleep as well at night as I usually do now. However, it is wrong that Mikael Oscarsson says that there is no moat between us and the Baltics. There is a little more than a moat; there is the Baltic Sea. It is not clear that the first thing we would do is to go into war if the Baltic states were to be threatened. I think there are far more tools in the toolbox, because security policy is, as I said, much broader than what Mikael Oscarsson is proposing. To Mikael Oscarsson's defence, it can be said that NATO membership would mean that we would have to almost double our defence costs, and with Mikael Oscarsson's wish list we would be a good way to go.
i-0c08096bded3fe5a-78	Madam President, I would like There is definitely a threat situation with regard to the Baltic countries, not least in view of the fact that the Baltics previously belonged to the Soviet Union and that there is a Russian minority. Although NATO is prepared to defend the Baltic States, there is a threat situation. This means, in the long run, that even if Sweden joined NATO, we would not be entirely safe from an attack in that situation. Furthermore, the risk is that the threat can increase if we strongly commit ourselves to a certain alliance. But if Sweden does as we have often done and is more neutral and in between, we may avoid an attack. As I said before, the most important thing is to prevent something from happening. Then we should not be in the step where Sweden risks being attacked, but in the step where our neighbours risk being attacked. As I said before, there is cooperation within the European Union. There is also a drive to help. If Sweden is attacked, it is not impossible for our European neighbours to come to our defence. So we are already in an alliance. We have also built closer cooperation with our neighbours, especially with Finland but also with Denmark. That is essential in this context. We will of course do what we can at Swedish level, and there is a lot going on. However, I believe that cooperation is the key while we are free and cannot be forced to go to war against our will. That's the most important thing to prevent war.
i-0c08096bded3fe5a-84	Madam President, I would like What we say in the specialization bill is: a single military armed attack directly against Sweden is still unlikely. However, crises or incidents, including military force, can occur and, in the longer term, military threats of attack can never be ruled out. Russia's aggression against Ukraine means that the risk of these has increased, including in our neighbourhood. ..................................................... Here we have cleared out a scenario that I think we have agreed on. This means that if something happens in our part of Europe, it will probably involve several countries in practice. The debate on the Baltic is not new. We had it in the Defense Committee and for the specialization bill. We have taken the initiative to build a combat group on Gotland, and we have indicated that we will have an increased number of anti-aircraft exercises on Gotland because we know that those who have control on Gotland have great opportunities to control sea and airways in relation to the Baltic countries. The decision we have taken is also an idea for the Baltic countries. And we must not forget that. I therefore believe that in the defence-oriented decision we have already taken the consequence of the situation. As far as Gotland is concerned, it takes time to build up this battle group. It won't be there tomorrow. The plan is that 2018 should be able to keep it going, and we are working on it. It is evidence that it is fast to pull down, but that it takes time to build up. I believe that as a starting point we have a defence decision to implement, and the best thing we can do at the moment is to deliver so that it will be a result. We can then use this as a platform for future discussions and in the defence preparation that will eventually be set up.
i-0c08096bded3fe5a-90	Madam President, I would like Allan Widman has asked me if I am prepared to take any steps to enable the defence economy to face the risk that in a few years' time the country may be at war. Let me begin by pointing out that, as late as 15 June 2015, the Parliament decided on a new defence policy direction. The Social Democrats, the Environmental Party, the Moderates, the Center Party and the Christian Democrats have endorsed a broad political agreement on the direction of defence 2016– 2020. The defence decision clearly indicates that the security situation in Europe has deteriorated. The decision also means financial reinforcements and a re-prioritising of the Swedish Armed Forces' activities. The defence goes from an intervention defence to a defence that is more clearly directed towards the national defence dimension. The single most important thing is to increase the operational capability of the armed forces and to ensure the overall capability of the total defence. Allan Widman cites two examples of investment in equipment where there has been a risk of cost-reimbursement. These risks must be taken seriously. It is important that Sweden's defence and security policy has broad support. Within the so-called defence group, we have a common responsibility to care for the defence agreement and to consult on matters relating to it. The government intends to complete the defense agreement. Balances resulting from any increase will therefore be discussed in the Defence Group.
i-0c08096bded3fe5a-95	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. It may well be described as short but not nuclear. Let me start by noting two conditions. The examples I mention in my interpellation of projects that could risk being seriously costly do not object to the Minister of Defence. On the contrary, he stresses the need to take this very seriously. The second thing that strikes me is that the Minister for Defence, and now I refer in part to the previous interpellation debate, seems reluctant to use the words In my world, it is precisely the risk of war that has been the driving force behind the directional decision taken by the Riksdag on 15 June 2015, and this should be openly acknowledged. This is not about a single statement from a Major General. We are talking about Swedish authorities, such as the Swedish Defence Research Institute, which believes that Russia is preparing for war, hot or cold. We are talking about Rand, the Institute in the United States, who, a week ago, made a scenario of how the United States would defend the Baltics. It may be of interest to Swedish audiences that in this scenario several divisions of U.S. fighter aircraft were deployed, exit grouped, precisely in Sweden. Madam President, I would like In addition, the answer given by the Minister for Defence is that these issues should be addressed in the Defence Group – or the Implementation Group, as Mr Wallmark calls it. When I last took part of the 1st chapter. 6 § in the form of government it was stated that it is the government that governs the Reich, Madam Speaker, and it is accountable to the Riksdag. That is why I would urge the Minister for Defence to give me here today precisely the government's response in the way it is intended in accordance with our constitutions. Over the last few days, there has been information in the mass media on the cost of various parts of the so-called orientation decision. Whether the Ministry of Defence, the Minister for Defence or the Swedish Armed Forces have denied these claims. If, of course, there are shortcomings in what was called the 16-December basis, which was the basis for the defence negotiations, it is very serious. Then it is also important to find out who has been guilty of any miscalculations. Madam President, I would like I note that on 19 June 2014, the previous government requested a document from the Swedish Armed Forces. At that time, it was Lieutenant General Jan Salestrand who, as Head of the Armed Forces Command Staff, had the primary responsibility to produce the evidence. He had that responsibility for three and a half months until he took office as Secretary of State under Peter Hultqvist. There are now, in fact, only three possible choices for the government if the calculations fail. Either you refrain from doing what is stated in the orientation decision or you reprioritize or you inject additional funds. Madam President, I would like My interpellation aims to find out what the government intends to do.
i-0c08096bded3fe5a-105	Madam President, I would like I noted in the last debate that the decision took effect on 1 January. It has been quite a short time since then, but already different forces are beginning to speculate about what the economy really looks like. I have a certain administrative experience that I have acquired for many years in responsible positions within Borlänge Municipality and Region Dalarna. One thing I have learned is that when it comes to economic calculations, possible forecasts and speculations, there is no reason, as responsible politicians, to respond to them until the day on which they have a thorough basis, so that they know what they are talking about and so that they can provide the information that is being conveyed. That is why I have no reason today to go out with any information on either one or others other than the fact that work on these issues is going on, which is quite normal for it to do. That's how it's supposed to be. When you have a basis, you have to work with it all the time. It is now the task of the Swedish Armed Forces to remain within the financial framework set by the Riksdag. It's about the direction. Then when there's something to talk about, I'll get back to you. However, I am not concerned with speculative general considerations which only contribute to creating confusion and general problems in the debate. I do not think there is any interest in this activity. JAS Gripen 39 E is one thing that Widman brings up in his interpellation, that that deal has not been hedged. I would just like to remind you that it was an agreement that was concluded during the time that the Widman government was in charge. But I will not enter into a debate where I blame someone for anything. I merely note that there are business and currency risks. Every major investment in equipment has a cost framework for each government. It is the contracting authority – in this case FMV – which is responsible for managing the State's risk in a manner that is as favourable as possible to the State both from a commercial and from a planning perspective. So far, it is too early to say anything about the evolution of exchange rates and the value of the dollar and whether they lead to increased or reduced costs for JAS 39 E in relation to the assessment made at the time the number was entered into. That is the comment I have on this point. As far as Archer is concerned, Norway has lifted its purchase. I will return to Parliament with information on this when the preparation process is completed. But part of the strategy is to sell these 24 pieces to another country. So we have budgeted for 24 and not for 48 plays in our budget. If we do not succeed in the achievement of selling the pieces to another country, we will be in a different position. Then we have to decide whether to buy the pieces ourselves or how to do it. This is, of course, an economic issue on which a decision must be taken. But I'm not going to anticipate that. We will have to come back to that when the matter is ready. In Widman's interpellation, the employer's contribution for young people was initially concerned. Then I can only say that when we reached the political agreement, Widman was involved for so long in the negotiations that he can probably recall that the government spent 1.7 billion to compensate for youth labour contributions and to compensate for the yield requirement in the Fortifications Agency.
i-0c08096bded3fe5a-113	Madam President, I would like I agree with the Minister for Defence on one point, and it is important that we now have to focus on delivering what is included in the orientation decision. I think it will prove – not least in the light of what is being brought forward by the minister himself – to be a huge challenge. The Secretary of Defense says that when that day comes, you'll see what dollar rate will apply. When FMV's alliance government decided to acquire, it was assumed that the average dollar price would be SEK 6.32. Today, the price is well over $8. Even if there were to be a certain change or strengthening of the Swedish currency in the coming years, it had to be very large in order for the dollar rate to fall on the average assumption of SEK 6.32. If nothing happens to the exchange rate, Madam President, it is in the order of SEK 10 billion that is missing in funding for the acquisition of JAS Gripen. Then the Minister of Defence says that the 24 pieces that Norway lifted the agreement on will now try to sell to another country. I am impressed by the Swedish Armed Forces' enthusiasm. It is clear that when a country cancels an agreement on plays with a dear brotherly people, it is certainly not something that will facilitate marketing in the rest of the world. It is right that many of the problems that arise today, despite the fact that only a few weeks of the new defence decision-making period have passed, can be linked back to decisions taken by the Alliance Government, as the Minister for Defence claimed. But what the Minister of Defence must also understand is that he is now the Minister of Defence. It is his social democratic and environmental colleagues in the government who can do something about the problems that are emerging now. There's no one else who can do that. Madam President, I would like That is why I think it is very important for the Secretary of Defense to give it a try. I have had a number of interpellation debates over the last few weeks, and I am repeatedly getting the answer from the Minister for Defence: yes, when there is something to say, I will return. Once we've taken this in the defense team, we can come back and give you some information. It is important, the Minister for Defence, that answers be given to the questions that arise now and which are both important and topical. You can't shoot everything in front of you. Again, I am not interested in what the Defence Group or the Implementation Group thinks on these points. I am interested in hearing the position of the Government and the Minister for Defence. I believe, Madam President, that it is his duty to deliver it here in this House.
i-0c08096bded3fe5a-119	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would just like to point out that at the Sälen Conference I made it clear that there is a risk of costs and delays, so that no one would think that I was living in a reality where this type of problem was not prepared to deal with s in different ways. Widman requires answers to all questions week by week. If he has not received an answer about a very complicated event within a few days or a week, he thinks it is an expression of not wanting to answer or that you go and hide. But Widman has been doing this for so long that he knows that even this type of preparation and negotiation process takes a lot of time. In addition, Widman would have no objection to KU-notifying me if I stood here and misinformed and came up with incorrect information about weapons systems, cost development or other things. I think I choose the certainty over the uncertainty: to speak when there is something to say and not to participate in speculation. I think that is the most sensible approach, at least if you are Minister of Defence. Perhaps it pains Widman and others that I sometimes point out that the previous government, which Widman, Oscarsson and others were part of the basis for, created a lot of problems that we now have to deal with. But it's not the same as us not handling them. We have concluded this defence agreement, which is basically a trend break and a break from the policies of the previous government. We're investigating human resources. We're looking at logistics and defense research. There is a wide range of issues in which we are preparing a completely different policy. But we want to do this thoroughly and not as a haft, which I thought the work of the previous government was very much in character. Although Widman now has thoughts about how the dollar price will develop in relation to the Swedish krona and assesses probabilities and what is realistic or unrealistic, I maintain the view that it is too early to have a final idea of this. That's why I'm abstaining from it. If Widman then has crystal balls and can see into the future and make precise assessments, it must stand for him. I choose an approach that is a little safer in this context. Widman should not for a second imagine that we are passive in the department. In one administration, people are constantly working on the different problems that exist. This is the case in companies, municipalities, county councils and regions. Then you talk when you have a basis to talk from outside. The debates are not an end in themselves. They should also have a certain informative value. We should not start debates just for the sake of debates, I mean. As far as marketing is concerned, I am pleased that Mr Widman states that he is impressed by some kind of optimism I would possess regarding the sale of these artillery pieces. However, I have not made any point at all where I have been so optimistic or pessimistic. I've just explained that part one of the strategy is to sell them. Then we'll see how it goes. It's possible it's difficult, but it might be possible. You do not have to assume from the outset that it is impossible, because then you have helped to throw gravel into the machinery. You have to be a little constructive in your attitude as you approach a problem. If you just have a gloomy view of most things – that the problems are insoluble, that there will be even more problems and that it becomes even more difficult and more complicated – then you will not help to solve a single issue. Finally, I would like to say something about the risk of war. I am not unwilling to discuss either one or the other. You know me, Allan Widman. We have worked in the Defence Committee and in different other contexts. I have warned of what might happen in both contexts. But I'm avoiding speculating on different future scenarios now that I'm Secretary of Defense. I'm acting on the basis of reality.
i-0c08096bded3fe5a-127	Madam President, I would like The Secretary of Defense claims that I immediately want answers to any complex and incalculable questions I can think of. That is not the case at all. In the case of the artillerijäsen Archer, the various members of the Committee on Defence have been asking Peter Hultqvist about what is going to happen to the Norwegian plays throughout the autumn. Sometime in November, Peter Hultqvist promised that this would be ready for Christmas. Now, Madam President, we are writing February, and no information has yet come to committee. The Secretary of Defense says he doesn't want to go out and speculate or rush out anything. This makes me think of the tombstone on Österlen, under which Fritiof Nilsson Pirate rests. It says, "Here is the ashes of a man who had the habit of shooting everything until tomorrow." However, he improved at his best and really died on Jan 31. 1972. I am not aware of the reasons why the Minister for Defence is unable to provide information, but I regret that this is the case. It is quite correct that I know Peter Hultqvist and that throughout the last parliamentary term he was careful to inculcate the seriousness of our external situation. That is why I now find it surprising that the Minister for Defence has such a hard time taking words such as a war risk and a war in his mouth. This was the very basis for the orientation decision. We have a completely different security policy situation now than just five years ago. As I said earlier, Madam President, many judges say that Europe is in a pre-war state. If something happens in our neighbourhood, Sweden will unfortunately be withdrawn in one way or another.
i-0c08096bded3fe5a-130	Madam President, I would like The last is a perfectly correct statement by Mr Widman. But that's definitely not news. If something happens, we are likely to be withdrawn. We have established this for a couple of three years. It often sounds in the debate that it would be some kind of new innovation to say this. Compared to five ten years ago, it is a completely different reality today. We're in a completely different position. We fully agree on that. There's no denying it, and I definitely don't. I was also among those who pointed this out during the last parliamentary term, when your government, Allan Widman, did not want to understand what was going on in the outside world at all. When it comes to gravestones, you can formulate a lot of things. . Shop more than talk and can also be an interesting formulation when you act politically. It is not always the case that everything is decided in the debates. It may also be that a great deal is decided in the course of action. If we then come up with a message one or two months earlier or later is less interesting; the important thing is the quality of the message, not just that there is a message. It must be a quality with which we can be satisfied. At least that's what I'm trying to do when it comes to communicating.
i-0c08096bded3fe5a-133	Madam President, I would like Niklas Wykman has asked me how I estimate that the increase in marginal taxes will affect the number of hours worked in Sweden and what positive effects I see that the world's highest marginal taxes mean. After the previous government's term of office, we have a situation of large government deficits, unemployment that has been stuck at high levels and record low performance in school. To this we see the challenges of the increased unrest in the outside world and the many people who are on the run. The government continues its reform efforts to meet all these challenges. Higher taxes for those with relatively high incomes generate the necessary tax revenues and have a good distribution profile. I am well aware that taxes can affect people's behaviour and that it is possible that higher marginal taxes can have a negative impact on labour supply. However, both the size and timing of the possible effects are very uncertain. Moreover, it is not only taxes that affect the labour market and labour supply, and it is therefore misleading to assess policies on the basis of individual financing measures. Policy must be seen in its entirety. Continued investment in welfare is necessary for both women and men to have the opportunity to work full-time. Better care for the elderly and higher quality in leisure homes is not only a question of a three-year old age and childhood, but can also reduce the number of people who stop working or go down working hours to take care of someone close to them. In terms of employment and unemployment, the 2016 budget bill makes an overall assessment of the impact of government policies. Overall, the policy is estimated to lead to higher sustainable employment and lower unemployment in the future. To conclude, I would like to note that, in the previous two terms of office, nothing happened to the highest marginal tax, despite the massive tax cuts that were made.
i-0c08096bded3fe5a-138	Madam President, I would like First of all, it can be noted that the expert authorities that make overall assessments of the Government's policy make a different assessment than the Ministry of Finance, namely that the policy pursued has a negative impact on jobs and employment in Sweden. However, Madam President, this issue is a little bigger than an individual tax increase, namely: what is the situation in the Swedish economy? What measures are appropriate to take? We see a stock exchange sinking sharply. We see a housing market where there is great uncertainty about price developments in the future. We have a debt situation that is problematic. We know that the European Commission's winter forecast predicts that deficits in Sweden will rise in the years to come. We see unemployment that persists and, according to the IMF and other international assessors, is due to a fundamentally very high structural unemployment or very high equilibrium unemployment in Sweden. We received relatively recently new figures from the Swedish Financial Control Agency. It shows that all the figures point in the wrong direction in terms of unemployment, labour force participation and employment. Madam President, I would like This is the situation in which the current government took over the European Union's strongest public finances. From the fact that Sweden has been called the Nordic Light and has been a role model internationally, Sweden is now increasingly seen as a risk country, partly based on unstable political governance. Madam President, I would like The Minister of Finance and the Government seem to hope that a better international economy and a better economic situation in Sweden will draw jobs or increase employment. But, Madam President, it does not help to wind if you do not lift sails. And when the International Monetary Fund and others say that structural unemployment constitutes the majority of unemployment in Sweden, it does not help with better economic activity if you want jobs to increase. There is also a need for structural reforms, reforms that allow jobs in Sweden to increase. Against this background, it is interesting to observe what Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson and the Government do in practice. In his reply, the Minister of Finance himself says that the proposed tax increases can have a detrimental effect on the economy and also discourage the growth of more jobs. Madam President, I would like It is clear that it is open to the Minister for Finance to answer what benefit the world's highest marginal taxes in Sweden would do. At one time the Social Democracy made up with the high marginal taxes through a tax reform. It had been noted that they led the Swedish economy into a dead end. The biggest break-up from the tax reform is now taking place since the introduction of the military tax, when marginal taxes are raised to over 60%. Those who go to work late at night at a hospital, for example, will pay more than 6 out of 10 crowns on the last earned ten in tax to the state. This has been strongly condemned, for example, by former Social Democratic Finance Ministers, such as Erik Åsbrink. It has also been condemned by S-branded economists like Bertil Holmlund, simply because it does not generate any revenue to the Treasury. It may do so in the first year but certainly not in the long term. The question that the Minister of Finance should answer is: why is such a large tax increase being carried out for many people, who, according to the leading Social Democratic evaluators, only leads to the worse functioning of the economy and the worse functioning of the labour market and that public finances are not strengthened? Surely it cannot be the task of a Minister of Finance to structurally impair the functioning of the economy when one does not even get a single crown of taxation.
i-0c08096bded3fe5a-146	Madam President, I would like The bourgeois government held power for eight years before we received a new government. We have also had a bourgeois budget during part of the post-election period. It can well be said that the tax cuts were not a means of bringing down unemployment, but, on the contrary, the unemployment rate rose over those years. Of course, it has many reasons. In any case, however, it can be said that the policy pursued was not a miracle medicine against unemployment. As the Minister for Finance says, different factors interact. You can't see the treasure isolated. You can see that having good welfare can in itself lead to more jobs. An example of this is: While unemployment increased in the bourgeois years, labour shortages increased. Employers found it increasingly difficult to find staff to fill empty seats. At the end of the period, one in five jobs was not filled in Sweden. The employers were looking for people in vain. This shows the importance of welfare. What these people would need is education. These are both young people who need training to be able to take the jobs that are available and unemployed who need active action to take those jobs. It is not enough to look for a lot of jobs; it is about improving your skills. Unfortunately, the training efforts that had to be made were not carried out, but now we are launching a massive education programme. But it costs money. And it is for this, among other things, that what we receive through increased taxes should be used. It is about investing in education for young people and the unemployed so that they can take the jobs that still exist. We have many new arrivals, refugees, who need support with validation, SFI and other training efforts in order to take the jobs. I believe that this is the most crucial factor in bringing down unemployment. It can also be seen that the lower the level of education someone has, the greater the risk of unemployment. But this costs money. It is not possible to have both a large and strong welfare and have very low taxes. Then, of course, we will never levy taxes for the sake of the matter. But you should do it when you have a welfare need that you can't handle in any other way. There is also a fair profile with regard to the tax. I don't think it's strange that someone who makes over 50,000 pays a little more tax. It's not about a lot of money when you're at those levels. It is only when you get over 100,000 monthly salary that it can be a lot of money. But then, on the other hand, you already have a lot of money. I don't think it's a disaster for those who get these tax increases. Instead, one can question why one went to this level from the beginning when one made tax cuts from the bourgeois government. Those who made the most money from tax cuts have been high-income earners. This did not lead to a reduction in unemployment, but, on the contrary, to higher unemployment. That is why I believe that it is the right direction now that those who can afford to pay more taxes actually do so and that we are spending the money that we get into this way to strengthen welfare, among other things. It is not least about education. Then, as the Minister for Finance said, we must ensure that people do not go down in working hours or stop working completely to take care of children, the elderly and the sick. Well, well-being is crucial for us to make it.
i-0c08096bded3fe5a-155	Madam President, I would like Niklas Wykman asks what position Sweden's economy is in. Then I can give Niklas Wykman some statistics. Growth in Sweden is expected to be higher this year than in the US, higher than in the UK, higher than in Germany, actually the fourth highest in the EU and higher than in any other Nordic country. Growth is wide in the economy. We're increasing investment. We're increasing exports. Household consumption is increasing and public consumption is increasing. We have very broad growth in Sweden. Employment is rising. There are over 70 000 more people who have a job to go to than when we took over government power. Unemployment is falling for the long-term unemployed, for the youth unemployed and generally. It is also true that long-term unemployment among young people has almost halved. For young people who do not study, unemployment has been the lowest since 2002. The budget deficit has been halved, and we have taken a firm hold on state finances after the year of the alliance government, when deficits increased each year. Unfunded tax cuts continued despite the strengthening of the economic cycle. This does not prevent the fact that there are many and major challenges left for the Swedish economy. I fully share Niklas Wykman's view that structural reforms are important if we are to strengthen the functioning of the economy. That is exactly what the government has also done when we have carried out a new major knowledge boost with 50 000 more jobs and training places this year, which then grows up to 80 000 more educational and job opportunities during the mandate. We know that there is a large recruitment gap in working life between the employers who want to employ and the unemployed. We have also implemented important structural reforms by improving the quality of childcare facilities, fritis and care for the elderly so that more people will have the opportunity to work and work full-time, and we have implemented important industrial policy efforts to strengthen the Swedish business community and to have an improved infrastructure. Niklas Wykman claims that it is very uncertain how much tax revenue there will be. He does not seem to believe that the escalation we are making of the job tax deduction will mean any increase in revenue for the Treasury. During the eight years of the alliance government, no action was taken on the highest marginal tax rate. If there is no revenue for the Treasury to increase the maximum marginal tax rate, it should be thought with the same reasoning that it was free to reduce the marginal tax rate, at least on the margin. Then my question to Niklas Wykman is: If he believes in these calculations, why was the marginal tax not reduced in the years that Niklas Wykman worked at the Ministry of Finance?
i-0c08096bded3fe5a-163	Madam President, I would like It is 9 February today. It does, if I count correctly, that Magdalena Andersson's politics has now prevailed in Sweden for exactly 40 days. Until then, we had an alliance budget. It is said that artists are only really appreciated after their death, but all those who were active in the alliance government naturally thank the Minister of Finance for the great praise that is being given here to the Swedish economy regarding high growth, falling unemployment, rising employment and so on. It is very gratifying that the Minister for Finance is paying attention to the nine years of alliance governance with the structural reforms we have carried out to improve the labour market and competitiveness. In this way we can also see that Sweden now also has higher economic growth compared with other countries that carried out fewer reforms. However, the task of Minister of Finance, Madam President, should not be to lean on what has been. You can't live on old records. This government cannot live off the efforts made by the Alliance to strengthen and improve the Swedish economy and the Swedish labour market. It is gratifying that we are now seeing the results of these reforms, but the current government must, of course, look to the future: how to meet the challenges that are facing us right now? There are concerns on the stock market, and there are concerns on the housing market. The IMF is tracking a high level of equilibrium unemployment, and the European Commission is tracking an increase in public finance deficits. Around this, the government is not acting, but rather is leaning on the reforms that the Alliance has carried out. But to meet the problems we have now, new reforms are needed. The Minister of Finance says, and said before the election, among other things, together with Mikael Damberg and Stefan Löfven, that no ordinary income earners would get increased income taxes. Last week there was another announcement of tax increases for 1.3 million income earners. So there should be no ordinary income earners, but this applies, for example, to 43 percent of all police officers and 40 percent of midwives and specialist nurses. Large groups are receiving extensive tax increases with this government. My question to the Minister for Finance is unanswered: what is good about having the world's highest marginal taxes? The Minister of Finance is now raising the highest marginal taxes from about 57% to over 60%, despite the fact that, for example, Erik Åsbrink, former Social Democratic Minister of Finance, strongly advises against doing so and despite the fact that an overall economic expertise has calculated that this will not generate any revenue in the long term. The financier himself knows why her question is apart, namely that the state's way of counting public finances is precisely static. That is to say, you have calculation conventions, they count on an annual basis and they do not take into account behavioural changes in that way. That is to say, budgets must not be made in the way that the Minister for Finance says that budgets should be made. I am not saying that the Minister of Finance has miscalculated; it is correctly calculated according to the conventions that exist, but it is known that there are shortcomings with those kinds of calculation techniques, namely that they do not take sufficient account of the changes in behaviour that are taking place. It is good that we have a strict budgetary framework that does not allow us to make budgets on dynamic effects and so on, but it also means that we cannot make such tax increases without more revenue. Such tax reductions cannot be made without reducing revenue in the state budget in a purely static and budgetary manner. The question is, however, what is happening in reality, and in this regard Bertil Holmlund and other leading economists, as well as the former S-marked Finance Minister Erik Åsbrink, warns that this is not a wise way for Sweden to go. A finance minister must somewhere look over the spreadsheets and also think about what the effects of this policy are. Here, therefore, it is a collective expertise that says that this is bad policy, it is risky for Sweden, it is bad for productivity and bad for growth and employment. Yet Magdalena Andersson is doing just that. Why would she do that? The answer to that question is probably: the Left Party.
i-0c08096bded3fe5a-175	Madam President, I would like I am a little confused in this debate. Niklas Wykman opened the debate by telling us what a disaster this was. He now agrees with the positive figures presented by the Minister for Finance. I think you still have to decide which leg to stand on. Then it is that some of our policies have not been able to be implemented until now, but we have been working on a lot since we took over government power. The Minister for Labour has worked from day one to get people into employment and change an organisation that has not worked at all for the unemployed. So a great deal has happened during the journey, and now that we can finally get our policy through to the full, it will happen even more. I don't understand this speech about the nearness of the disaster. On the contrary – growth is increasing, jobs are increasing and youth unemployment has fallen dramatically from a very high level, so there are many points in the right direction. But it also, of course, requires us to implement the right measures at this stage. It is the most important thing that the unemployed should be able to take the jobs that exist and that young people do not drop out but complete their studies so that they get the right skills and the opportunity to take the jobs that exist. I don't really understand the alarm you're ringing. If we look at periods where we have had higher taxes, it has not been a disaster for Sweden, and it will not this time either. I would also like to mention the justice aspect. Is it more important that someone who earns over $100,000 a month receives reduced tax than that pensioners actually receive the same tax as employees? The pension is deferred pay. We think that pensioners have waited far too long, and we think it is an important priority to gradually abolish pensioner tax. It is important that we have fair taxes.
i-0c08096bded3fe5a-182	Madam President, I would like I would like to remind Niklas Wykman that the government has ruled the country from day one. We have worked intensively not least to change labour market policy and the direction of the Public Employment Service, but also a number of other instruments that the government has to work with. We also tabled an amending budget in April, where a great many reforms were already rolled out last year. With regard to the growth that exists in the 2016 forecast, it is perhaps a little difficult for the Alliance to take credit. It is perhaps also the case that all the private investments that we now see grow in Sweden are not due to the fact that we have had an alliance government, but it probably has quite different reasons. Niklas Wykman says that many wage earners have increased taxes. Then I just want to ask Niklas Wykman: If you pay exactly as many SEK in tax in January 2016 as you did in December 2015, have you got an increased tax, do you have the same tax or do you get reduced tax? Niklas Wykman says that the combined economic expertise comes to the conclusion that no tax revenue is collected on increasing marginal taxes. That's not correct, because there are different studies that come up with different things. It is not that there is a unanimous expert assessment of this, but different economists come up with different things. Niklas Wykman is quite right about how things are reported under the Calculation Convention, and I fully share Niklas Wykman's view that it is important that we stick to the Calculation Convention. It was terrible at the beginning of the 1990s when we had a bourgeois government that did not care about such things but carried out very optimistic dynamic calculations and thus broke the state finances, which we in the Social Democrats then had to raise. After this, we introduced these calculation conventions, so it is good that we stick to them. Nevertheless, the alliance government reduced the tax by over 130 billion, without touching the highest marginal tax. If you now had so much money to lower the tax for but believe that it is free in the long term to reduce the marginal tax, why did you not choose to lower the highest marginal tax then when you anyway lowered the tax by over 130 billion?
i-0c08096bded3fe5a-188	Madam President, I would like Hillevi Larsson says she doesn't really understand. So far, we agree. However, when it comes to how the Swedish economy should be managed and the responsibility for public finances there are many questions that need to be addressed to the Minister for Finance. It is gratifying that in the budget presented, the government fully recognises the positive effects of the job tax credit on employment. The job tax deduction provides about 130 000 more jobs. This is also evident from the calculations made by the government in the budget presented. It is gratifying that there is at least a difference between rhetoric and practice in the government. In practice, recognition is given to the significant impact of the job tax deduction, for example. It also gives more to those who earn little and give more to women than men. Magdalena Andersson praises the growth in Sweden and the private investments that are now taking place in Sweden. I'm glad to hear that. They give exactly the effect the Alliance Government felt it would be of, for example, a reduced corporate tax, which was carried out during the last term of office. Of course, when the economic cycle improves, investments in Sweden improve. This is a gratifying development. I do not believe that it should be politicised too much. As I recall, the Social Democrats were not too loud opponents of corporate tax, which was, for example, against marginal tax relief when they joined forces with the Green Party, the Left Party and the Swedish Democrats and lowered the proposal for relief in marginal taxation of many Swedish households. Magdalena Andersson asks if you get a higher or lower tax. In the memo I read from the Ministry of Finance, where Magdalena Andersson is head, it is explicitly stated that 1.3 million employees receive increased tax. I recommend the Minister of Finance to read the memo that came last week from the Ministry of Finance. It is clear from this that there are 1.3 million employees. We know, for example, that about 40% of police officers get increased taxes.
i-0c08096bded3fe5a-193	Madam President, I would like Niklas Wykman is well aware that this writing is based on what the legislation would have looked like if there had not been a change. I believe that most employees do not have it in their minds. If they think about whether they have received increased tax, the same tax or reduced tax, they start from what tax they paid earlier. In fact, the change in the cut-off point for these 1.3 million wage earners does not mean that they will receive a higher tax in January 2016 than they had in December 2015. They have the same treasure. I think most people feel they have the same tax. If you make more than 50,000 a month, you get a higher tax. That is because we think it is appropriate to step up the job tax deduction. When it comes to really high incomes, our view is that you may not need a job tax deduction to get to work. Niklas Wykman and I will certainly have many interpellation debates about the cause of Swedish growth and the fact that things are going well in the Swedish economy right now, although one should be well aware that there are a number of worrying clouds, not least in terms of developments in China, which of course can also affect the Swedish economy. But it is good that we can agree that things are going well in the Swedish economy. Some of the dystopian statements that have sometimes been heard from moderate representatives that things would go badly in Sweden on the day there is a Social Democratic-led government – I sit in a government with the Green Party and, moreover, with the support of the Left Party – do not seem to become a reality. On the contrary, we see that companies believe in Sweden. This means that they believe that it will continue to go well to run companies in Sweden. Therefore, they choose to invest in Sweden. We see that growth is high, companies employ more and more young people get jobs. It is an extremely gratifying development in a country led by a social democratic and environmental party government.
i-0c08096bded3fe5a-197	Madam President, I would like Helena Bouveng has asked me what I see is the worst thing that could happen if more people use the RUT deduction. Every tax, or tax exemption, has its advantages and disadvantages, and a serious tax policy debate must be comprehensive. It is mainly about efficiency – the potential for increased employment weighs very heavily and at the same time must be weighed against deadweight effects. The logic, simplicity and transparency of a tax system are other important factors. Finally, any tax exemption must have legitimacy to the extent that it involves a transfer from those who do not use the exemption to those who do. As I have said before, the government wants the RUT deduction to remain and, moreover, to be extended to include more posts, according to the agreement with the bourgeois parties. My ambition is that a legislative proposal to extend the RUT deduction to include additional gardening, floating and IT services at home should be submitted to Parliament in the spring change budget and enter into force on 1 August 2016.
i-0c08096bded3fe5a-200	Madam President, I would like This is not the first debate on the Finance Minister and I have on the RUT deduction. It may not be surprising because the issue has many dimensions. The Minister of Finance has on several occasions expressed the fascination she has with my commitment, but I would like us to have a Minister of Finance who was fascinated by the potential that exists in this sector, particularly in terms of jobs and also in terms of gender equality, that black jobs become white and the issue of the everyday puzzle of families with children. I am not saying that the RUT sector solves all the problems, but certainly it is an important piece of the puzzle not only in the everyday lives of families with children but also because people get their first job in a new country, that people without higher education get a foothold in the labour market, that women take on responsible jobs to a large extent, that people who are already established in the labour market work more hours than before. Madam President, I would like In one of our debates in late autumn, the Minister of Finance asked him to stand on the barricades for the sector, not to worry the companies, the buyer and employees with the deterioration of the RUT deduction, that what happened in Denmark and also to some extent in Finland will not be repeated in Sweden. Changes play a small role because most do not buy for more, is something that the Minister of Finance constantly repeats. We can now see that an industry that increased by 10% each year only increased by 1% when the change came. In a survey conducted by Almega, 31 percent say that they should buy less. This is not a good message from a government that claims to have the goal of Europe's lowest unemployment by 2020. Madam President, I would like So we can already see that the Minister for Finance underestimates a government's policy of signaling. If space is reduced, one should understand that it is perceived that the rulers want less of something, not more, less jobs, not more, less hours worked, not more. Was it the concern that there would be more jobs, more hours worked, more women in the career, more women who choose entrepreneurship, black jobs that turn white, that made Magdalena Andersson halve the ceiling for the RUT deduction? The Minister of Finance has herself stated that RUT jobs are incredibly cost-effective, and she emphasises the importance of potential jobs. Is the potential of 16 000 new jobs too great a potential for the Finance Minister?
i-0c08096bded3fe5a-206	Madam President, I would like I would be easier to understand the question of whether the RUT deduction was removed, but that will not happen. We are making a marginal adjustment to the RUT deduction, as Helena Bouveng and I have discussed extremely many times in this House. My assessment is that the RUT deduction is a much more cost-effective tax reduction than many others of the tax reductions implemented by the bourgeois government. That is why we are not making a major change in this deduction, unlike, for example, youth unemployment contributions, which were an enormous waste of taxpayers' money. Therefore, a marginal adjustment is made to increase the legitimacy of the system and direct the deduction more towards the needs of ordinary families. This cannot be compared to the changes made in Denmark, which now affects an enormous proportion of buyers. Whole groups of services were removed. I think they removed window cleaners. That was about 25 percent of the total purchase. It is difficult to compare with what has been done now and which means that 1% of RUT buyers are affected.
i-0c08096bded3fe5a-209	Madam President, I would like It is exciting to hear that the Minister of Finance believes that a halving of the possibility of RUT deduction is a marginal change. In late autumn, I promised to stand on the barricades for the RUT sector. I wish the Minister of Finance would join me. There was hope after the Minister of Finance's statement at the Gasell Gala last autumn, but I can see that it is so far about a lot of talk and a little workshop. The Minister of Finance is urging me to be involved in developing the RUT industry. I can make Magdalena Andersson happy that I took her at her word. On 20 January this year, I organised a seminar here in Parliament on this particular theme. More than 60 entrepreneurs in the industry participated in the seminar, indicating a strong interest and commitment from the sector in developing the said sector. The panel included Monica Lindstedt, founder of Hemfrid, who is celebrating her 20th anniversary this year. She is a female entrepreneur who had to fight hard against the wind for many years. She got her idea when she saw how difficult it was for women to compete with tougher employers when the time was not enough for both the family and the job. This is a sector that is now, 20 years later, extremely popular with the Swedish people, a home sector where we basically only lift the cover for which services could be included. It's just to make an international look to see this. Hemfrid today has around 1,800 pure copycats that are involved in developing, competing and contributing to price pressure in the industry. One of these is Åsa Storm, who runs Storms in Jönköping. She also sat on the panel and testified that she had listened to Monica Lindstedt's Summer program, been inspired and started up. Today, only Storm likes 200 employees, predominantly foreign born women who got their first job. Åsa Storm asks why the government has a unilateral focus on the buyer, not on the women who have got their first job. I now put the question to the Minister for Finance: why does the government choose to reduce the RUT industry rather than provide the conditions for a positive development in an industry that shows, with its 20 000 employees, that it has great opportunities to develop another 16 000 real jobs? The Minister of Finance mentions legitimacy in his response. Today, eight out of ten Swedes are in favour of and use the RUT deduction – eight out of ten people with estimated money contribute to more people getting their first job. You can't describe that as worrying about a deadweight effect, can you?
i-0c08096bded3fe5a-219	Madam President, I would like I would like to point out once again to Helena Bouveng that we are not halving the RUT deduction. We halve the ceiling for the RUT deduction, which affects 1 percent of those who buy RUT services. It can hardly be said that this is to halve the RUT deduction. This is exactly the kind of horror propaganda and scare propaganda that Helena Bouveng should be too good to do. Home peace was if I don't remember wrong one of the companies that had to go out and inform their customers that the change was not a halving but a change in the ceiling. It was because people like Helena Bouveng and her party friends are out trying to spread a picture that this is a bigger change than it is.
i-0c08096bded3fe5a-221	Madam President, I would like The tone of the industry was not really the one that the Finance Minister was expressing now. Surely it has not escaped the Minister for Finance's criticism of both the detailed regulation and the halving of the ceiling for the RUT deduction is strong. Detail regulation not only creates demarcation problems; it also hampers the development of the industry as such. The now famous indoor pools are a pretty good example of placard politics. Why regulate ideas and jobs that do not yet exist? That's not how you make entrepreneurship thrive. The industry is in favour of the agreement with the Alliance on extended services that may be included. However, one cannot understand the logic of the government at the same time halving the ceiling for the RUT deduction. The deterioration can almost be compared to when the Social Democratic government wanted to stop commercial television in Sweden but finally with the knife against the throat had to realize that it could not be stopped. Today, 80 per cent of Sweden's population is in favour of the RUT deduction. Even this tidal wave will not stop as more and more people realize the need and are prepared to buy more and more services – more services that mean more jobs. Why not now, instead of with the knife to the throat, restore the ceiling for the RUT deduction to 50 000, the Minister for Finance? Or why not raise it to 100,000? What's the worst that can happen?
i-0c08096bded3fe5a-226	Madam President, I would like The RUT industry is an important industry. It performs important tasks, and just as Helena Bouveng says – I fully agree – it is an important employer for some people who have not lived so long in Sweden or who have a slightly weaker connection to the labour market. Therefore, the Government does not make a major change to the RUT deduction. The point of halving the ceiling is to increase the legitimacy of the system. Even with the new services to be provided, the assessment is that no major part will hit the ceiling as the average RUT user buys RUT services for approximately SEK 5 000 per year. So there are good margins left under the roof. On the other hand, it is important that the statistics and figures have realistic proportions. We will not solve the fact that 400 000 people are outside the labour market via a RUT deduction. It is an industry that employs between 15 000 and 20 000 people. The fact that raising the ceiling for RUT would solve the problems we see with people outside the labour market, as it sounds on Helena Bouveng, does not bear the stamp of realism.
i-0c08096bded3fe5a-229	Madam President, I would like Stig Henriksson has asked me if I intend to take any steps to prevent Swedish taxpayers from having to pay Brazil's purchase of JAS aircraft from Saab. The Gripen deal with Brazil has an order value in the size class of SEK 40 billion and is therefore probably the largest Swedish export deal of all time. In addition, the transaction opens the way for long-term strategic cooperation with Brazil. In connection with Brazil's acquisition of 36 next generation JAS Gripen with weapons and sensors, credit agreements have been concluded between the buyer and Aktiebolaget Svensk Exportkredit. AB Svensk Exportkredit, SEK, is a state-owned company that has the task of conducting credit operations on a commercial and sustainable basis with the aim of promoting the Swedish export industry by offering financing solutions that directly or indirectly promote Swedish exports. The company offers export credits and administers on behalf of the government also the system of officially supported credits given at a pre-arranged reference rate, called CIRR. The terms and conditions of the CIRR credits are laid down in the OECD Arrangement for officially supported export credits, which is incorporated into EU law. For a large number of years, SEK has generated profits and provided an annual dividend to the state owner. I do not intend to take any action in accordance with what Stig Henriksson is asking for.
i-0c08096bded3fe5a-234	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister.
i-0c08096bded3fe5a-236	What's the point of this question? Well, the background is that Brazil borrows almost SEK 40 billion from Swedish Export Credit. In addition to the price tag on the pitch, Brazil is reported to borrow another $245 million for the weapons systems. That is to say, ultimately, it is the Swedish state that is lending cheap money in order for Brazil to be able to buy weapons anywhere in the world. Israel, Germany and South Africa have been mentioned as potential suppliers. According to information, the interest rate on the main loan has been negotiated down to 2.19%. The interest rate on the smaller loan of approximately SEK 2 billion was set at 3.56 per cent. The loans run for a full 25 years. At the same time, we can read that Moodys is reviewing Brazil's credit rating and says that the country is at risk of being downgraded to junk status. As early as September, Standard & Poors reduced Brazil's credit rating to that level. When this was written, the interest rate on a ten-year government bond was 16.1 per cent. The reverse of this for Brazil is that it is Swedish taxpayers who in practice finance a not despicable part of Saab's JAS business. The Left Party believes this to be unreasonable. In addition to the risk of a state bankruptcy, the loan ultimately involves a kind of money placement. This means that over 40 billion of Swedish people's money is placed in a very unfavorable way. The difference between the interest rate paid by Brazil for ten-year government bonds is about 12.5 %, and that is a 25-year loan we are talking about here. In 40 billion it will be, to put it mildly, a penny. The Government's answer is therefore that he does not intend to take any action, and it is surely not surprising in this context, given the legal framework that exists in relation to the acts of the Government. But does Mikael Damberg really think that such a business arrangement is reasonable?
i-0c08096bded3fe5a-242	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Stig Henriksson, for the question! The question really has two dimensions. The first dimension concerns the JAS deal itself. It is one of Sweden's largest export deals of all time. Not only does it cover 36 copies of a fighter aircraft with associated equipment, but it is also estimated to create 1 000 jobs in production and development in the Linköping region. To add that it also creates a lot of work on the Brazilian side as well. It is clear that it is an incredibly important affair for Swedish industry and for Swedish defence, because the Swedish defence is dependent on us being able to export war material in order to keep down the cost of the war material we need ourselves for our defence and security policy. So one part of the question is whether export credits for the JAS affair would be particularly problematic. It could be a discussion. The second discussion is whether we should have export credits guaranteed by the state at all. Should we work with financing opportunities for Swedish companies that do export business? We have two government organisations that help with this, and that means an incredible amount to the Swedish export industry. They are based on the international regulatory framework that exists regarding CIRR credits. Does the Left Party believe that all such export credits are wrong? Is Ericsson not going to be able to take part of them either? Shouldn't small and medium-sized enterprises get a share of them when they want to enter a market that can be a little tricky? There you cannot know exactly what all the risks look like, and Swedish banks may not fully dare to guarantee the deal. Should we stop providing such guarantees? This represents a risk for Swedish taxpayers. Now we can say that these organisations have been successful. If you look over a number of years, you find that they have actually left a surplus to the state, and then we still have not counted the effects that it means that we can export more from Sweden and get more tax revenue thereby. The fundamental question, then, is whether we should work with export credits at all, according to the international regulations that exist. I think that the Left Party should also sort this out. I think this is very important, not least in the light of the last financial crisis. Sweden went decently through the last financial crisis thanks to strong public finances and that we kept the economy in order, but also thanks to these guarantee schemes. They enabled Swedish companies to maintain trade with large parts of the world, which had difficulty financing business at the time. It would have hit the Swedish economy and Swedish jobs if we had not had this system. Then I think we should have a Swedish defence that is strong and able to face the unrest that we are now in the midst of. Part of this is that we should stand up for a certain Swedish export of war material that is regulated. The JAS project is part of this and of the defence and security policy that I stand for and which the government supports.
i-0c08096bded3fe5a-248	Madam President, I would like It is clear that this can be made a big question of whether we should be involved in export credits at all, but that is not what my interpellation is about. That was not my question, and my answer is not that we should end up with export credits. Here, however, we are talking about a 25-year loan of EUR 40 billion at an interest rate that differs enormously from what Brazil is allowed to issue for its government bonds. Mikael Damberg mentioned that there are several dimensions to this. It may be interesting to broaden the discussion as well. As the Government points out, the transaction involves technology transfer and close cooperation with Brazilian aircraft manufacturer Embraer. This, too, is not entirely uncontroversial, to put it cautiously. Embras are deeply involved in a massive billion-dollar corruption investigation. The aircraft manufacturer is investigated by US authorities for bribery in Argentina and the Dominican Republic. Brazil's corruption unit is now also starting an investigation against Embraer. This is therefore the large company that is Saab's strategic partner in the production of new Gripen and international sales. Just today, it was reported that the former Brazilian president's son is also involved in a bribery investigation, as it turned out that he received 5.2 million from Saablobbyist Mauro Marcondes's company. The Public Prosecutor's Office's corruption unit also leads that investigation. This shows something of the problem, if we are to see more dimensions. To quote what our dear Prime Minister has said in another context: I do not think this is okay. I'd like to ask Mikael Damberg if he thinks it's okay.
i-0c08096bded3fe5a-254	Madam President, I would like I share Stig Henriksson's view that it is incredibly important that Swedish companies respect laws and regulations and are not drawn into various bribery, because it not only weakens the position of those companies internationally, but it impairs the reputation of Sweden and of Swedish companies in global markets. If it's something I've met when I've worked with promotion issues in recent years, it's that Swedish companies beat their chests and sell a lot of sustainability work. It's about being long-term – you're a customer to trust, that you're good at delivering, that you're innovative, that you keep what you promise and that you're doing the right thing. Therefore, it is never nice when Swedish companies end up in various kinds of investigations. Now it is not uncommon that there are investigations of various companies in countries that have problems. Brazil has both economic problems and some political problems that are quite serious at the moment. At the same time, it's, I think, still the seventh largest economy in the world-- now I took this out of my head, so I hope I'm not saying it wrong. From a Swedish perspective, it is important that any legal proceedings in Brazil against Brazilian companies are cleared out, and if there are ambiguities you have to find out. But in the long term Sweden sees a huge opportunity in a strategic partnership with Brazil, which is an important market and a very large country. This is a commercial transaction between Saab and the Brazilian State. There's the store itself. Then SEK, according to the international regulations that exist, has entered and guaranteed credits to enable the deal. I think this is a good order, and it is important that we have control, that we monitor and that we do things properly. But basically I believe that this is an important affair that will open up for strategic partnerships in more areas than just defence equipment. I see it as a great advantage of this work that it is not just about an aircraft business, but the Brazilian Government has said that it sees this as a strategic partnership that it wants to build on and that it sees other opportunities for industrial cooperation between Sweden and Brazil. I think that would be very important. Of course, if there are ambiguities with regard to Brazilian companies and their behaviour, it should both be examined and reviewed. Should there be any link to Saab, I expect Saab to also welcome such a review.
i-0c08096bded3fe5a-260	Madam President, I would like We can address another dimension in this discussion. I'm a northern resident. In this House, my party colleague Birger Lahti has previously asked questions about the state's rather passive attitude towards the Kaunisvaara mine. There it is about 500 – 600 jobs in Norrbotten's interior, which may correspond to at least 1,000 jobs in a more expansive region. Mining jobs also have the good quality that they do not move abroad easily, while cooperation with the Brazilian aircraft manufacturer, for example, is partly about that. I do not think Birger Lahti was entirely satisfied with the Minister's response to the Kaunisvaara mine. I quote from the Riksdag Protocol: the government assumes that the company is doing its utmost and hopes that they will succeed in this work. ..................................................... If you compare with the enormous commitment that not only Saab but also Sweden's various governments, the Swedish state etcetera have shown that peace in the country JAS business feels the difference very big. My questions remain. Is it really reasonable for us to lend EUR 40 billion for the purchase of arms systems from third countries under conditions of 25 years if we compare with what, for example, it would have been necessary to save the Kaunisvaara mine?
i-0c08096bded3fe5a-264	Madam President, I would like We have really taken the turns in the debate, but I think it is quite funny. Firstly, it is important to see that we should have export credits. It is incredibly important for our export industry and for jobs in Sweden. It's one of the biggest export deals I've been through, and maybe I'll be in. That is why I think it is correct in principle. It is SEK that makes the assessment of whether to enter the store or not and under what conditions. I think that they should have a mandate to decide, given that Swedish export revenues and interests are involved. There are other countries that are contributing to the deal. Sweden does not manufacture all parts of the JAS plane. Sweden also does not manufacture all the weapons or sensors on the plane. In order for a fighter aircraft to be able to fly, act and fulfil the function of a fighter aircraft, we will be dependent on the import of other countries' materials or activities. It is included in the whole deal, and then it must be examined in accordance with the strict Swedish export legislation. It is thus included in the whole package for the fighter aircraft, and Swedish strict rules should therefore apply. As far as Kaunisvaara is concerned, my main interest and mission right now – if we look at the basic industries and not least the mines – is to ensure that LKAB, which is an important state-owned company that is now wrestling with both low ore prices and high costs of urban transformation, survives in the long term and is a strong company not only now but in five or ten years' time. LKAB must look at both what it is doing now strategically and if there are collaborations you can have with other mines, such as Kaunisvaara, but it must be based on the understanding that LKAB makes strategically important and right decisions. If LKAB were to be in trouble, it would not only affect Kiruna and Norrbotten, but the entire Swedish base industry. My most important task is to ensure that LKAB survives this difficult situation and is strong for a long time to come.
i-0c08096bded3fe5a-271	Madam President, I would like AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson has asked me whether I and the Government intend to investigate the role of the Swedish Competition Authority in the enforcement of the anti-competitive public selling rules, the KOS rules. AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson has also asked whether, in the light of unfair competition, I and the government intend to investigate the application of these rules. A strong competition authority is important for effective competition in the market. When the market works effectively, it benefits consumers through lower prices, higher quality and better products. A functioning competition is also important to strengthen the international competitiveness of Swedish companies. On 30 April 2015, the Government appointed an investigation to investigate whether the Competition Authority should be given enhanced decision-making rights on sanctions in cases of competition infringements. The starting point of the investigation is to streamline the handling process in competition law cases and to create greater consistency between the sanctioning possibilities of the Competition Authority and the European Commission. The report shall be submitted by 12 May of this year at the latest. As far as anti-competitive public sales activities are concerned, it is the Competition Authority that supervises and already today companies that consider themselves exposed to anti-competitive behaviour by public operators can notify the Competition Authority. The Competition Authority can then bring an action before a court for a ban. If the Competition Authority decides not to intervene, the company itself may refer the matter to the courts for review. When the anti-competitive public selling rules were introduced, it was an essential starting point that it had to be possible to take into account public interests other than competition interests and that they could offset distortions of competition. The rules on public sales have been applied since 2010. The government is closely following developments but does not currently see any reason to initiate a new review of the Competition Act's rules on public sales.
i-0c08096bded3fe5a-276	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. In the Competition Authority's Report Competition in Sweden 2013, the work addresses unhealthy competition from the public sector and makes the following proposals to address the problems: From the reply I have now received from the Minister for Economic Affairs, I understand that it is a matter of companies continuing as before, that is to say reporting whether they feel that the public expose them to anti-competitive activities and that the Competition Authority should bring a court case for a ban in this process and that the companies themselves have the opportunity to go to court to have the matter examined. The Competition Authority has proposed the measures I have now taken for a reason. We know that legal proceedings are time-consuming and that companies can be both out- and out-of-date before decisions come. It's the same phenomenon that applies to procurement, and where some municipalities run on as usual under the flag It is for me a serious signal that things need to have a different design. I do not see that a regime in which a work goes in and says that a border is now crossed and that decisions are taken not to cross that border would be contrary to the fact that there are cases where it is possible to take account of public interests other than the interests of competition and that those aims would then outweigh distortions of competition. We are talking about such cases in economic policy and regional growth. Local residents can, where it is inaccessible, get a shop where the trader can set up a service by receiving a grant. Such measures are strictly regulated in order not to eliminate competition. Therefore, I see no reason not to work to look at the different parts of the business world. It is often small entrepreneurs and single entrepreneurs who are going to get jobs for themselves and their livelihoods and offer services. For me, it is unreasonable for municipalities and others to enter and conduct activities that are part of the wheel that is spinning in local businesses. When the Government now says that the Government will follow the matter closely, I wonder what that will mean in concrete terms. Will you take note of the matters that the Swedish Competition Authority receives in order to get its own overview of what it looks like, Mikael Damberg? Are you thinking about whether companies may not report because they are in an addiction position? In the context of this issue, of course, lies what all parties claim to be protecting, namely the business community and what can be achieved at local level for the livelihoods of individuals and their families, as well as solutions that provide citizens with a good supply and that tax money continues to tick into our common welfare and replace jobs. We know that the wheels spin when people can make a living on their own jobs, hire and support more. Different small jobs can provide a full-time job for operations to be carried out. If it is broken by the fact that the public comes in, the whole possibility can collapse. We also know that it is local business, together with the regional, that creates the conditions for our future. I am therefore concerned and surprised that politicians in various corners of our elongated country are engaged in entrepreneurship within the framework of the public mission. The government may be able to develop the answer now.
i-0c08096bded3fe5a-288	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the opportunity for an interpellation debate. It is important to say that the report referred to came in 2013, so there was every possibility for the former bourgeois government to quickly change the legislation during the previous term of office if it had plans to do so. Now it didn't. When I listened to the Minister of Justice then and her arguments as to why they did not, one of the main explanations was that they thought it was important that a court practice should be developed in Sweden. First we make laws, and after a while those laws are applied. Then we will see how the practice develops. It is only after the practice has been clarified that a decision can be taken on whether the regulatory framework ended up at the level desired by the legislator and whether it was in accordance with the intentions that existed. The government, like the previous moderate-led government, wants to await practice before proceeding with the assessment of whether the anti-competitive public selling rules need to be amended in any way. That is the basis for this response. It is important to point out that it is not just the possibility of going to court that exists. About fifteen of the cases investigated by the Swedish Competition Authority have been informed that the public operator has changed its mind on the matter after the Swedish Competition Authority has looked at a question and found things that it felt were inappropriate. Thus, in 15 cases, the public operator has chosen to change and change the application of its sales activities. This may be another way, in which the Competition Authority has an important role in being able to point out shortcomings that can exist without simply going to court. There is another part of the legislation that I would like to go into a little bit. When the legislation was introduced, it was stated in the bill: a fundamental starting point for the government's proposal is that, when applying the conflict resolution rule, it must be possible to take into account public interests other than the interests of competition that can outweigh the distortion of competition behaviour. ..................................................... That was an essential starting point for the proposal of the previous government. Then we must also consider – if we are discussing whether things have turned out the way they were meant to be – whether the Moderates have changed their attitude on the matter, whether there are two interests at all, and whether public interests may be something that nullifies the interests of competition? That is what the previous bourgeois government wrote in the bill. I try to answer and say that we do not want to go ahead with the development of practice and that we evaluate when we know the practice. Have the Moderates changed their minds? Don't you want to wait for practice? Should the public interest no longer be taken into account when examining these questions?
i-0c08096bded3fe5a-296	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for the developed answer! 2013 is three years ago, so hopefully practice has been developed along the way. It's been a while. Now the investigation is on its way. From what I understand from referrals, there is still a problem where these answers mention that the COS rules should be reviewed. As far as public interests are concerned, I mentioned that they exist and that they are regulated. I personally see no reason why one cannot look at the general interests that need to be there while having a review of the fact that this is not taking a path that is not good. I would like to take a few examples. I heard the other week about a municipality where they have started a cinema and thus knocked out the private entrepreneur. How can this be possible? I'm thinking. What makes a municipality consider themselves professionals in offering cinema to the public? It's a strange thing to do. Another example is when the fire authority is to check a company's fire protection and on the way out puts a card at the reception, to take it figuratively, where it offers to fix the defects and deficiencies found during the inspection. This means competing with companies whose business concept is precisely to offer such jobs. A third example is when municipalities run gyms, and that is not unusual. On top of this, the municipality tells employees to choose their own gym if they want access to the wellness money. I do not intend to ask the Government to go into the individual cases, but I ask in the light of these three examples and other examples what industry we should have and how we should look at the public in the perspective of the law on anti-competitive public sales activities in both municipalities, county councils and state authorities. The Government is one of those who claim to protect small entrepreneurs from the north to the south. It is important that it can work well. I'm concerned about what it looks like. The government says that there is a need for a practice and that you need to wait further. But I would still like you to look at this. I received an example of 15 possibilities that you had looked at. But if you now have the goal of bringing down unemployment and protecting companies both at home and abroad, then the small gears in the small perspective are so important both for young people who want to start their own business and for people who are established in the labour market.
i-0c08096bded3fe5a-305	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to say that it is clear that it is important that the legislation that we have is followed by the municipalities. That goes without saying – otherwise we would not have such legislation. It is also important that the Competition Authority takes cases to court when it considers that a municipality or any other public body has infringed the legislation. It also wants to promote a clear practice to see where the borders go. This is one of the tasks of the Competition Authority. The second is that they have sometimes been able to correct problems without going to court. It is a more proactive approach from the Competition Authority, and it may also go faster. The interpellant also said himself that a court case takes a while. I cannot say that we feel that court practices are fully developed and that we know exactly where the limits of legislation are. It often takes a number of years before court proceedings have taken place. It is our view that it is too early to make that evaluation now. That was about the same view that the former moderate-led government had about two years ago. It's the same argument. I fully share the view that small and medium-sized enterprises are important not least for job growth in Sweden. It is important, then, that both sides of the debate are clear. Without a well-functioning public service, many small and medium-sized enterprises would find it difficult to operate in much of our country. That's it. Sometimes in this House we get a big city perspective on the debate, which actually means that freedom of choice is endless and there is everything to choose from. But this is not always the case around Sweden. In fact, municipal services can be a prerequisite for private operators to operate, for people to remain in the locality and for a functioning infrastructure to operate in the private sector. I think we can agree on that. However, when we have this debate, which is more about the other side, it is important also to emphasise that public activity is often a prerequisite for a functioning society and demand for goods and services locally in one place and that the two perspectives must be there. The public interest can be taken into account. We have discussed in the past that there are some areas where the general interest can outweigh the interests of competition, where we have major interests on the part of society to resolve an issue that may need to be resolved. That is why the legislation looks like it does and that there must always be a balance where one goes through the individual case and sees how it is and, above all, what the reasons are for the operation.
i-0c08096bded3fe5a-311	Mr President, I would like to We, the Government, can agree that there is a role for the public interest. I was in Norrbotten this weekend – we travel across the country and look at what it looks like – and of course you get to places where it is. But I still see that there are limitations in this that make you fulfill a lot to get special help to keep the business going. As far as public service and freedom of choice are concerned, it is clear that both play a role, as the Minister for Economic Affairs says. But the list can be about a functioning competition in the small, where as an entrepreneur you depend on having different small pieces you get subsidies for, in order to get a whole so that the company rolls on. If the public then goes in and takes over the so-called monopoly situation, and these companies disappear. It is the list that I am concerned about, that you come on that side. We also have the state side. I know that Lars Hjälmered previously asked the Government a question about laundry, so this is at all levels, where you go into industries where perhaps there are those who could better use this that you can buy the services than you put it out to the public.
i-0c08096bded3fe5a-314	Mr President, I would like to We're not going into individual cases. It is clear, however, that people who end up in prison still need to have a sensible job and that there is a general interest in people being treated in the prison system having something meaningful to do, and that may mean that the public is actually part of some form of production, such as a laundry. It is such a public interest that one can discuss, whether it exists or not. I definitely think that there may be such public interests in specific cases that need to be offset. Otherwise, we have a situation where prison time is anything but a development that brings you back to a civilian life without crime, which we have a great interest in from the public interest, so that you not only sit off your time but also do something meaningful during that time too. I think this is a good example where the public interest can play a role. I believe that this discussion will have to continue, because there is always a discussion on the question of limits. I think it is important that the Competition Authority takes its role seriously, takes questions to the courts but also corrects the issues that can be affected in advance, if possible. This is not just the case for public operators. There is now a discussion about large private players who have almost monopoly-like dominance and can thus exploit this dominance and thus eliminate competition. The Competition Authority therefore has an important role to play both against public operators who can use their position in a way that hampers competition and against private operators who can use their position in a way that eliminates competition.
i-0c08096bded3fe5a-319	Mr President, I would like to Ulf Berg has asked me the following.
i-0c08096bded3fe5a-321	Secondly, what concrete measures will be taken to ensure that Swedish energy research on nuclear power and the use of Swedish electricity does not stop completely? Ulf Berg has asked the Minister for Enterprise and Innovation what the government and the Minister for Enterprise and Innovation intend to take measures to ensure that the Swedish business environment does not stop but, on the contrary, to increase its ability to meet current challenges regarding increased costs and threatening power shortages. The questions asked concern the same subject area, which leads me to give a comprehensive answer. Ulf Berg addresses important issues from a research and energy point of view, but also from the point of view of Sweden's competitiveness. It was precisely in the light of the major changes in the energy sector and concerns about the future energy and power supply that the government appointed an Energy Commission in March 2015. The Energy Commission Directives provide for a review of energy policy covering long-term conditions for the production, transmission, storage and use of energy. The work takes a system perspective to ensure a sustainable and competitive energy system with secure supplies of energy, including based on companies' perspec tives. This work includes everything from reviewing the conditions for the individual power laws to analysing the design of the entire market. All the support, taxes and rules associated with the energy system are under discussion within the framework of the Energy Commission. The outcome of the agreement may also be relevant for future energy research and innovation efforts. Our most important task is to create a broad political settlement that secures Sweden's electricity supply in a way that benefits both Swedish industry and Swedish households as well as the environment and climate. The government is therefore prepared to take the necessary steps to achieve this very thing.
i-0c08096bded3fe5a-327	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. There are many who are worried, and there may be reasons for that. I have taken note of a survey conducted by the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise. It has asked 2,700 entrepreneurs whether they are prepared to run out of electricity in an unfavourable climate and so on. It can be said that there is an incredible lack of preparedness. It's no wonder, because we've mostly taken for granted that the electricity will work. It's a storm or two that we usually name and that means there can be longer stops. But normally it has worked quite well and better over the years. Now I understand that the government is prepared to review the Act on the Power Reserve. That law would end in 2020, but it is prepared to extend it. The idea was that we would then have a dynamic electricity market and that the market itself would be able to cope with the reserve. But there I can agree with the Government that we are not today. Another issue that can be considered is whether the electricity certificates will start to be phased out by 2020, on which there is a decision. What does the government really want on this issue? The 2015 spring change budget states that an increase in the impact tax on nuclear power will contribute to the transformation of the energy system. You don't have to be a rocket scientist to understand that nuclear power has its concerns. We must admit that both the current government and previous governments have contributed to this with the impact tax. In 2014, a calculation was made. Then it was a spot price on our power at 28.8 öre. It may be described as being high compared to today's price. When it came to electricity certificates, they also got 17 øre per kilowatt for wind power. As far as the spot price is concerned, of course, the same applies to nuclear power. But there was no additional topside with electricity certificates but a substantial bottomside with power tax, property tax and some other things on 6.1 öre. This means that it separates 22.7 öre to the advantage of wind power. Then we will also have a market function that will help us to survive when we subsidise it. Then we must also consider what the long-term effects of this will be. Do we want to phase out nuclear power, which currently accounts for about 40% of our energy supply on the electricity side? Even LO is worried. As far as the basic industry is concerned, I understand their concerns. The basic industry is extremely important. It's been worked out many times. On the contrary, I believe that the basic industry, if it can continue to have cheap electricity, can manage. It accounts for one fifth, 20% of all exports and consumes 30% of our electricity. We need to continue to have the competitive advantage that we have had in Sweden, that is, relatively cheap electricity. We do not live in the middle of the market among all people, but we need products to be transported. Then there must be advantages when we are a bit away from the market. My thought is: what does the government really want on this issue?
i-0c08096bded3fe5a-333	Mr President, I would like to I thank Ulf Berg for these questions about an important and urgent area. As far as industry and the basic industry are concerned, I am the first to welcome the fact that the Moderates have made a turn here. For quite a long time when you were in government, there were signals that you did not see this as a future industry. I therefore welcome the fact that Ulf Berg is doing so. I believe that the industry, and not least the basic industry, is important in Sweden today and will be so in the future. There are good conditions to be able to develop the Swedish base industry. It's very important. Then the energy supply is very important. Access to stable supply of electricity at competitive prices is central. It is therefore very important to emphasise that this government will do what is necessary to ensure that Swedish basic industry and Swedish households always have electricity at competitive prices, and we have very good conditions for that. We often have a discussion in Sweden that nuclear power has dominated energy policy for over 40 years. But the truth is that the backbone of the Swedish energy system, in the electrical system, is hydropower. For a hundred years, hydroelectric power has provided us with renewable electricity at very low prices. It is storageable in a way that nothing else is today. It is also adjustable in a way that almost no other force is. Add to that that today, as Ulf Berg points out, we have 40% of our electricity from nuclear power. It is nuclear power from reactors that could already be seen five six years ago in the bourgeois settlement to begin to be phased out starting around 2020. The solution then seen from the then government was, according to a deal made, that these ten reactors could be replaced by ten new ones in the same place. But the conditions that existed, and which the Riksdag subsequently supported, meant that it could be done without state guarantees and without state subsidies. It is only to be noted that under these conditions there is no serious judge today who believes that someone, with private or borrowed money, will invest in new reactors. That is why we have a big question mark. What should the Swedish electricity and energy supply look like in the future? It is against this background that we have set up the Energy Commission. We have brought all eight parliamentary parties to try to create consensus and long-term conditions so that we get investments in both production and transmission, energy efficiency and energy storage – which is also something that is now coming strong. I hope that together we can take this very seriously. When Ulf Berg talks about what was 2014 and the costs and prices that existed then I can note that 28.8 öre was considered to be very low in 2014. This morning, in the middle of winter, however, we had prices in Sweden that were almost half of it. Of course it puts quite a lot of pressure on the energy sector. That is why I think it is important that we now, together, do our utmost to remove at least the political uncertainty so that we get the necessary investment in what is needed to guarantee electricity at competitive prices, both to the basic industry we both agree on, is important both today and tomorrow as well as to our households.
i-0c08096bded3fe5a-341	Mr President, I would like to If we list the number of concerned should be said that Vattenfall also belongs there. It has been very clear that something has to happen on the side of the impact tax, because otherwise no investment decisions will be made with regard to the nuclear power plants that may have been envisaged. These are important investments, because they are needed for additional security. At the same time, one must understand the company, because if the investment cannot be counted home, the investment will not be a reality either. I therefore believe that it is important to send out clear signals very early on. On the moderate side, we have said that we are prepared to reduce the impact tax. In fact, we are even prepared to go further and think about whether it is possible to find other models to finance almost removing it. It's easy to stand here and be hindsight. If we had asked someone five years ago what the energy market would look like today and if we had an oil price of under $30 the barrel, I do not think anyone answered that they saw this. Of course, shale oil and the like in the United States has made the energy balance look quite different, and we can see that on the market and prices. Surely this will not last forever – it also has to do with recessions – but, of course, it is positive if we can continue to spend less energy. At the same time, we want to phase out all fossil energy. We are quite agreed on this politically, and there are many of us who believe that electricity will have increased significance for vehicles and the like. When it comes to hydropower, you start raising some warning flags there too; you think that the property tax and that part have hit very hard. Hydropower is just as the Government says a very important control power to wind power. After all, nuclear power is not suitable for this, but it is much more suitable for hydroelectric power. You can quite quickly open the hatch to the generator and get increased power when it stops blowing. So there must be interaction here. However, this is not the issue we are discussing now, but the question is that the business community must be given clear rules of the game so that it dares to make investments. We see this, among other things, on the forestry side, where many paper mills – mainly one should actually look at the cardboard mill – are making huge investments now. It is important that we can continue to get those investments in Sweden, of course, and use the forest as the green gold many of us think it is. If we do not have good rules in Sweden, and if we get an electricity price that in the long term may be completely different because nuclear power does not exist in Sweden and can produce a large part, it is clear that we will go from a surplus to – in any case what I can judge – a substantial deficit. Therefore, we must not make a mess of things so that we get investments in basic industries in other countries that may not only have significantly worse manufacturing processes in terms of the climate, but also produce electrical energy in not at all the same climate-smart way as we do in Sweden. It is my view that wind, water and nuclear power are good production methods if we look at the climate, and I think it is important that we continue to do so. I would like to ask the Government once again whether that is also the view of the government.
i-0c08096bded3fe5a-348	Mr President, I would like to Ulf Berg talks about the fairly rapid development and thus also the impact on the price of oil. It is about the technology revolution with fracturing and shale gas that had an impact in the United States five six years ago and what impact it has had on oil. It's true. Had analysts been asked about the oil price five years ago, more votes would probably have been raised to increase the price rather than to be around $30 today, thus losing about 70% in just a few years. The same can actually be said about renewable energy. Solar cells, which have been around for a long time but which were very expensive and not so effective, have also moved forward very well technically. Costs have fallen by 70 – 80 percent in five years, and efficiency has increased. Great efforts are currently being made in countries such as China, the United States and Germany to take further steps forward. It is clear that this will revolutionise the electricity sector in exactly the same way that oil technology has done. Wind power has more or less halved its costs in five to six years. Battery technology is progressing; for the first time, it is beginning to be seen that in the future it may be possible to store larger amounts of electricity in a cost-effective way. We are not quite there yet, but even there we have seen a fairly rapid change. It is against this background that we would need a shift in energy policy. We would have to capture these new impressions and ask what this means for our ability to build an energy sector that always delivers – and does so at competitive prices. I would say that Sweden has one of the best conditions in Europe to do just that, Mr President, with our access to large-scale and small-scale hydropower, our long coasts and our forests. The forest is already the largest energy source in Sweden. Not many people know that, but today biomass actually supplies as much bioenergy in terawatt hours as nuclear and hydropower combined. Of course, it's mostly heat and not electricity, but still. We also have the wind; it blows very well in this country. Here there is therefore great opportunity for Sweden to be a forerunner. However, as Ulf Berg says, we also have some short-term challenges that we need to solve in order to ensure that we have a smooth transition so that we do not end up in the situation where Germany and, not least, the United Kingdom have ended up. In fact, we need to go in there with quite powerful means, which is very expensive for both consumers and taxpayers. Sweden has far too good conditions for this. That is why the government strives to have good cooperation. To be honest, Ulf Berg, it is like this: No matter what government it is and whether it is a minority government or a majority government, it is difficult to deliver information that goes beyond the term of office of the government. Many of the investments you are talking about, such as those in the basic industry and in the energy sector, are, of course, investments over 20, 30 – yes, perhaps even 40 – years. If you are to provide that security and the long-term conditions, you need to be prepared to do things across block borders. Otherwise, an individual government will never be able to create that kind of security. Therefore, my question goes back to the Moderates and the bourgeois parties: Is there a will? The will is with the government, but is it with you? If we do not succeed in doing so at this stage, that is, in a rather tight situation for the energy sector, we will never succeed in doing so. Then I think we are risking the electricity supply for the Swedish industry and the Swedish households, and we are not going to get there.
i-0c08096bded3fe5a-355	Mr President, I would like to I think I am listening, but I have not understood any clear answers to the question of what the government really wants with nuclear power. Is it as stated in the 2015 spring amending budget that it would contribute to the transformation of the energy system when increasing the tax on nuclear energy? It is very positive that it comes to many new varieties such as solar cells and bioenergy to produce electricity. You have to remember that with the bioenergy there is a lot of heat. That's about a third of electricity and two thirds of heat. It is therefore necessary to ensure that well-functioning district heating installations are in place in order not to cool off the heat. That would be a pretty bad effect. One must also consider: What will it look like in the future? It is a little over 100 years since the electricity came in with power in Sweden. What will it look like in the future when we build in a completely different way and it doesn't take much heat? What do we do with the heat from the bioenergy? Now there's still a bit to go. But I still think you should take the opportunity to look into the future. I'm among those who hope a lot for solar cells. If I am not in deep water, I believe that the EU still has tariffs to protect the production of solar cells. I have to admit that, as a fairly new member of the Committee on Economic Affairs, I am not sure where the party is on this issue, but personally I am in favour of such a duty being removed so that we can have cheaper solar photovoltaic packages. It is especially good for those of us who live in the countryside and have plenty of roofs and the like. Thank you for the debate. I hope to hear soon that will reassure Sweden's entrepreneurs and that they will have clear rules for the future.
i-0c08096bded3fe5a-360	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Ulf Berg, for a good discussion, and welcome to the energy issues! It is a very exciting area, especially in these times when there is a rapid technological development. It puts everything on hold, and old truths no longer apply. I can assure you that we from the Swedish side have a fairly large consensus on customs on the Chinese solar cells. We have stressed both here and in the European Union that we should not have such a duty. As far as nuclear power is concerned, there is a very simple and straightforward answer to this question. Whether or not to operate nuclear power plants is, in principle, the responsibility of the owners, the nuclear industry. There is now quite a lot of consensus in the Riksdag. It is no longer a party in Parliament today that proposes the closure of reactors by political decisions, as is done in Germany, for example. Nevertheless, we have ended up in a situation where the very low prices both on spot and in the semester create a partly new situation. If we are to have a sustainable energy policy, what the government is giving us is not enough. It would be very good if we could do it together so that it lasts not just one or two terms of office but considerably longer. Only then can we create the kind of security that the energy sector needs so that we can ensure that we have the necessary investments throughout the energy system. We can then always be sure from both industry and households that under normal circumstances electricity will come. There will be no interruptions, with the exception of the storms that Ulf Berg spoke of. We can also produce at competitive prices. I believe that Sweden has very good conditions to do so in a way that is both environmentally friendly and climate friendly. Thank you for the debate.
i-0c08096bded3fe5a-368	Mr President, I would like to Lotta Finstorp has asked me what has been done and what proposals have been made in connection with Parliament's announcement to increase the driving forces for a longer working life. As Lotta Finstorp points out, this is an issue within the framework of the pension agreement. Six parties are now behind the agreement, and that means that six parties must agree to amend the agreement. In the Pensions Group, which is tasked with caring for the agreement and the pension system, there is a consensus on the need for a longer working life to maintain reasonable pension levels but also to cope with welfare. There is therefore no difference of opinion on the need for longer working lives or on the need for action. On behalf of the Pensions Group, the pension age study has examined the issue and concluded that action is needed in several areas, mainly in relation to increased age limits and the working environment. There is therefore a need for a variety of measures that will affect several areas and many people's working lives and life choices. It is therefore important to do the right things and, above all, to achieve a comprehensive solution. Elevated age limits must be matched by actual opportunities to work longer. This is done through, among other things, initiatives on health and safety at work, measures against age discrimination and increased opportunities for upskilling throughout working life. A longer working life can, of course, be achieved both by starting work earlier and by leaving the labour force at an older age. In the labour market, there are a number of agreements which are linked in different ways to the age of 65 and which affect the vast majority of the labour force. The social partners are behind the agreements and are therefore strongly affected by changes aimed at prolonging working life. For this reason, work for a longer working life should be carried out broadly and closely with the social partners in order to achieve a good and well-established result. The Pensions Group, with representatives of the parties behind the Pensions Agreement, therefore agrees to start work on dialogue with the parties. In June 2015, it started with a seminar with among others the Pensions Group and the social partners. I have now appointed two trade union and politically experienced people to hold talks with the parties in the next six months in order to investigate the conditions for finding, as far as possible, working methods and solutions that can be implemented with the widest possible support. At the beginning of autumn 2016, the Pensions Group will evaluate the outcome of this dialogue, and the parties then plan to jointly adopt an action plan for the continued work.
i-0c08096bded3fe5a-374	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister. Having a longer working life is probably a matter of destiny for us to cope with welfare in the future. That is why it is positive that there has been an appointment of interlocutors and that the dialogue should be conducted and soon started, as I understood from the answer. When a government chooses to raise or lower taxes or charges, the aim may be to improve the state's finances or to signal the various parts of society to change behaviour. To increase the tax on petrol is done to reduce driving. Increasing tobacco tax is being done to reduce that consumption. If you raise the tax on working seniors, I suppose it follows the same logic. The government wants fewer seniors to work because the payroll tax has now been increased since 1 January. The effect may be to make it more expensive for seniors to continue working. It will be quite the wrong action if you want people to have a longer working life. It seems counterproductive and not fully thought out to say that we want more people to work longer and at the same time penalise them financially. That doesn't make any sense. I hope that the Minister will further develop it later in the debate. The parliamentary investigation service has examined how the payroll tax would hit the self-employed, and now strikes because it is raised. This applies to those who have businesses but also to companies with older employees. 300 000 pensioners who are still working receive a tax burden of over 1.8 billion annually. It is about 5 300 SEK extra on average for the self-employed and 6 500 SEK on average in higher tax per employee 65-plussare. It is a proper departure from the Social Democrats' election promise of a reduced tax to everyone. It also risks leading to fewer hours worked. What we need in Sweden is more people working, and we need more hours worked. The fact that more people over the age of 65 are working is positive both for the individual and for society and for the pension system. It is important that this development continues. Therefore, we have moderates a number of suggestions on how to get an incentive so that older people work longer. This applies, for example, to the double tax credit, which is introduced for those over 65 years of age who are working. It is a question of setting that limit at 64 years in order to receive the additional stimulus. We also want people to have the right to work until the age of 69 compared to the current 67 years. It is not always easy for those who have turned 65 to stay until their 67th birthday; that is the testimony of many seniors. Then it's time. You'll be retiring this year, and you'll be retiring. It's cake and goodbye. It has become a rather unspoken norm in the labour market that you actually go then. We see that the employment rate of those over 65 has risen in recent years. It needs to keep doing that. Above all, many people want to continue working. The jobs are the basis for the pension you will receive in the future. Moreover, as the pension system is designed, many people work as much as they can. But there is one party that wants to work less. These are the Minister's government colleagues, the Green Party. How does it affect the funding of welfare and pensions if we are to work less?
i-0c08096bded3fe5a-383	Mr President, I would like to I thank Lotta Finstorp for her contribution. One can say, Lotta Finstorp, that the issue of a longer working life is a complex issue with very many dimensions. I shall touch briefly on the issue of payroll tax, as I am convinced that it is linked to this particular debate and this particular issue is actually one of the minor problems. The payroll tax referred to by Lotta Finstorp is, in fact, still a very good discount when it comes to hiring those who are over 65, which I am sure Lotta Finstorp knows well. But it is also the case that we took over a deficit from the bourgeois government of nearly 75 billion. This has, of course, meant that the government has had to prioritise strongly in relation to what reforms we have an opportunity to implement and how they are to be financed, as we also want to take responsibility for Sweden's finances. Then there is the question of a longer working life. As Lotta Finstorp himself refers to, it is an issue where there is a need for consensus between the six parties behind the pension agreement. The very basis for looking further at the issue of a longer working life is based on an agreement concluded between the parties behind the pension agreement in March 2014. That agreement, which was negotiated, included a review of the current PPM system. It included changing the brake in the pension system so that it would strike less often and be less sensitive. It's done, too. This included the review of the AP funds and the change in the regulatory framework for the AP funds that crashed before Christmas. This also included the issue of working on a longer working life. The paths we are now taking in this are carefully negotiated between our various parties. One can say that we have a two-way division on the Swedish labour market. We have a fairly large group of employees in the Swedish labour market who leave the labour market prematurely. To a large extent, it is about women. To a large extent, this is about women working in the public sector. The first and main reason for leaving the labour market prematurely is ill-health and the inability to work anymore. At the same time, at the other end, we have a large group of citizens in Sweden who live more healthy years, who live longer and who contribute to the average life expectancy in Sweden increasing by about one year per decade. This means that we must achieve a longer working life if we are to maintain welfare and good pensions. But this is the equation we have to solve without the society of our pensioners being drawn apart even more. It is about improved health and safety measures. It is a question of enabling an earlier entry into the labour market. It is about perhaps achieving more hours worked during certain periods of life and fewer at the end for some. It is this equation that we now have a dialogue with the social partners. Hopefully we'll get together a good package that will solve this.
i-0c08096bded3fe5a-390	Mr President, I would like to I fully agree with what the Minister says about this being a very complex issue. That's exactly what the minister says. We must also try to get young people to work early. I think the average age for when you start working today is 28 years, after graduation. It's wonderful that young people go out into the world. You realize yourself. You may leave school or go to school later. But it ticks welfare money every year. It is absolutely one of those things that must be included in the package. I fully share that view. But then it's about wage taxes and incentives for employers to think it's good that the seniors are still there and that the seniors should want to stay instead of retiring. There must then be incentives for employees who will not have to tax what they get because they work after they have reached retirement age. But the employer also needs an incentive to hire or retain seniors who want to work. It is indeed a complex system. I appeal to the Minister: we must also look at the incentives that make healthy, committed pensioners want to continue working a little more. I'm from Social Services and Social Services. There it is incredibly tough today with many new graduates who get to work with very difficult matters. Perhaps there the older socionomists in the municipal sector, above all, in a smart mentoring system could remain. It may be based on having to go down in time from the age of 60 in order to be able to stay and train the young colleagues who come out and support them. I think that would be extremely important and essential for many, especially in the public sector. First of all, it is necessary to analyse what makes people choose or have to opt for an early exit from the labour market, for example because of ill health or because of the health and safety problem. There's one thing. It is very good that you continue to work with finding better work environment tools, such as regulations for mental illness. But it will take a number of years before we see the effects of it on the labour market. I am thinking of those who are seniors today and who may soon enter the golden age. For them it will not really help that the issue of health and safety at work is raised further in terms of mental illness. There must be effects now. Wage tax and duplication of the job tax deduction are incentives that make people choose to stay and that employers may choose to use experienced seniors in mentoring. Then there is another thing that needs to change, and that is the attitude. It is very difficult to make political decisions about people's attitudes being different. But perhaps it is a question of incentives from a government that shows: Yes, we need our seniors in the world of work. It is about what I have mentioned before about payroll tax, for example. It's very hard to get rid of myths. You hear arguments that if you turn 65, you have to step back to give jobs to young people. However, I have not found any research to suggest that there is a direct match between the person who retires and the young person who is outside the labour market. I would like us to continue to discuss this very point.
i-0c08096bded3fe5a-397	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Lotta Finstorp, for the recordings! As I said, it is a complex issue. I have great hopes for the talks that will now take place with the social partners. They will be limited in time. So they cannot go on indefinitely. I also understand that the Pensions Group has now appointed two people who have a breadth that makes these conversations very good. We have a hugely strong norm in Sweden to walk at 65, which is still very governing. If you want to look at the issue raised by Lotta Finstorp about the attitude towards older workers, I would like to say that we in Sweden have a journey to make, because not least our employers have many times the attitude towards the older workforce that they want them to leave the labour market. From an international perspective, as I said, it is a huge waste of people going at 61, 62, 63 or 65 years – people who have many healthy years left, many of whom actually want to continue sharing their skills, perhaps in the way Lotta Finstorp is in and where we have not been so successful. It is about finding wise and smart solutions to switch skills from older to younger workers in the last few years of the labour market and thus to make real use of the skills of the older workforce. Nor have I ever seen a research report which in any way supports the fact that older workers on the Swedish labour market would stand in the way of young people – certainly not and above all not in the public sector, where we now have a huge chord ahead of us. We will need a lot of new employees in all possible services in the public sector, which we see linked to the example that Lotta Finstorp himself raises with the need for more socionomists. I have seen that some municipalities have started to pick up retired employees again and use them in the business. We are also beginning to get a phenomenon with so-called relay socionomies that are very interesting and very expensive, one might say. I think there is something important about us standing here today talking about this issue. It is also important that, during the time that we now have the process in the Pensions Group on these issues, there is a more public discussion and debate on the issue of a longer working life. This also means that there is a shift in people's views on an issue that many people feel is very sensitive. I think it has been noticed in public opinion only in recent years. It is about politically not simplifying it too much, but actually having respect for the fact that it looks different. It is not just a measure that will solve this problem, but it will be a whole that will involve action on health and safety at work. We also have the question of whether and in what way social security systems need to follow a possible increase in the retirement age and the cost of it.
i-0c08096bded3fe5a-403	Mr President, I would like to Finding smart solutions and incentives that become driving forces to work longer I think is the key issue in the whole. I think it is also important to get public opinion up and become a social issue on the lips of many people. There, the government in particular owns the issue, but the rest of us from all political parties would also need to raise this issue, because it is about how we are going to meet the challenges of welfare in the future. All the alliance parties are behind the proposal I am talking about, that is, the increased tax credit for them between the ages of 64 and 67. It is an incentive for the individual. The proposal is based on the model introduced by the bourgeois government that gave less tax to those who continue to work after 65 years, but we now see that we would like to put it at 64 years. Several studies show that one in four pensioners wants to return to work in some form. I took note of something that SPF Seniors have developed. They want to abolish age limits in the labour market, strengthen anti-age discrimination rules and create incentives for companies to retain and recruit seniors. Everyone benefits if more seniors can work. I think it is an interesting and a little radical proposal, and I would like to hear what the Minister thinks about it. The Minister's answer states that action has been taken against age discrimination. I would like to hear what it is that the government has produced. Many seniors work in the RUT and ROT sectors. It's gonna be really weird if you do ad hoc solutions, because even these jobs – that you can work with seniors – are actually part of an overall longer working life. I'd like to hear more about that from the Minister.
i-0c08096bded3fe5a-409	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Lotta Finsto rp, for that input! As far as measures against age discrimination are concerned, I believe that in the answer it is expressed as the need for an overall solution. We have not put forward any further such measures during the time that I have sat as a minister. It is also the case that the government has maintained a favourable wage tax for older workers, albeit not as favourable as it was before. After all, however, it is still a subsidy for older workers. The same is true of the employment tax credit for the elderly. I am convinced, however, that if all the four bourgeois parties have a proposal that they are very interested in and that they believe would benefit this issue, it will also be brought forward and included in the discussions that we will have about a longer working life. There we will weigh different measures against each other in order to hopefully put together a comprehensive package. Then I guess it's no secret that this is a very sensitive issue. I think that is why it has taken so long to come forward from the start of discussing the issue in the Pensions Group to where we are today. However, as I also said in my previous speech, I think that the issue has moved forward and that there is a deeper understanding from many players around the labour market today of the need. At the same time, it is also true that one issue that is not solved and that will be important in relation to this is the relationship between occupational pensions and a possible change in retirement age and the incentives to leave the labour market earlier there. I am convinced that this too will be part of the discussions that will now take place with the social partners. Thank you for a good debate.
i-0c08096bded3fe5a-416	Madam President, I would like Erik Ullenhag has asked Magdalena Andersson what the government's current assessment is of the cost of abolishing the distant parentheses and whether this will be fully financed. Furthermore, Erik Ullenhag asks what measures, if any, the Minister of Finance will take to reduce the discrepancy between the Government Office and the authorities in terms of different reforms. Since these questions concern health insurance, the interpellation has been handed over to me. One of the government's messages for the 2014 elections was that the deadline would be abolished – sick people should not be secured just because they have been sick for some time. The expiry of the deadline has created uncertainty and uncertainty that rhymes badly with the characteristics of which I want health insurance to be characterised. So this promise is now being fulfilled. Since the expiry of the 2010 deadline, people have been secured on some 110 000 occasions. About 70% of these have been women. Persons have thus been forced to leave the sickness benefit both two and three times. The Government has made clear in connection with the budget proposal for 2016 that the removal of the time limit increases the cost of the sickness allowance grant; it is the very idea that people should continue to receive sickness benefit instead of being insured. In this context, it can be pointed out that the Government's cost assessment was well in line with the assessment made by the expert authority responsible for the projections in the field of health insurance, namely Försäkringskassan. At the same time, labour market policy costs will be reduced as no more people will start ALI and instead receive activity support. I assume that the data reported by the Konjunkturinstitutet in connection with an article in Dagens Industri on 28 January is the source of the discrepancy Erik Ullenhag refers to in his question. I will now explain why the data in the budget bill are not at all comparable to the calculations made by the Institute of Economic Development. It is about content, methodology, visibility and what you report. Erik Ullenhag compares apples with pears. Firstly, the Institute's assessment is based on assumptions as to how labour supply, employment, potential GDP and, finally, the public financial balance are affected in the long term, i.e. a completely different approach is the financial statement in terms of expenditure that characterises the budget bill. However, the Economic Institute's assessment included not only the abolition of the lower time limit, but also the increased compensation of income-related sickness and activity benefits, and, as KI writes, the assumption that the Social Insurance Agency is increasingly examining the right to compensation at the fixed time limits in the rehabilitation chain. Another characteristic that distinguishes the two assessments is that the Konjunkturinstitutet accounts for a long-term impact, which should not be compared to the relatively short-term nature of a budget bill(four years). The Bankruptcy Institute's assessment is thus completely different from the government's assessment in the budget bill as regards the accounting, content, dynamics and also visibility. This is clear from the Economic Situation in June 2015, where the Economic Institute explains this. I can also note that the Liberals, when the People's Party, in their budget motion of October 2015, made the same assessment as the government on the issue of the costs of the lower time limit in health insurance. It is a strength for Sweden that we have several independent bodies that make socio-economic assessments. As a minister, I shall have neither comments nor comments on the assessments made by the Institute of Economic Development in this context, but I can only note that they are not at all comparable to the expenditure reported in the budget bill and that, as I said, the government's assessments were very well in line with what the Social Insurance Office later did. Expenditure on health insurance has increased sharply since 2010, and breaking the increase in sick leave is one of the government's most important challenges. The government has therefore launched a comprehensive programme of measures that I have outlined in the past. The Government continues to closely monitor the development of expenditure on health insurance and will report its continued assessment in the financial year proposal at the latest. If sick leave continues to increase, the Government intends to return with further measures.
i-0c08096bded3fe5a-425	Madam President, I would like I note that the Government believes that I compare apples with pears. We can also note that I asked a question about the Swedish Financial Control Agency, and the Government chooses to answer what the Institute of Economic Development has said. I'll get back to the Financial Control Agency in a minute. Madam President, I would like I asked three questions in the interpellation. In principle, I have not received an answer to anyone. Let me start with the last question: what measures, if any, does the Minister of Finance take to reduce the discrepancy in cost estimates of differing reforms between the government authorities and the Government Office? It was there that the answer could say that there the government is not going to take any action at all. That's when the Financial Control Agency will be interesting. The Financial Control Agency has made a calculation, although with the effect that people do not go to work in a situation where people get stuck in a sick leave. It is another calculation; a static calculation. I can give that to the Government. According to this estimate, the Financial Control Agency is landing 4 000 full-year jobs disappearing as a result of the change, and there is a public financial cost of approximately 2 billion. These are similar calculations that the Institute of Economics has made. They land in roughly the same figures for public finances.
i-0c08096bded3fe5a-428	Another question I asked was this: does the Minister of Finance intend to fully finance a possible increase in the estimated cost of eliminating the distant parentheses? There you can read some kind of answer from the Government, namely that it does not intend to do so by the Minister of Finance. This is where the problem lies. There is a need to increase in the implementation of reforms that risk increasing expenditure or reducing revenue. If you don't, public finances will be compromised. I am among those who are a little concerned that the Minister for Finance – it is not this government's fault, but there is collective decision-making in Sweden, and this minister speaks for the whole government – one day it describes that it is empty in the barns in Sweden. The next day she tells us that now that the Alliance's budget has been in force for one year in Sweden, the Swedish economy is like a newly produced Tesla. Now reforms no longer need to be financed crown by crown. Add to this the implementation of measures that do not calculate their impact on jobs. In a situation where both the Swedish Financial Control Agency and the Institute of Economic and Monetary Affairs indicate that there will be fewer hours worked, which will have a strong impact on the state budget, public finances are at risk. On the third question, I was going to try to get answers from Minister Strandhäll: what is the current assessment by the Minister for Finance – in this case the Government or Government – of the cost of abolishing the distant parentheses? The government can hide behind the budget figures, low in 300 million, or it would be good if the government could relate to its own expert authorities, i.e. the Economic Institute and, in this case, the Financial Control Agency. For the first question, it would be good if the Government could answer if the calculations made by these authorities were wrong. Is the Government convinced that the SEK 300 million in the budget bill is correct? If so, why are both the Financial Control Agency and Konjunkturinstitutet wrong? The Government may choose to reply that she does not intend to review authorities. Okay, we don't care. Then the government must try to make its own assessment. Will there be fewer jobs, as a number of assessors say? The Government hid behind an authority in its response and calls the expert agency Försäkringskassan; that authority counts as we, and we can trust it. There, the Government is able to review the Social Insurance Agency. The second question I want answers to from the Government is: Why did they not listen to Försäkringskassan before removing the distant parentheses? Försäkringskassan was one of many authorities who said it was a bad idea because there is a great risk that there will be more sick leave, that more people will be excluded and that fewer have jobs to go to. I hope that two questions will be answered in the debate: what assessment does the government make of the slightly longer impact of the costs of removing the distant parentheses? Why didn't the government listen to Försäkringskassan earlier?
i-WPXtca3oCTKez1ZNa6DZ3m	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Erik Ullenhag, for that speech! One can well note that the government is following the computational conventions. I can also note that we are reporting exactly the way and making exactly the assessment made by the Liberals in their own budget motion of October 2015. We also lean against the calculations made by our own expert authority Försäkringskassan. With regard to the second question in Erik Ullenhag's speech, why we did not listen to the Swedish Social Insurance Agency, we have been extremely clear from the government that we intend to remove the lower time limit in health insurance. There have been several reasons for this. One obvious reason is that the extra time limit in health insurance has not worked as intended at all, i.e. that very few people have come back to work. Of the later hills that have been covered, about 80 percent have returned to health insurance. That is not to say that the others – now we are talking about the discrepancy there – have returned to employment. No, that is not the case, but we know that people have also gone into early retirement, ended up in support or simply fallen between the chairs. Very few have been helped back to health and to work. That's why we have chosen to remove the lower time limit in health insurance – combined with most Swedes for the case that life turns and you suffer from ill health expect health insurance to be there and support you through the ill health you experience and hopefully also back to employment and work. We also know that since the expiry of the deadline, i.e. since 2010, and until the autumn of 2014, when we took up the health rate, the rate has increased by almost 50%. So it does not feel like it has been a particularly effective measure. It should also be made clear that in the case of out-of-work insurance at the later time limit, no assessment of the individual's work capacity is made. You're just being secured. On the other hand, such an assessment is made at the previous deadlines in the rehabilitation chain, which the government has chosen to go in and reinforce by a quarter billion annually in the coming years. When it is said that we did not listen to our own expert authority Försäkringskassan, it is important to remember that the assessment made by Försäkringskassan in its referral was that in case the government did not take any action, the removal of the longer deadline could have a negative effect. In October, the Government presented a programme of measures in seven different areas, with 25 different measures relating to the strengthening of the Social Insurance Agency and the strengthening of the health care system, but also the reinforcements linked to those who unfortunately happen to be long-term sick. This is why the government has chosen to remove the longer time limit in health insurance.
i-0c08096bded3fe5a-447	Madam President, I would like Now I am a little concerned, because the Government describes the Social Insurance Agency's opinion differently from what it says. Now something's ringing. Let's take a break. Shall we do that? There aren't many of us here. It'll be a fun protocol, this.
i-baa8cca51af1a009-1	Madam President, I would like I apologize for this. ) Madam President, I would like I'll keep going. We'll see where we land now. It's not always easy with the technology. I am a little concerned when I hear the Government because she describes the Social Insurance Fund's response in a different way than it is expressed. I read aloud: The overall assessment of the Swedish Social Insurance Agency is that time limits in health insurance, including a shorter time limit, are essential components of well-functioning health insurance and thus in the ambition to maintain a stable and low level of absence. ..................................................... Then it is quite right that the Government suggests that it also addresses the need for previous interventions, rehabilitation chains that work and control stations. But Försäkringskassan's summary is that they think it was wrong for the government to abolish the distant parentheses. I do not understand how it will otherwise be understood, even if the Government shakes its head, that the overall assessment is that the time limit in health insurance, including a shorter time limit, is essential components of a well-functioning health insurance system. Now the Social Insurance Agency is not alone. IFAU has pointed out in its referral that this will lead to fewer people having a job to go to and that exclusion is growing. The Public Employment Service was also very hesitant in its referral and questioned this change. I'm not saying, Annika Strandhäll, that the only important thing is the far parentheses. There are many other things we need to do about health insurance. But I think you should be very careful in a situation where sick leave is increasing. Even during our reign, they increased toward the end, from the dramatic downfall. Then taking measures which, in all probability, according to all the authorities who look at it, will lead to more sick leave is the wrong way to go. I am deeply concerned that we will fall back into the situation that existed before the alliance government took office in 2006. Then I met staff managers, HR managers at companies, who told stories that they could have people who were on sick leave for ten or eleven years without anyone from the workplace getting in touch. I didn't hear from the Social Insurance Agency. The employer didn't get back to me. This is the treacherous thing about health insurance. We do not disagree on the substance that there should be a safe health insurance on the day you need it. It's important. What we seem to disagree about is what happens if you passively end up in sick leave, if you are in a situation when you year in and out are stuck in sick leave, as you don't really have a functioning rehabilitation chain with people who get in touch. Then the distant parentheses are a guarantee that something happens after very long sick leave – that you are being tested against the labour market or that it is being tested if you need another allowance. Annika Strandhäll makes a point of and tries to say that the Liberals or then People's Party has the same way of calculating in its budget motion. Yes, because we're taking it cautiously with the state finances. It's like this: We think that if we said no and had the old system and the distant parentheses we would probably have some dynamic effects, that is, that more would work. We are not the only ones who believe this – the National Institute of Economic Affairs and the Swedish Financial Control Agency believes so. But they should not be taken into account when taking responsibility for public finances. On the other hand, a responsible government that implements reforms that risk costing much more than it looks on paper should count it if it does not want to end up in a situation where plus and minus do not add up. I got helpful answers to the question about Försäkringskassan. Let's try the second question again, Minister. Ignore what's in the budget bill! Start from the Swedish Financial Control Agency and Konjunkturinstitutet! Are they wrong about the long-term effects of this change? Is it true that 4,000 jobs are disappearing, or is that not true? What is the State Council's assessment?
i-0c08096bded3fe5a-460	Madam President, I would like I thank Erik Ullenhag for that speech. One can say this: it makes no sense to assess the long-term impact on employment and GDP on individual reforms. The policy is a whole, and in order to assess its impact, account must be taken of both funding and investment. What the government is now doing is therefore presenting an overall assessment of the impact of the government's policy on potential bnp and employment. The overall assessment obviously includes the removal of the longer time limit in health insurance. You can also say this, Erik Ullenhag : I think you are very careless with hist orien in your post. You're telling me that sickness rates increased at the end of your reign. Sickness rates increased significantly from 2010 to 2014. The government did not take any steps to dampen this trend beyond the time limits that had been introduced in health insurance – the lower time limit and the early deadlines. What is also remarkable, Erik Ullenhag, is that the tests at the early time limits of health insurance during that parliamentary term dropped significantly by almost 50 percent, that is, a number of people did not get the tests they would have at the early deadlines but instead fell through the system and then secured. Nor did they get the effort they probably needed to get back to work. It's important to have it with you. The same is true of the history you write about the situation in 2006, when you took over. At the time, health rates were clearly high, but they had declined steadily since the government Persson introduced a number of reforms already in 2003. If you want to talk about possible dialogue with personnel managers and representatives of personnel departments in companies, I can tell you that during that period I myself acted as local union manager in the City of Gothenburg and have a pretty good picture of this. I share Erik Ullenhag's view that it is certainly not a government's objective, especially for this government, to allow people to go passively into sick leave for long periods of time. But now it is a question of putting in place measures in which you actually fell into government positions, that is to say to ensure that preventive work in the workplace works, that the early intervention in a case of illness works and that the tests that need to be carried out at the early deadlines in health insurance work in fact. You refer to the referral from Försäkringskassan. This is something I devote a great deal of my time to – both to read the various reports that come from the Swedish Social Insurance Agency and to have dialogue with representatives of the agency. I therefore believe that I have a clear picture of the starting point for the referral that the Swedish Social Insurance Agency wrote when the deadline was removed. I also know that it is leaning on what it would be like if we were not to take action, but only to allow progress to continue. The government has launched a very ambitious package of measures in the parts that I have outlined here. Hopefully, this will give more people a chance to return to the labour market.
i-0c08096bded3fe5a-470	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your intervention, Minister. There was some new order there. I quoted a referral who said what I said. Annika Strandhäll then answers that she has talked to Försäkringskassan and knows what was behind the referral. But it can still be some sort of order, can't it? The Social Insurance Agency actually writes that it was wrong to remove the more distant parentheses. That is what the summary says: A well-functioning health insurance contains a far more parenthesis. This was the answer. If something else is said in a corridor is not so interesting, but it must be the formal decision-making process that we stick to. Then the Government finds itself in a rather classical social democratic behaviour. She says it went wrong during the second term with the Alliance, so she talks about it. Then she skips that during our reign between 2006 and 2010, a lot happened. Sickness rates dropped dramatically. Outsiders declined. We had problems with the second term of office. We don't really know why. And we could have done more. I'm the first to admit that. But for the first four years of our reign, she skips. Instead, she believes that what was good was Göran Persson's credit. I mean, can't it be some sort of order in the real world, after all? It cannot be that everything that is good is always created by Göran Persson or the Social Democrats and that you never really take responsibility for what you do. We will remember that we took over a Sweden where the type of unemployment target that you are now setting up had led to people being pushed into sick leave and early retirement. Sure, you brought unemployment down for a period of time, but I am deeply concerned about the unemployment target you are now setting. This is linked, namely, and it risks causing you to push people into exclusion. It must not be the case that the unemployment target is reached at the same time as sick leave, or early retirement, as was said before, is rising. Finally, let me say that there is certainly a great deal that we agree on needs to be done in health insurance. But I am a little concerned about the frivolity with which you say that you cannot calculate the effects of different parts of your policy. No, I noticed! I am reading the budget proposals that are coming, and I realise that you are not even counting on employment effects, job effects, of what you are doing. You're not doing it here either. Is the Government concerned that the government's assessment is wrong and that the Financial Control Agency and the Institute of Economics could be right?
i-0c08096bded3fe5a-474	Madam President, I would like The answer is no. The Government is not concerned about this. We are following developments very closely and will of course also come back – a spring budget is coming soon – if we see any changes. Then we will announce it. As I have said in my previous speeches, the government is currently implementing a very ambitious package of measures to address the health rates that have been increasing since 2010. When it comes to history writing and what was good or bad, I am the first to say that I think it was great that the bourgeois government, when it took office, continued to give priority to bringing down sick leave. I am the first to say that it is extremely unfortunate that Sweden has for three decades now had a situation in which the sickness rates have strongly jumped up and down due to a variety of factors. It is included in a report released by Försäkringskassan. We have not really been able to do the task of ensuring low and stable sickness rates. We're not trying to conjure statistics. We don't make sure people are safe and sign them up as new cases of illness. We have also set a very ambitious target that is that early retirement should not increase as a result of government policy, precisely because we want to solve the health insurance problem in real terms. We do that in the labour market. We do this with early intervention. We cannot afford another 70 000 sick people, to a large extent women and welfare workers, in 2019 – 2020. It is a priority for the government to reverse this trend, and we will do so.
