i-2fc0d80aba2d7006-3	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Amineh Kakabaveh has asked me what initiatives I intend to take to ensure that Sweden, within the EU, in the UN and as an individual state, will work towards: Let me begin by emphasising that feminist foreign policy, which includes the promotion and protection of women's full enjoyment of human rights, is a priority for Sweden's action within the EU and the UN as well as in bilateral contacts. We consistently highlight the importance of women's and girls' empowerment and the enjoyment of human rights in the UN Human Rights Forum, be it the situation in an individual country or a thematic human rights issue. Sweden is also a strong voice in the EU for us to be able to jointly strengthen the protection of women's and girls' human rights throughout the world. Madam President, I would like Kakabaveh's second question concerns how the government works to strengthen women's rights in Sudan. Let me be clear: I fully share Amineh Kakabaveh's frustration at the lack of opportunities for women and girls to assert their human rights in Sudan. During the review of Sudan in the UN Human Rights Council earlier this year, Sweden asked questions about the work against sexual and gender-based violence in Sudan. Sweden also made a recommendation that Sudan should accede to the UN Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women, Cedaw. Experience shows that such reviews can have a positive impact on states and their compliance with international commitments. The full enjoyment of human rights by women and girls is one of the government's top priorities, which also permeates Sweden's bilateral dialogue with Sudan. In autumn 2015, the Embassy launched an effort to disseminate information on UN Security Council Resolution 1325 on women, peace and security in Sudan. Within the framework of the initiative, Sweden is also working for a National Action Plan for Resolution 1325 to be adopted by the Sudanese Government. Based on the Swedish Presidency of Call to Action on Protection from Gender-based Violence in Emergencies, the Embassy has also initiated a discussion on gender-based violence among donors in Sudan. The objective is to identify specific priorities for Sudan and later to follow them up jointly. The Embassy has also been a driving force for actors in the humanitarian system in Sudan to adopt and implement a specific strategy that takes into account the specific needs of women and girls in humanitarian situations. Sweden has had development cooperation with Sudan for several years. One of the main objectives is to increase the knowledge and opportunities for women and girls to assert their human rights, including sexual and reproductive rights. Sweden therefore provides significant support to UNICEF in Sudan, including efforts to combat child marriage and female genital mutilation. To answer Mr Kakabaveh's third question, I would like to point out that Sweden is also involved in the fight against religious intolerance and gender equality through a range of forms of cooperation, both bilateral and multilateral. We support the United Nations Alliance of Civilizations, Anna Lindh Foundation and the Union for the Mediterranean, which works for pluralism, with interreligious dialogue and gender equality issues. Our institute in Alexandria is active with projects on young people, women and the role of religion. Sweden's support to civil society around the world also helps to strengthen bottom-up initiatives aimed at preventing religion from being used to justify women's oppression. In conclusion, Madam President, Sweden is working on a broad front to strengthen the promotion and protection of women's and girls' full enjoyment of human rights, both globally and in individual countries such as Sudan. We are convinced that this is a prerequisite for achieving our goals of peace, security and development.
i-2fc0d80aba2d7006-11	Madam President, I would like I would very much like to thank Minister Wallström for the very detailed answer and for the ambition of Sweden and the Minister for Foreign Affairs on these issues. It is of course important that we here in the Swedish Parliament highlight women, especially on the continent of Africa. Women there have rarely been highlighted to the same extent as women in Iran, Iraq, Pakistan, Afghanistan and so on. However, this does not mean that there are no problems there – quite the opposite. When Omar al-Bashir-Bashir declared himself president, he did just like Khomeini in Iran 37 years ago. It has simply been ensured that sharia laws are put in place. The United Nations Report 2015 stated that 26 of the articles in the Sudan Public Order Act contain legal clauses that involve systematic repression and persecution of women. That is why it is very important to highlight these issues. We have received information and reports from the Swedish Radio in particular, where the latest reports tell about refugees from Ethiopia, Eritrea and other countries. Both men and women who come to Sudan are imprisoned and raped. One of those interviewed in the P1 by Axel Kronholm a few weeks ago, Sara is one of them. She said that she and five other women were captured and raped, and in prison they were regarded as the rapists' wives. In parts of Africa, as in the Middle East, rape is taboo. You don't even talk about it in your own family. Sara was not the first. Women's rights activists are also regarded as bad women, as traitors and as unfaithful when protesting and demonstrating in streets and squares. The police themselves raped them in the city of Khartoum; they could also be heard in Swedish Radio in August. It is very important to put pressure on these countries, with which they are doing business, and which – as the Minister for Foreign Affairs was on – meet in the UN corridors and in the EU context, that women's rights are actually human rights and that this must be stopped. This is particularly true of regimes such as Saudi Arabia, Sudan and Iran, which use religion to legitimise and maintain the systematic repression of women. We simply need to ensure that something concrete is done about this. I therefore hope that Mrs Margot will highlight these issues in particular in the UN. I hope that this will be addressed and that we will look at how we can demonstrate the effects of the policies that Sweden, the European Union and Margot themselves pursue.
i-FFH8smafLEmFAJVJQkDMzo	Madam President, I would like The focus of our development cooperation with Sudan is conflict prevention and human rights with a focus on women and strengthening civil society. Development aid is very limited in scope, and the funds available do not go to the government. Through development cooperation, Sweden contributes, among other things, to UNICEF with support for their child welfare programme. Sudan is Africa's third largest country. The country is rich in minerals, including oil, but also exposed to recurrent droughts and floods. Poverty is great, and several regional conflicts make life difficult for the people of Sudan. Sudan is among the countries in the world with the greatest number of IDPs; over 3 million people are estimated to be on the run within the country. 5 million people suffer from food insecurity, and another 1 million need humanitarian aid. The women are terribly vulnerable. In addition to regional conflicts and starvation, genital mutilation and child marriage are common. In addition, there are strict sharia laws that restrict freedom. Sweden supports UN Women, which works for women's rights to legal aid together with local women's organisations. Sweden will increase contacts with women's rights defenders and civil society organisations. It is serious that Sudan has not ratified the Additional Protocol to the AU Declaration on Human Rights, which aims to ensure that human rights also include women. It guarantees women the right to political participation, social and political equality with men, greater autonomy in decisions relating to reproductive health, and it also aims to end female genital mutilation. Sudan has not ratified this. Of course, Sweden will point out in various ways the importance of working to implement this additional protocol. I am sure that the Foreign Minister is also putting women's human rights high on the agenda in various contexts.
i-2fc0d80aba2d7006-23	Madam President, I would like I do not think there will be much confrontation in this interpellation debate. I think most people agree that this is a very important issue. What I think is positive about the government's feminist foreign policy is that it covers all girls and women throughout the world. In a way, it also includes men, because gender equality is good for both sexes. In Sudan, in addition to poverty, there is this oppression of women in the form of sharia laws. It is fundamental that religion should be a private matter. Freedom of religion is something very important, but religion should be a private matter. Society or the state should not be governed by religion – it becomes very wrong, and it hits girls and women in particular. It is very positive that the government is raising this – specifically genital mutilation and child marriage, which is destroying the lives of these girls and women at an early stage. You have looked at what it would mean if you helped teenage girls in the world. It would be like dynamite for development; there are few things that change the world as positively as this. It concerns half the population – the oppressed part – and allowing these girls to educate themselves and wait for marriage can have huge positive effects. In itself, the entire population may be oppressed, but there is often an extra amount of oppression against girls and women. When we talk about human rights, it is always important to remember that women's and girls' rights are human rights. All discrimination is a violation of human rights. Unfortunately, something that is still sensitive in many parts of the world – in fact, even in European countries – is sexual and reproductive rights. This is also part of human rights. There is sometimes a limit: here but no more! Humans are not allowed to control their own bodies, nor are they able to control their own lives. This has consequences for the lives of individuals and their families, but it is also very negative for society as a whole. I think it is generally positive that the rights of girls and women are being highlighted. I also think it was positive that Amineh Kakabaveh was talking about Sudan, because it is a country that has not been discussed very much. Here in Sweden, Sudan has come up for discussion because of an individual case where three girls were kidnapped by their father. The mother was Swedish, and the father originally came from Sudan. He kidnapped the girls about 30 years ago and moved to Sudan with them. The mother, her sister, and the whole family have been fighting for 30 years to get them back. In this particular case, the laws of the country make a negative contribution; men have power over women in the family. There are women's movements in Sudan, and I think it is important to strengthen them. Democracy and women's movements are also in the worst repression. Even in Saudi Arabia there is a women's movement – although it works in a huge headwind, it still exists. I think this is very positive. I also think it is important that we do not mix all the countries of Africa in one soup, because unfortunately there is an idea that everyone is the same. There are great differences, both positive progress and negative things that we need to fight against.
i-2fc0d80aba2d7006-32	Madam President, I would like Thank you for these contributions! It's nice that sometimes we don't have to be confrontative at all, but instead we can show that we are sticking together on something as important as human rights. These are also women's rights and must be defined in this way. The situation in the world – when we look around – really requires a feminist foreign policy. It is enough for a moment to look at the life of a girl or woman in Sudan to see the gravity of the situation. This applies not only to Sudan but also to other countries in Africa and elsewhere in the world, where, for example, child marriage is commonplace. A while ago, I visited just such a country, where half of the girls are married before they are of age. This, of course, hinders the country's potential for development and economic growth in a very tangible way. For many countries, this means having difficulty getting out of the poverty in which you find yourself. All states have a responsibility to their own people and are obliged to comply with international commitments and conventions. This applies to Sweden as well as Sudan and other states. Feminist foreign policy means looking at whether girls and women enjoy the same rights and whether they are represented where they should be involved in making decisions. We also look at how resources are distributed around the world – do they go equally to women? We work every day to strengthen the human rights of women and girls in humanitarian situations. As this was one of Amineh Amineh's questions, I would like to say that within the UN there are several mechanisms for monitoring the implementation of international commitments by individual countries. Sweden participates very actively in the review mechanism that the UN has set up to look at human rights. It is shortened UPR, which stands for Universal Periodic Review. There, all countries of the world are regularly examined by the other states. We ask questions and make recommendations that often bear the rights of women and girls and their enjoyment of human rights. States which have acceded to a UN Convention are required to report on implementation to the UN Convention Committees, composed of independent elected experts. In the context of the reviews, the Committee makes recommendations as to what the Member States should do. There is also intergovernmental work. There we work with many African countries and other countries around the world to draw attention to various human rights issues in both the UN Human Rights Council and the General Assembly's Third Committee. Violence against women, the right to education, discrimination against women and female genital mutilation are examples of such issues – issues that you have also mentioned here. We have active aid work with Sudan. One of our three areas of action has been precisely increased knowledge and opportunities for women to assert their human rights. There has been a focus on sexual and reproductive health and increased respect for children's rights. It should be self-evident that human rights also mean the rights of every individual. We will act on this principle at home, bilaterally and internationally.
i-2fc0d80aba2d7006-42	Madam President, I would like I know that the ambition and the will of the Foreign Minister is to change, influence and do even more. But the problem is the political dimension. I would just like to remind you that the Foreign Minister himself criticised Saudi Arabia for the crimes they commit in the form of medieval punishment for women's rights. Then the minister goes there and shakes hands to repair the situation. It's a culture of chastity. Legislation in Saudi Arabia, Iran, Sudan and many other countries discriminates against women, who are murdered through the culture of chastity. Not enough of that. The UN Secretary-General, who says he is a proud feminist, wants in practice to remove the gender apartheid dictatorship of Saudi Arabia from the list of states committing human rights violations. Our efforts and development projects are great. But politicians, even in the corridors of democracy, for example in the United Nations, are hand-won when they do so, despite the fact that all these countries themselves have signed declarations on human rights. They're the ones you have to influence and say, this can't be done. I know that responsibility is not just that of Margot Wallström. This must also be addressed by the Minister for Development and Industry. There are several ministers who are face-to-face, and the issue must be anchored in them. Sweden is the fifth largest donor in terms of population. When you are in other parts of the world, it is a pride that Sweden's voice is so strong. The last time I was in the United States was the last week, and Sweden is a name there, even among ordinary people. Of course, more of us are expected. I therefore hope that there will be support from other ministers in this area, because it is not possible to shake hands and ignore the barbarism to which half the population is subjected. As the Foreign Minister said, they are subjected to the worst forms of repression and persecution in their own countries. In 2016, sharia laws apply in many countries that are also part of the UN. Sudan is one of the states that commit crimes, not only against women, but against all people who claim freedom. There are many human rights activists there who are murdered, persecuted and imprisoned. Not least, the thousands of refugees fleeing poverty, misery and oppression are subjected to barbarism and systematic repression by police officers and by the system in Sudan. That is why I hope that Margot in the corridors in Sweden, in the European Union and in the United Nations will follow up on the impact of our efforts.
i-2fc0d80aba2d7006-50	Madam President, I would like Women in Sudan are terribly vulnerable to conflict, hunger, poverty and gender-based violence. A feminist foreign policy commits itself to this. Sweden continuously addresses issues of gender equality and the full enjoyment of human rights by all women and girls in our various dialogues with both official representatives and other actors, whether it is a matter of foreign and security policy, development policy or trade policy. The situation in Sudan is serious. However, a feminist foreign policy can help, in the acute humanitarian situation and in the long-term development cooperation, also raise the position of women in Sudan.
i-2fc0d80aba2d7006-53	Madam President, I would like A very important issue linked to reproductive and sexual rights is maternal mortality. It is a problem whether you have children voluntarily or involuntarily through forced marriages or whatever. This means that even if you want the child, there is a risk associated with the birth. The last figure I've seen was from 2010. So it has a few years on its neck, but there are still major problems. At that time, the risk of dying at birth was a thousand times higher in Sudan than in Sweden. Sudan is one of the countries where becoming a mother is the most dangerous. I know that the Foreign Minister is doing a great deal about maternal mortality. Sexual and reproductive health and rights are a broad area. It is from fighting maternal mortality to fighting child marriage and forced marriage. Basic is that the woman should be in charge of her own body. To survive when giving birth to a child must be the goal. This includes sexual counselling, sex education and contraception. Here we have problems all over the world, in other words also in European countries. But, of course, in a country like Sudan, that is a long way to go. I really want to agree with what Kofi Annan said when he was Secretary-General of the United Nations. He said that girlpower is the best cure for poverty. In Sudan, there is both deep poverty and women's oppression. By fighting for women's and girls' rights, we can fight both poverty and women's oppression. Sweden has become historic by having the first feminist government with a feminist foreign policy, and I look forward to the continued work.
i-2fc0d80aba2d7006-59	Madam President, I would like To the descriptions of what is happening in Sudan you can add the report Scorched Earth, Poisened air, which came from Amnesty at the end of September. It describes the conflict and the situation of civilians, referring to what Mr Amineh mentioned about the situation of refugees and what it looks like in camps. These are heartbreaking stories that Amnesty has collected about widespread violations of human rights, including sexual violence, and allegations that the government may have used chemical weapons in Darfur. The repression and violence inflicted on the civilian population in Darfur is totally unacceptable. That is why, of course, we must act to end the conflict and the violations of human rights. Here the situation is that the Government of Sudan, as well as the armed opposition, is preventing the joint efforts of the African Union and the United Nations in Darfur from protecting civilians. We cannot accept that UNAMID, which is the UN force, or the humanitarian organisations, should be prevented from operating in any part of Sudan. When Sweden joins the UN Security Council next year, we will be responsible for the entire agenda of the Security Council. This means that we will be responsible for all the situations and peacekeeping operations that are already on the agenda, the regular reports, compliance with the Convention and so on. It will also be Sweden's agenda. The situation will therefore be addressed, and it concerns UNAMID's mandate and the possibilities for humanitarian organisations to reach out and work. We will, of course, do everything we can to advance these discussions, and we will do so against this background. I have said before that the recurring issue in the Security Council must be: where are the women? Are they in peace negotiations? Are they among those who sign peace agreements? Are they in the peacekeeping forces? Are they in the follow-up? Are they around the tables where important decisions are made? It will be our role to ask these questions. Let me mention a few things that can be added. This is an initiative that we have taken recently. We had a major international workshop the other week where we had invited the prosecutor from the ICC, Fatou Bensouda. We had also invited representatives from the World Bank and human rights advocates from different parts of the world to discuss whether there is still discrimination against women. Are there statutory discrimination against women, and in which countries? The World Bank was able to provide this information. What does the ICC do to ensure that there is no impunity for this type of crime around the world? For example, how do you treat sexual abuse? It was a very rewarding conference, which, of course, we will use the outcome of. We will ensure that we also get it into our process. Every year, we set out an action plan that is very concrete and that is carried out through all our embassies around the world with clear priorities. Now, for example, we have been working on the issue of sexual and reproductive health. This means that all our embassies around the world are looking at how we can, for example, spread knowledge about the campaign we have had about midwives and access to midwives. In addition, we have a network of women foreign ministers where we talk about just such things: how to reduce birth rates in those countries where you need it? How do you ensure that women and girls are not married away at a young age? We continue to work very actively on these issues, and I would like to pay particular attention to what Mrs Amineh said: in refugee situations, it is particularly important to monitor this.
i-2fc0d80aba2d7006-66	Madam President, I would like Thank you once again, Minister for Foreign Affairs Margot, for the efforts and the recognition that the corridors and governments of power want to highlight women and girls in particular! I myself know that Sweden is doing this. I was in Chile in Latin America last year. The ambassador and all the diplomats there were engaged and wanted to talk about these things, especially about women. I was then given a thought: I wish that we in Sweden would be exactly the same and not withdraw because of religion in many parts of the world. Religion and culture play a major role in many countries, where, as in other European and Latin American countries, women's and girls' issues and rights should be highlighted. I agree with Mr Hillevi and the other friends: poverty plays a major role in the role of girls and women and in the influence of all people on the development of democracy. That is quite true, but there is also another aspect of it: when religion becomes the law of the country and when regimes consciously use religion and culture to maintain and sustain oppression, then we have a problem. In Saudi Arabia and many other countries there is no immediate economic shortage. There is a lack of insight and democracy. That is why it is important to highlight this, especially since the laws of some countries systematically suppress people. Sudan is one of these countries. It is therefore important to emphasise that 1325 is very important, not only in Sudan but also in Syria and in many other countries. I hope we follow up on the effects.
i-2fc0d80aba2d7006-70	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, Amineh Kakabaveh for the interpellation! Thank you, too, to all those who have taken part in the debate. It remains very important. We can see every day in the reports how the horror of war affects the civilian population. Women and children may be more affected than any others. Innocent and unarmed, they end up on the front lines of war, where there is constant oppression of women and girls in many parts of the world. They do not enjoy the same rights as boys and men. We need to do much more to ensure that we can protect even the most vulnerable. It is exciting to see that Canada, for example, has asked to share our experiences. I would not be surprised if they too soon declare that they want to pursue a feminist foreign policy. In the situations that we are currently discussing, such a policy means, for example, that Sweden has been the country that has for a long time been seconding a woman to Staffan de Mistura and his team as UN envoys. We have been the ones who have trained women in the Syrian opposition and made sure that they have been able to meet, travel to Geneva and have a voice in what was negotiations until some time ago. This will continue to be an important force. Sweden can be the country that inspires other countries, and with the help of our aid and development support to many countries, we can be an example of how we think about the world being half of women. In some countries, the majority of the population consists of women. Then we must ensure that they have the same rights and the same representation and receive the same resources as men.
i-2fc0d80aba2d7006-75	Madam President, I would like Rickard Nordin has asked me both how I see that resources are completely lacking to support people with excessive computer gaming and their relatives, and how I will act in order for these people to receive increased support. Computer gaming, as Rickard Nordin also points out, can have positive effects on, for example, cognitive ability and language comprehension. Some computer games are based on players cooperating and socializing in groups, which strengthens a social community even outside the virtual world. Computer gambling was seen not so long ago as something world-averse and negative. Today, computer gaming for many is a way of life that is self-evident and far from anti-social. Developments in the field of e-sports are another example of this. However, computer gambling also occurs to such an extent and under such circumstances as to affect the everyday life, social contacts, schooling or work of players. I understand that this is what Rickard Nordin refers to with problematic computer gaming. Rickard Nordin addresses the latest version of the American Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM), which was published in 2013. The diagnosis of gambling addiction about money, gambling disorder, was then placed in the same category of diagnoses as addiction to addictive substances, that is, alcohol, tobacco, drugs and doping agents. Previously, the diagnosis was seen as an impulse control disorder and not as an addiction state. Problematic computer gambling was also addressed in the review of previous DSM but was not addressed as addiction diagnosis. The Swedish translation Gambling Syndrome aims to make it clear that it is gambling about money that is meant and not other gambling problems, such as computer gambling. Computer gambling is relatively new in society, and the knowledge of why some end up in uncontrolled gambling is lacking. For some who play too much, it may be as Rickard Nordin says: Gambling is a symptom of other things in life that do not work. It is therefore not self-evident that this problem should be met with the same type of treatment as gambling addiction. Healthcare is responsible for preventing and treating even problematic computer gambling if there is a healthcare need, as with other psychiatric conditions. Through cooperation between municipalities and county councils, each individual can get the support that he or she needs to get out of a problematic computer game. The forms of cooperation are regulated in the Health Care Act and the Social Services Act. The Government allocates approximately SEK 1 billion per year in 2016 – 2019 for interventions in psychiatry and mental health. On 17 December 2015, the Government decided on a new strategy for government interventions in the area of mental health 2016 – 2020. The purpose of the Government's strategy is to create the conditions for long-term and strategic work, with joint responsibility within regular structures. The aim is to promote mental health, combat mental illness, strengthen early interventions to people affected by mental illness and improve the care and care of people with extensive needs for intervention.
i-2fc0d80aba2d7006-83	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. I am pleased to hear that the Minister and the Government have understood and understood the advantages of gaming and e-sports, which are actually quite large. I think there is a positive approach in the introduction to the interpellation response, and I look forward to a positive treatment of my e-sport exercise, which brings up many of these things, this spring. S if the minister referred to, d refer a regular health care in many parts of the country de facto to e.g. Gambling Addiction Association when it comes to these issues. Perhaps this is mainly because we in Sweden do not make a difference between gaming and gambling, as we do in English, but we talk about games in general. This has led to the building of knowledge in many places, because you do not want to deny people who have a problem. Although it is not an addiction in the traditional sense, because it is not, and the treatment is not the same either, there is a problem and a need. There is, for example, a project within the Inheritance Fund that will soon end. In fact, they are the only means available in the municipalities to deal with this. Obviously, the regular healthcare service refers to the Gambling Addiction Association in different places in the country, and there are no opportunities and resources to receive these people. Resources are missing, and that's not in their mission right now. How does the Minister see that ordinary health care obviously does not have sufficient knowledge to deal with the problems? This is a major problem among those with mental illness, and this is a sign of it in many ways. Is there anything the Minister can do to help here, to address the problems and needs that obviously exist?
i-2fc0d80aba2d7006-89	Madam President, I would like What Rickard Nordin points out is true: health care is not always the best when it comes to dealing with people with gambling problems or, for that matter, mental illness in general. This is largely due to the fact that the structures are not sufficiently well-developed. The efforts made over a number of years to promote mental health and to combat mental illness have often been carried out in project form. It has been a matter of temporary measures, and not too rarely it has been aimed at specialised psychiatry. This has meant that we in Swedish healthcare have not had such good opportunities to meet people who suffer from mental illness or a problem that can be linked to gambling or other addictions at an early stage. Nor have we been able to work sufficiently preventively. What the government's new strategy in this area aims at is to prioritise efforts to prevent mental illness in various forms but also early interventions. Today it is primary care that should be the way into the healthcare system, but many in primary care do not feel that they primarily have a responsibility to treat mental illness and do not always feel that they have the knowledge. Then individuals end up many times between the chairs, and that's a big problem. Given that developments in mental illness show a growing need, the Government's focus and new strategy have taken the form of investing in early intervention and prevention.
i-2fc0d80aba2d7006-93	Madam President, I would like Of course, I share the Minister's view that we should invest in prevention and early work, but there are those who need another help. I agree with the Minister that this is not working today. The Minister mentioned project form and temporary funds, and that is exactly what is the problem right now: when it comes to the knowledge that exists in Sweden about people who have excessive computer gaming, it is temporary funds and project form that apply. Knowledge risks being lost if you do nothing and capture knowledge and opportunities. We know that young people's mental illness is one of the biggest public health problems we have in Sweden today. Here is a new expression. It has a new shape, and it needs to be handled accordingly. I would like to give a tip to the Minister: there are people who are experts on this. They have been forced to do so because people come to them and they do not want to deny anyone. You need to be able to capture this better. There is a huge knowledge of this in Sweden today, but they need support and help to be able to take advantage of this knowledge and meet more people. This will be needed by the various gambling associations. Although it is not a regular dependency but another problem, knowledge has been built up partly with temporary funds and partly with voluntary involvement. Here is an opportunity for the government to help to permanent things and capture the knowledge that exists. I am a little curious: Does the Minister see any opportunity to do something and catch up on the knowledge? How does the Minister intend to build on the temporary projects that exist so that they do not run out into the sand and the knowledge disappear?
i-2fc0d80aba2d7006-99	Madam President, I would like I believe that the best way to take advantage of the good examples that have arisen in temporary projects or through voluntary forces is to build stronger structures to meet mental health problems. It's about early intervention. These can take the form, for example, of establishing child and youth health centres, which I know exist in some parts of the country, or of strengthening the competence of primary care in dealing with different degrees of mental illness. One example that the government is looking at together with the Swedish Municipalities and County Councils to create better structures, but also to spread knowledge across the country, is the establishment of so-called psychiatry Centres, which can act as a path between academia, specialized psychiatry, primary care and, of course, the non-profit community. I believe that it is precisely by strengthening this type of structure and building a long-term work that we can take advantage of the knowledge that has arisen and that exists about different types of problems. If we again begin to discuss individual aspects of mental illness or addiction problems without doing so in a context, there is a great risk that we will again end up in a merry-go-round of temporary interventions, project funds and non-profit forces, which, despite the knowledge and commitment they have, are forced to spend a great deal of time looking for project money. I therefore see it as quite self-evident for the state to invest in the long term, to invest in structures and to focus on a number of areas. Otherwise, we will not make progress either in terms of mental illness as a whole or in relation to addiction problems specifically.
i-2fc0d80aba2d7006-104	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I think that we basically have the same view on this: we are concerned about human health. There is much good that we can take with us from gaming and gambling at all. We need to use this to improve the health of people, both physically and mentally. I look forward to hopefully doing it together, not least through my e-sport exercise. If the Minister wants some dissemination of information, I think there is good potential in catching up with the people who are competent and who have been present in the temporary projects, to help them spread them further. I would like to take this opportunity to invite the Minister to Gothenburg. On 8 December there will be a seminar on this in order to better disseminate information and create opportunities for new structures so that we can gain a better understanding of these problems. Because it is a problem that takes on new forms. It is an old problem that is growing and that we need to deal with. I hope the Minister and I agree on that.
i-2fc0d80aba2d7006-108	Madam President, I would like I thank Rickard Nordin for the interpellation. Like Rickard Nordin, I believe that we are basically in agreement and that we both see the need to build long-term and sustainable structures to meet, among other things, the gaming problem. I also thank you for the invitation.
i-2fc0d80aba2d7006-109	Madam President, I would like Lotta Finstorp has asked me if I intend to take initiatives based on the view that there is a connection between large care units, quality and queues. She also asks what measures other than large regions need to be taken to address the major challenges of health care. Initially, I would like to point out that there is no link between the regional issue as such and the number of hospitals in Sweden. How many and which hospitals we should have in Sweden is a matter for county councils and regions to decide on, both today and after a regional reform. However, studies show that there is a clear correlation between quality and volume, i.e. how many operations or measures of a particular type a hospital does. The study on highly specialised care estimates that we would save at least 500 lives per year if hospitals generally did about 100 measures per year of each type. Many hospitals today make far fewer. Many patients would also avoid complications and reduced quality of life. The relationship therefore calls for increased concentration of different measures in healthcare. This does not automatically mean that the largest hospitals in all respects would be better – large hospitals do not always have the best results. According to the study on highly specialised care, high staff mobility, high costs and other efficiency problems contribute to the failure of large hospitals to take advantage of the benefits of high volumes. Smaller specialised hospitals can also achieve high volumes of individual interventions, and thus get well trained employees. The study on highly specialised care submitted last winter's report on Training makes perfect. The report has been referred to and is being prepared in the Government Office. On the question of accessibility and queues, this is a multifaceted area. The national coordinator for the more efficient use of resources in healthcare considers that primary care needs to be strengthened and given a clearer mandate, so that more people can have their main care needs met at this level. I share the investigator's assessment and believe that it would facilitate rapid and close care and, in several cases, reduce the need for hospital care. A major challenge facing healthcare is to meet the need for competent employees and to make the best use of employees' skills. This is a crucial issue for improving healthcare, and not least for improving accessibility. Problems with the supply of skills reduce the capacity of care and thus accessibility. Conversely, improvements can also increase accessibility. In addition to a special professional billion and one linked agreement with the Swedish Municipalities and County Council, the Government has commissioned several authorities to review and submit proposals in key areas such as better data for planning skills provision, leadership and broad collaboration between key actors. The government is also carrying out several other initiatives to improve healthcare. The general state grants to county councils are increased. Major investments are made in women's health, efforts to meet mental health problems and to make cancer care more accessible and equal. We know that many patients are treated in hospitals unnecessarily. Patients who are ready to be discharged from hospital will be left waiting for outpatient care and municipal interventions. The investigation into the Liability Act has proposed measures that can improve the situation of patients and release care places in closed care. There are several challenges that are keen to address and where the government has already taken the initiative. One is the need to ensure that healthcare in all parts of the country is knowledge-based and equal. Here, the government has appointed an investigator to consider and propose how an increased compliance with national knowledge support in healthcare can be achieved. However, it is my view that fewer and stronger regions are an important prerequisite for the positive development of Swedish healthcare. It is essential to maintain and develop high skills in all parts of the country, and it is necessary for everyone to have equal access to healthcare wherever they live.
i-2fc0d80aba2d7006-119	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. I have been standing in this House several times trying to find answers to a number of questions concerning the proposed large region, which for us in Sörmland is referred to as the Svealand region. These questions often come from people in Sörmland who are worried about what is going to happen, and they want answers to some questions: How much will the tax be increased? Will our hot long-awaited public transport system be in place in 2017 as planned? Will the commuter card be more expensive? Will Sörmland be allowed to keep his three emergency hospitals? Does a large county council provide higher quality of care than smaller county councils? In what way do care queues become shorter and care places become more frequent? Will emergency hospitals be closed down? It is time for the Minister to give a clear answer to questions about the concerns and frustrations that are out there. Feeling secure is one of the most basic cornerstones for us humans. It is about predictability, knowing that the police come when we are in danger, that elderly care is worthy and that care is available and of high quality when we need it. But that is not obvious in today's Sweden. Instead of focusing on the quality and accessibility of healthcare, the government is engaged in redrawing and expanding county boundaries on the pretext that large regions are a prerequisite for the future challenges of healthcare. Large scale is not equivalent to high quality and availability. The Minister also writes that very well in his reply. Of Swedish county councils, it is actually the small and medium-sized county councils that deliver the best welfare services at the lowest cost. The Minister's answer also states the following, which I think is very wise and correct: a smaller hospital that is specialised can also achieve high volumes of individual interventions, and thus get well trained employees. Training makes perfect, just as the report of the inquiry is called. In Sörmland, Kullbergska Hospital is one such example. You are very good at doing hip joint surgery and often do it. Then you also show that you are at the top when it comes to quality. The Division Committee believes that larger regions make county councils more resourceful without being able to substantiate this claim. I would like the Minister to develop this further. Six poor county councils do not automatically become a rich region. On the other hand, it is true that bureaucracy is swelling. We can see that very clearly. For example, the tax will be increased in many of the county councils that are now to be included in large regions. The Västra Götaland region, for example, has since its creation increased the tax by 2 SEK. Yet that region to the surface is only a third as large as the Svealand region will be. A new region must have legitimacy on the part of its inhabitants. They must feel secure and know that they have access to healthcare and that the queues are shorter. In the file of the Division Committee, what we have read, there is very little to answer these questions. The proposal for the creation of new regions as early as 2019 is a gigantic social democratic prestige without popular support. What's the rush, Minister? The question of legitimacy in a elected assembly is complex and also needs to be further investigated. For example, do citizens believe that decisions on health care are legitimate if their part of the region is consistently and repeatedly affected by the structural changes envisaged by the sub-report?
i-2fc0d80aba2d7006-128	Madam President, I would like The Minister for Health has said in a number of contexts that we have too many emergency hospitals in Sweden. This statement has upset many who already have a long way to go in emergency medical care. In my county Dalarna we have long distances, especially in the northernmost part of the county, which is an area where there are many tourists during the winter season but also all year round. How far is it reasonable that patients need to go when they need emergency care? Will this be better when we introduce large regions? The new region would cover a total of 64 municipalities and geographically extend from the Baltic Sea to the Norwegian border and from Grövelsjön down to Oxelösund. It is a distance of over 600 miles [600 km] that takes nearly eight hours to drive. What will remain in that region as far as hospital care is concerned? Can it be assumed that the large hospitals will take all the resources? Dalarna County Council has a good cooperation with the county's municipalities. In a large county with 64 municipalities, there is reason to assume that the municipalities, which have different interests and priorities, would lose influence. Experience from Västra Götaland shows that anchoring is extremely difficult with 49 municipalities, for example in the area of community care. The health survey shows that large county councils are worse at offering equivalent care in practice. From the important aspect, the ability to provide care on equal terms, all three major county councils are at the bottom. A comparison of national quality registers and open comparisons also shows that there is no correlation between the size of health professionals and the quality of health care. We just heard Lotta Finstorp talk about this when it comes to healthcare in Sörmland. The best cancer care is not available in the three major county councils. Nor is it the lowest mortality rate for heart attacks, the shortest response time for ambulances, the lowest proportion of overcrowding or the lowest structured cost per inhabitant. Not in any of the available comparisons of Swedish healthcare, do the three major county councils come out at the same time. The Minister for Health has also stated that there should be government control. I would like to know a little more about how the Minister for Health views this issue. Ko mmer regional forms that are not based on a bottom-up perspective, to get better? The opposite is probably the case here. The government has commissioned the committee to draw a map of the city. The main idea behind the idea of large regions would be that they are resourceful. But there's no evidence for that. A merger of all six health professionals means that health care needs to agree on a common organisation. A new region will have a common staff policy, remuneration model, model for trade union cooperation and knowledge management, etc. More bureaucracy is not the answer to many questions. The administrative gains with Region Svealand are estimated at only 10 percent, which is about SEK 400 million. This can be compared to the fact that Dalarna County Council today has a turnover of approximately SEK 8 billion. How would this make healthcare more effective? Dalarna County Council has extensive and excellent cooperation with other regions and county councils. A top-down approach would hardly benefit the individual patient's right to good healthcare within reasonable limits.
i-2fc0d80aba2d7006-137	Madam President, I would like About a year ago, specifically on 10 November, I and the Government stood here in the Chamber discussing the acute crisis in Västernorrland County Council and in Swedish health care in general. The Government then told us that he would visit various county councils. I thought that was nice and good. On 2 December, the Government was in my county, in Västernorrland. Then came the statement that we have too many emergency hospitals in Sweden. It's almost like you're booming. So I'm going to stick to discussing emergency hospitals. We've discussed the other thing before. I've discussed regional division with Minister Shekarabi. I am therefore going to talk about emergency hospitals and Sweden. In the answer to Lotta Finstorp, the Government focuses a lot on highly specialised care and primary care. I absolutely agree that primary care is incredibly important. It's cost-effective, and that's where you should go when it comes to small things, for example when you have an infection or when the children have inflammation of the ears. High - specialised care is something that many people may not even take advantage of, and hopefully if you take advantage of it, you only do it one or two times in life. Emergency care, on the other hand, is something that should be relatively close to people, so that you can feel that you have a chance if something happens. In my county, where the party members of the State Council and the feminist government govern – I assume that for a feminist health policy – BB and all women's care in Sollefteå will be closed down. As a result, some women will be allowed to travel between 10 and 200 miles [10 - 22 km] to give birth. Let's not talk about the E4 or great roads. It is rather narrow, rather poorly maintained roads in winter, which is unacceptable. It is said that the impact assessment is not very good. But what will happen is that more children will probably be born in taxis and cars – ambulances are fine. The Government just said that fewer and stronger regions are preferable. Well, I don't think so. In some cases yes, in the case of highly specialised care, but not in the case of close care. We have to have it. People must be able to feel safe, that they dare to live there and that they dare to get pregnant. Approximately 300 births per year take place at BB in Sollefteå. There are no births in any way. On the contrary, it is one of the best birth wards in Sweden, which performs a very low proportion of cesarean sections. It is interesting that the party colleague of the Government, the county council in Västernorrland, says that it is reasonable to close down and to move the operations to the largest cities in Sweden. Does the Government think it is reasonable that people should be given longer to care, that they should be subjected to death during transport on the roads when they should have one and a half to two hours to their emergency care? I would like an answer to that. I don't think that's the kind of care we want. The medical association in Jämtland has conducted an investigation. Today, in Greater Northern Ireland, it looks like the image I present to the Members of this House. It is 100 km between Sveg and Kiruna. After a large region has been introduced, it is believed that it will look like this new picture that I am showing off. Is this how we want it in Sweden? In this large area there are four hospitals. What does it provide for equal and good care for the Swedish people?
i-2fc0d80aba2d7006-145	Madam President, I would like Medical care is about a lot more than large regions. The Minister for Health has highlighted this in a good way in the answer. This is still just a sample of everything that is done in health care. As far as geographical distances are concerned, there is no objective way of looking at what is reasonable. In Skåne, for example, which I come from, there will be a outcry if you are going to get a little further to the health care system, even if it is about short distances compared to Norrland. It is therefore always an issue of assessment. It is possible to increase quality and make efficiency improvements by specializing in healthcare. If, for example, it is a planned operation and therefore does not need to be made acute, which may only be done once or rarely – at several years' intervals – I think most patients can imagine going further. It doesn't have to be in the municipality where the patient lives. There can be a specialization gain by doing a lot of operations, building up quality and getting staff who know this type of operation. It is not effective to carry out such operations everywhere, in all hospitals. Which care should be located is always a matter of assessment. I think that just planned operations are an example where you can imagine a longer distance. It can even short lines, at best, if you really specialise it in a good way so that it works practically. I think that many people can even imagine going to another county council to do such an operation, if there is a long waiting time in their own county, even though it will be a long stretch to move around. I do not want to enter into the debate on major regions and I am neither for nor against. It is far from decided whether there will be any major regions. But it is not obvious that large regions would automatically lead to one or the other. In that case, we will have to settle this again in the regions. An example of a large region is the police. The police are government. The whole of Sweden is a region, and then you organize it locally. But that doesn't mean by definition that the police are far away. Of course, there are people who have a long way to the police, but you can organise this activity in a larger geographical area. You have to look at so much more when it comes to health care. For example, the government is now working for more people to come to primary care because too many people come to emergency care. It can be based on ignorance or on being sent to emergency care for safety reasons because there is a concern that it may be something serious. But this is particularly true of access to primary care. The better accessibility, the greater the chance that people can get there in, for example, evenings and weekends. Then you don't have to sit and wait in the emergency room. It can pose a risk to anyone who really has a life-threatening condition if others who should go to primary care occupy a queue. There's a lot of things you can do. The aim is for primary care to be close to the citizens. Emergency medical care should of course also be as close as possible, but emergency hospitals cannot be found in every small municipality. It is not possible, but emergency and maternity care should be as close as possible. It is also important that you are not sent around between different clinics. It is another issue, but it has a negative impact on patients. The question of how to get better health care is a complex issue that is much bigger than the issue of large regions.
i-2fc0d80aba2d7006-154	Madam President, I would like This is about two different things. One is whether larger regions lead to better health care, and the other is whether increased specialisation leads to better health care. I find it very difficult to believe that larger regions would lead to better health care. In that case, we would see evidence of this in today's Sweden. The medical care in Skåne or Västra Götaland is no better than that in Halland or Kronoberg. On the contrary, it is probably better to have a choice between two regions in order to obtain highly specialised care. However, it may be good for operators with larger volumes to have an intervention many times, I think we agree on that. But there's also a backside of it. If you drive the specialisation too far, the emergency hospitals will be impoverished on competence. Then two things happen. One is that the specialists who can help in the acute stages of emergency hospitals are not there. The second is that the doctors who still exist often feel that they cannot develop. Many doctors have come to me and said that they do not see any development opportunities in the medium-sized hospitals if the interventions carried out today are to be moved. This does not mean that there is no need for volumes of effort. But you also have to have in the back of your head what happens to emergency hospitals when you drive the reorganisation. I would like to ask the Minister a straight question if he believes that health care has a higher quality in Skåne and Västra Götaland than it has in the smaller regions. Is there such evidence of the quality of healthcare, i.e. that it will be better with larger regions?
i-2fc0d80aba2d7006-159	Madam President, I would like What a pleasure to have a health debate in this House and a debate on health conditions! In order for the debate to be understandable to those who listen to it, you have to start by telling the situation in which Swedish health care is located. Swedish healthcare is of very high medical quality compared to other countries. It is in many ways an excellent system, but it is largely adapted to the major diseases and problems of the 20th century. It is a great system when it comes to treating infectious diseases, olycksfall, broken bones and the like but it is worse at meeting the patients who have the greatest needs today. Who are these patients? A clear measure of what healthcare will have to do in the future to a greater extent, and what is the major challenge for healthcare is that today 80 to 85% of all the money we spend on healthcare in this country goes to people suffering from at least one chronic disease. There is a difference between this patient group and the patient groups that the healthcare system is built up to. One is that if you have an infection, have broken a leg or have had an accident you get treatment in the healthcare system and after a number of days, weeks or in the worst case after a number of months you hopefully walk away healthy and well. Then you don't have to come back to health care for decades. That's basically what the patients looked like in the 20th century. The second is that if you have a chronic illness – or several chronic diseases that many patients have – you may never leave the healthcare system. You will need treatments and see doctors for the rest of your life. For this patient group, our systems are not adapted today. It is the people who suffer from at least one chronic disease or those who are multi-sick older people who are forced to wait four, five or six hours for treatment, just because we have not rigged a system adapted to the needs of these people. A year ago we could read about a man here in the Stockholm area who had visited different parts of the healthcare system 74 times in a year without really getting help for his problems. It doesn't make any sense. That is why we need to change Swedish health care. The government has now received an investigation on its table, which describes how this should be done in a long way. It has been received very well by the whole of Health Care Sweden. The proposals are already being implemented in many county councils and regions. I assume that the moderate debaters here today have read the study on effective care. If you have done so, you will also realise that what Lena Asplund, among other things, mentions about the need for care to be close to people, does not constitute any contradiction to the extension of primary care. On the contrary, the emergency care of the future needs to be conducted more closely in primary care in order to bring it much closer to the people compared to the current situation. I hope to devote my remaining speaking time to specifying how we are going to develop Swedish health care.
i-2fc0d80aba2d7006-169	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for an interesting and important debate on Swedish health care and the grand regional proposal! What the Minister concluded with about the problems of multisickness and the difficulty of getting to the right level of care is incredibly important. You have to deal with that. Then I think unsearchablely: How will large-scale regionalisation help multi-sickness to get into the right level of care more quickly? That is a question to which I do not quite understand and to which I would like answers. It is the close care that is most needed when you are multi-sick. It will, of course, be further away from the citizens if you have larger regions. I hope to get an answer to that question later. In his reply, the Minister says, ‘I would like to start by pointing out that there is no link between the regional question as such and the number of hospitals in Sweden. He also says that quality has nothing to do with whether it is large or small county councils. At the same time, it says in the last paragraph of the answer:"It is my view, however, that fewer and stronger regions are an important prerequisite for the positive development of Swedish health care. ..................................................... Then I assume that the Minister believes that larger geographical areas give Swedish health care a better condition. I hope I've got the Minister's answer wrong. The Minister also talks about patients being treated in hospitals unnecessarily. In the county council of Sörmland, my county council, there is a terrible shortage of care places. How could it be different for patients in a large region? Does the minister think there'll be more beds if we shut down emergency hospitals? I want to know this too. What problems will regional reform address? Any change to the regional classification must be made on the basis of the problems to be solved. What's gonna get better? And what is it more specific that will be better in health care if we get larger geographical units? I have taken note of the consultation opinion of the Agency for Health Analysis, which rejects the proposal in the sub-report, given that the Authority considers that the sub-report does not provide an adequate basis for a long-term sustainable change in the organisation of society. According to the Authority, these deficiencies consist, inter alia, of: The absence of an impact assessment from a patient and user perspective, as mentioned in the third paragraph, is very serious. If we cannot establish a popular basis for such a major reform as widening the county boundaries, it is no longer legitimate in the eyes of the citizens. I would like the Minister in his next speech to comment on this serious part of the health analysis authority's referral opinion.
i-2fc0d80aba2d7006-179	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for the debate. I too think it is important to debate health care in particular. The issues are important, and it is important that equal care will also be available throughout the country. It brings me back to my native town of Dalarna. The minister's been visiting, so he knows what it looks like there. It is a long distance for those who live in, for example, the northern part of the county. Today we have healthcare in Mora, Ludvika, Avesta and Falun. It is clear that people are afraid when you hear someone say or read in the media that an emergency hospital should be closed down. Which hospital should be closed down? What will it look like in a larger structure? I would like the Minister to say something about this. Then I can come home to Dalarna and say that there is no risk that you close the hospitals in Ludvika, Avesta, Mora or Falun so that we all have to go further. What I do not understand is the talk of building reforms from a bottom-up perspective. Here comes a reform in which a number of county councils themselves can say that they want to join forces, and on that basis we can get better health care. I do not understand this, so the Minister will be happy to develop what will be better in a large region than when you as a patient feel close to the little. After all, the Patient Act should strengthen the patient's position in the care. One should have the right to safety, and the patient's needs should be met. How do you do this in a large region when you have not seen an impact assessment or when you do not have a popular basis on what this will look like in a wider perspective? That is why large regions and health care are so closely linked. I think we all agree that in the case of diseases where highly specialised care is required, we can go anywhere. We can do that today. We can go all over Europe, and I think that is a good thing.
i-2fc0d80aba2d7006-184	Madam President, I would like Let us make it clear that this is not about emergency medical care or emergency hospitals. It is often not a question of infrequent operations and highly specialised care; it is a question of the near, for example, the chronically ill and the multi-sick. Then we need the smaller hospitals. This is not possible in primary care. I'm on the Defence Committee now, not the Social Affairs Committee, but I've been working in health care for over 25 years and I think I can do a little bit anyway. This is about having emergency orthopaedics, emergency surgery and such. How does it help the multi-sick Mr Johansso n in Junsele if he has to go 250 km to Sundsvall when he has broken the femoral neck? Or, for that matter, Mrs Karlsson in Kiruna when she has to go 400 miles to Sunderbyn? It doesn't get any better for them, on the contrary. We need to keep the smaller emergency hospitals that can cope with the topical and important. Many times this is also vital. I think that the debate has become a little distorted when the Government devotes a lot of time to highly specialised care and the investigation into it. We agree on that – no one thinks otherwise. We can go somewhere else, and even leave Sweden if we need to, when it comes to things that rarely happen. Instead, it is a matter of close care and of when your children or grandchildren fall and break your wrist. Then you should not have to travel for several hours to be X-rayed and operated. It is also about the old man being close to the care. It's not about being really sick. Of course you can go away. We need to distinguish between apples and pears in this discussion. Now it's about emergency hospitals and the close care. I would like an answer to what the Minister really thinks about this. No more about highly specialized care, please!
i-2fc0d80aba2d7006-190	Madam President, I would like I can assure you that the problems in Scanian health care have little to do with the fact that it is a larger region. The distance is also short in Skåne. Instead, the big problem in Scanian health care is that it is underfunded. We already have a deficit that the previous regional management has built up over eight years. They did not want to increase the tax, but held back for a long time. The new regional leadership, led by the Social Democrats, is trying in vain to bring about a tax increase, but this is blocked by the bourgeois parties and the Swedish Democrats. Skåne has Sweden's lowest county tax, despite great needs and a large deficit. We would need resources to cover the deficit and to make further efforts, so an increase in the tax is therefore needed. Many experts, not least doctors, support this, saying that deficits cannot be run for long. It ends up going out on the patients. There are fewer care places, fewer staff and increased stress for the staff, which in turn leads to more sick leave and an increased risk of mistakes being made. It is precisely the funding of health care that is crucial for this. This is what it looks like in many parts of the country. Funding is a fundamental issue. If we really want health care that is equal and accessible, it costs money. I think people are willing to pay for it. I would like to conclude with a few words on specialised care. I think that Gabriel Wikström was clear in his answer: the specialization can save 500 lives a year, according to the investigation that has been carried out. But it doesn't have to be big units, it can be smaller. However, specialization is important, and we must work for this in health care in the future.
i-2fc0d80aba2d7006-196	Madam President, I would like In the previous speech, the Minister raised an important issue. It was about the multisick and the chronically ill. In his investigation, Göran Stiernstedt points out that we need to strengthen primary care and perhaps also get lightweights. This is an opposite movement to the centralisation that we need for highly specialised care. Does the Minister have any ideas on how to strengthen primary care? In Kronoberg County, which I know well, we have about 50 percent vacancies among general specialists. It is generally difficult to attract people to this particular specialty. We even have a situation in Kronoberg County where we pay more for general specialists than we do for other specialists. Despite this, recruitment difficulties persist. We from the Alliance have tried to supplement with, for example, more surgeons, orthopedics and medical practitioners to the primary care to reinforce there. But we don't get that with us the leading S – V – MP majority on, but they think it should be general specialists. However, it is not possible to recruit them.
i-2fc0d80aba2d7006-200	Madam President, I would like Thank you for all your contributions. It mixes high and low here. To start with, I can tell Lena Asplund that I didn't talk once about the specialized care in my last post. I talked about the close care that needs to be available for the multi-sick elderly, for those who are chronically ill and need to visit the care perhaps many times a month or even the week. These are the ones we must be aware of as we enter into a major reform of Swedish health care. I have been asked several questions about what larger regions can contribute to developing Swedish healthcare. It is referred to the report of the Division Committee, but it is not the only report that has come up on this issue. After all, the whole debate on larger regions got off to a serious start when the Responsible Committee presented its final report in 2007. There is a long and detailed discussion of health care, and there are a number of arguments that larger regions could contribute to better health care. Among other things, the current county councils are often too small and do not have the critical mass required for effective investments in health care – investments that will require amounts in the perhaps 100 million or even billion class. Nor do they have the critical mass at all times in order to carry out high-quality research and care, especially in order to meet the challenges of the future. It is also estimated that the county councils are not large enough to carry and develop excellence and to be able to supply skills in general. It is also believed that size affects the ability to receive and translate new knowledge, while old methods can be patterned out. But this, of course, is well known to the moderate representatives in the debate, because it was the Moderater Mats Svegfors who led the work of the Responsible Committee. Sometimes one can get the impression that the Moderates would be against everything that larger regions mean, but that is not really true. The truth is that at least some Moderates are for larger regions. One is rather divided within one's own party. However, the regional proposal put forward by the Division Committee is not entirely in line with the type of regional division that the Moderates want to see. That's where the shoe squeezes. You try to whip up a debate against regional enlargement as such and pretend that you are totally opposed when you are in fact too – just to hide that you are really angry that you are not getting your own proposal through. Moreover, it is trying to show that there would be some sort of bourgeois unity in this. It doesn't. You can look at the referrals that have been received from the county councils. The Centre Party, among other things, has been a strong advocate of larger regions in the proposed Svealand region. The Moderates stand many times alone or together with the Swedish Democrats. I think that this strongly suggests that the Moderates are making this more of power ambitions and to put a brake on the formation of a region that will be absolutely necessary to develop Swedish health care. However, they have very low ambitions when it comes to discussing what Swedish healthcare actually needs to develop and modernise.
i-2fc0d80aba2d7006-207	Madam President, I would like I would like to comment on what the Minister has just said. In particular, the Landstinget Sörmland, whose referrals can be summarised as follows: No, thank you, in 2019 we certainly do not want to have a large region. This is what there is a majority decision by the Landstinget Sörmland. When it comes to the Responsible Committee and the Svegfors investigation, the idea of a large region was based on functional connections, the labour market and growth. It was not based on the health care system. What's the rush? Why try to get this through in 2019 to have a choice between so that there is a popular anchoring? Now it becomes very strange, because we are politicians from the counties in the Svealand region, among others, but also the Norrland region cannot answer our residents. We have no answers, because you have not given them. What's the purpose? That is why we stand here, day in and day out, and ask these questions, which we receive from our citizens in the counties. The popular anchoring and a majority decision on how to divide Sweden should really be the least that you would like. The best thing to get is a broad majority to go into this large-scale regionalisation. Instead, you want to get this over with quickly. As early as 2019 there will be new county boundaries in Sweden. It takes a very long time to redo organizations. I agree – the state should certainly have a different division. It's like a patchwork today. But before you get it in place? I am a member of a regional police council which has recently been set up on the occasion of the new national police organisation, which is in the process of taking a seat. Now it will probably be redesigned because of new major regions. There are a lot of things that cause people to be incredibly worried. When the emergency hospital was closed, there was a great concern – we have three hospitals in the county. This leads to a very negative view of large regions.
i-2fc0d80aba2d7006-212	Madam President, I would like Why don't I start where Lotta Finstorp left off, just to clarify. The state doesn't shut down any emergency hospitals. The state does not start any emergency hospitals either. It is the responsibility of county councils and regions to organise health care. This will also be the case after large-scale regionalisation. I want to be very clear about that. On the other hand, we face major challenges. We have touched on some of them, including the fact that health care is not adapted to the large patient groups. I mentioned that 80 - 85% of the resources go to people suffering from at least one chronic disease. We know that about 1% of patients, the most difficult, account for as much as 35% of all the money available in the healthcare system. I want to relate to something that Hillevi Larsson raised. Health care needs not only better conditions in the form of larger regions and in the form of better adapted and more modern organisation, but also better conditions in the form of more resources. From the government's side, we are now adding a number of billions to health care. In total, next year it will amount to 3 billion in general state grants that will be used by county councils and regions to meet the needs you see in your area. It is a completely different policy from what the citizens got used to under eight years of alliance rule, when money was not spent on health care and did not come to county councils and regions, but there were major tax cuts for those who earned the most as a priority. Let's change the politics. I understand it hurts for the Moderates. But we believe that a policy of more resources in welfare is the right way to go.
