i-d19c9536869d27d8-5	Mr President, I would like to Roland Gustbée has asked me whether I agree that there may be an over-exploitation of the possibility of deciding on an extended coastal protection area. He has also asked me what measures I intend to take to remedy the problem. I participated just a few weeks ago in an interpellation debate about the extended beach shelter with Roland Gustbées's party colleagues Lars-Lars-Arne Staxäng and Lotta Finstorp. The question has recently also been relevant in a number of written questions, including one from Lotta Finstorp. As I stated in my previous replies, the 2009 reform of the beach protection rules, among other things, tightened the requirement for a county administrative board to expand a beach protection area. Since then, enlargement can only take place if it is necessary to ensure one of the objectives of beach protection. In connection with the reform, the then government commissioned the county administrative boards to review and take new decisions on extended coastal protection areas. One purpose of the review was to better adapt the extended coastal areas of the counties to the long-term protection of both the natural values of the coastal areas and their outdoor values. The background was, among other things, that several older decisions on extended beach protection had been taken before the purpose of protecting the natural environment was introduced into the beach protection rules. According to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's analysis of the results of the county administrative review, the review meant that the total area of extended beach protection decreased for the country as a whole. The same was true of the individual areas in the vast majority of counties. According to the analysis, Kronoberg County had exactly the same area before and after the review, and only in a few counties could it be seen that the area extended to cover the beach had increased. What, then, can we read out from what I have just described? Well, we can begin by stating that both the provisions on extended beach protection that we have today and the county boards' review were implemented on the initiative of the former bourgeois government. We can also note that the review has led to a decrease in the scope of extended beach protection, both in the country as a whole and in the majority of individual counties. For Roland Gustbées hemlän Kronobergs län, the County Administrative Board's review meant no change to the extended beach protection in the county, which according to the County Administrative Board has had the same extent since the 1970s. Against this background, I am quite surprised at Roland Gustbées's questions in the interpellation. My first intervention in this interpellation debate can therefore end with the same message that I have given in previous answers: the Government does not currently intend to review the possibility for county boards to decide on extended coastal protection areas. On the other hand, the Government intends to review the rules on rural development areas in coastal locations, the so-called LIS rules. We want to see a vibrant countryside that can be developed while preserving an attractive landscape and protecting valuable natural environments, and we believe that there is potential to develop the LIS instrument for that purpose. The aim of the review is to further promote rural development in areas with good access to beaches without harming the values that long-term protection aims to protect.
i-d19c9536869d27d8-11	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by thanking the Minister for the Environment for his reply. As the Government rightly points out, the 2009 reform of beach protection means that the requirements for a county administrative board to expand a beach protection area were tightened. It is therefore very strange that the area has not been reduced in, for example, my county of Kronoberg. In fact, for a total of 24 lakes, the lake by sea has decided on exactly the same limits that were decided on under the old legislation. A revised legislation would have expected some change. The very purpose of the reform was, among other things, to facilitate construction in beachfront locations. Of course, this should not be unchecked, but should take into account both the need for nature conservation and the public's need for active outdoor life. Sweden has 424 000 kilometres of beach, according to Statistics Sweden. In the more sparsely populated parts of the country, it is about several kilometres per inhabitant. The overall decline in protected areas in the country is expected, but many municipal politicians testify to the fact that in their municipality there has been no relief. The Government itself describes that the total area in some counties has even increased. It is good that the government intends to review the rules on rural development areas in coastal locations, but that is not really what the interpellation is about. The interpretation is about how county boards make decisions based on the new legislation. When county administrative boards around the country take renewed decisions that lead to unchanged or even extended areas, it has clearly not chosen to follow the legislator's intentions. This is why legislation needs to be reviewed in order to ensure better coherence between its application and its intentions. The Swedish Parliament has announced to the government that beach protection needs to be reviewed so that the conditions for construction, housing and business activities are improved. My question is therefore: when will we see a government proposal on beach protection?
i-d19c9536869d27d8-17	Mr President, I would like to To sort out some order in this: There were earlier really old decisions on beach protection that had been made under the previous legislation, which was narrower. Then the legislation was extended to include more values. When the legislation was re-established, a review of all decisions was commissioned. It must then reasonably have been understood that there were a number of decisions that were taken under an old legislation that was much narrower. When the review was carried out, it was obvious that it would involve certain extensions because the review is carried out under the applicable law, which in relation to some of the decisions is more extensive. It cannot have been a surprise to the government that ordered the review. It's a very anticipated effect. Then, just as the intention was, the area of land in the country as a whole protected by 300 metres of beach protection has been reduced. But the fact that there would be different effects in different parts of the country must have been expected. Otherwise, I have to wonder what the last government thought when it placed the order. It is also clear that the extensive change in beach protection has led to large and extensive legal trials. This has involved, among other things, about a hundred appeals, which are on the government's table. We must have respect, I think, for those kinds of legal processes and let them take their course. You take one question at a time and you attack where it's most important. I understand that there is a broad view that the LIS reform has not fulfilled its purpose. I think it is a good order that we start by reviewing that part and doing so in order to achieve increased housing and good rural development – with respect for the natural values to be protected. I would really like to point out that it is a good order that we begin in that part and do not review the 300-metre rule before the judicial review of the review decisions is completed. It would be a hasty governance.
i-d19c9536869d27d8-22	Mr President, I would like to During the time of the alliance government, no less than three changes were made to shore protection. It is true that criteria were added which could justify an increase in the protection of the beach, while the requirements were tightened up. This explains why it has increased in some places and decreased in others. Therefore, it becomes very strange when the County Administrative Board of Kronoberg makes decisions on exactly the same: not a new lake, not a new stretch, nor any where you have reduced the beach protection. I find that very strange. One could have expected both new areas and areas where it is withdrawn. I simply believe that – whatever it is, manning or anything else – the time needed to do so has not been sufficient to do so according to the legislator's intentions. It is decided on a routinely 200 or 300 meters along the shorelines of entire lakes. It's pretty obvious. Nature, as you know, has no straight lines, and it is also not the case that the conservation of nature or the interests of outdoor life extend exactly 200 or 300 metres around a lake. There should be variations along that line. The need for development, housing and activities is also important. Without development, there will be decommissioning and depopulation. If rural areas are depopulated, there is no one who wants to use the protected areas for outdoor activities. The Government says that the Government intends to review the so-called LIS areas. Once again, I wonder: when will we see any result of that review? I also wonder whether the Government is prepared to take any other initiative in order to achieve a more development-friendly application of the legislation as it stands.
i-d19c9536869d27d8-28	Mr President, I would like to The member spends time in Parliament's chambers reviewing the exercise of authority by state authorities. I will not agree with that chorus. We have a very comprehensive order to test the decisions. At the moment, there are about a hundred appeals against individual decisions. It works very hard, and it should be done in order. Within the Government Office, we also work best with the content of the mission around the LIS rules. It is of course important that we really learn from what has not worked in previous missions and land right this time so that we achieve the objectives we agree on: a living countryside, the ability to build housing across the country, secure access to relevant areas of outdoor life and secured natural environments. It is a difficult issue and therefore it is important to land correctly and not repeat past mistakes. Beach protection was – I think it is also worth noting – one of the issues discussed in the framework of cross-block housing policy talks. The Moderates and other alliance parties chose to leave the talks and thus also left the possibility of a broad agreement on, among other things, beach protection. I am very sorry about this. However, on the part of the government, we have chosen to go forward and promise a review of the LIS rules, which do not fully work; we give priority to that.
i-d19c9536869d27d8-32	Mr President, I would like to Rural areas must be given the opportunity to develop in order for the whole of Sweden to live. One way to make it possible for rural areas to grow on their own is to increase the possibility of building in beachfront locations. More housing and more jobs are needed throughout the country. We are on the right track in terms of the total extended beach protection area, but it is going too slowly. Moreover, the positive trend is completely lacking in some parts of the country. With 424 000 kilometres of beach and a population of just under 10 million inhabitants, the beaches must be seen not only as a resource for outdoor life but also as an attractive accommodation and for activities that can benefit from a beachfront location. Sweden has the highest rate of urbanisation in Europe. This is very positive, but a living countryside is needed for raw material production and biodiversity and for all those people who prefer hours in the forest to hours in the restaurant. We must also take advantage of rural competitiveness and attractiveness by making available and developing the best locations, which are often close to the shore.
i-d19c9536869d27d8-35	Mr President, I would like to I want to take this opportunity to go back and see why we have a beach shelter. It has its background in the 1950s provisions on the possibility of banning settlements in coastal areas. In the 1990s, the aim was to protect biodiversity. For my part, when I travel in other countries, I often give a grateful thought to the protection of the beach, when one can witness how people are excluded from valuable beach areas and how natural values are exploited in a short-term way. At the same time, as the honourable Member states, we have generous beaches in this country, and we shall be grateful for that. The fact that rural areas can continue to develop and that this means new housing in rural areas is widely agreed politically. We are also broadly agreed politically that the LIS reform has not achieved its purpose and can almost be called a failure. I regret that we have not been able to go forward broadly with a joint mission to review this, but the government is prioritising a review to promote good development throughout the country – with new housing and protection for both outdoor and natural life.
i-d19c9536869d27d8-38	Mr President, I would like to Eskil Erlandsson has asked me how the government intends to implement its ambition to strengthen public participation in nature conservation work, including through access to environmental information, participation in decision-making processes and access to justice as expressed in the budget proposal under Category 17. Eskil Erlandsson has also asked me what impact these measures will have on individual forest owners, companies and the forestry industry as a whole. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. Let me begin with the fact that the Government considers it important to ensure public access to environmental information, judicial review and participation in decision-making processes. Since 2005, Sweden has been a party to the Convention on Access to Information, Public Participation in Decision-making and Access to Justice in Environmental Matters, the so-called Aarhus Convention. The Convention is also part of the EU legal order. As a Party to the Convention, Sweden shall ensure that the public has the right to access environmental information and to participate, under the conditions laid down in the Convention, in decision-making processes on the environment. The Convention also contains provisions allowing the public concerned access to justice in environmental matters. Sweden is obliged to ensure that acts and omissions of persons and authorities that violate environmental legislation can be examined by a court or administrative order. The public concerned refers, inter alia, to civil society organisations promoting environmental protection. The Government and the Ministries are working closely to strengthen public access to environmental information, access to justice and participation in decision-making. This increases public awareness of environmental issues. The aim must always be to provide the best possible basis for decision-making. As part of the work to improve access to environmental information, the Government in March 2016 commissioned the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency to be the development authority for smarter environmental information. The aim is for environmental information to be used more widely, including to meet the climate challenge and to achieve the climate goals. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency focuses on supporting the transition towards sustainability that is already underway in society by giving organisations and individuals greater opportunities to participate and influence. Environmental information should create commitment and contribute to action by being easy to find, understand and re-use. Outdoor life is a general interest and a cornerstone of nature conservation policy. The Government considers the Århus Convention to be an important basis for strengthening the work on open air policy. It is true that the government wants to strengthen public participation, including in terms of access to justice, but of course every measure must be preceded by a careful balance between different interests and on the basis of their respective conditions. That is why this issue is part of the legal review of the Forest Protection Act that is now being carried out. There are examples of issues that are being prepared now or that have already been prepared by the government regarding public access to justice, including the complaints of environmental organisations in the environmental code and legal proceedings in relation to the search for wild birds and large predators. The legal review of forestry legislation includes, among other things, that the investigator must review the requirements of the Århus Convention regarding access to justice for the general public in relation to the decisions of the Swedish Forest Board and decisions not to take decisions on notifications and felling, etc. under Section 14 of the Forest Protection Act. If the investigator considers that the public has such a right of appeal, the investigator shall propose appropriate constitutional changes. The investigator shall also review whether there is a need to clarify the provisions on appeal in the Forest Protection Act in the light of a decision of the Supreme Administrative Court and make the proposals deemed appropriate. The government is, of course, awaiting the conclusions of the investigation.
i-d19c9536869d27d8-48	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by thanking you for my answer, which I think is important and essential interpellation. Let me say, Mr President, that the government wants to strengthen public participation in nature conservation work, including through access to environmental information, participation in decision-making and access to justice. Yes, that is what the government writes in part of the autumn budget – it is in the section on cultural policy, which I, Mr President, would like to note. I think, Mr President, that the wording is spectacular, not least in view of the fact that in the spring the government set up an investigation in which – now I quote – needs would be identified and whether the public should have the right to review, for example, the decisions of the Forestry Board. However, the autumn budget does not wait for the conclusions of the investigation, so it is stated that it wants to give these powers to the public. Firstly, as I see it, the government anticipates its own investigation. Secondly – and this is not least important – it anticipates the work in which the industry has been involved, including in the reference groups that exist to develop a national forest programme. But perhaps the most serious thing is not that the government has an inability to get the questions right, but it is actually the consequence of the proposal that it wants to implement, should it become a reality. As I see it, it follows with property rights a discretion, a right of disposal. Such an interference in ownership will cause tremendous problems, not just for all forest owners in our country. It is actually about huge problems in all the legal processes that will be. It is to be borne in mind that it is in the order of 60 000 logging reports every year in our country. Added to this is at least the same amount of other measures in our forestry. If all of this is to be tried by anyone – you use the word "public" – the strain on our judicial system will be on the verge of unlimited. What consequences this will have economically is completely impossible to see at the stage at which we are at the moment. Mr President, I would like to In conclusion, I would like to say in this speech that I also think that what is being proposed is counterproductive from the environmental and climate point of view. Swedish forestry is extremely important in order for us to have the green transition that I assume I and the current government agree to move towards. Bio-based products and fuels are needed to cope with the climate change that we need to do in order to survive on this planet. Finally, I come to my question: is it really going to implement what is announced in the autumn budget by the government, and does it not take into account other conventions and our own form of government that we have in our country and have to live by?
i-d19c9536869d27d8-56	Mr President, I would like to As I explained in my first speech, the government is working broadly on what has been identified in the Aarhus Convention on Public Access to Environmental Information and the possibility of participating in decision-making processes. I would like to give an example of this subversive, revolutionary and dangerous activity, if you believe the honourable Member, whom we are dealing with. One of the activities which, according to the honourable Member, is clearly a threat is that we intend to digitise parts of the environmental information available to the Environmental Protection Agency, so that the public can find it, read it and share it with each other. I find it very difficult to understand how this poses a threat to Swedish forest owners. Environmental information, in accordance with the mandate we have given to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, which is one of the things referred to in the budget letter, will be made more easily found for the public through new technology. We see digitalisation as an opportunity in environmental work. New technologies can mean that the collection and analysis of environmental data can be revolutionized. The public, not least environmental organisations, can be better involved. And the decisions we make can be made on a better basis. As far as outdoor policy is concerned, this government, compared with the government of which Eskil Erlandsson was a part, has a tremendously high level of ambition. The work of outdoor organisations has been strengthened. They work with things like taking children out into the woods and teaching them how the forest works. It is also part of our broad outdoor policy, where forest issues are a very important part. Then we have an investigation that reviews precisely the need to possibly be able to appeal certain decisions made by the Swedish Forest Agency. It's a result of a judgment. Of course, we should not anticipate that investigation. If I had answered the question and had begun to speculate on the effects of the decision that might have been put forward, I would have done just that. That is why, of course, I will not do this. We need to wait for the investigation and then draw conclusions. We should not start by spreading rumors and making forest owners worried, perhaps for nothing.
i-d19c9536869d27d8-61	Mr President, I would like to I note with regret that the Government seems to intend to implement what is written in the budget proposal. I assume, Mr President, that the House, which will de facto decide on the law in this country, will not approve such a proposal. I say this because we have two other legislations to comply with. We have, for example, an EU Charter, which says in its Article 17, that everyone has the right to possess legally acquired property, to use it, to dispose of it and to bequeath it. In our own form of government, which the government has as well as we all have to live by, it says: a person's property is secured by the fact that no one can be forced to give up his property to the public or to any individual by expropriation or any other such disposal, or can tolerate the general restriction of the use of land or building, except when it is necessary to satisfy urgent public interests. ..................................................... To write in a budget proposal that a reform should be carried out that will enable the public, that is, all of us, to have a judicial review of how someone has their property, I consider to be, and now I repeat myself, spectacular. I only assume that the government will live up to our own form of government and the European Charter which regulates our work and which we are involved in in the European Union. Mr President, I would like a clear message from the representatives of the Government in this debate whether or not it intends to implement what is being written in its budget proposal.
i-d19c9536869d27d8-65	Mr President, I would like to The wording of the budget proposal referred to was also included in the 2016 budget proposal. If no revolution or major intrusion has taken place this year, when we have continuously worked to improve access to environmental information, among other things by giving a commission to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency to digitise the data you have, so that the public can find them and share them with each other. This is an example of the continuous work that we are doing, and it is also an example that clearly tells us what we mean by strengthening public access. What is striking about this is that a former minister does not know what is the definition of the public in the Aarhus Convention. It's very well regulated. It is not new; it is a convention that has been in force for many years, even during the years you were responsible, Eskil Erlandsson. It is also spectacular to stand and scare people, not least forest owners, through loose speculation. It has been known for a long time that there is an investigation to review a specific consequence of a specific judgment. This should be balanced against property rights, among other things. That is very clear from the instruction. It's not news, and there's nothing to scare up forest owners about. It is a process that is going on, and we should take the debate when the investigation is complete and not speculate and come up with consequences that we do not know anything about. It is not frightening that the public should have better access to environmental information, that we should comply with an international convention that we have signed and that we should ensure that the public has the opportunity to appeal the decisions that are taken. It is nothing but a good legal order. In this legal order we have received a specific case which is now being investigated in good order. Any measure to be taken should, of course, be balanced against different interests and conditions. That is precisely why there is a legal review of the issue. We have a great deal of commitment to nature conservation and forestry in our country, and there are several organisations involved. The evaluations carried out on the application of the Aarhus Convention in Sweden have found that the participation of the public and organisations in decision-making processes has led to an increase in the quality of the decision-making documents and that the decisions could therefore be taken on a better basis than if the public were not involved. This is, of course, something positive and something we welcome and defend from the government. The decision-making arrangements we have should be effective, rational and legally secure. The Aarhus Convention is an important part of it, but of course we have other legal bases as well. They are extremely important, and every decision should be balanced. I have to say that I regret Eskil Erlandsson's method of finding ghosts in government letters and using them to unnecessarily intimidate Swedish forest owners and paint that it would be a problem for us to digitise environmental information, so that the public can have access to it.
i-d19c9536869d27d8-73	Mr President, I would like to Let me say that in all his speeches the Minister for the Environment has now chosen to talk about environmental information. That is not what I have been asking you. I have asked whether the government intends to implement what is being written in its own budget proposal, namely that the public should have access to judicial review of forest measures. I have to say that I have not received an answer to this. Finally, let me add that neither the Aarhus Convention nor the case law impose clear, precise or absolute requirements on the extension of the rights of environmental organisations or the general public, compared to today. On the contrary, the Convention allows national adaptation according to the wording of the article on the right of speech – that is Article 9(3), I can say for information. The government needs to distinguish between its legal motives and its political ambitions on this issue, I think. Thank you for this debate.
i-d19c9536869d27d8-76	Mr President, I would like to This debate is about two things that are very different and certainly difficult to distinguish between for the listener. There is one specific case, which concerns the judicial review of a specific decision taken by the Swedish Forest Agency. This is investigated by a special investigator. From the government's side, we don't anticipate that investigation. The second part is a general, general ambition to allow the general public to participate in both outdoor policy, forestry policy and environmental protection. Then there are concepts that are defined by the Aarhus Convention and that are for this very reason. It is about access to environmental information and about the possibility, where relevant, of being able to appeal the decisions of the authorities and obtain a judicial review. From the government's side, we welcome the public's involvement in environmental work at large, and in nature conservation and outdoor work specifically. We have a general ambition to make this better all the time and, among other things, to increase public access to information. This is not a threat to those who own land, manage it well and often do so in collaboration with organisations, among other things. Our role is to find a balance in this collaboration. Better information is an important part of that. Dialogue is an incredibly important part. We're not gonna look for trouble where there's no trouble. A general ambition to increase public involvement in forestry issues is not a threat to the wise and skilled forest owners we have across the country.
i-d19c9536869d27d8-82	I'd like to welcome the Prime Minister.
i-d19c9536869d27d8-83	Mr President, I would like to Dear listeners, audiences and Prime Minister! I brought the records of the last Question Time with the Prime Minister. Then it sounded like this: It is naive to believe that the global refugee crisis and its effects on Sweden are over. I think that Sweden, as part of a long-term sustainable migration policy, needs to have just temporary residence permits and sharper supply requirements and keep them. ..................................................... I myself asked a question at last Question Time. Then the Prime Minister gave me no answer, so I will give him the opportunity again today. What does the Prime Minister think?
i-d19c9536869d27d8-86	Mr President, I would like to It'll be the same answer as last time. There's a temporary law. It shall apply to the time agreed by the Riksdag. It's a decision that's been made here. What comes afterwards is largely determined by the debate that is taking place in the European Union. It's important. It is when we get legislation in place in the European Union, where all the Member States assume their responsibilities, that we have the opportunity to do even better work on migration issues. It is decided in part by the global debate, as the UNHCR has a mandate to develop migration and refugee issues at the global level. These questions remain, and they do not settle Sweden alone. The questions may be taken further on the basis of these conditions. We aim to stand up for the right of asylum. There should be orderly immigration and migration, and there should be order and order in the reception. Those are our main pillars.
i-d19c9536869d27d8-89	Mr President, I would like to One thing the Prime Minister could have done is to tell him how he views the issue. Many wonder what happens when the temporary law expires. One thing the Prime Minister of Sweden could have done is to tell this House how he prioritises, what he wants to happen at European level and in Sweden. It's a choice Stefan Löfven makes or doesn't. I still try to ask again: Should Sweden maintain a system of long-term sustainable migration policy with temporary residence permits, or does Stefan Löfven think we should not do that? A simple yes or no to the question is surely the least we can ask for to lead a country in an important issue in a troubled world.
i-d19c9536869d27d8-92	Mr President, I would like to I was just telling you how we look at the question. The focus is that we should stand up for the right of asylum, we should have order and order in our reception and we should have regulated immigration. There's a temporary law. Then, of course, the intention is to go back to the law that existed before, but there is also – as Anna Kinberg Batra should know – an important discussion in the EU. There, the Swedish Government has constantly pushed that all Member States must take responsibility for the reception of refugees. There are now seven legislative acts proposed by the Commission. They are being dealt with in each Member State. The outcome of this treatment will also affect Swedish legislation. Anna Kinberg Batra is also aware of that. This issue is more of party political rhetoric than anything else. We'll make sure there's order in the reception. In addition, we will make laws that depend on what the EU's laws look like.
i-d19c9536869d27d8-97	Mr President, I would like to My question is a little on the same theme. Last autumn's immigration chaos has moved the debate in a completely different direction from the one we are used to on migration issues. Even the old parties in Parliament have realised that, despite what has been said before, there is a limit to what our country is capable of. Some measures have been taken – far from sufficient, but still. These measures have had broad support in the Riksdag. I guess that's a step in the right direction. If you listen to the debate today, you can easily get the impression that the border is closed; no one else comes to Sweden today. It's not like that. That is simply not true. It's a fake picture. The Swedish Immigration Service's latest forecast, which came about three weeks ago, tells us that in the next four years there can be almost a quarter million more asylum seekers to Sweden. This clearly shows, Mr President, that the measures taken by the government are far from adequate. At least equally alarming is the result of a large immigration of asylum, which is the immigration of family members. The Swedish Immigration Service's latest forecast shows more than 300 000 relatives over the next four years. Not least in the light of how the debate has sounded over the past year, we all understand that this will not be possible for Sweden. Will the government this time take sufficient measures in time to avoid a new immigration crisis in our country?
i-d19c9536869d27d8-104	Mr President, I would like to The government's message has always been that it was a very exceptional situation last autumn. Therefore, the measures taken were taken. That's right. A dramatically reduced amount of people are coming to Sweden, and more people are going to other countries. The fact is that we are not going back to that situation. Migration must work in Sweden and have legitimacy among the population. We're not going back there. Now both border controls and ID controls continue. Then we have agreed on rules that apply to family immigration, the grounds for temporary residence permits and so on. The existing provisions apply. We'll have to stick with them.
i-d19c9536869d27d8-107	Mr President, I would like to We haven't agreed. It is possible that the Prime Minister has agreed with some, but I do not agree. I want to go much further. I think it is advisable to go much further. The Finnish Immigration Service's forecast says that over half a million people can come to our country for the next four years. That's a lot of people. Yes, measures have been taken. These are temporary measures and inadequate measures. The measures for relatives do not apply at all to many of those who came in the worst period – only some of them. 150 000 of asylum seekers who arrived in 2015 are exempt from the new rules. That's worrying. Mr President, I would like to I am therefore asking my question again. Is the Prime Minister prepared this time to take action in time to avoid a new chaos?
i-d19c9536869d27d8-111	Mr President, I would like to I am happy to repeat my answer: we are not going back to the situation that prevailed last year. There are rules on how this should be done. Of course Jimmie Åkesson never gets along. For Jimmie Åkesson it is chaos whether one comes to the country from outside or if it is a thousand. It's always chaos. Always too much. The Finnish Immigration Service's forecast is significantly lower. We can see in the latest forecast what the Migration Agency actually believes. What the Swedish Democrats are proposing in reduced efforts for establishment would create chaos. What the Swedish democrats are proposing in reductions in Swedish welfare would create chaos. Yeah, that's exactly how it is. Every time I say something here, Jimmie Åkesson shakes his head. In fact, you'll have to stand up for the policy you're pursuing at some point. Your policy would create chaos in Swedish society. We're not going there!
i-d19c9536869d27d8-115	Mr President, I would like to Even though I had to pay such a high price, I do not regret that I made my decision to take my freedom and go. ..................................................... This weekend it is 15 years since Fadime stood in the Parliament's pulpit. It is 15 years since she became a voice for the vulnerable girls who live under oppression and threats and are at risk of being killed by their families. It is 15 years since she fought to live a normal life in Sweden. She did not accept the repression and the terrible abuse that takes place in the name of honour. Fadimes's fate moved us then and still touches us. Unfortunately, the issues are still equally topical. We must show that there is no place for oppression of honour in our society. The fact that the government is now following the call of the Riksdag and the Center Party to tighten the penalties for crimes of honour is welcome. To raise the issue is absolutely necessary. For more than ten years, the national coordinator for honorary repression at Östergötland County Administrative Board has been tasked with preventing honorary violence. The business is well-functioning. There is a high level of expertise, a large network of dedicated contact persons and opportunities for vulnerable children, girls and women to be helped. What worries me is that the government probably chooses to abolish the national coordinator and make it into the new, very symbolic, equality authority. I am genuinely concerned about what it will mean for women who are subjected to serious crime and serious violence that this activity should be discontinued. Important networks can be broken down and skills risk being lost because of this system change. How can the Prime Minister ensure that this move does not affect and impair the work of vulnerable children, girls and women who have been built up over a decade?
i-d19c9536869d27d8-122	Mr President, I would like to I thank Annie Lööf for the question. This is a very important issue. It is an issue of equality and human dignity. For my part, I am increasingly disturbed by the expression honorary violence. I cannot see anything honourable in violence at all, no matter what its basis. We have a gender equality strategy, and it will also prevent, prevent and prosecute violence. Even with what has been done in the last ten years, this, as Annie Lööf says, is not over. Unfortunately, many are still experiencing this violence, and something must be done. One conclusion we can draw is that a great deal has been done and the previous government deserves recognition for doing a number of good things and investing a lot of resources. However, the evaluation shows that little is going to be permanent. It will be too much project and temporary. It won't hold. We need to have much more structured and sustained work to turn this around. That's why we believe in an authority. As in all other areas of society, it will have the task of ensuring that we get structured, systematic work and knowledge acquisition and follow-up. Then we learn to improve this all the time and give the police, health care and the judiciary better knowledge and better ability to deal with these issues so that we sometimes get away from women being subjected to violence, not least so-called honour violence. That is the reason for this authority, and it is obviously intended to improve. It will be more structured and coherent.
i-d19c9536869d27d8-129	Mr President, I would like to Of course it is a question of equality, but it is also a question of crime. It is a question of girls, boys and women being subjected to severe violence, which is totally unacceptable. There is concern in society about putting an end to the very successful work that has been done to build a network of contact persons. This also applies to the concrete, robust work done by the national coordinator to help these vulnerable children and women in the country's municipalities. I am genuinely concerned that this work will be wasted. It is important to tighten the penalties, invest in education and deepen the survey. Everything that the Center Party and the Alliance have been pushing over the past year is important. I am concerned that the women affected will have to pay the bill when the government chooses to abolish the coordinator and transfer this to the symbolic equality authority. How does Stefan Löfven respond to that?
i-d19c9536869d27d8-133	Mr President, I would like to I find it strange that as soon as we have an authority to structure a job, collect knowledge and follow up on gender equality, it is symbolic. This is how Sweden is largely managed. We have a legislative assembly, we take resources and then we tell the authorities that they will have to ensure that the area of activity develops and works to what it aims to do. This is also true in the area of equal opportunities. As I said, a number of follow-ups show that it has not sat as well as it would. Good investments have become temporary projects that poke out and disappear, and then nothing more happens. We must have a much more systematic work. We're gonna get away from this. It is not okay for the lives of girls and women to be restricted and subjected to violence. We must move away from it, and that is why we are taking a serious approach to it and are also adding resources. This has to stop.
i-d19c9536869d27d8-137	Mr President, I would like to For many Swedes insecure jobs are everyday. You can have temporary employment or go to temporary employment. Others have jobs that they cannot actually live on. They may be hourly or part - time workers who are unable to support themselves or, even less, their families. This is what everyday life looks like for perhaps hundreds of thousands of Swedes. We also see that companies put in systems to have precarious employment or to use hourly and part-time employment. One trend is that some companies only want part-time employees. Unfortunately, public employers and government companies are also misbehaving. Often it is in low-wage sectors. Trade is a typical example with a lot of part-time work. This means that the employee has to hunt hours. You have to be on hand and ready to work when the employer calls. It creates insecurity and unsound dependence on the employer. It makes it hard to plan your life. It also makes it difficult to get bank loans and other things. We can do something about this. The reasonable thing is that you have a service that corresponds to the time you actually work. Many part-time workers have a job that is much smaller than the actual time worked. In the contract movement Seko pushed for an agreement to regulate this extra time. Since 2013, Norway has been subject to legislation stating that those who have worked more than part-time during the year have the right to write up the post so that there will be more time. That's a big advantage for the employees. I see this as a major step towards the right to work full-time. It is a right that should exist for those who so desire in both the private and public sectors. Is the Prime Minister prepared to initiate legislation that is similar to the Norwegian legislation and allows us to curb the abuse of low part-time employment for employees who actually work much more?
i-d19c9536869d27d8-144	Mr President, I would like to I very much share this concern about the development of the labour market. Right now we can see a slightly smaller proportion of part-time jobs and temporary jobs, but it is of course far from satisfying for anyone who wants full-time jobs. I am also afraid that we will see the developments that exist in the United States with so-called job gigs. Kind of like a music artist, you get a gig and you get to get in and work for a few hours. This is not a good development for the labour market, and we do not want to see it in Sweden. We have taken a number of measures. We have changed the Employment Protection Act, which limits fixed-term employment. It may not have been exactly the way we wanted it, but as was possible with today's parliamentary situation. It must be taken into account that there is some parliamentary resistance – unfortunately, because I think we should be able to have more secure employment relationships. SKL has concluded a collective agreement with Kommunal and will start a systematic work for municipalities and county councils to offer full-time positions, which should be the norm. We have reached an agreement in the Government and are now providing resources for the employees within Kommunal to have the opportunity to get training and thus get much more opportunities to enter as a nurse and get an open-ended position. We are doing this to improve conditions. We must be alert. I want to have a dialogue with the parties on what is a rational labour market and what will create the demand for labour in the future or, more accurately, how to get the labour force to come to itself. Is it with the worst and most precarious working and employment conditions, or is it with better working conditions? I believe in that later.
i-d19c9536869d27d8-150	Mr President, I would like to I agree with the government on the improvements that have been made – I think they are important and necessary. But I would have liked the government to be more offensive, because there is still much to be done. We have a huge abuse of temporary agencies, replacing ordinary employees. In practice, there are no initiatives there today. We still have the general fixed-term form of employment, which is made for precarious jobs without justification for why you do not get permanent employment. I think it is unreasonable in substance. I think it is reasonable that private employees too should have a trend towards the right to full-time employment, and then the proposal to regulate more time is a practical and concrete proposal which gives employees greater rights to employers who do not want to give them reasonable conditions of employment. I would like to make a strong call to the government to put forward a little sharper proposals and take a little more battle on these issues.
i-d19c9536869d27d8-154	Mr President, I would like to Again: Laws are passed in this Parliament, and a majority is required for them to be adopted. That is the main prerequisite. You cannot make any proposals. They simply do not get accepted, and that does not move things forward. Since we now have an agreement on the public side between SKL and Kommunal, I would like to point out that Handels is primarily seeking a contractual solution. They feel that it is the best solution that can be adapted to their reality. I think the best solution in the long term is for the parties to deal with this, because they can see what is needed in them. It is not certain that the conditions are exactly the same. Finally, we will always need to have a labour market order that addresses both the need for ups and downs and provides workers with the security they should have and which I believe is the best thing for long-term sustainable development.
i-d19c9536869d27d8-157	Mr President, I would like to The Russian state, led by Vladimir Putin, wants to rent the port of Slite for a long time. Slite harbour is heavily equipped and modernized and is now a large port. It is located on Gotland's east coast, and the background is that you want to build a gas pipeline in the Baltic Sea. The fact that a large harbour on Gotland should be rented by the Russian state is of course something that causes many to raise their eyebrows. Sweden's Commander-in-Chief has declined to implement this, in the light of the greatly increased Russian military activity in the Baltic Sea, which is part of the aggressive foreign policy that Russia is now pursuing towards Western Europe and our part of the world. It is the municipality board on Gotland that decides whether the harbour should be rented out. The Social Democratic leader Björn Jansson has recently said that they intend to complete the rental and that it is not for Gotland Municipality to make safety policy assessments. I regret that attitude. It can be understood that they think that there is someone else who should make the safety policy assessments. But now the Supreme Commander of the country has made a safety policy assessment, and Gotland Municipality's willingness to rent out thus stands against the Supreme Commander's advice. As Björn Jansson, Chairman of the Social Democratic Council of Gotland, says: The question is now on the table of the government. Possibly it does not do so formally – Gotland can rent out – but in reality it is the government that must intervene if this is to be prevented. My question to the Prime Minister is: Is it appropriate for the Russian state to rent a large harbour on Gotland?
i-d19c9536869d27d8-162	Mr President, I would like to It is precisely this perspective that we have the greatest duplicates about in this project. We have discussed Nord Stream 2 several times in different rounds and found that many of the things that the project is about are largely outside our decision-making space, as the pipeline should not be drawn on our territorial waters. But when it comes to activity on our land, it becomes a completely different perspective. I have said that we need to look at this issue seriously, and we are doing so from a purely security point of view. It's going on. However, we should remind ourselves of the legislative basis we have for what we can do. There is no doubt that this is an issue that we have to deal with with with the utmost vigilance, not least after we have graduated the defence on Gotland. This work is under way, and we are examining the matter carefully.
i-d19c9536869d27d8-164	Mr President, I would like to It may sound like an opening, but it is very unclear from the Prime Minister. They're looking into it carefully, but there's not a lot of time. During the month of December, the political committees on Gotland will start making decisions. The Liberals and the Moderates say no, despite the fact that this means reduced income for the municipality of Gotland – the Russians pay rent. But they say no. However, the Social Democrats and the other parties say yes, and this means that there is a majority to push this through. The Chairman of the Municipal Executive Board does not seem to change. If the government does not take a stand or just make some vague statements, as Stefan Löfven now did, it will not help. The municipality of Gotland will rent out. There are several ways to stop this. Finally, we can legislate on it. Another way is that Stefan Löfven calls the Social Democratic leadership on Gotland, takes them in the ear and tells us where the cabinet should stand. It is a security policy assessment that must be made, and it is the government that must do it. Stefan Löfven! Do not give the key to Slite port to Vladimir Putin!
i-d19c9536869d27d8-167	Mr President, I would like to It's never gonna happen. Now it is a question of what activities should or should not take place in Slite port. We have to deal with legislation. I think Jan Björklund realises that, because he himself has been in a government that approved Nord Stream 1. It is quite right that the situation has changed because we have deployed military resources on Gotland. I cannot here and now publicly explain exactly what we are doing, but as I said, this is the issue we have the greatest duplicates about in this project – how to ensure Swedish security interests in the port. It may also concern other ports, so it is a matter of monitoring this whole issue. We have to do it the way a government should – by following laws and preparing the case. This is what we are doing.
i-d19c9536869d27d8-171	Mr President, I would like to The government has initiated a back-up of LSS, the assistance that provides support for a dignified life for people with extensive disabilities – a hugely important freedom reform. Now we hear almost daily about the consequences of the government's austerity. People who have had the same needs for a long time are now denied assistance despite the fact that nothing has changed in their disability. An anxiety is spreading. People who need more hours do not dare to seek more out of fear of getting rid of the entire assistance. Not so long ago, the Prime Minister stood in this House and said that the government has made no decisions whatsoever on this matter. It is only that the Government has taken a government decision – an order in a regulatory letter that requires the Swedish Social Insurance Agency to stop the development of the number of hours of assistance. The government has tried to paint a picture of a widespread waste of resources, with the result that without debate, without referrals and without proposals and through hard government control, this right is being tightened up. In the special parliamentary debate that was held at the request of the Christian Democrats on the assistance allowance, the responsible minister said: ..................................................... My question to the Prime Minister is therefore: Is this government's task – that 3 billion are used for advertising and sponsorship – correct, and what basis has this been taken from? I ask the question because this has been put by the responsible minister as a reason why the Social Insurance Agency is now making cuts in assistance. That is why the answer is important.
i-d19c9536869d27d8-176	Mr President, I would like to First of all, it is directly wrong to say that I have said that we have not taken any decisions. We have decided on regulatory letters. But we have not decided that people who are entitled to the LSS should not get it. No such decisions have been taken at all. No decision has been taken to amend the law. This is an important right for the individual. If the bourgeois parties are so concerned, which one might have reason to be dependent on a couple of judgments that have probably changed the decision of the Social Insurance Agency because they have been a precedent, I can say that the responsible minister has acted quickly and said that the Social Security Inspection is now allowed to look up and analyse whether that is the case. In that case, there is reason for us to take action so that these people get what they are entitled to. But if the bourgeois parties are so concerned, they should have looked at their own history. What was it like in the bourgeois years? The number of refusals was constantly increasing. Then nothing happened on the bourgeois edge, and then no warning bells rang. Then you were happy. We are following this up very closely. We have been given the task of making the assessment – I do not remember exactly what source it comes from, it may be the Swedish Social Insurance Agency, but I will not swear on that – that up to 10% of the resources are not used for those who should have help, because they should have help. I do not understand how the bourgeois parties can be so persistent that it is important in this context that money should be allowed to go to profits, consultants and advertising. Is it not important that we agree that the money should go to those who need it? It should be something that we should shake hands on and see how we get at, so that the money goes to the individuals who need it and not to consultants and profits. I promise you we'll hold on to that.
i-d19c9536869d27d8-181	Mr President, I would like to It is also important to stick to accurate factual data in debates when explaining why things are being done. Now the Prime Minister beats his chest and says: We have not made any decisions on changed rules. No, that's exactly what I'm saying. Instead, you have said, through hard government, that we should tighten up and make sure that progress is broken. It is stated in the regulation letter that care should be taken to break the trend in the number of hours in the assistance allowance. It is on the front page, and that is the first point that is mentioned. It is clear that it is a decision aimed at something, namely to break the trend. When someone points this out, you say that there are 3 billion spent on advertising and sponsorship. It then reviews all the reports referred to by the responsible minister before the debate, during the debate and after the debate, and that task cannot be verified anywhere. Then there is a problem, and this problem is created by the decision that you have addressed to the Social Insurance Agency and which is now causing concern across the country among people who are in great need of assistance. Is the number correct or not?
i-d19c9536869d27d8-187	Mr President, I would like to We are going to break the trend of the increase, because we see that the increase has exactly this to do with. If Jakob Forssmed also believes in the market economy, how can it be that in this type of activity involving some 16,000 individuals in need of help there are 1 000 companies? Could it possibly be something that attracts there? I think so. I also believe that far too much of these resources go to lawyers, to advertising and to other things, and also to profits. Many people in this area are doing great work. But it is actually too tempting to make sure that the money goes to something else. I think we should shake hands at the end of it. This money should go to those for whom it is intended – end of story.
i-d19c9536869d27d8-191	Mr President, I would like to In Sweden, everyone should have the security to receive care in time as needed. Especially important is it for those who have really serious diseases, such as cancer and various heart diseases. The waiting times in our country vary quite considerably, and very many people unfortunately do not receive care within the framework of the health guarantee. I am, of course, particularly concerned about waiting times in the moderate Stockholm County Council, shortcomings in governance and poor and expensive procurement. And a mismanaged economy has become everyday in Stockholm County for ten years. Now waiting times may increase to make the start of the New Karolinska Hospital possible. Among other things, planned surgery for cancer patients will now be postponed.
i-d19c9536869d27d8-195	Mr President, I would like to I think there are more people who share the concern about the development in Stockholm County Council, and there is every reason for that. People who get access to healthcare in Sweden often express that it is an amazing care. We must also acknowledge this. There are incredible efforts being made. It is precisely accessibility that is a problem and that it is not always predictable which treatment will take place. What Mrs Ingela Nylund Watz is referring to is therefore quite right, namely that we need more systematised care there too. Cancer care is one such example where we have contributed half a billion dollars just to get more standardised processes in cancer care. From the time people have been diagnosed, today too many people have to wait too long for treatment to begin. In addition, there is a great deal of difference between different county councils. That is where we need to make a change. Where these so-called standardised processes are in place, they have improved considerably, and so we intend to continue to do so.
i-d19c9536869d27d8-200	Mr President, I would like to There are rapid changes in the world around us right now. We have witnessed a polarised election campaign in the United States, where people's fears have been exploited and where the political debate climate has reached a very low level. Trumps's proposals on security policy, free trade, human rights and climate policy are very worrying. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister how Sweden can work to push for strengthened human rights, increased global security and greater responsibility for the environment and climate in this changed reality.
i-d19c9536869d27d8-202	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for an incredibly important question. I think everyone is now thinking about how this choice changes our reality. The government has prepared carefully for both outcomes in the elections. We have looked at security policy, climate issues of course, free trade and other subjects and what would happen depending on which candidate would win. Now we know how it went. We also know that there is still a great deal of uncertainty about concrete policies from the new administration. Therefore, this analysis work continues, so that we can follow the decisions made step by step. It is quite clear that Sweden should be just as it used to be. We should be very clear and straightforward about what we think, not least with regard to Agenda 2030 and the Paris Agreement, and about the fact that this is a first step. We shall do so in conjunction with the European Union and other similar countries, so that we will have a real strength. We are not going to give up on this.
i-d19c9536869d27d8-206	Mr President, I would like to The government has assured on several occasions that the campaign for a seat in the UN Security Council has been both fair and transparent. At the same time, media reports are now emerging that during this campaign, the Prime Minister himself promised everything from diplomatic training to helping to mitigate the criticism of the Mauritius tax haven internationally. It is clear that this raises several questions. Is there information that has not emerged during this campaign? Promises have been made that everything will be accounted for as soon as the vote is finished. I would like the Prime Minister to put all the cards on the table. What have the Prime Minister and other ministers actually promised during this campaign?
i-d19c9536869d27d8-209	Mr President, I would like to We didn't promise anything. There are no cards to put on the table. We have promoted Sweden. I think I have met more than 100 Heads of State or Government and been in talks for 20, 30 or 40 minutes. For 95% of the time, we discussed how our countries can work together. If we can promote Swedish industry it gives jobs in Sweden and export opportunities. It's good for us. This often coincides with the development needs of countries in Africa, where there is quite a need to ensure the development of the food industry. They must have a much better food industry. Never have we ever said: now we are making a change to this in order for it to suit you and fit our candidacy to the Security Council. We got this place because Sweden is credible. We are an open, transparent, honest and honest country, and we intend to continue to be.
i-d19c9536869d27d8-214	Mr President, the Prime Minister. In country after country, right-wing extremes and sometimes racist parties grow. I believe that this is happening in the light and in the wake of growing economic and social gaps. People feel alienation and anxiety, and I believe that in a broad left there is an inability to talk about these issues. The Democrats in the United States forgot to talk about divides. Many Social Democratic parties have done so too. I wonder what steps the Prime Minister intends to take in order to reduce the economic and social gaps in our country and create a greater degree of equality.
i-d19c9536869d27d8-216	Mr President, I would like to I share the concerns about the right-wing extremes, and I believe, like Peter Persson, that it is about divides, anxiety and fear. I have for several years, from being a union elected to being a party chairman and Prime Minister, seen that there is a concern among people in Sweden that they should not be included in the future project. That is why it is important that we do the right thing in Sweden, as I say. We must ensure that we have an active industrial policy, infrastructure and housing. It is about investing in jobs but also about people being able to take the jobs that exist. Not least the k repetency lift is extremely important, because those who do not have sufficient education must be able to take the jobs that exist. We have 100 000 jobs today that have not been filled just because of this. So these are the decisive actions. Then we need to do a lot of things out in Europe and around the world. It is a work the government has already begun with a social pillar in Europe and the Global Deal in the world. We are going to have a good time in Sweden, and we are going to have a good time in Europe and the world.
i-d19c9536869d27d8-220	Mr President, I would like to In recent years, Sweden has invested heavily in world-leading research facilities, such as MAX IV and ESS in Lund. These facilities are expected to attract several thousand guest researchers annually, and it will be a great opportunity for Sweden to retain talent as well as recruit and attract new international expertise. It is therefore also important that we seem attractive when these people decide where to live. I am thinking of issues such as tax levels, opportunities for accompanying partners to get jobs and access to good schools. Denmark is doing what they can to get researchers to settle there. In fact, Parliament will be considering a proposal in this area as early as next week, and they already have an expert tax which is considerably more favourable than ours. In view of this, I wonder what the Minister for State and Government has plan for Sweden so that we can become the obvious choice for these experts when they choose where to live and so that they can work on our side of the Strait.
i-d19c9536869d27d8-223	Mr President, I would like to It is important to look at competitiveness. Now it is not only tax levels that count, but many other things also count. Betty Malmberg himself raised the possibility of getting a job and, not least, schooling. We must improve schooling considerably; I think we all agree on that. An overall assessment must therefore be made, but it is a fact that we have had substantial investments in Sweden. This is not because we are the worst in the world, but because we have something to contribute to which people are attracted. A balance must therefore be constantly struck between taxes and other elements. We can take just one example, namely the childcare available in Sweden. It counts as a great advantage and is not found in many other parts of the world, so it is also an important factor. The whole is therefore the most important thing. We should be competitive, because it is just as Betty Malmberg points out: D. One gives us enormous opportunities to stay ten years ahead of research. We'll make sure to seize that opportunity.
i-d19c9536869d27d8-227	Mr President, I would like to A week ago, I was in Diyarbakhār in northern Kurdistan, south-eastern Turkey, due to the arrest of a large number of politicians from the left-wing party HDP. I met MEP Feleknas Uca, and she told me that the bag is packed in the hall. She could be arrested at any time and risk 15 years in prison. I met the free women's congress KJA. The day after my visit, the organisation was shut down by the Turkish authorities, and their chairman is already in prison. I met the human rights organisation IHD. Their associates now sleep in different places every night to avoid arrest. These brave men and women welcome the fact that they continue the fight for democracy in Turkey, but that they need the support of the outside world. They welcome the statements that have been made but also said that we must put pressure behind the words.
i-d19c9536869d27d8-230	Mr President, I would like to We are all appalled by developments in the detention of political leaders, including one party leader. The opportunities of the newspapers are limited, as are those of civil society. We see masseuses and so on. This is a development that is not positive. The question is what is the most effective way of governing this right. I have said before, and I maintain, that EU membership does not mean asking a country if it wants to become a member or that a country asks if it can become a member – and that is the case. Instead, it follows a strict order in which chapters should be opened and when they should be opened. There are also chapters on legal certainty, international law and how it is managed. This means that the country that manages this right and implements the laws to be implemented is in question. At the moment, it does not seem that Turkey can be considered, simply because it is discussing the introduction of the death penalty.
i-d19c9536869d27d8-234	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask the Prime Minister what he and the Government intend to do to improve the conditions for people in Sweden, whether they live in rural areas, outside urban areas or in the city. I ask this because the government has announced an increase in the tax on fuel. This is something that inevitably strikes the countryside. More people risk moving away because their wallet is not enough. As a result, it becomes more difficult for municipalities and county councils to keep their tax rates down, and local services move. The circle will be very evil, and it will be difficult to break. I wonder whether the government has actually considered these negative effects on rural residents.
i-d19c9536869d27d8-237	Mr President, I would like to There are many issues that have a bearing on whether rural areas should develop or not. I was born in the country and grew up in the country, and I will do what I can to ensure that the countryside can develop. The whole of Sweden is needed. Stockholm, our capital, is beautiful and fantastic. It's needed, but we need the whole country. That is why we are now investing much more in the Rural Programme, among other things. There must be a service available. It's about the gas station, the food trade and other things. This also applies to broadband expansion, which we are adding in order for rural areas to have the same resources as other places. You're supposed to be able to operate all over the country. We are also working on a forestry programme. We can make a lot more of the forest, and I am absolutely convinced that the forest jobs will not end up in Stockholm city but in the country. Even food production will develop, which will do a lot for farmers and agriculture. We also have other themes under way to ensure that rural opportunities are strengthened. The whole of Sweden will live, and the whole of Sweden will develop.
i-d19c9536869d27d8-241	Mr President, the Prime Minister. In our country we have too many children who do not go to school, so-called home sitting or home sitting. This is often the result of a long exclusion that the student has experienced in school. You don't fit into the environment, nothing is fun anymore and you feel lonely and pull away. So begins the ostracism, as a quiet and slow suffering that often is neither visible nor heard. It is unacceptable that we have children in their sevens who say that she or he no longer wants to live or isolate himself in the home. When a sixteen - year - old goes out of school without approval on a single subject, he has already let it go far too far. A child who does not attend school due to mental illness or bullying also adversely affects 100 people in their immediate surroundings through sick leave, influence on siblings and other things. Prime Minister! We have school duty at school. What can the government do to ensure that all children are able to attend school, receive education and not be excluded?
i-d19c9536869d27d8-244	Mr President, I would like to This is a failure. Every child who gets home in this way is a failure, no matter what it depends – many times it is due to the mob ning. That is why we need to ensure that more resources are generally allocated to school. So do we. More adults in school mean that children have more adults around them. We also provide resources for student health. It has been shown that children's and young people's psychiatry also has a very high workload, because it comes for many straight from school. Students' health needs to be strengthened. Of course, we will also work with fundamental values issues. Precisely for the students mentioned here, we have set up a special investigation called Turning absenteeism into presence. It analyses carefully what this is due to. What are the factors involved, and what should we do to keep these children out of their homes? These children will also go to school, along with their peers, and gain knowledge that will take them forward in life.
i-d19c9536869d27d8-248	Mr President, I would like to A few months ago, Sweden and the Prime Minister were visited by US Vice President Joe Biden. As you all know, he really had only one message: It's a bad deal! What he meant was that Nord Stream is bad for Europe and for Sweden. It is bad for us to increase dependence on Russian gas. The Prime Minister also expressed his concern, and the government has then repeatedly said that this is not a good thing. It has turned out that this is a way for Russia to extend its military and economic power over Sweden and Europe. Then we come to the question: What does Sweden do? It did not sign the letter to the Commission, as it could have done. But the question now concerns Gotland. The ÖB has been very clear that this is bad, and he has advised against it. Is there really anything else for the government to do than listen to the ÖB and say no? Does the government not have to give a negative message there?
i-d19c9536869d27d8-251	Mr President, I would like to I do not know whether the issue concerns Slite port or Nord Stream in its entirety. As far as Nord Stream is concerned, I think we all know, by now, that the country's ability to decide in any other direction is very limited. We are currently looking at the formal application and whether it is complete and correct. Then, of course, it must be sent out for a referral. But since this leadership should not be drawn through our territorial waters, but in the economic zone, there is an international law and a Swedish law to deal with. This gives very limited power to Sweden alone. That is why the EU perspective is important, for example, in terms of access to energy or not being too dependent on anyone. It may also be a matter of security factors or of Ukraine's situation – I talked to President Porosjenko not long ago about this very thing. It is about the overall EU perspective. As far as Gotland is concerned, I have just replied to the Liberals' party leader Jan Björklund.
i-d19c9536869d27d8-255	Mr President, I would like to Freedom won 25 years ago. Europe was reunited and millions became free citizens. Two important preconditions have marked this path to freedom: the EU and NATO. Over these 25 years, the EU has acted as a force for integrating economies and making new democracies self-evident parts of Europe. At the same time, NATO has brought stability to the European peace order, thanks to the American commitment. However, parts of this are now under threat. With the choice of Trump, the foundation of our stability and security is at risk. There is a great risk that the transatlantic link will weaken and that it will not be possible to build Swedish security around it. There is also a risk of Russian pressure on the Baltic States.
i-d19c9536869d27d8-258	Mr President, I would like to As I said, the government had prepared for both verdicts in the presidential election. It was absolutely necessary to do this, even if a different outcome had been desired. However, it is now a reality, and that is why the analysis is also under way on security issues and what is now going to happen. It is too early to draw too far-reaching conclusions – now we have to follow what the incoming administration decides when it deepens and clarifies its policy. We will see what this will mean. The statement made during the election campaign on Article 5 – that this might not apply depending on whether a NATO Member State had paid enough for defence expenditure – is worrying. It is of course worrying if you have a different view of the transatlantic link. But we do not yet know what conclusions the administration lands in, because there are forces – not least in the Republican Party – that want a good transatlantic link. Let us therefore wait, but certainly there is reason for us to be very attentive.
i-d19c9536869d27d8-261	Mr President, I would like to Differences in ill health are usually largely explained by economic inequality. More equal countries have not only better health but also fewer social problems. People in equal societies feel better than people in unequal societies. But it is not only our health that is better and our well-being that is greater because we live in more equal countries. Growth potential is also greater in equal societies. Amongst others, the OECD stated in a report that measures to reduce inequality are tools to strengthen sustainable growth. Efforts to do this thus make societies fairer and improve people's health and well-being while strengthening society's economy. Sweden is still ranked as the most socially fair, but for many years injustices and inequality increased. What efforts does the government make to strengthen Sweden as a more equal and equal society?
i-d19c9536869d27d8-264	Mr President, I would like to Eva Lindh is doing an important analysis. We have moved from a situation where equality was seen as a problem within the general economic corps – also internationally – to equality being seen as a prerequisite for sustainable growth. There we are. This is what the experts stand for, and we shall take that on board. We have a momentum now. I will mention some concrete measures. For example, we have increased the tax on people who earn less than 50 000, in order to ensure that we have more revenue for the common welfare. We have improved the conditions for those who have the worst. We've reduced taxes on pensioners. There will be relatively the greatest difference for those who earn the least. We've raised the housing allowance. We have removed the distant parentheses of health insurance, and we have also improved unemployment insurance. I believe, however, that the greatest redistribution we are making is that of general welfare. We have contributed resources to school, health care and care for the elderly. I think this makes a big difference for people who are having a bit of a hard time.
i-d19c9536869d27d8-267	Mr President, I would like to The Prime Minister said that his biggest dubi was about the Social Democrats on Gotland intending to rent Slite port to Russian interests. My biggest doubles are about the Nord Stream 2 project itself. One can then think about what can be done about this project. I think there are good reasons to argue against Nord Stream 2. One reason is that it runs counter to the EU's Energy Union. Another reason is the deterioration of the security situation in the Baltic Sea region. A third reason is that it is a question of bypassing Ukraine so that they do not earn any money from transit traffic between Russia and the EU. My group raised questions about this in connection with the Nordic Council in Copenhagen, which the Prime Minister attended. There is a great interest in Nord Stream 2 overall. Six months ago, Sweden received an offer to sign a letter against Nord Stream 2, which several countries – including Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania – had signed. The Prime Minister and the Government Committee rejected this letter after six days of reflection. On what grounds did Sweden and Sweden's Prime Minister, together with other countries, not want to sign a letter in the fight against Nord Stream 2?
i-d19c9536869d27d8-270	Mr President, I would like to A letter can mean a lot, but it is to be attributed to such a decisive significance surprises me. This letter has no such significance. Several countries chose not to sign that letter. We are already having this discussion with the Commission. There we have requested a review and analysis from the Commission to find out what it means. This relates precisely to the issues raised by Mr Wallmark. That is precisely why it is important to see that this is an EU issue, in terms of everything from accessibility and dependence in energy supply to Ukraine's role, environmental issues and other things. This discussion with the Commission is ongoing. The pressure shall be on the Commission to do so, and it shall not depend on whether or not a letter is signed. Several countries did not sign the letter, but the same assessment is still being made. We need to analyse this from a European perspective.
i-d19c9536869d27d8-273	Mr President, I would like to I come from Gotland, a dynamic small business county. I am therefore well aware that the majority of companies, both on Gotland and in the rest of Sweden, are small companies. Companies with 0 – 49 employees account for 99% of all companies in Sweden and account for approximately 45% of the total number of employees. The business sector in Sweden is largely composed of small and medium-sized enterprises, and together they employ considerably more workers than the large companies. Changes for these companies, even a little smaller in nature, correspond to high absolute figures. The potential for these companies to contribute to higher employment in Sweden should therefore be very high.
i-d19c9536869d27d8-276	Mr President, I would like to Yes, it is quite right that small businesses are important and will increase in importance. However, I think that small and medium-sized enterprises should be seen together, because they often belong together in one way or another. But small businesses are playing an increasingly important role. Generally speaking, it is important for small businesses to find the right educated people. Many today do not and simply cannot employ. They can't take that additional order because there aren't properly trained people. That is why we are investing so much in the knowledge boost with, fully-fledged, 70 000 seats. Of course it matters very much. Investment, not least in housing and infrastructure, will also play a major role. In addition, we are making a huge investment in state venture capital, which is becoming more accessible to small companies. We are making a substantial increase in Almis's ability to lend to the small companies that need it.
i-X28S4Fe14ukgVp8KsGECp8	Mr President, I would like to The United Kingdom held a referendum on 23 June. Left side won, and Brexit became a fact. On several occasions in written questions, I have asked for the Government's strategy and work on the relocation of the European Medicines Agency (EMA) from London to Sweden, for Sweden as host country of the European EMA would have a huge impact on the life science sector in Sweden. Regardless of the government, we have invested in this sector with medical research, collaborative processes and coordination between different sectors in order to gain increased synergy. If EMA were relocated here, it would mean more opportunities for Sweden. Is it the Prime Minister's view that Sweden should work to get EMA to Sweden and if so, in what way? You have a huge responsibility to get EMA here.
i-d19c9536869d27d8-281	Mr President, I would like to Yes, it is. We think that Sweden should be in good shape. However, there are some really tough competitors we should know; there are more who want this. But I definitely think that Sweden should have that ambition, because we basically have a strong life science sector, and we should also have continued to do so. That's why we're investing in life science. Of course, we do this by discussing and promoting our advantages as a country, and we do so by further strengthening the view of life science as strong in Sweden. That is why we are bringing more resources and talking to the business community. We are talking to the business community, and of course we are also talking to those outside the country with whom we should talk. We keep looking at how we can strengthen the life science sector. I see a great opportunity for this, but we should be aware that what has been said is tough competition, because there are more people who want the authority. We'll do our best.
i-d19c9536869d27d8-284	I would like to thank the Prime Minister and fellow Members for taking part in this Question Time.
