i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-0	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin with a few words from the playwright Lin-Manuel Miranda, who he read out after the Orlando incident.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-1	The violent extremism is driven by irreconcilable hatred. It is a hatred of LGBT people, hatred of women and freedom of people. It is the responsibility of the government and society as a whole to fight terrorism and extremism firmly. It's a task we never turn away from. We also all have a duty not to fertilise hatred with heated or with threats, but always to defend our democratic values. This summer I will participate in Stockholm Pride to celebrate love and to celebrate the open society. I hope that all the good forces in Sweden will come with us.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-3	Sweden must now continue to act in a troubled environment of the refugee crisis, of Russia's illegal annexation of Crimea and of the referendum in the UK on membership of the EU. At the same time, we are facing unemployment, segregation and shortcomings in school at home. But, Mr President, Sweden has never backed up in the face of the challenges. We are strong in a troubled time. Sweden now has among the highest growth rates in the EU. Sweden has higher growth than the United States and our Nordic neighbours. 110 000 more people now go to work since the election, and Arbetsförmedlingen has presented the most positive forecast since those measurements began ten years ago. The proportion of young people who work is the highest in 15 years, and Sweden has not had such a high employment rate between 20 and 64 years since Carl Bildt drove the only road's politics in the ditch and Birgit Friggebo wanted to sing We shal overcome. I would remind the young people that it was 1992. This is an incredible economic force to use. We need it to continue to push back unemployment in both rural and urban areas. We will invest in Sweden. The government is now investing SEK 8 billion extra annually in Sweden's schools. It gives thousands more teachers. It provides higher teachers' salaries, reduced groups in both preschool and fritis, more early contributions and greater government responsibility for an equal school. It's not tax cuts, it's community-building.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-6	We are now investing 10 billion in welfare, which together with our previous efforts equals the cost of at least 30 000 new colleagues in health care, in health care and, not least, in the demanding social services. These are not tax cuts. It's community building. This is important. We as a society can never ever accept that violent and extremists try to take control of someone else's life or hinder police, ambulance or firemen in their professional activities. Yes, the resources of the police will be strengthened, and it will be done in the short term. The stonethrowers are to be stopped. Everyone's right to equality, individual freedom and a safe home environment must be defended. On this there is broad agreement here in the Swedish Parliament. That's the fight we're going to take together. But it takes something much bigger, slightly wider. A structural struggle is required against the segregation which fattens hopelessness, crime and extremism. It cannot be solved by a sixth job tax deduction or lower wages. It requires a developed Swedish model that covers everyone. Therefore, the government will launch a broad and solid reform programme to raise vulnerable areas in our country. This work will be based on research and evidence and what can break the mechanisms of segregation. This work will take place in five areas. We will do the work together with authorities, municipalities and associations. It should not be a short-term, glossy project, but it should be a long-term reform effort for Sweden to stay together. It is simply community-building.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-10	Finally, I would like to address all of you who took responsibility for the fact that Sweden now finally has the long-term energy agreement that industry and households have requested. Thank you! Block policy is and remains a brake block for Sweden. There is no contradiction between attacking each other's policies, having a tough political debate, and at the same time being able to work together to resolve concrete issues and move the country forward. My appeal to Parliament remains. Bury block politics. Let's take the country forward together!
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-12	Mr President, I would like to I love you! That's what it said in a text that 30-year-old Eddie Justice sent to his mother a few minutes after two o'clock on Sunday night from inside the night club The Pulse in Orlando. Maybe he had just said or felt that he loved another guy, earlier that night. We'll never know. When his mother wrote, I love you in a text to her son barely an hour later, she didn't get an answer. The next day, it was confirmed that Eddie Justice was one of the 49 victims of the worst mass shooting in the modern history of the United States. Mr President, I would like to The massacre in Orlando was a hate and terror attack on innocent people, against the LGBTQ movement, against our whole open society, against our way of life, against the right to be itself, against our values, against all of us. The Orlando attack shows how the values of open society, our values, can never ever be taken for granted and must always be defended.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-14	Mr President, I would like to When the unimaginable happens it sometimes feels a little easy to go back to everyday life, but the security of our Swedish society gives us strength when we need it most. Here at home, summer holidays have just begun. The morning stress has been replaced by sleeping mornings for students. Parents count the days of their vacation. Many who have come here, new in autumn and winter, now have the opportunity to discover Sweden without darkness and cold. Sweden is a very good country to live in for many, but not for everyone. There are those who, although leaving school now, were unable to get the results they would need. There are those who are free now but who will not go back to work, because they have no job to go to. There are those who were looking forward to seeing their favorite artist at a festival but who stay home for fear of abuse and abuse. The Swedish Parliament will soon have a summer break, but Sweden's challenges do not take holiday.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-17	Therefore, we Moderates have a plan for a stronger Sweden. It takes its starting point in the most Swedish of values, namely the one that is about doing the right thing. We're doing the right thing here. We contribute to the best of our ability, and we have a strong society that stays together. Our plan has five important elements that determine how Sweden can be strong in the future: strong economy, zero tolerance to bad schools, more in work, growth throughout the country and a security you can trust. Our plan for a stronger Sweden starts with a strong economy. Responsibility for the economy requires reduced grant costs. Tax money must be used efficiently and correctly. Anyone who can contribute but still takes the right to live on others fails society. The second part of our plan strengthens the school through more teaching and more space for skilled teachers and by Sweden introducing zero tolerance to bad schools. All students have the right to good knowledge, but no one has the right to expose students to a bad school. The third part of a plan for a stronger Sweden breaks the exclusion. In order for more people to get their first job, more people must be given the opportunity to learn the job at work. That's why we need the first-job job. In addition, work and effort should always pay off, and therefore the first-job deduction is needed. The fourth part of a plan for a stronger Sweden provides opportunities for better growth throughout the country. This requires more housing, better transport and security of energy supply. The harmful effect tax is now abolished. This is important for jobs, not least in industry. Sweden cannot afford early retirement of nuclear power. The fifth part of our plan for a stronger Sweden is about that security must be everywhere. It requires police officers, sharp penalties, and society to react with full force to anyone who attacks someone who tries to make security work. Sweden must be a strong society for everyone, and it must apply everywhere.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-23	Mr President, I would like to If you want to lead Sweden forward, you have to have a plan. Stefan Löfven has not, and he closes his eyes to Sweden's challenges. Soon 1 million people live in Sweden in exclusion. By 2020, health insurance costs are approaching double levels compared to 2014, and we have not become twice as ill. Next year, the Government will borrow SEK 85 million per day and reduce labour force participation – in a boom. Stefan Löfven is losing control of the Swedish economy. This is not how you take responsibility for Sweden.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-24	Mr President, I would like to A challenging environment requires cooperation. For example, the fight against terrorism cannot be waged but, together with others. Next week, the British people will vote on their EU membership. The result is important not only for them but also for us. We need active European cooperation, more than for a long time now. We need to see the possibility of membership of NATO in terms of building security together. As we stand here debating, Swedish men and women are practicing together with colleagues from NATO countries in the Baltic Sea region. It's important. A plan for a stronger Sweden is not contrary to, but strengthened by, cooperation with others. Mr President, I would like to This debate is about how Sweden can stand strong and face challenges. It takes a plan. We have Moderates. Four parties in the Alliance seek the confidence of voters together to lead Sweden forward based on common values, such as that it must always pay off to work. We know that you have to work to achieve political results. We are prepared – and look forward – to do that job.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-27	Mr President, I would like to The world has been shaken by further Islamic terrorist acts in recent days. The events in Paris and, not least, Orlando are new examples of the state of war in the world. It is a war that also concerns us here in Sweden, although we do not yet count any Islamic terror victims on Swedish soil – at least no innocent ones. These acts are attacks on our society and our way of life. These are attacks on democracy, transparency and freedom. We are at war, and it is a war that we must fight with other countries in our part of the world, but also with the part of the Muslim world that suffers from murderous oppression, the expulsion of minorities and so on. We will fight this war both militarily and humanitarianly. We shall enable oppressed minorities to remain in the immediate vicinity and thereby counteract the attempts of terror sects to drive them out. We do so by establishing safe zones, and we do so by participating in peacekeeping operations and by increasing our humanitarian aid. However, we have a responsibility to take on board at home too, Mr President. I am extremely concerned about what the irresponsible, lax immigration policy of recent decades has brought about in the form of terrorists and extremists. We have really had no idea who has entered our country, and the division and segregation that followed by irresponsible politics fattens and breeds polarisation, hatred and contradictions. We see people who have grown up in Sweden but who do not belong to – people who physically are here in Sweden but who on a mental level are in a completely different part of the world. These are people who have never had a chance to belong. They have not been expected to belong to the Swedish community, but have been left and expected to build their identity based on their own or their parents' background. That is an enormous betrayal, Mr President. It is an enormous betrayal that will cost and has already cost in terms of economic resources and social problems. I would say that there are seven parties in this House who should be ashamed together of this – ashamed of their betrayal.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-33	What we need to focus on now is keeping the country together. No matter how much it attracts us to say, what did we say? It is important to look ahead and try to find a way to rebuild cohesion and cohesion. We need to be clearer about hitting those who are misbehaving and who are here to destroy and exploit. At the same time, we must strengthen the path to belonging to those who have a sincere will and ambition to become part of Swedish society, live here permanently and adapt to our society. We must strengthen the path to cohesion through both requirements and incentives. It should be based on the idea that you always do your duty before you demand your right. It will be based on respect for Swedish culture and for the people who lived here before us and who have built this country. We must create a valued citizenship, greater respect for our common heritage and a strengthened spirit of citizenship. We shall have a clear defence of the norms and values that build and have built our country, and we shall have a stronger link between Swedish citizenship and the welfare and public service offered. We're going to get rid of ethnic discrimination and special solutions. Instead, we should focus on real jobs – real jobs in industry, welfare and rural areas. Mr President, I would like to There is much talk of community building and integration in the debate. There will be talk of it even today, I guess, and rightly so. But it's not enough just to talk. It's not good enough to just make up new names. is on old politics that has never worked. Instead, Sweden needs a real cohesion policy, free from beauty painting and blind spots.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-39	Mr President, I would like to A total of 76 million Turks are joining the EU. With those words printed in black and dirty footprints coming in through a wide-open door, Brexit proponents are now campaigning for Britain to leave the EU. I'm going to talk about the dangerous populism. The political paradox of our time is striking. Never before has the population been so well educated, had access to so much information and been able to know so much about their surroundings. Yet it never seems easier to translate simple populism into voices. It is as if we know more and more but can understand less and less. Sociologist Zygmunt Bauman was recently in Sweden, and he then described the public conversation as a mirror room and an echo chamber. Not least in the digital rooms we believe we meet other people but are presented for copies of ourselves. We call out opinions just to hear the same opinions shouted a little louder back. The digital rooms where we today shape as much of our image of the world are designed to meet as smooth a world as possible. Your likes decide what new opinions you face. Your friends are sorted by who already thinks like you. In an environment of like-minded people, we can then cast out opinions and meet with oceans of approval without even having to argue or substantiate with facts. In this way, we build our identity on more and more cross-security. We are confirmed, meet the least possible resistance, drift a bit further – and the platform can sell more advertising. Such is the logic of the market, and there is nothing wrong with it as long as there are other arenas that break the commercial logic of the liberal ideal. In these we grow by meeting different perspectives, and we shape our views in open and critical debate. There, the right opinions mean that you have the best arguments, no matter who brings them forward, and not that you are the one with the most likes. The basis for this is laid in a school where we are not serviced as customers but challenged as learning individuals. Formation is the only antidote we know against myths. Therefore, the school must never become a mirror room filled with reflections of ourselves. The school should be a meeting place of students with different backgrounds, experiences and opinions. In the best school, house children and apartment building children meet in the same school yard. There, new arrivals and old arrivals read math together. School segregation is to be broken. This is the government's school policy in reforms such as Collaboration for the best school, opportunity for free schools to receive new arrivals and targeted investments to schools that are the toughest. The school will give us the tools we need to understand the world and not just repeat our own image of it. Everyone should be able to tell the difference between true and false, facts and propaganda and news site and hate site. We invest in education in source criticism and media and information literacy. An IT strategy for the school is developed. Efforts are being made to strengthen critical thinking that prevents racism, sexism and violent extremism. It is part of the work to prevent hatred and extremism. Throughout this debate, our thoughts go to LGBT people all over the world, in the United States and to the victims of the terrible attack in Orlando. The school libraries will be staffed. Today, it is not the number of books on the shelf that constitutes a library but the competence to provide knowledge of how to navigate through an infinite amount of information and opinions. Mr President, I would like to Populism is always a neighbour of authoritarianism. It wants us to stop thinking and to blame our problems on someone else. It never has time for the difficult and never gives room for the complex. In Europe, media laws are now being tightened up, and land-won rights are being threatened. Climate change is denied. In the world of populism, the warmer climate is not the result of carbon dioxide emissions but some conspiracy, someone else's fault and someone else's responsibility. This is what makes populism so dangerous. You know how it is said: we are the first generation to eradicate poverty and the last one to stop climate change. Then we do not have time to throw away our trust in those who market simple solutions. That is why I am defending the grey compromise. Sometimes it's the most colorful thing there is. It's not simple. It requires patience, realism and the ability to maintain the visions of real political craftsmanship. But this is the only way of building a society: step by step and through hard political work with the eyes on the goal of the fossil-free welfare society, 100% renewable energy production and a school where every child can grow to be the adult he wants to be. This is what we call being visionary realists.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-52	Mr President, I would like to In a moment, the world can change in different ways. It became particularly clear this weekend, when Orlando suffered a terrible act of hatred and terror – a act that struck families mercilessly, an act of terror that echoes the world over. This was also the case in November last year in Paris, and this was the case in March this year in Brussels, when terror once again showed Europe its face. In seconds, families had been torn apart. Grief and pain followed in the wake of the terrorist's terrible actions. This is the case for young women who are abused in asylum homes, for those who wake up with palpitations and fear every morning. This is the case for all those who are victims of a crime, for those whose villas have been searched or vandalized. There is one before and one after Orlando, Paris and Brussels. There is also one before and one after being subjected to abuse and crime. There is also a clear conclusion: with security and the equal rights and value of all people, we can never compromise. Against those who commit crimes, society's response must be clear and resolute. The punishment must be severe. The police must be given priority. A clearer focus must be placed on redress for victims. The Center Party has therefore proposed that the police should have more resources, so that they can get more colleagues and higher wages, so that they can clear up more crimes and carry out their preventive work, be on hand and be visible. Society must also take greater responsibility. We must ensure that young women are not abused while waiting for information if they are allowed to stay in Sweden. Authorities should not be allowed to duck on the issue of liability. Crimes in rural areas should not be piled up, and gangs should not be allowed to wreak havoc without a legal penalty. The state of law must exist throughout the country. It is one of the absolute core tasks of the state. Security must be assured, and it must be for everyone. Mr President, I would like to In a moment the world can also change for the better, in the great as well as in the small, by a positive message. It can be an order for the small business so that the monthly bills can be paid, a handshake on climate agreements that matter to the entire planet or a phone call that involves offering summer jobs. Jobs are still one of the biggest challenges facing Sweden. According to the government's own forecast, we're heading for $1 million in alienation in just a few years. We are moving towards more and more people who are unemployed and are increasingly away from the labour market. These are people who have not heard from an employer for several years, people who have come new to Sweden and who lack both language skills and education. Against this background, the risk is obvious that Sweden is split between those who have jobs and those who do not. The gap risks becoming both deeper and wider than we have ever seen before. Mr President, I would like to The Center Party stands for a direction forward, for new jobs throughout the country, for security, for environmental performance, for a good school and reduced gaps. We refuse to stand by and watch a new subclass emerge. We refuse to deny jobs to the most vulnerable groups. In difficult times, we politicians have to take responsibility, show action, roll up our sleeves and show that we not only see the problems, but that we also present concrete solutions for a way out of exclusion, a way away from passivity. To achieve this, concrete reforms are needed for more companies and more jobs. The Center Party has therefore proposed a summer job deduction. We help young people who lack experience to the first job by removing the employer's contribution entirely for the employer when they offer someone under the age of 18 an extra job. This is how the first important line in the CV can be written. That's how we really tear down obstacles. That is why we have put forward proposals on entry jobs. New arrivals should be able to be employed at a lower entry rate and move from low contributions to higher income. You get more money in your wallet, you get a foot and you can start climbing up on the pay ladder. We have put forward proposals for entry companies where everything needed to start a business is an idea and an app on the mobile phone. The sharing economy is here to stay. We need to invest in startups, tech companies and more small companies across the country. Mr President, I would like to The key to the exclusion solution is to spell jobs, and to invest in companies is to invest in jobs. It's not more difficult than math.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-69	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. This debate marks the end of an unusually eventful parliamentary year. We have seen successes and heavy setbacks. We've seen disgusting acts of terror like the one that hit LGBT people in Orlando just the other day. We see millions of people on the run. Some of them have tried to get to Europe during this time. Now they are faced with closed borders. They are met by a Turkey that is paid to be our border police. We hear almost daily about new fatal accidents in the Mediterranean. With the refugee crisis, there was also a crisis of appreciation. We see how rhetoric has shifted towards racistism and how politics has shifted in the same direction. Soon the House will decide to prevent families from living together and replace permanent residence permits with temporary ones. This makes life even harder for many people on the run. At the same time as this happens, I am pleased with the Left Party's influence in Swedish politics. We have been able to implement important welfare reforms through the state budget in cooperation with the government. These are fine reforms: free medicine for all children, free dental treatment for young people, free mammography, free of charge outpatient visits for the very oldest and free contraception for young people. We're adding new stones to the welfare building. I am also pleased that, together with the government, we are finally beginning to do something about the housing shortage. In the next few years we are investing in both renovation and new construction of apartments that you can actually afford. It's a good start, but more will be needed. I am most pleased with the 10 left-wing billions that will create both better welfare and more jobs. The fact is that the Left Party has hardly had this much influence on Swedish politics in the past as we do today. Yet there is still a great deal to be done. When it comes to getting the government to change fundamental policies, tax policies and distribution, we have not yet succeeded. The Social Democrats spoke about how the right-wing tax cuts have affected welfare and torn Sweden apart. But now that they have the chance, they don't do much to change that. We have a tax system in Sweden that is basically rigged for those who have the very best. On paper, we have progressive income taxation, but with the generous interest rebates and the RUT and ROT deductions, things look different in practice. It's about huge sums of money. It is those who have the best use of the deductions. On paper, we have a corporation tax that should be the same for small and large companies. But in practice, the really large companies can choose to pay corporate tax. In practice, it is voluntary – so generous are the possibilities for deductions. It was a striking television report on Sweden's Television recently that Ulla's flower shop pays more corporate tax than SKF, Electrolux and Volvo do. It's not a fair tax system. It is time to do something about this if we are serious about the fact that right-wing policy has widened the gap. Then we cannot have a tax system that is rigged for those who are in the best position. The new bank tax that we have received with the government is a step in the right direction, but it is a long way to go to a tax system that makes us contribute according to our ability. Then one must dare to limit the deductions for the richest, largest and most prosperous companies. It will soon be half-time in this term of office. Now it is up to the government to prove whether it was serious about closing the gaps in Sweden, whether it was serious that we should pay taxes after sustainability and whether it was serious that bourgeois politics was unfair. We are prepared to do something about these injustices. We hope the government is too.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-83	Mr President, I would like to Freedom is to love who you want. It was this freedom that the terrorist in Orlando wanted to take away from his victims. We don't turn to terrorism. Freedom must be defended. Mr President, I would like to Sweden's biggest challenge for the foreseeable future is the integration of all the new arrivals who have come and come to Sweden. Let me be clear: the reforms and the re-think we now have to do are more comprehensive than we have done before. Integration starts with the first job. But LO and the Social Democrats are stopping the necessary solutions. Thresholds are too high, and starting salaries for low-skilled new arrivals are too high for most of them to get jobs. This is what all the experts who review Sweden say: IMF, OECD and the European Commission, but also our own export agencies Konjunkturinstitutet and the Council of Finance Policy. Liberals want to see easy start jobs for newcomers. The starting salary for the new arrivals is lower, but the point is that people go from grants to jobs. The Prime Minister speaks of the Swedish model but when it comes down to it, defends only a high dependence on grants. Job, Prime Minister, is better than contributions. The work line is better than the benefit line.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-88	Many newcomers come from countries that have a completely different view of gender equality than we in Sweden and the West. We have gone through a hundred years of equality, which many countries in the Middle East have not done. The fact that many girls and women live in honorary oppression in Sweden today is our generation's biggest gender equality challenge. Integration is about a lot. It is about jobs, housing, values, equality and school. School is the foundation of society. The challenge of school policy is now twofold. The first is to manage to receive all newly arrived children and lift them into Sweden. The second is to manage, at the same time, to lift school results in international surveys, where the results have fallen for 25 years. This requires a strong school policy with a focus on knowledge and study discipline. We're going to have a school where teachers have the authority to maintain order in the classroom. We're going to have a school where we keep the national exams and we're not going to the government's investigators' proposal to abolish them. We know that tests, follow-up and knowledge tests are important to provide students with help and challenges. The touch aggravation of the red-greens for all that is called tests and grades must cease. Order and understanding combined with knowledge monitoring are the weakest students' best friend. The teaching profession is Sweden's most important profession, and it must be treated accordingly. Mr President, I would like to Sweden also needs more liberal solutions in the economic field. The labour market is regulated according to LO's requirements catalogue. The queues in the housing market are similar to the bread queues in the GDR. The systems are protected over the market. The housing market is doped with subsidies. The labour market is doped with subsidies. The planned economy is also making conquests in the energy market. Five parties agree to push out massive subsidies, at least 40 billion and probably up to 100 billion, to build new, unprofitable wind turbines. Since Sweden already has a surplus of electricity, it is hard to understand why we should build new power plants. There is only one purpose, and that is that hard-subsidised wind turbines should compete for the price of nuclear power. Sweden needs both nuclear power and wind power, but Sweden does not need air castles. You Social Democrats believe that subsidies, subsidies and regulations are the solution to all future challenges, that people and markets cannot cope with anything on their own, and that political decisions are needed to boost people's lives. Instead, we liberals believe in man. Sweden needs less left-wing solutions and more liberalism.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-98	Mr President, I would like to It was cold planned. The terrorist struck at night in a place where many were gathered, in a place where many of the people he hated were: a nightclub for LGBT people in Orlando. The terrorist called the police, probably to clarify his motives, and swore his allegiance to IS. At least 49 people died that night when freedom and openness were attacked. We mourn with the families of the victims and with the entire American nation. In this joint grief work, our bonds are strengthened, and from what the forces of evil believe has been a victory, we will come out stronger. IS hails Omar Mateen and calls him a warrior of the Caliphate, someone who has followed their call to hit the West alone. It's not clear if the killer had any direct contact with IS-- probably not-- but what's clear is that he shared their values and consumed their propaganda. The fight against IS is not a geographical battle. It's a battle for the host. Mr President, I would like to This battle is also being waged here in Sweden. A few weeks ago Eskilstuna politician Abshir Osman testified that there are parts of his city where it is easier to express support for than opposition to IS. If we did not have evidence in the form of hundreds of jihadists going to Syria, this would have been difficult to believe and impossible to take in. We must strengthen Sweden's work against terrorism and radical Islamism. We Christian Democrats have proposed an anti-terrorist package of a quarter of a billion in order to increase our preparedness and prevent terrorism in a better way, for example through a strong commitment to the Living History Forum. Mr President, I would like to The spread of radical Islamism, however, is only an example of the crisis in which Sweden stands. For generations we built a common capital of good values. Together we woven a dense web of values that have carried us over times of unrest and after which we have built prosperity and welfare for all: freedom, equality, human dignity, own responsibility and humanity. Today they are being challenged, and the value capital is being drained faster than it is being replenished. Mr President, I would like to What, then, is Stefan Lövven's response to the valuation crisis, his response to the emergence of parallel societies in which Swedish laws do not prevail, his response to the stoning of the suburbs, his response to the sexual harassment? Stefan Löfven claims, when under pressure, that he does not accept this, but the truth is that he is passive in the face of development. His unwillingness to act says more than his flow of fine words. Because there's no shortage of fine words. Promises say a lot and a lot about community building and investments, but he has forgotten the part that enables all successful constructions, namely a solid foundation. Without a solid foundation of values, Stefan Lövven's project will collapse as a cheat. Mr President, I would like to Last autumn Swedish Radio turned directly to the residents of Tensta district outside Stockholm to get their testimony about the spiral of violence. One mother stated that she can put up with much but not with the shootings – that a shot in a criminal settlement had gone through her innocent neighbor's window. It made her think of Somalia and the war from which she had fled. We need social and non-profit involvement in the exclusion areas. The silent majority in these areas must be given the opportunity to build their own lives. Small entrepreneurs must be able to be offered service without being blackmailed. Women must be able to choose for themselves whether they want to wear a veil or not without being subjected to harassment. The craftsman must know that his car is ready to take him to work the next day. This is the majority of our suburbs, and for them to be able to operate, order is needed. They need more police officers to stand by them and protect our common values. We Christian Democrats have proposed 2 600 more policemen who are visible, and we have funded it in our budget. We've proposed increased powers so that the police can do their job. We do this because the valuation crisis must not be deepened and so that the values that have built Sweden will continue to build Sweden – all parts of Sweden. But for this to happen, new solutions – Christian Democratic solutions – are no longer required of the policy of passivity.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-109	Mr President, I would like to Now the opposition has spoken. Suddenly – I have heard this at some point and in other contexts recently – they begin to use words like Swedish values, stick together Sweden and even equality. But the beautiful words shone a bit falsely in the encounter with bourgeois politics. The opposition describes quite well the problems and challenges that we have in Sweden today. I agree – Sweden has far too high unemployment, and we have problems with inequality, school outcomes, lack of security and lack of cohesion. We have these problems. But they are the result and the balance sheet of eight years of bourgeois politics. It is good that the bourgeois are finally looking at where their policy actually is, but in this light the proposals seem strange to say the least. For what will it be when we sum them up? Yes, further tax cuts of a total of SEK 64 billion. Everyone understands what that will mean. To put out the fire, the bourgeois want to pour on gasoline. It will lead to increased gaps, increased insecurity and lower school outcomes. And so they add to the proposal for a reduction in wages and the defence of welfare gains. Then we have a complete plan for the decommissioning of the Swedish model. But when something breaks, you're supposed to fix it. One should take the opportunity to build better and stronger for the future, and that is why the government has changed the direction of policy for Sweden. Now, cutbacks and tax cuts are no longer in place, but now social construction. Anna Kinberg Batra! What do you think your policy of widening gaps is doing for the cohesion of our country Sweden?
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-115	Mr President, I would like to The Prime Minister has had almost two years and two minutes now in this Chamber to take Sweden's challenges seriously. Instead, he's standing here talking about me and my colleagues. I would like to ask the Prime Minister, who has already called the Swedish people surreal and who last time we had a party leader debate, why we were not satisfied, why and how he can be so satisfied. It is true that the Swedish economy is strong, but Stefan Löfven is now losing control of it. I would like to ask the Prime Minister how he can be so satisfied and be so high in tone when, according to the government's own forecasts, 1 million are in isolation and are met with great, hateful words and so far a total of 135 trainee jobs.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-118	Mr President, I would like to Sweden has problems. It is too high unemployment, too much segregation and too little equality. These are problems that we must now address. The only question is how to do it. After your eight years of government, Anna Kinberg Batra, we got the results that we live with today. You must reasonably realize that lowering taxes and cutting welfare takes it into people's security. The best thing we can do for people is get them back to work. It is gratifying to see that unemployment is falling and employment is rising. We are increasing the number of people in the labour force, and yet the employment rate is increasing. It's a sign of strength. Let's get on with it. We're not going back. I hear you're talking about a plan; so did the Jönsson League. When it comes to a strong economy, we had to take over a large budget deficit delivered by you, although you inherited a budget surplus. It's not a good policy, Anna Kinberg Batra.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-123	Mr President, I would like to The Prime Minister may decide how to describe the Swedish economy. Most assessors agree that it is strong, and the Prime Minister usually agrees that there are more jobs now after the reforms of the last few years. It sounds almost in the rhetoric that the Prime Minister rejects the reforms that have given Sweden such a strong economy and more jobs. It almost sounds like he is against the reforms that have given ordinary wage earners about SEK 2 000 more a month to live on and which his party has so far supported. I think it is important in such a debate that one is clear and honest with one's policy, and now the Prime Minister has a chance to give a reply. Does he seriously want to tear up these decisions and take several thousand crowns out of employee wallets every month? Then say it straight out, or you'll just stand here and hypocrite!
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-125	Mr President, I would like to We're changing politics, yes. You reduced taxes by 140 billion. We have investments of 60 billion a year. There's a big difference. We will continue, because we know that a country is not just being built to remove tax revenue and thus cut back on welfare. A country is being built with work. You must reasonably see that unemployment is now falling. Employment is increasing but the labour force is growing. Why is that? Yes, it depends on trust and faith in the future. This is because everyone now sees that we are investing in housing, for example. Housing construction is now increasing, and as housing construction increases, so are construction jobs. And that also increases the jobs of the companies that deliver, not least one of my absolute favorite companies, namely the nail factory in Gunnebo. For them, it's all right now. Let us continue along this path and let us continue to invest. We are not going back to the decommissioning of the Swedish model that you were doing.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-128	Mr President, I would like to Next week something big is happening in Europe. The British people have the opportunity to express their views on the developments that we have seen for European so-called cooperation in recent decades. It is a cooperation that has developed into something completely different. It is more of a state formation where more and more power is gradually transferred from the individual countries to the central power, the federalists in Brussels. The United Kingdom has already managed to negotiate considerably better conditions for its membership of the European Union, regardless of how things go in this vote, than, for example, we in Sweden have succeeded in doing. Mr President, I would like to My question to the Prime Minister is: Is Stefan Löfven prepared to also take the initiative to renegotiate Swedish EU membership?
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-131	Mr President, I would like to Sweden probably needs a strong Europe more than ever. Look at what it looks like in the outside world. Look at Russia's actions, including an illegal annexation of Crimea and rather aggressive behaviour. Is that in favour of us starting to divide Europe? Look at how the global economy works with the United States as a big player and with China, India and upcoming big countries like Indonesia and others. Does this suggest that the EU is beginning to break up? No, it doesn't speak for it. This suggests that Europe needs to be strengthened. We need to have a strong continent with countries that work together and cooperate in order for the countries themselves to have as good opportunities as ever. It is directly dangerous, in my opinion, to start talking about a Europe that is about to crack up. We need a strong Europe, but a Europe that is much clearer in that it will deliver to the citizens of the countries and not primarily to the market. That's where I'm ready to take the fight.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-134	Mr President, I would like to I take it that the answer to my question is no. It scares me a little when Stefan Löfven says not only that we need a strong Europe but even that Europe needs to be strengthened. What does that mean in practice, Stefan Löfven? What does it mean to strengthen the EU further? Does that mean that we should move even more power from our elected representatives here to politicians and bureaucrats of other countries that we cannot choose, which we cannot dispose of and which govern a large part of the decisions we make here in this House? Is that what Stefan Löfven means by the need for the EU to be further strengthened? I really hope not. For me, cooperation in Europe is self-evident, especially at a time of global unrest. That goes without saying, but that does not mean that we should see a federalist state formation in Europe, and that is what Britain is now taking the fight against. I would have liked our Swedish Prime Minister too to have been prepared to take the same fight.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-137	Mr President, I would like to I would have liked the Swedish Democrats to understand what they really are saying. Do the Swedish Democrats believe that it would strengthen the EU's ability to operate in a global economy if all 28 Member States were now to enter into a renegotiation of their terms and conditions? It's just the opposite. That's not where we're gonna put the gunpowder. We shall put the gunpowder on the EU's strength so that the citizens of the countries of the European Union see that this organisation contributes to their own success and confidence in the future. That is why I am focusing on a social Europe that is clear about the fact that it is the people who are most important here. That is why we should have a labour market that works in such a way that we in Sweden, for example, can take advantage of the collective agreement-regulated conditions. That's why I'm taking the fight for a good posting directive. This is how you work – ensuring that the rules in the EU become such that we can do the best possible in Sweden. That's how we're gonna get back to work. We should not divide the EU – no.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-140	Mr President, I would like to Simple jobs. In the past, the Prime Minister did not take those words into his mouth, but now the rhetoric is another from Stefan Löfven. However, it is not enough to pronounce the words. They must also be filled with concrete content. Tourism and commerce already create thousands of simpler jobs. One stands ready to create even more jobs but is hampered by the government's tax elevators. The challenge is real. We need to create more simple jobs, and we need them now. The government's answer is to offer 1⁄2 percent of those in exclusion to copy paper or label hiking trails – government is prepared to cap jobs.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-143	Mr President, I would like to Yes, it is important that we make it easier for people to get a job. Some have such low qualifications that we also need to look at what tasks they should have. I think it is a good start for the state to go ahead and say: for our part we can ensure that we create 5 000 modern emergency work. That's the part. But it also requires a discussion with the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and other actors such as municipalities and county councils about what they can do. The dividing line is not between whether or not people with low qualifications should work, but rather the dividing line between you being so ideologically locked on to people having poor wages and I do not accept it. We should not have a labour market where wages are getting worse, but we should have a labour market where people are in work. Yes, it is your duty, but you should also have a job where you can live on your salary. That is the important principle, and I will stand up for it.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-145	Mr President, I would like to Let me remind Stefan Löfven that he is the only one who has reduced wages. He did it as part of the Swedish model to save jobs. In this way Stefan Löfven developed the Swedish model as trade union chairman. The Center Party has no proposal for a lower salary. On the other hand, we call on the social partners to take responsibility for ensuring that more newcomers actually get a job and move from low contributions to higher incomes. In order for the Swedish model not to be phased out, it must continue to develop. I want more people to get a salary and work colleagues and to be able to leave dependent on low benefits and get a higher income. Why is it important for you, Stefan Löfven, to see a social underclass emerge? They are dependent on benefits and are banned from the Swedish labour market. For Stefan Löfven, low contributions and dependency are more important than real jobs.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-150	Mr President, I would like to I just said that all people, including those with low qualifications, are going to work. The difference between us, Annie Lööf, is that you are ideologically convinced that it must mean low wages. I'm saying it doesn't have to. I say that we can support employers when it comes to hiring even people with low qualifications. Then they'll get to work, because they will. But they're supposed to have decent wages. You're supposed to have a job, and you're supposed to be able to live on your salary. Yes, I did something unusual as IF Metall president. I did this for the simple reason that the bourgeois government sat with its arms crossed and watched 70 000 – 80 000 industrial jobs disappear from Sweden. We had to act. We did so according to the Swedish model. If the parties come in a way to get more people into the labour force, that is a good thing. But do not go forward with any legislative proposal and try to put wages here in the Swedish Parliament. I advise against that.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-153	Mr President, I would like to When the Left Party and the government settle the budget, it benefits women and the low-paid. With our initiatives, we have made life easier for single parents through several reforms. We have reduced the tax, increased the housing supplement and removed charges for the very oldest. This has made life easier for pensioners with low pensions. That's what happens when you cooperate with us. However, it will be a little different when the government cooperates with the bourgeois, as you do when it comes to pensions, Stefan Löfven. We are completely excluded from those negotiations. The pension system is consistently disadvantageing women and low-paid people today. More than half of all female pensioners depend on a guarantee pension. Seven out of ten women who are formerly municipal are dependent on the guarantee pension. When is the unfair pension scheme to be redesigned? When will women and low-paid people receive the pensions they deserve?
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-157	Mr President, I would like to I also think that we have good cooperation on the budget. We have started a community building that gives more money to the welfare. That is the only way it can continue. We need to look both at the revenue side and at the expenditure side. Now we have investment programs of SEK 60 billion annually. That's a big difference compared to before. And we will continue to do so. As far as women's pensions are concerned, the Pensions Group is currently reviewing the lack of gender equality in pensions. That review is due to be concluded quite soon. It is no wonder that the review is carried out by the parties that agreed on pensions. It's pretty natural. And, unfortunately, the Left was not in that agreement. I have just heard a comment on taxes. The left was not in that agreement either. Of course, it will be difficult to attend later, in stage two, if you are never in an agreement. There is no doubt that women's pensions are a major problem. I would say that perhaps the most important thing to do is to ensure that more women can go from working part-time to working full-time. That work is now under way.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-161	Mr President, I would like to Stefan Löfven and I are in complete agreement on full-time and part-time work. Feel free to do it all over the labour market too! Why were we not in the agreement on the pension system? Because we saw that women and low-paid people would pay the price for this pension system. That's exactly how it is. And now you're giving the Moderates a veto over the pensions of the low-paid women. It's not fair. Many have worked their whole lives, and then they open the orange envelope with a lump in their stomach. And they find that they will find it difficult to buy gifts for their grandchildren. We don't have to evaluate this. Let's see how this is. We know they're worth a better pension. The question remains: when is the pension system to be redesigned so that these workers and women receive the pensions they deserve?
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-165	Mr President, I would like to Jonas Sjöstedt and I see exactly the same problem with regard to the lack of equality, including with regard to pensions. That is exactly why the Pensions Group is reviewing what is lacking and how it can possibly be addressed. However, it is not possible to get away from the bottom of it being work. This can only be addressed by having more people in work, by getting into work earlier, by having a higher level of employment among women, by a higher level of employment among those who have come to us, by being able to work for the whole of your working life and not having to retire at the age of 60 to 62. That's what's the basepad for higher pensions. That's why we're gonna focus on it. I made a very clear statement in the election campaign that we should ensure that women in the public sector can move from working part-time to working full-time. Such an agreement has now been concluded between SKL and Kommunal. That's a good start. It will give more women a much better pension. We will review gender equality in all areas, not least in the area of pensions.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-168	Mr President, I would like to I met Ing-Britt-Britt the last time I was in Växjö. She told me about her son Henrik. He's 32 years old. But in terms of development, Henrik is like a four-year-old. He has the diagnoses adhd, autism and retardation. To cope with life, he must have personal assistance 24 hours a day. For example, Mom Ing-Britt-Britt told us that if no one looks at Henrik, he may suddenly have the urge to stand in the middle of the street, because he does not understand that it is dangerous. Now the personal assistance – which is the result of the LSS reform – is threatened by massive cuts that the government has ordered the Social Insurance Agency to make. For example, Henrik's help is threatened. The mother is in despair. My question to Stefan Löfven is: If things are going as well for the Swedish economy as you say, why are you cutting down on LSS? Why do you save the most vulnerable people in society?
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-171	Mr President, I would like to Within the framework of the LSS, it is the cost of assistance compensation that is increasing dramatically now. They are not increasing because more people are receiving assistance. It depends on something else. And we want to look at that. It is clear that people with disabilities who need assistance should have it – in order to have a dignified life, a life of freedom. That's not where we're going to fold. However, we need to look at whether this is the way we fear that we have unjustified increases in costs in the system. At least then we know whether it is the users, who receive the aid, who receive the money or whether the money goes to something else. We have a duty to review that. Yeah, we're standing up for the assistance. It's for the people who need it. But if the costs run away, we also have an obligation to look at what it is because of.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-175	Mr President, I would like to The Prime Minister did not answer the question. I'm aware that the government has set up an LSS investigation to look at what the cost increases are due to. The investigation will produce a report in a couple of years. It's fine. You're welcome to look at it! At the same time, however, you have ordered the Swedish Social Insurance Agency to cut costs immediately. That's where the problem lies. This is why help is threatened to be withdrawn for many people with disabilities in Sweden. Please look at it, but come up with a result of the review before ordering cuts, as you have done now. Henrik's mother Ing-Britt-Britt cried at our meeting in Växjö, when she would describe her son's situation and what she is afraid of. You are talking about the Swedish model. But when it comes down to it, you prune the freedom of those who need social welfare most. The cuts in the LSS make you ashamed, Prime Minister.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-179	Mr President, I would like to We're standing up for the assistance allowance. It should apply, so that people can get the help they need. But we have also seen, not very long ago, that there are some suspected criminal activities in this important activity. There is a risk that the money, the taxpayers' money, will not go to the users without something else. I believe that we have a duty to ensure that people receive assistance compensation and that it goes to the users and not to anything else. It should also be a natural reflex for a liberal. There I think we can agree, Jan Björklund. It is also in that way that our policy adds more to it. We are now investing SEK 60 billion in the construction of society that we have ahead of us. With your politics, you're going to cut 64 billion. It will never go together with being able to provide good assistance benefits or other social security.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-182	Mr President, I would like to The Christian Democrats have proposed a retirement home guarantee. It's simple and straight. It means that everyone over 85 years of age should be allowed to decide for themselves when it is time to move to an adapted accommodation. For us, this is a question of dignity and trust. Last week, one could read an article in the Express where Amelia Adamo tells about her mother. She highlights the problem that we Christian Democrats have long seen and that is easy to touch on. I am pleased that she drew more attention to the fact that older people have lost empowerment and security. I would say that older people are being reduced in our country and that respect for their own ability to formulate their needs is being ignored. As a result, trust in society is damaged, Stefan Löfven, and I would like to ask: Are you prepared to give everyone over 85 years of age the right to move into retirement homes when they themselves feel that it is time and give them back their self-power?
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-184	Mr President, I would like to I understand that the Christian Democrats are putting the question to a Social Democratic Prime Minister, because that question will never be on the agenda with a moderate Prime Minister. You have supported a policy that involves cuts in welfare also for the elderly, Andreas Carlson. We have seen to it that taxes on pensioners are reduced. We've made sure to raise the housing allowance. We spend more money on caring for the elderly because you should be able to have more people around you – a warm hand that means so much to the elderly. Yes, I might well consider reviewing such an opportunity for those over 85 years of age, I may well do so. Of course, it must also be preceded by the investigations that must always be carried out in these cases. It is clear that we should offer the elderly the security they need. But then we do not need tax cuts of 64 billion that you want to implement together with the three other bourgeois parties. Then we need investment in our society, and that is why the government invests as much as it does.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-187	Mr President, I would like to I hear the Prime Minister says he wants to bet on the elderly. We Christian Democrats have also done so, even with a moderate Prime Minister. We have introduced a guarantee of dignity, the law of choice and the guarantee of partnership. You need to bet more, but it's not just about the crown and the crown, Stefan Löfven. It is about a perspective and how we view the empowerment of the elderly. I am pleased that Stefan Löfven is now opening up to follow the Christian Democrats' line. You can look at our budget. We have a funded proposal for how we could introduce a retirement home guarantee that is about empowering them over 85 years of age to decide for themselves when to move into an adapted home. I take that as a yes from the Prime Minister, Mr President. Then I expect the government to return. When can we get a retirement home guarantee in place? When can those over 85 years of age choose for themselves? When can we tell you? Amelia Adamo and others who are concerned that it is now time to give back the older people's empowerment?
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-190	Mr President, I would like to I don't think Andreas Carlson is really serious when he says he expects a date. I say that we must investigate the cost together with all the other expenses that we have. But I see a need for the elderly to need more security, yes, it is quite obvious. Many do not get the opportunity to enter a retirement home when they need it, but they should have that right. I also see that the success of such a policy presupposes that we invest more in Sweden. We must also invest in welfare. Then you can't deduct another SEK 64 billion in revenue because then it becomes much more difficult. That is why the Christian Democrats' policy does not go together. Nor does it make sense when, at one moment in government, you ensure that the pen-sionaries receive a relatively higher tax than others. How do you help pensioners in this way? We are making sure that taxes on pensioners are reduced. We make sure there is room for good care for the elderly. We have already provided funds for elderly care. The elderly should feel safe.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-193	Mr President, I would like to We are now about halfway into this debate, if I understand correctly. We are about halfway through this term of office too. The difference between government options is beginning to be clearly visible. There are some – four parties in particular – who come up with concrete proposals that break the exclusion to get more people to work. Then there is one who stands here after almost two years as Prime Minister and is spectacularly satisfied, because it is Stefan Löfven. Stefan Löfven is satisfied despite the fact that the refugee crisis is not over. You're naive if you think so. He's happy even though the alienation is approaching 1 million. He is satisfied despite the fact that there are schools in Sweden where not even half of the nines get sufficient knowledge. He's happy when there are areas where you don't dare call an ambulance or police. He seems very pleased, but he can't be proud of such results after his first two years as Prime Minister. Of course, the Swedish economy is strong – strange would it be otherwise after nine alliance budgets. But now it's starting to show if you have a plan to move forward. It misses Stefan Löfven. Now he has stood here and spoken in a loud voice, but without taking Sweden's challenges seriously. Instead, there is an economic policy that calls it investment when, so far, every crown that has been invested in job creation proposals has taken SEK 50 from job creation in this country. Stefan Löfven pursues a policy that deepens the problems and loses its grip on Sweden's hitherto strong public finances. Therefore, I would like to ask Stefan Löfven why he is so satisfied, why does he close his eyes to Sweden's challenges and, above all, how does losing control of our strong economy make Sweden stronger?
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-198	Mr President, I would like to Let us first note that you took over a large budget surplus, you left behind a budget deficit that we started by halving. N i left you a higher unemployment rate than when you took office. It is the financial statement in a brief summary. Otherwise, little has happened. If you're going to sum up the politics of the Moderates, you can say that. In the end, for example, companies in the school market should continue to be able to collect profits from schools. If it doesn't work, the Moderates imagine that the general, the taxpayer, will go in and take responsibility when the companies have failed and picked out profits. Everybody understands that that doesn't work. We can't have it that way. We must make sure that we get to grips with the hunting of profits in the Swedish education system. In addition, Sweden needs more investment, not more old-fashioned bourgeois cuts. The Swedish model should be developed, not phased out. What are you going to do about the prize hunt?
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-201	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish labour market is strong. The Swedish economy is strong, but we have ahead of us years where expenditure on migration and health insurance increases by 77 billion. These are the reasons why the Swedish economy is at risk of weakening. I'm glad the Prime Minister brings up the school. We Moderates want Sweden to introduce zero tolerance to bad schools. There are schools with different principals that expose pupils to insufficient knowledge, and that must be stopped. What is being tested here in this debate and eventually in the electoral movement is what is actually being done about the problem. I can take this opportunity to ask the Prime Minister: Is he standing here and just speaking, or is he prepared to support my proposal that Sweden should introduce zero tolerance against bad schools with a knowledge contract and with measures where the state is prepared to take over until the results are reversed? Answer yes or no, Stefan Löfven, and do so concretely, not only in rhetoric but in action!
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-204	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I note that there was no response on budget deficits and unemployment. It speaks clearly. It's your financial statement. The question of how to get a more equal school is not solved with a nice title. It seems that your proposal is that companies should be allowed to take profits out of schools. Then when things go so bad that the school doesn't make it, well, then the public should get involved. Then it is well thought that the school should go back to the owner who will take out profits when things have cleared up. Is that the plan? No, I can say straight away that I am not going to agree to such a proposal. It is clear that we should have a school that is driven by the ambition that children should have the best knowledge. It must be the bottom plate, not primarily winnings. That is why we await the inquiry that will come this autumn and see what proposals will then be made. Then we will consider them and present our proposals. We must get rid of the order that we have today in Swedish school. Only we and Chile are left and have not addressed this. That's what we're gonna do.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-208	Mr President, I would like to Sweden was perhaps the country that managed the crisis in recent years best in Europe. We had one of the strongest processes and now have one of the strongest economies afterwards. The difference between me and the Prime Minister is the view of crisis and prosperity. Now Sweden is in a boom. Then Stefan Löfven borrows 85 million a day, increases deficits and pushes people out of a labour market that has so far been strong. That's what's so dangerous. How, then, are we going to overcome the crisis when it comes back? I am grateful that the Prime Minister is so honest about the school. He's standing here saying no to zero tolerance for bad schools. He stands here and lets election ethics take over when I have a concrete proposal to help, for example, the 14 000 children who last year left the ninth grade without sufficient knowledge. He's standing here talking about Chile and other parties. I myself am more focused on students and knowledge. They are the ones who need our help and concrete action.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-210	Mr President, I would like to Anna Kinberg Batra stated in her second speech that half the term of office has now passed, and that is quite right. She also said that it is becoming clear what the different government options look like. Really? Then who are they? I listened not so long ago to Ekot's Stefan interview, where Anna Kinberg Batra said this: ..................................................... I would like to say that my point of departure is a typical political response. To me, this sounds like Anna Kinberg Batra can imagine bringing down Stefan Löfven as Prime Minister after the election but at the same time does not exclude that she can give Stefan Löfven four more years. To quote Anna Kinberg Batra herself, say it straight out, or you'll just stand here and hypocrite! Yes or no – will the Moderates convict Stefan Löfven as Prime Minister after the elections?
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-214	Mr President, I would like to It is indeed in the middle of the term of office. It also means that there are two years left before the elections. The voters will then have the opportunity to decide whether to let Stefan Löfven be Prime Minister whatever happens, whatever happens to the economy and whatever his government base looks like, or whether Sweden needs a better government, which I want to lead and which is based on the alliance's four different parties' joint reforms with common values that build Sweden stronger. I am pleased that we are starting this debate here and now. The reasons why Jimmie Åkesson does not fit in such a government base have been heard in this House many times before. We have heard here in the budget debates how the Swedish Democrats are sometimes on the far left, for example in terms of contributions to those who do not work. Their economic policies are not linked. They reject NATO in an uncertain world. And now that European cooperation is being brought to an absolute head here in this House, Jimmie Åkesson rejects it. These are some reasons why the Swedish Democrats should be kept outside the government.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-216	Mr President, I would like to Now it is not about whether or not to sit in the government, but about whether or not the Moderates intend to bring down a Social Democratic Prime Minister after the elections. I believe that not least the moderate voters want an answer to this. And it's not that hard, I think, to answer yes or no to that question. But at Anna Kinberg Batra it sounds like it could possibly be that Stefan Löfven has still done a good job for four years and let him stay. The answer was very strange, I have to say, but at the same time in a way a little clarification. Anna Kinberg Batra is very clear that she wants to rule together with the other alliance parties. But if you listen to what the various alliance parties have sounded like in the debate over the last year, you can see that there are huge differences, not least in terms of immigration policy. Anna Kinberg Batra has taken great steps in the right direction. At the same time, she believes that she will be able to get through her proposals together with the other alliance parties. How does Anna Kinberg Batra intend to get her immigration policy through in government with the Center Party?
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-218	Mr President, I would like to Important steps are now being taken to get the Swedish refugee reception in order, following agreements between all four alliance parties and the government parties. It's important. It is about taking leadership and responsibility for Sweden, and I am prepared to do so in a government position. Then the voters will also have the opportunity and the obligation to take a position on the different options. It is absolutely right that I want to change prime minister. I want to take Stefan Lövven's job, because I have a better plan for how Sweden can become stronger and colleagues with whom I share values. That is how I want to lay the foundations for the next government, of course as strong as possible and stronger than last time. We need to talk about the political content. There is a lot of gambling and speculation, but voters deserve a serious debate about Sweden's future and serious answers to how Sweden would be led by a better government. I want to lead that government.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-221	Mr President, I would like to Since I became a spokesperson, I think I have heard soon say all the other party leaders, possibly not Björklund, at some point express that they will represent a new environmental party. That's good. The environmental issue is by far the biggest issue for the future. Nothing more worries the citizens. Business requires that we have tough and tough environmental rules and develop the solutions of the future, which also the outside world wants. In fact, there was a time when even the Moderates said they wanted to become the new environmental party. Fredrik Reinfeldt went around the world to tell us how important the carbon tax is. Where did that go, Anna Kinberg Batra? I've listened to you. I listened to your line speech at the moderate party days. I listened to your summer speech on National Day. And I've been listening to you here today. Not in a word did you mention the biggest question of the future of all, the one that worries citizens most: the environment and the climate. What happened to the Moderates becoming an environmental party?
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-224	Mr President, I would like to Growth is good for the environment, and fossil-free energy is very good for the environment. I do not really know where Gustav Fridolin was on Friday, but then we agreed widely to stop the early retirement of nuclear power and continue to be the country in Europe that invests most in renewable energy and has the highest share of such. This is what enables us, for example, to produce fossil-free transport and to produce electricity for jobs without causing fossil emissions. I would like to take this opportunity to welcome the fact that it also means that the Green Party is now adhering to the legislation that allows us to really acknowledge the possibility of renewing nuclear power plants – if the operators so wish – so that they use the technology even more efficiently and fossil-free.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-225	Mr President, I would like to I am proud of the energy settlement that allows the market to steer towards 100% renewable electricity production by 2040. I am proud that we have agreed on this. It is obviously easier for Anna Kinberg Batra to say what the Moderates do not want to do for the climate than they actually want to do for the climate. It becomes clear when you read the Moderates' draft budget. It is a pure slaughter of environmental policy. You're cutting away money for solar cells and energy storage. You cut money for local climate work and efforts in municipalities and regions. You are cutting money away for global climate action and efforts in the world's poorest countries. Where and how do the Moderates want to solve climate problems? In fact, there are problems in this world that are not solved by a new tax cut.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-228	Mr President, I would like to I do not think I mentioned tax reductions in my previous line, but I would like to welcome the reduction in the impact tax that is now being implemented. It is important, not least to reduce our dependence on fossil energy. Nuclear power, of course, is not the answer to all questions, but an important part of continuing to meet our ambitious climate goals. Economic growth and a strong economy are the second important element. There we differ, Gustav Fridolin and I. At the moderate conferences, we do not usually decide on an economic system without growth. It's more of the Green Party. But if you damage jobs and growth in the way the Green Party does with its proposals, and with the economic policy it is pursuing, it will be difficult to invest in new technologies and to produce, for example, fossil-free transport, which our country so desperately needs if it is to remain environmentally friendly and also be able to take precedence. And we will.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-230	Mr President, I would like to In your speech, Anna Kinberg Batra, you spoke about the importance of doing the right thing. It also makes sense not to slip away from paying taxes. Until recently, the Moderates had two MPs who hid assets abroad and thus avoided paying taxes in Sweden. They were on Parliament's tax committee. Like many others, they knew that it had become more difficult to escape the tax, and that control was increasing, I think, is good. But there is a strange thing in Sweden. Anyone who admits voluntarily that it has hidden money abroad and has provided incorrect information in its declaration can have a kind of impunity. It is called self-justification and allows the tax fraudster to avoid tax surcharges and charges for tax offences. One example is the two moderate members of parliament in the tax committee who made such a self-right. We want to change that. We think that tax should be paid longer for the retroactive period, and we want a tax surcharge, that is, a kind of penalty. Is it not reasonable, Anna Kinberg Batra, to introduce a tax surcharge for tax evasion?
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-233	Mr President, I would like to Jonas Sjöstedt was close to accusing moderate former MPs of errors. Let me say that self-justification is an opportunity that is perfectly legal in order to have the opportunity to do the right thing. Of course, I think everyone should. Anyone who doesn't, lets society down. That is why it is a good thing that this possibility exists. If Jonas Sjöstedt is serious about doing the right thing, I would like to take this opportunity to ask a few questions. There will be a lot of rhetoric about taxes. But we Moderates have suggested that anyone who takes the right to live at the expense of others, although it could work, should be subject to more checks. We need to tighten up controls in benefit systems so that we are sure that subsidies go to those who really need our common help. Is Jonas Sjöstedt prepared to join our proposals for better controls so that we know that people do not take the right to live at the expense of others?
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-236	Mr President, I would like to It is important to check that welfare systems are not abused. They are based on trust, and you have to have that confidence in them. But you're running away from the question. This is about breaking the law, withholding tax money and doing things that are not legal. You wave it away with: Just do a self-correction, and then it's okay. What other crimes are to be given a form of punishment? Why are they the very ones who are running away from the tax that you do not think should have to pay a proper supplement and should not receive a penalty? This applies, for example, to your own two members of the tax committee who sat and decided on the tax rules. Why should they be given the privilege of being treated in this way? Are you a party for tax evasion? That's what you wonder because you don't want people to be allowed to do the right thing, as you talked about in your introduction. My second question is: is it appropriate to have members of the Committee on Taxation who themselves withhold funds from taxation?
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-240	Mr President, I would like to This was the expected contribution from Jonas Sjöstedt, but they have not been honest. Let me first state that the question concerns former Members who, last time I checked, have not been guilty of anything criminal. Then don't stand here and accuse someone else of it, Jonas Sjöstedt! Don't lie in the Swedish Parliament! It's important to do the right thing. It's important to pay taxes. Anyone who slips from their responsibilities is failing society. That is why I am proud that, under moderate government, over 60 agreements were signed with other countries to improve controls, and that we began to plug some of the tax evasion possibilities that were opened earlier under left-wing governments. I am prepared to follow closely that it produces sufficient results. Of course, we must demand that everyone does the right thing. We must have proper action if that is not the case. Jonas Sjöstedt knows that. You can reach a much better rhetorical level than this one, which is touched by dishonesty.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-243	Mr President, I would like to As expected, one may say, much of this debate is marked by bickering between the blue team and the red team. You did the wrong thing. No, you're the one who did the wrong thing. No, you're the one who did the wrong thing. No, you're the one who did the wrong thing. We are much better than you, and we are much better than you. That is what the political debate sounds like. Mr President, I would like to I believe, to be honest, that voters are extremely tired of this kind of political debate. It's just a lot of talk. Stefan Löfven says a lot of floats. We're gonna crack crime. Who doesn't? The interesting thing is how to do it. There I can see that Stefan Löfven does very little to deal with crime and to crack crime. We see an almost unpleasant picture of the situation in our country. Employment is falling, growth is increasing and we are investing in welfare. At the same time, we are seeing a reality in which our country is being increasingly divided and segregated. We see strained public appearances. Look at the municipalities today! Mr President, I would like to We note that Sweden does not need more old policies that have not worked. Sweden does not need any more beauty painting. Sweden does not need more talk. What Sweden needs is a real cohesion policy. It is a cohesion policy which affirms and rewards the constructive and which fights and punishes the destructive. That is how we hold Sweden together, Mr President.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-248	Mr President, I would like to While the government is now working for high pressure to make sure to turn the poor school results and to bring SEK 8 billion annually to the Swedish school to get smaller classes, more teachers and higher teacher salaries, the Swedish Democrats are thinking about: How much can we cut down on welfare? The total was SEK 90 billion. I don't think Jimmie Åkesson really understands what that means. That means thousands less teachers. I have to ask you a question. Explain to me and all parents who have children in school: How does Swedish school improve and how do we raise students' knowledge with less resources and fewer teachers?
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-250	Mr President, I would like to This is another example of a very strange dishonest rhetoric in the debate. Anyone who reads our draft state budget can see that we invest significantly more in welfare than Stefan Löfven and his government do. That's because we have different priorities than Stefan Löfven and his government. When Stefan Löfven and his government prioritise mass immigration, grants and housing for people moving into our country, we prioritise efforts in care, in health care and, not least, in school. Anyone can see that. Anyone can see what the strained economy of the municipality, by municipality, by municipality, by municipality and by municipality depends on. It is not because of our draft budget, Stefan Löfven. This is because you are pursuing an irresponsible policy that drains the economic potential of municipalities to develop and even maintain welfare. It's not my responsibility. It's your responsibility, Stefan Löfven.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-253	Mr President, I would like to First of all, the SD budget is virtually impossible to read. There is no serious independent judge who can correctly interpret what it means by all your tax cuts and cuts. But it stands minus 90 billion for the municipalities. We recently added 10 million dollars. You're taking away $90 billion. But that's not enough. You also intend to let the prize hunt continue, just because you now lie down like a doormat in front of Anna Kinberg Batra. There is no independent block that stands somewhere in the middle and can look at the two. You are a right-wing populist party. That's exactly what you are. Now you're going to continue to let the prize hunt in school go on when we see the problems we have. Why is it so important for you, Jimmie Åkesson, to let taxpayers' money go to the Cayman Islands instead of to children's school, more teachers, better books and better education? Why?
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-256	Mr President, I would like to This is going to be a rather strange discussion. Stefan Löfven says that it is impossible to read our draft budget. No one can do that, he says. No one understands what it says; everything is just weird. At the same time, you are quick to criticise it once we present it. What does that criticism mean? Will you make it up, if you do not understand what is in our budget document? It's strange, I must say. Every time the Prime Minister and I have these lines, I think the Prime Minister drops to a low level. I think the rhetoric is dishonest and unworthy of a Swedish Prime Minister. Rise up, Stefan Löfven, in the debate! Lift the big questions instead of the squabble that you engage in in every debate with nonsense, excesses and other things! We're investing in welfare. I don't approve, and I don't want to see, a prize hunt in school – quite the opposite. I think that is very clear about our policy.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-259	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats usually talk in big words about Swedish values and Swedish traditions. Midsummer celebrations are now at the door. You have to celebrate midsummer, and I myself look forward to it. I think a lot of people do. Around the country the planning and purchase of herring and fresh potatoes and perhaps also the hunt for the first Swedish strawberries are now ongoing. I would like to ask Jimmie Åkesson why he wants to tax this. I have taken note of the Swedish Democrats' draft budget and see that they want to increase VAT. Why is Sweden stronger because an ordinary family with children gets about SEK 10,000 higher food costs per year? How does it make Sweden stronger by making food bags more expensive?
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-261	Mr President, I would like to I have no proposals to tax midsummer celebrations. On the other hand, I have a proposal to investigate how we can clean up the tax burden, how we can make it more profitable to work and how we can transform the so-called job tax deductions of Moderates and other bourgeois parties into a real job tax deduction for labour income. We have made a proposal in a somewhat humble spirit. We say there that we do not have all the answers, but we believe that, for example, a system where income up to SEK 100 000 – SEK 150 000 is tax-free creates incentives for jobs, in contrast to the proposals that we hear from the bourgeoisie to lower wages and that it would solve the situation. I do not believe in lower wages, Mr President. If so, I would rather believe in reducing taxes on labour. That's the difference here.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-263	Mr President, I would like to That would be interesting if it were true. But if you look a little closer at the economic policy of the Swedish Democrats, you will not only find the proposals for higher VAT that affects ordinary families hard; you will also find higher contributions to those who do not work, with feared employment effects of minus 27 000, according to serious assessors. It is one thing to stand and shout in the rhetoric, Jimmie Åkesson, and another thing to bring forward an economic policy that holds together and that does not hit families and ordinary people who work as the Swedish democrats' policy would do. Higher contributions to those who do not work, higher VAT on food and reduced interest rates without other counter-proposals would hit large groups of wage earners and families with children hard. You end up on the left of the Left Party with much of your economic policy. This is not how Sweden is built stronger.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-265	Mr President, I would like to Whether Sweden is built stronger or not can be guessed when it comes to my policy. But when it comes to Anna Kinberg Batra's policy, we have the truth. For eight years, her party held the dominant position in the Swedish government. It went like that, that's my assessment. It's up to the voters to decide. The debate is interesting. It's been sounding like this for a while now. Just now we heard Stefan Löfven say with emphasic that the Swedish Democrats are a right-wing party. Now Anna Kinberg Batra stands here and says that we stand to the left of the Left Party. Doesn't that underscore exactly what I'm saying? The Swedish Democrats belong to none of these bickering blocs that only blame each other and do nothing constructive. We're in the middle. Yes, there are elements from the left in our policy. I think it is reasonable and obvious that if you lose your job, you should have a safe conversion insurance. But at the same time there are also elements from your side, Anna Kinberg Batra : You have to do what you can to work if you have work capacity. That is what is fundamental here.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-267	Mr President, I would like to The Pride Festival is a perverted homosexual event. What is it that says that the so-called normalization ends with homo-, bi- and transgender people being normalized? Why don't people who commit the best of times or paedophilia? These executables are not normal. ..................................................... I don't know what Jimmie Åkesson thinks about this world view, but I think it is extreme, hateful and homophobic. The speaker who said that was your Speaker Björn Söder. He can hardly blame youthful folly. This was 2007, you prepared to enter the Parliament and he was your party secretary. Sweden has in recent years become one of the world's best countries to live in through hard work. We allow LGBTQ people to marry and be tried for adoption on the same terms as everyone else. The police have special resources to fight hate crime. For me, these are Swedish values. What do the Swedish Democrats think about these reforms?
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-270	Mr President, I would like to I disagree with what was said first. I don't think you have to put it that way. At the same time, I think that we have every right to criticise which event we now want to criticise, including the Pride Festival. I have done so myself, but perhaps in a different way, in different contexts. I think you should be able to do that. We must also be able to discuss these questions while at the same time being able to put them in relation to what is currently happening in our country with the movement of value that we are seeing again. In some cases it is rather a return to values that we had here before but that we have come from. They are now coming back to our country, not least through immigration from parts of the world where they are still living in the Middle Ages in certain respects. I think it is important to raise the issues. For example, we saw what was now happening in Orlando. I think we have every reason to think about how we are dealing with these issues when it comes to the evaluation discussion.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-273	Mr President, I would like to I don't understand. Does Björn Söder come from any other country? I thought he was from Skåne, which was part of the Swedish map last I checked. These are not values that you can blame on anyone else. These are the values that exist in your party, Jimmie Åkesson. Those are the values of a person you've made President. You're saying that calling it a perverted gay event is a criticism of the Pride Festival and that you might not be expressing yourself in this particular way. For me this is not criticism; for me it is hate speech and homophobia. I know what you will say in your speech. You will criticize environmentalists who think different things. But all environmental parties should stand for green values. We never accept homophobia or any form of extremism. If anyone in my party were to show that kind of activity, we would be showing on the door. You're making them Presidents. It's not standing up for what you call Swedish values.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-276	Mr President, I would like to To throw stones in glass houses, or whatever you say now... The debate we have heard in recent months about the number of extremists in Gustav Fridolin's own party has been quite extensive. There are numerous cases which have been brought to light in the debate that has followed the departure of Mehmet Kaplan and the links he has had with extremism. Mr President, I would like to The difference between me and Gustav Fridolin is that I do not accept extremism in my party. First of all, Gustav Fridolin makes his extremist Minister of the Swedish Government. Secondly, he does not disassociate himself from his minister when he is then revealed to have extremist values, Mr President. As I said, throwing stones in glass houses is not recommended.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-279	Mr President, I would like to The Center Party has long talked about the risks of Vladimir Putin's actions and the developments we have seen in Russia in recent years. We have also highlighted Russia's influence on our neighbourhood as part of our argumentation for Swedish NATO membership. For us, it is a matter of course to conclude a host country agreement with other democratic countries in NATO. The Swedish democrats have chosen a completely different direction. They support Vladimir Putin in the European Parliament and have in recent weeks opposed a host country agreement with NATO, a cooperation that would strengthen Sweden's security. Why, Jimmie Åkesson and the Swedish Democrats, do you find it easier to cooperate with Putin and Russia than with democracies and neighbouring countries in NATO?
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-282	Mr President, I would like to It is becoming almost comical with the Putin fetishism that we see from the Center Party. I believe that this is the fourth debate in a row in this House which raises this issue. Every time I say, you're wrong. You're completely wrong. Can't we just let this go now? We don't like Putin. We do not like Russia's actions – quite the contrary. We are the party in this House that has most strongly warned against Mr Putin's aggression and precisely the situation that we are now seeing. The other parties have spent 25 years of their activities in the Chamber to dismantle the Swedish defence because there is no longer a threat. But now that some aircraft from Russia are flying across the Baltic Sea, a defense is suddenly of the utmost importance. Unfortunately, it's a little late to think about it now. We must then join NATO. I disagree. I really don't agree. You didn't take responsibility. We took responsibility. Now we are prepared to strengthen Swedish defence capabilities. We are happy to cooperate with NATO, but we do not want NATO troops on Swedish soil.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-285	Mr President, I would like to The fact that the Swedish Democrats support Russia and Vladimir Putin is nothing that I just stand here and say. It is possible to look at voting lists in the European Parliament. Take some responsibility, Jimmie Åkesson! Take some responsibility for what your MEPs are doing in Brussels! There you are pushing buttons to support Russia in its various actions. There is no contradiction in investing in the Swedish defence and at the same time wanting a host country agreement with NATO. I ask the question one more time, Jimmie Åkesson: how is it that the Left Party and the Swedish Democrats are now on the same side and say no to a host country agreement with NATO while you sit in Brussels and press yes buttons to support Vladimir Putin's actions?
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-288	Mr President, I would like to Why is it that the Turkish-friendly Party of the Center Party constantly raises this issue when it is based on something that is not true? Vote lists in the European Parliament, Annie Lööf, are not very interesting to look at. Annie Lööf knows very well what the voting lists contain and what it means to press a button in the European Parliament. Sometimes we may find voting here extremely complicated and difficult to understand in detail, but it is much worse in the European Parliament. We condemn, as I said, Russia's actions. We condemn Mr Putin's actions. I think you should take that on board, because now I have said it many times. Then there is the question of the host country agreement. I can understand why we want to conclude such an agreement from the bourgeois side and also from the Social Democratic side and to move towards NATO membership. I understand that, because 25 years have been spent dismantling the Swedish defence. We want to strengthen Swedish defence capabilities, unlike other parties. I think we should focus on that.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-291	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish democrats are swinging here and there on the issue of military freedom of alliance. In the interest of safety, you raised two motions for the host country agreement, one for the host country agreement and one against the host country agreement. The week before the vote, you said it was important to try this and see if it was compatible with the Constitution. On Tuesday, you changed your mind. Now comes the test balloons for NATO membership itself. Now leading Swedish democrats are starting to say: Yes, but we should probably join NATO. Other Swedish democrats say: we should probably not join NATO. It reminds me of when you have been to a really wet lunch with your friends in the venture capital companies and waving back to the Riksdag. It's here and there, and it's very hard to know what it's like. But what's the day note, Jimmie Åkesson? Where do the Swedish Democrats stand today? Are you for or against NATO today? Are you for or against NATO membership today?
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-294	Mr President, I would like to I am not opposed to NATO. I am opposed to Swedish membership of NATO. I think it is important to emphasise that distinction when we discuss these issues. Sweden is a country that clearly already has very deep cooperation with NATO. It's for good and evil. For the most part, it is good, because it strengthens our competence and our ability in different ways – I am thinking of the lack of defence that we unfortunately have today. But no, Jonas Sjöstedt, I am not in favour of a Swedish NATO accession. And yes, I voted against the host country agreement. On the other hand, I was not prepared to support the somewhat far-fetched, mildly put, attempt at a declaration of rest made by the Left Party, for the simple reason that it did not hold out constitutionally. It didn't work, Jonas Sjöstedt. Just obstrusive. You can choose as an opposition. Either you're serious or you're obstinate. We want to work seriously and take responsibility for Sweden.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-296	Mr President, I would like to This is how an opportunist speaks. This is how a representative of a party who is exercising for and against the host country agreement and who has representatives who speak in favour of and against NATO membership. It is a party that devoted the election movement to go country and country around and talk against profit looting in the Swedish school and then become friends with the venture capital companies and be for it. So speaks a party that at election meetings talked about having a good unemployment fund. Then they voted down a budget that just fixed a good a ‐ cashier. This is an opportunist party. There's only one constant. It is hatred of people who come from other countries. Otherwise, everything is negotiable. Everything can be given up or added. And now we see how the Swedish Democrats gradually adapt to become doormats for the Alliance and enter into a right-wing collaboration in the future. It's not beautiful, Jimmie Åkesson.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-298	Mr President, I would like to I don't think Jonas Sjöstedt's heated rhetoric is very beautiful. He's talking about doormats, and there's a lot of fictional stories about how we run around drunk and waving from lunches. It's not beautiful, Jonas Sjöstedt. It is rather bad to behave like that in this House. I believe that our constituents who have put us in this House deserve a higher level of debate. I note that Jonas Sjöstedt has not voted in favour of our proposals to raise the unemployment fund. Jonas Sjöstedt has not voted in favour of our proposals to reduce taxes on pensioners. Jonas Sjöstedt has not voted in favour of our proposals to improve for small businesses. Jonas Sjöstedt has not voted in favour of all our good proposals. We're different parties. It does not vote for each other's proposals in this House. That's how it works. So, exactly the line you put on me, I can put on you. But you don't do that if you're honest. And it's not Jonas Sjöstedt.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-300	Mr President, I would like to Jimmie Åkesson will have to accept that we are asking many questions about Sweden's views on security policy and European cooperation. Because those are very strange answers you are giving. That is why the questions come back. There's no way to fuck them off, like Åkesson tried to do with Annie Lööf. The questions are real. However, I note a new tone in Åkesson's speech. He talks this time about more international military cooperation – it is about the threat of terrorism and IS in the Middle East and all that it is. This cooperation takes place, for our part, under the UN mandate and within the framework of NATO and within the framework of the European Union. Åkesson and Sjöstedt are among the parties opposed to both the EU and NATO. Sweden is going out of the EU, and we are not going to be in NATO. The meaning of NATO membership is that we ourselves would be helped if we were attacked. Why, Jimmie Åkesson, is it a wise policy that Sweden should help NATO in the Middle East but that we should say no to NATO helping us if we ourselves are threatened?
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-302	Mr President, I would like to I have what I know never said no to help from anyone if it is a welcome help and if it is a help that is needed. If, for example, Sweden were to be attacked by another power in any way – let us hope that it does not – it is clear that we are prepared to receive help from NATO, from the EU, from the UN or whatever organisation it may be that wants to help us. I think that's pretty obvious. However, on the basis of that desire and understanding, to conclude that we must join NATO – there I simply do not agree. At the same time, I note, Mr President, that we have seen the recent progress of the Alliance and the bourgeois parties. How long do I have, Mr President? ( First VICE TALMAN: The clock is a little off here. Time's up, because we've just passed a minute. ) You're wrong, Jan Björklund! That's what I wanted to say.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-307	Mr President, I would like to Yes, says Jimmie Åkesson, we in Sweden want help, but we do not want to be in NATO. Then who's going to help us? Who else has military capabilities in our neighbourhood if we are exposed to a threat from Putin and Russia? That is the big question. There is no one but NATO who could help us. The very meaning of membership is that you are assured of help. It's not like someone comes here and helps us if we don't want to. The whole of NATO is built up so that each country itself must call for help, and then the meaning of membership is that it is entitled to help. Why is it wise to renounce that right? After all, it is about the common threats. For the Swedish part, it can be terrorism and IS, and it could be Russia. Those are the threats that exist. Why would it be wise not to count NATO aid in such a situation? Why is it wise to promise, guarantee and contribute with help to NATO in the Middle East and, at the same time, unwise that Sweden could count on aid from NATO?
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-310	Mr President, I would like to Fortunately, we are not in the position of being attacked. It is clear that different analyses can be carried out, and my analysis is that further rapprochement with NATO, for example by allowing NATO to establish bases on Swedish soil, Gotland or wherever it may be, may in turn increase the risk of an attack. This, in turn, may increase interest because then the potential enemy must somehow respond to this. Of course Jan Björklund can stand here and sound responsible. But frankly, Mr President, is it so responsible to put Sweden in that situation? I do not think it is, Mr President. I rather think it is irresponsible to play with our security policy situation in the way Jan Björklund and the bourgeois parties want to do. This does not mean that we do not want help from NATO. We are already working with NATO, but to put Sweden in the situation that Jan Björklund wants, I am not prepared to contribute to.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-313	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats claim to be a party that protects the family. I am therefore surprised when Jimmie Åkesson presented in the Swedish Democrats' spring budget a proposal for tax reform that we have heard about earlier in the debate, a reform that Åkesson claimed is based on a fair perspective. But politics means that a typical family with children living in a villa in a medium-sized Swedish city receives an increased tax rate of over SEK 1,500 a month. The Swedish Democrats expose Swedish families with children to a tax shock. Does Jimmie Åkesson think that Swedish families with children are too well off? Is that why he thinks it is fair to pick them off a sum equal to a monthly salary on an annual basis for one of the parents? Why should Swedish families with children, as the Swedish Democrats claim to be concerned about getting this tax shock from the Swedish Democrats?
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-316	Mr President, I would like to We're there again. One side accuses us of cutting taxes too much, and now we suddenly want a tax shock – for families with children as well. Andreas Carlson, like his colleagues in the bourgeoisie, has misunderstood. We have not put forward a sharp proposal on anything, so I do not understand how Andreas Carlson has been able to count on this. What we have done is to present an idea of how we can make the tax system fairer and create more incentives for work through a higher job tax credit, a real job tax credit unlike the type of tax reduction introduced by the bourgeois government. This is what we are talking about: Income up to 150 000 SEK a year should be completely exempt from income tax. How can it be a tax shock for anyone? It is beyond my comprehension, Mr President, but Andreas Carlson is very happy to explain to me how he thinks.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-320	Mr President, I would like to I'm very happy to do that. The Swedish Democrats have put a draft budget on Parliament's table. It's not an idea writing. It's not a proposal for your congress. It is not something that the Youth League is discussing any weekend anywhere, but you have put it on Parliament's table. That's why we can read your suggestion. We can take note of the effects of this. Åkesson has openly invited other parties to discuss this tax reform, and then I simply assumed that the Swedish democrats are aware of the effects of their policy. We have allowed the parliamentary investigation service to calculate the costs of a typical Swedish family with children living in a villa in a medium-sized Swedish city. The Swedish Parliament's investigation service says that this leads to a tax increase of more than SEK 1,500 per month. I think it is irresponsible for the Swedish Democrats to put a draft budget on Parliament's table if they are not aware of the effects of their own policies. I'm giving Jimmie Åkesson another chance. He's invited a discussion. Then let us discuss this here and now in the party leader debate: Why should families with children get a tax shock from the Swedish Democrats?
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-324	Mr President, I would like to We have made a proposal to investigate a new system with an increased deduction of labour income. It's not a tax shock. However, it is of course a distributive policy interesting thing, because when we allowed the parliamentary investigation service to count – on the basis of our proper reflections and figures that the Christian Democrats do not have access to, so I still do not understand what it is you have calculated for anything – it is stated that this is something that very much benefits them with the lowest incomes. That is why this is our answer to the bourgeois proposal for lower wages and simple jobs. We do not want lower wages in Sweden. We choose to reduce taxes rather than lower wages. This is our response to that debate, and I am surprised that this discussion is not taken more seriously than Andreas Carlson here when he calculates something from figures he himself has invented. I think it is very strange, Mr President, but of course everyone is free to do so.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-328	Mr President, I would like to Politics is to want, and often it is also to choose. The environment and school were the environmental party's main priorities in the elections. It is about the priority that for us children's future always comes before tax cuts. By the time we took office, under the previous government, nearly 10,000 employees had been cut off from school. Students had less time with their teachers. Let's reverse the trend. During the first period of the Green Party and Social Democrats in government, 13,000 new employees have been hired at school. Despite the increase in the number of children, children's groups in preschool may become smaller, and we break two decades of growing student groups at leisure. We, from the state side, have gone in and invested for increased teachers' salaries. We are reducing the administrative burden. More and more people are now applying for teacher and special teacher training. Through cooperation agreements, the state takes responsibility for reversing the development of schools that are particularly tough. We're expanding homework and holiday school. The goal is clear: Every student should have the time he/she needs with a knowledgeable, committed teacher. In the same way, we work with the environment. We strengthen our work on environmental objectives, we have reached a broad party agreement on climate law and we exchange taxes so that what is good for the environment becomes cheaper and what is bad gets more expensive. Climate change is being done with new charging poles, energy efficiency and biogas production all over the country – follow now! We are increasing rail maintenance, and the urban environment agreement stimulates public transport. We build new green districts, we work for 100 percent renewable electricity generation and we carry out a historic investment in solar cells. We have protected Ojnareskogen and 100 other important natural areas. With taxes and laws, we clean out dangerous chemicals in children's everyday lives. This is a priority which stands firm in a difficult environment and in a difficult parliamentary situation. It's not always easy, and we have a lot left. But whoever puts his trust in the Green Party should know that this is what we work for every day, on every political mission. The Green Party is in the policy of making a difference, and I am proud of the green changes that we can show in government and in the many municipalities and regions where we are in control.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-335	Mr President, I would like to Gustav Fridolin has now been Minister of Education for 621 days, 521 more than he would need to fix the school. But let us not stand here and squabble about it, but look at what it has actually led to and can lead to. If we agree that the school needs a boost and that good teachers need time to be just that, I want answers to four concrete questions from the country's school minister. Is Gustav Fridolin prepared to support our proposal that Sweden's primary school students should receive an hour more in teaching time? Is he prepared to support our proposals for more math in high school? Is he prepared to support our proposals for more first teachers? And is he prepared to support our proposal that Sweden should introduce zero tolerance to bad schools?
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-338	Mr President, I would like to When I spoke in my main speech that Sweden's students need knowledge of source criticism, I did not know that it would also apply to the opposition leader. I thought that someone who has worked in politics for a while actually knows who is putting headlines in evening newspapers and does not think that evening newspaper headlines are the best form of source to attack their opponents. It is hard work to reverse developments in Swedish schools. However, it is assumed that the school is one of the most important priorities in the construction of society. When we took office as a government, almost 10,000 fewer worked in Swedish schools than when the Moderates formed the government in 2006, and the students had less time with their teachers. Now, after almost two years, 13,000 more people work in Swedish schools. Students get more time with their teachers. We've reversed trends, and we've reinstated those that the Alliance cut off. It is good that the Moderates prioritise the school in opposition. But it would have been better if you had done it when you were in government too.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-342	Mr President, I would like to You only have one minute in these lines. Gustav Fridolin just used a half to talk about evening newspapers' expressions about himself. Then he could have used the other half to answer my questions concretely. We handed over a school where important reforms had been carried out and with unchanged teacher density. What I was wondering now was whether the Minister for Education is prepared to support our proposal for an hour more in primary education, our proposal for an hour more in math, our proposals for more first teachers and our concrete proposal that Sweden should introduce zero tolerance towards schools that do not produce sufficient results. Otherwise, the students are betrayed; Sweden cannot afford that. I give the Minister of Education a chance to answer these questions in concrete terms – not just big words but actually deeds.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-346	Mr President, I would like to I think it's good that the Moderates prioritise the school in opposition. I think it would have been better if you had done it also when you had the opportunity to steer and prioritise. Then you gave priority to tax cuts instead and cut off employees at school. We are now increasing the teaching time in mathematics in the Swedish comprehensive school. We increase the opportunities for schooling and homework. We make sure that more students than ever before who have not had the opportunity to meet the knowledge requirements during the semester can now go to summer school. We have introduced a government responsibility to go in and interact with principals about the very schools that the Moderates when they were in government did not care very much about but that Anna Kinberg Batra now identifies as those who have the toughest. The state therefore goes in and works together with the municipalities to reverse the development of these schools. It is zero tolerance in practice and not just in the rhetoric against schools that do not give students the right knowledge.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-348	Mr President, I would like to I thought I'd continue a little bit where Gustav Fridolin and I earlier stopped. In recent times we have seen a crisis, one must call it, in the Green Party. It has resulted in that you have had change in different positions and so on. We've seen the Minister's resignation. In the wake of this, we have seen a large number of similar cases with people associated with extremism, with environmentalists refusing to take women in hand, with environmentalists doing extremist greetings, IS greetings and a long list of such things. These people are largely allowed to remain in the Green Party as members and even on missions in some cases. Mr President, I would like to Then my question is whether it is not time for Gustav Fridolin to follow my example and introduce a zero tolerance to extremism in his party.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-351	Mr President, I would like to We have had a time when we have been subjected to a necessary and good review. That's how it should be for all parties. But Jimmie Åkesson is standing here making up some things. We are very clear that all environmental parties in all positions of trust should stand for the values of the Green Party and nothing else. We never accept homophobia or any other form of extremism. When that kind of information is available on someone, we show on the door. Instead, Jimmie Åkesson makes one of the leading public homophobes in Sweden the speaker. As the rest of us stood and applauded both the Prime Minister's and Anna Kinberg Batras up pmuntran to stand up for LGBT ‐ society in the world after the frugal tantrum attack in Orlando, Sweden's second vice-president Björn Söder sat still, he who called Pride Festivals for a perverted gay event. Is it your zero tolerance — to turn homophobes into Presidents?
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-353	Mr President, I would like to I note that Gustav Fridolin did not answer my question. The question was whether it is time for Gustav Fridolin to follow my example and introduce a zero tolerance to extremism in his party. That I ask this question depends on what we have seen, including the actions that we have seen on the part of Gustav Fridolin, where he defends his Minister for Housing despite the extremist connections that have existed. It is possible that Gustav Fridolin has changed his mind, but he can at least answer this question: Does Gustav Fridolin today believe that Mehmet Kaplan has environmental values? If so, is it also an environmental-partisan value not to want to take women in hand? Is it an environmental-partisan assessment to make IS characters? Is it an environmental-partisan value to be an Islamist at all? I find it very interesting. I have another example. For example, Per Gahrton claimed that the drive against Mehmet Kaplan was an Israeli conspiracy. Is that an environmental-partisan assessment?
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-355	Mr President, I would like to Both Per Gahrton and Mehmet Kaplan are environmentalists, and none of them are Islamists. One cannot be an Islamist or any other form of extremist, nor homophobe, nor an environmental party at the same time. All our elected representatives will stand for the values of the Green Party and nothing else. We are extremely clear about that. But I think it's a little strange that Jimmie Åkesson, just a few days after the terrible hate crime and the terrorist attack on a club in Orlando where people had gone to dance, live and love, doesn't want to take the issue of the homophobia of their Speaker and former party secretary into their mouths. What does your zero tolerance mean if homophobes are allowed to become Presidents and if people who say Pride is a perverted homosexual event are dismissed as some who have been a little careless about how they express the criticism– I think that's what you said? That is hate speech, and it does not belong in any Swedish parliamentary party.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-358	Mr President, I would like to Every day thousands of parents follow their children to schools or preschools of their choice. Sometimes the business is private, sometimes it is municipal and sometimes it is cooperative. One of the companies that makes it possible for parents to choose is Academedia. The company is being placed on the market today. Many are involved in this, not least in family businesses and pension funds, to create a long-term perspective. This decision led Prime Minister Stefan Löfven to claim that children are for sale on the stock exchange. It is a statement that is not only directly wrong but also unworthy of a prime minister. It is not that sick people are for sale because pharmaceutical companies are on the stock exchange. In his introduction, Gustav Fridolin said that education is the only cure for myths. One should be able to tell the difference between true and false, facts and propaganda.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-362	Mr President, I would like to I think it was good that in that debate the Prime Minister highlighted the concerns surrounding the Swedish school system. We have had occasions when students have come to school in the morning and basically met with a note on the door saying: Sorry, I have emptied the school of money and conkat the company. Good luck! I don't think that's order in Swedish school. I do not think that it is up to us to be free of choice. I think that is to let Swedish schools in their parts be governed by people who do not have the best interests of the school or children in mind. Therefore, I think it is important that those who get the trust to run our most important welfare mission run it because they want to provide a good education, not because they want to make fast money on it. I am concerned that short-term speculation, whether through venture capitalists or on the stock exchange, affects the educational choices of a school. They should be governed by what gives the students the best school.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-365	Mr President, I would like to For me, the important thing is quality. For me, it is important that it is the same supervision requirements, the same quality requirements and the same money whether it is a private or a municipal provider of care or school. The free school agreement that six parties concluded a number of years ago contained the need for long-term ownership, transparency and transparency and for us to stand up for options and choice. On point after point, both Stefan Löfven and Gustav Fridolin now say no to this. It's distressing. Why are you failing the long-term rules that we six parties had agreed on and which were a clear signal to the industry? The school needs peace of mind, Gustav Fridolin. School does not have to become a political bat in the famished rhetoric used by the government.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-369	Mr President, I would like to I think Annie Lööf just illustrated the problem in this debate. We need clear rules for the industry, Annie Lööf said. This is how I like to express myself when it comes to Swedish industry, manufacturing and things that are reasonable for it to be governed by a market. But school isn't just a market. Students and parents should not always be treated like customers who get exactly what they want. The school exists because we are citizens, and in our meeting with the school, the school must be able to say also what we do not want to hear, whether we are pupils or parents. That's why I think it's important to look at how the Swedish free school system works and ensure that everyone who is in it guarantees good freedom of choice – I believe it – and do it because they want to give the best school to everyone, not be part of a market industry where you get the most money.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-372	Mr President, I would like to The government is considering selling Vattenfall's German coal assets to the Czech company EPH. EPH believes in a renaissance of coal – what we know this planet cannot stand. It is open to using the mines that Vattenfall cannot open today because of government decisions. They contain 1.2 billion tonnes of carbon dioxide – 24 times Sweden's annual emissions. EPH has no environmental policy. You set aside a little money for restoration in the German coal mines you already have. The company is owned through tax havens. One of the owners is connected to Panama Leaks. The company is condemned by the European Commission for obstructing an investigation into corruption. Gustav Fridolin! Is EPH a reasonable buyer of Vattenfall's coal mining business?
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-375	Mr President, I would like to I note that this is the first time in a two-and-a-half-hour debate that Jonas Sjöstedt has highlighted an environmental issue. I also note that the now high tone can be contrasted with the fact that the Left Party and Jonas Sjöstedt in the election movement said that it could be a reasonable idea to allow Vattenfall to sell its lignite business in Germany. What was reasonable then is a great betrayal now. Populism, Jonas Sjöstedt, can obviously also come from the left. This is a big and important issue. The Green Party works in every decision to keep as much coal as possible in the ground. It's our big survival issue. We welcome the fact that, since the elections, the German Government has taken important decisions to start phasing out its coal power and to build a renewable energy system, just as we now have a deal in Sweden. Now we will examine the proposal that comes from Vattenfall's board and see how that proposal works with the ownership directives that the Riksdag has put in place and the rules that exist for this type of business.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-378	Mr President, I would like to It is usually said that attacks are the best defense, and the post here was probably an example of that. After all, it was not an answer to the question of whether the EPH is a suitable owner or not. The possibility of opening new mines, no environmental policy, connection to letterbox companies or direct ownership of them, condemned by the European Commission for obstructing an investigation into corruption – that is the company you intend to sell these mines to. This isn't just any decision. It is the most important climate decision you take during your term of office. It is perhaps the most important decision you make during your life, Gustav Fridolin. Yes, we have changed and become greener the more we have studied this issue. We have realized how devastating it could be to sell these mines. Unfortunately, I fear that you have gone the other way, and there will be consequences. It will help to destroy the climate – just what we cannot afford to do. Therefore, I hope that you will make the right decision and say: No, the EPH will not own. We're going to phase out the coal.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-383	Mr President, I would like to I operate in all the decisions that I have at my disposal so as to keep as much coal as possible in the ground. I note once again that Jonas Sjöstedt is now talking about something like the most important climate decision of all. But two years ago Jonas Sjöstedt thought that the most important climate decision of all in relation to Vattenfall was to sell these mines. The reason for this is, of course, that this issue is not quite simple. It is not the case that Sweden alone controls which power plants should be running in Germany or which coal mines should be opened or not. It is a decision that the German Government has a great influence over, regardless of who owns the mines and the assets. I am therefore pleased that, since the election movement in Sweden, the German Government has made some wise decisions to build a fully renewable energy system and phase out coal power. In answer to Jonas Sjöstedt's question: When we try this deal, we naturally try the whole deal, including its suitability in relation to the review of the proposed buyer.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-387	Mr President, I would like to When the OECD reviewed the Swedish Pisa results, it was stated that an important part for Sweden to improve is about the disciplinary situation in the classrooms and in our schools. In March, an evaluation from the Swedish National Agency for Education showed that one of the major problems – we may have known before, but the Swedish National Agency for Education has now established it – is that students sit and surf mobiles and Ipadar and take part in social life outside the classroom instead of listening to their teachers. This was also confirmed by an investigation that I set up. The then president of the teaching union, Metta Fjelkner, said that we must increase the powers of teachers to stop cell phones in classrooms when they interfere. That investigation is complete, and there's a bill. I note that in the first 100 days or even in 600 days, Gustav Fridolin has not had time to present that bill. Is it not true, Gustav Fridolin, that we need to increase teachers' powers to maintain peace and quiet in the classroom?
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-391	Mr President, I would like to Speaking of populism: Don't slam the teachers and principals of Sweden that they don't have authority, Jan Björklund! They have the trust of the state and of both you and me to make decisions as to what technical means you should and should not use in the classroom. There is even an obligation for every Swedish school to establish rules of conduct. Of course, regulations at a school in 2016 should include rules on when and when to use mobile phones. I think one of the reasons why we have problems with this – because we have – is that it is an issue that has become more political than professional. I trust the Swedish teaching profession. I trust Sweden's principals. I want to give them the best tools to do their job with. Therefore, they have the tool to establish rules of procedure and also to regulate when students should and should not use mobile phones. It couldn't have gone by Jan Björklund that we have schools in Sweden that use so-called mobile bans. It's obviously not forbidden.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-394	Mr President, I would like to Anything is allowed as long as it's not tested. It's just that if someone reports this, you're gonna go there. Many principals and teachers know that, and they don't want to get registered and go there. That's why they don't care. Some take the risk anyway. That is why Metta Fjelkner, former President of the National Federation of Teachers, presented this bill. Do you think she's fumbling out of the air, Gustav Fridolin, or she doesn't know what's bothering and worrying teachers out in the classrooms? You're terrified to talk about disciplinary matters! You're talking about profit in welfare and everything else, but what's going on in the classroom is the most important thing. It is the weakest students, Gustav Fridolin, who suffer most when things get messy in the classroom, and it is those students who need to concentrate most of all who do not get peace and quiet when they are tempted to instead sit and surf on their iPad or smartphone. Give the teachers the authority! Trust the teachers, Gustav Fridolin!
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-399	Mr President, I would like to I think the listener heard that I am happy to talk about studies and why teachers and principals should have the opportunity to make decisions about what is happening at a school and in a classroom. The problem is, talking isn't enough. Jan Björklund talked a lot during his eight years in government, but one must also prioritise. We prioritise that teachers have the right tools. They have the tool to work together at the school to develop rules of conduct that also include rules on mobile phones. We also give priority to investing in school. With a student in the class who disturbs the others, you are grateful if there are more people working at the school so that someone can work with that particular student for a while. Then you can safely say that they can work with this and the group can be divided. If you cut back at school, fewer people do the job. Then the teachers get worse tools to work with. During Jan Björklund's time as Minister of Education, nearly 10,000 employees were cut off in Swedish schools. I am proud that, in our time, 13,000 people have been reinstated.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-403	Mr President, I would like to It became clear in SVT's recent party leader debate that the government parties are not interested in discussing stricter penalties for sexual offences so that more asylum seekers who commit sexual abuse or engage in sexual harassment can be expelled. On the other hand, Prime Minister Regnér recently signaled a tougher tone against sex buyers. That is an ambition that we Christian Democrats share. What I cannot understand is why the feminist government is so passive towards one particular type of sexual crime and so active against another. Can Gustav Fridolin explain the difference?
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-405	Mr President, I would like to If you are convicted of a crime, you can also be sentenced to expulsion. Such rules exist and should exist. But the most important work, of course, is to ensure that the type of crime that Andreas Carlson is talking about, disgusting crimes, sexual harassment and sexual abuse, never ever occur. It is about preventive work, to ensure in the case that Andreas Carlson deals with the planning of asylum accommodations in a good way, that no one is violated for either his gender, his religion or anything else in an asylum accommodation or a job. We have to do both. There must be good and workable legislation, and crime must be prevented.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-407	Mr President, I would like to Gustav Fridolin and I agree that preventive work is important. We Christian Democrats also think it is important to tighten the penalties for sexual offences so that more can be expelled. Why, then, does Gustav Fridolin not want to discuss the issue? Has Fridolin or the Green Party changed its mind since the party leader debate in Agenda? If you come here and ask for our help but have so little respect for our most fundamental values, we think it should be severe punishment. Then why should you stay, Gustav Fridolin?
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-409	Mr President, I would like to Of course, it should be harsh punishment for serious crimes. Of course, punishment should also be able to include expulsion when it is up to date. It is possibly a harsh truth that there are a lot of individuals who commit crimes that have never ever lived in any other country and cannot be expelled. It will be a bit wrong if you describe Swedish inequality and Swedish problems with this type of crime or other crime as something that is entirely related to individuals who can be sentenced to expulsion because they are not born and raised here by parents who are born and raised here. Of course, expulsion should be on the scale of punishment. There are for a lot of crimes today. This government has carried out a large number of penalties, but it does not stand against prioritising preventive work. For this type of crime, it is important that they never be committed from the beginning.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-412	Mr President, I would like to To solve the big job challenge we face, Sweden needs politicians who have a clear idea of what they want and where they are going. They should not turn a blind eye to challenges or paint a picture of reality that suits their own needs. In the election movement, the Social Democrats talked about something being broken. The barns weren't that long ago completely empty. Sweden has also faced a systemic collapse. But now there's another sound in the bark. Now the Prime Minister tells us that Sweden is doing well. Unemployment is falling. The Swedish economy is strong. It's strange how fast things turn when Stefan Löfven stands for the reality description. If you're going to believe Stefan Löfven, he's been able to fix Sweden in a few months. But that fairy tale is as true as science fiction. It is in spite of rather than thanks to Stefan Löfven that economic development is good. If you read the government's own budget proposal, it also shows that unemployment is increasing and employment is falling when the government's policies have an effect. Now we must equip ourselves for the future and ensure that reforms are launched that create more jobs, which build Sweden strongly. It should be reforms that can bridge the gaps between those who have jobs and those who do not have a job. We should not accept the government's talk about locking people up in low contributions but ensuring that people get a job and a salary to live on. People who today live on really low benefits will have a chance at a job with a higher income. It's real. Sweden needs responsible reforms for more jobs. When the government stands empty-handed or runs an election campaign ethics it is the Center Party and the Alliance that stands for the solutions. We can take the direction and meet the challenges of concrete policies that make a difference in people's everyday lives. It means moments of change for the better.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-418	Mr President, I would like to During your time in power, you rigged a tax system in which it is those who best earn the most from the tax system. We can see, for example, that the average resident in Danderyd receives almost SEK 15 000 per year in ROT, RUT and deductions for the loss of capital on interest deductions. In Annie Lööf's own municipality of residence Värnamo the corresponding figure is SEK 5 400. In other municipalities it is significantly lower. So you have created a tax system that consistently benefits those who have the highest incomes and wealth and own their own homes. Does Annie Lööf think that's fair?
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-420	Mr President, I would like to It is usually the left-wing government's parade branch to find gaps for rich high-income earners to escape the tax. Rather, it was the alliance government that made sure to reduce the income tax for those with really low incomes. Among other things, one nurse received an extra monthly salary per year to keep in her wallet. It's something I'm proud of. The RUT reform has created thousands of jobs that have caused thousands of people to go from low contributions to a salary to live on and a real job. It is also important to ensure that Sweden stays together. The big gap in Sweden today and even during the time of the alliance government stood between those who have a job and those who do not have a job. That is why it is important to reduce taxes, mostly for those with low incomes, and to ensure that more people get a job and a salary to live on.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-423	Mr President, I would like to There was a lot of content in one minute but nothing about the issue itself. The question was about the system of deductions that you have created, which in practice means transferring money from the low-paid, often in rural Sweden, to the highest-paid in big cities. I note the Centre Party's complete lack of interest in rigging a tax system that distributes in the wrong direction. But let us take another example – corporate tax. SVT recently reported on Ulla's flower trade, which pays corporate tax because they make little profit. Ulla's flower shop pays more corporate tax than SKF, Electrolux and Volvo. It's successful big companies that make a lot of money. That's because they can make such a big deduction. Is that fair, Annie Lööf? Is it not time to limit the right of deduction for large companies so that Volvo pays at least a little more than Ulla's flower trade in corporation tax?
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-425	Mr President, I would like to I answered Jonas Sjöstedt's question in the second round by saying that those who have previously been unemployed have been given a job and in that way a salary to live on. I now hope that Jonas Sjöstedt, with his budgetary cooperation with the government, will complete what the alliance government has begun to do, namely to close the loopholes in terms of deductions for larger companies. It is reasonable that small companies do not have to tax more than larger companies in Sweden. I assume that Jonas Sjöstedt and the Government will follow the line taken by the Alliance Government. The biggest and most important change is the red tax shift that is now under way. You take billions from ordinary carpenters and construction workers by cutting in the ROT deduction and put this in the pockets of rich developers in Stockholm where you subsidise rental rights. It is a major tax shift from ordinary workers in the interior of Norrland to rich construction companies in the inner city of Stockholm.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-429	Mr President, I would like to First of all, it is important to be able to have two perspectives in your head at the same time. On the one hand, Sweden is doing well. We have good macro figures in terms of unemployment, employment, growth and investment. That's good. On the other hand, we still have very major challenges ahead of us. We have too high unemployment, too much segregation, for poor school scores and so on. These challenges stand firm, and the question is how to deal with them. Our model is investment. We want to continue building society and develop the Swedish model. This is why we have proposed, among other things, 10 billion to Sweden's municipalities and county councils. I was home in Västernorrland last weekend and could, among other things, see that municipalities and county councils there will receive about 300 million SEK. In Annie Lööf Jönköping it is about 400 million SEK. My question is whether the Center will support the government's welfare billions.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-431	Mr President, I would like to The reason why Stefan Löfven can talk about welfare billions is that the Center Party in the Migration Agreement last autumn pushed a demand to strengthen the municipalities' finances by 10 billion. We got it through, and now the government continues that effort. Sweden is doing well; unemployment has decreased, and employment has increased. But when we read the government's own budget bill, it is black and white that unemployment will increase when the praiseworthy policies of the Social Democrats, as Stefan Löfven now says, come into force. The Ministry of Finance is clear about this: this will reduce employment. It is the wrong recipe for Sweden that Stefan Löfven stands for. We need reforms for more simple jobs and more small businesses to ensure that growth increases and unemployment is pushed down. Your policy is the wrong policy for Sweden, Stefan Löfven.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-434	Mr President, I would like to I understand why the bourgeois governments have failed. It presents a policy for a year, and then it looks at forecasts. If it goes the wrong way, you don't do anything else. Is that what you did, Annie Lööf? You got a higher unemployment rate during your period. We have now started to build society with investments in the Swedish model, which gives more jobs and lower unemployment. That's what we're going to do. This means that in every budget we will work to continue that journey. Then you can't look three years ahead and say, "Oh, it went up," but we don't do anything. We shall continue to ensure that unemployment is really broken. It requires a community building. This requires the development of the Swedish model. This will not be possible with new tax cuts of SEK 64 billion, Annie Lööf.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-436	Mr President, I would like to If the government's social construction is about more jobs and more in employment, your recipe is completely wrong, Stefan Löfven. You say in black and white that unemployment will increase with your policy in the coming years. It is possible to read in the Ministry of Finance's own forecasts and assessments. Stand up for it! You have the wrong policy. If it is so terrible about tax cuts for ordinary workers, such as nurses and IF Metal workers – remove them! You're buying 90% of the tax cuts the Alliance made. Be honest! If you think it was wrong with tax cuts for ordinary people so they can keep more money in their wallets, raise the tax! Raise the tax for your colleagues in IF Metall, and raise the tax for nurses and nurses! My model is about reducing taxes to allow more people to keep more money in their wallets and to ensure that welfare is strengthened and freedom of choice remains. Above all, it is about more people getting a job to go to.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-439	Mr President, I would like to The Centre Party and the Green Party have a community of values on a lot of issues. One of them is decentralism; we are both convinced that Sweden can handle a lot when working locally. This is very clear in the great responsibility Sweden now takes for the reception of refugees and to help people who come here from war and oppression and need a sanctuary. The big job is done locally – in schools, municipalities, associations, churches and mosques. You do a lot when Sweden grows. It's a big challenge we've taken on. It's a very big task. But as the population grows, it also makes villages live up, shops open and closed schools remain. This requires that the municipal service is good and strong. As schools grow, schools need more resources, which can be good for all children. This applies to new arrivals as well as to generations of old arrivals. That is why we are now making the great effort the Prime Minister mentioned, i.e. giving 10 steady billions to the municipalities in the future. It is the largest contribution ever made to the general state grant to municipalities.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-441	Mr President, I would like to During the period of the alliance government, the local government sector received a net contribution of 100 billion each year. It was given because more people worked and paid taxes to the local government sector. That is why it is so important to have a clear employment policy to ensure that more people go to work. In this way it will be more tax crowns to invest in a good school, a good preschool and a good care for the elderly. This is how it works when it comes to building a stronger Sweden. We are behind the 10 billion we received in the migration agreement last autumn. We think it is important that the municipalities receive full compensation for the work they do in the tough situation they are currently in when it comes to receiving refugees. That's something the Center Party stands up for. How we respond to the billions the government has now proposed, we will come back to this autumn's budget exercise, but I see it as a continuation of what we said in the migration agreement last autumn.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-443	Mr President, I would like to It must be a little hard for the center-party evidence that the findings so far do not match Annie Lööf's warnings. When we used the money that went to an inefficient general reduction in the employers' contribution for young people to invest instead in school, welfare and job-giving, Annie Lööf warned that it would increase youth unemployment enormously. But youth unemployment is now falling. It sinks rapidly and is lower than in a very long time. Obviously, you should take Annie Lööf's warnings with a little pinch of salt. Annie Lööf says that she will return with a statement as to whether the Center Party is behind the money we want to give the municipalities. But the budget council in the municipalities is taking place now. It is now that the municipalities decide how to use future money. That's why the message was so important. The state's collaboration with the municipalities can't be a little bit of ape, a bit of hope, hope – a bit from time to time. One must be clear and provide long-term rules of play. For this reason, in time, we were clear with 10 new billions.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-445	Mr President, I would like to Now it is not me who warns about the future of Swedish growth and jobs, but it is the government that clearly says in its own budget bill that unemployment is increasing with the government's policy in the coming years. Outsiders will reach 1 million by 2020, and those who are unemployed will be increasingly away from the labour market and become even more complex in their mix. It calls for politicians to act and present decisive reforms. I am very aware that the municipalities are setting their budgets now. This is also why it was important that the 10 billion we agreed on last autumn entered the municipalities' budgets early after the turn of the year. It is also important that the government is clear in its spring bill. It is you who govern the kingdom, Gustav Fridolin. For me, it is important to point out that it is about more people having to go to work on Mondays in order for us to have more support for the municipalities' economies in the long term – to the welfare activities. More people must have a wage to live on, for that is how we ultimately ensure a welfare that is secure and strong.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-447	Mr President, I would like to In eight days' time, the UK will vote on EU membership. The likelihood of the British actually choosing to leave the EU has increased. I shall say that I do not have much to say for the British 'no' side; it contains reactionary nationalism and not a small amount of racism. At the same time, the basis for the growing dissatisfaction with the EU is its own failure. It is the lack of democracy and central government that no one has asked for. We have a monetary union that has reinforced an economic and social crisis. The EU has been unable to rally in the face of the refugee challenge. In fact, it is high time we thought about what we want to do if the British leave the EU. The UK is and remains important for Sweden. We want good conditions for trade – continued free trade – labour market mobility and the opportunity to study in each other's countries. A renegotiated EEA agreement is a possible solution if the British leave the EU. Here I miss concrete proposals and ideas from both the government and the bourgeois parties. The Left Party wants to renegotiate the conditions for Swedish EU membership. We want to reduce the EU's power over us. We want a social protocol that guarantees that Swedish collective agreements apply to everyone who works here. The EU should not, as it is now, be able to put company rights before employees' rights. The truck driver from Bulgaria or the restaurant assistant from Poland must also have the right conditions in Sweden. We want the opportunity to have better laws to protect the environment and consumers' rights. The EU should not be able to prevent countries from going ahead. We also want to reduce the membership fee and once again allow agricultural policy to be managed nationally. It does not need to be managed in detail from Brussels.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-453	Mr President, I would like to Cooperation is built on common goals, trust and willingness to compromise. No one gets everything, but everyone's ready to do their thing. The Green Party is a distinctly cooperative party. We are prepared to make compromises even when it is difficult. The Left Party is another party. You make your choices, you stand for them, and I respect that. However, since we work together in many municipalities, I would still like to ask how the discussions are going within the Left. In the run-up to the elections, you said, Jonas Sjöstedt: It is important to show that the Left Party can rule. I want to see such a left, which has the ideas but is also good at controlling. We will prove that we can rule by highlighting municipalities and county councils where we are in power. Then you gave an example: In Malmö we show that the Left Party can control. Since then, however, you have left Malmö, Lund and Uppsala County Council. When it got harder than you thought, you left. These are your decisions, and I respect them as I said. But I would like to ask: is the strategy that you described to the electorate before the election still valid to enter the government to try to change and take responsibility?
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-457	Mr President, I would like to We didn't leave control in Malmö. You threw us out because we wanted to invest in welfare, but you didn't want to do it. The writing of the story should be correct. We run in about 100 municipalities, including Stockholm and Gothenburg. We carry out a six-hour working day, free public transport and the right to full-time, and we do that well. But we're not prepared to literally sell out any stuff. For example, we are not prepared to sell out Vattenfall coal mines to EPH. We are also not prepared to sell out the Swedish freedom of alliance or to make a turnaround in migration policy. We intend to vote against a TTIP agreement which gives power to large companies in addition to national democracy. You know what, Gustav Fridolin? I think the difference is there.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-460	Mr President, I would like to Jonas Sjöstedt forgot one longer. You're not ready to sell Vattenfall's coal mines anymore. Because you wanted to sell them in the election campaign and have since changed you when you realized that it was an attack on the Green Party. You're welcome! I understand that such policies and tactics also belong in politics. Jonas Sjöstedt describes a long list of requirements. The Green Party has also agreed with them. We negotiated with the Social Democratic Government in 1990, I think it was, and came in principle with the whole party programme and said that we should have it all through in a negotiation. There was no deal that time. We didn't get any influence. I'm sure it was really easy afterwards to explain to the voters that we stood for everything we had said. But sometimes we also need grey compromises to actually make a difference, take responsibility for those voters who have put their trust in us, enter into negotiations and try to get as far as we can. I am proud that we are now working for 100% renewable electricity generation and to become the world's first fossil-free welfare country. I'm proud of school politics. And it is based on cooperation, Jonas Sjöstedt.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-463	Mr President, I would like to No, it became nothing then and will be nothing now, with the big questions, Gustav Fridolin. That's the sad truth for you. Of the green it becomes something gray; I can agree with you. But we deliver. We went to elections to take away the profits in welfare. The proposals will be placed on Parliament's table. We went to elections to invest in welfare and fix the breaks that were torn up during the bourgeois years, and we do. This also applies to unemployment insurance and health insurance. We are making completely new reforms that benefit single parents and those with the lowest pensions. None of this would have been without the Left Party. I think it is important to be able to cooperate and compromise. We do that with the government. But it is also important not to abandon our fundamental values and what we actually went to elections on. I think that's where the difference is, Gustav Fridolin.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-466	Mr President, I would like to You don't miss the cow until the booth is empty. It is a saying that Jonas Sjöstedt may also know about. This also sums up the Swedish left's actions around Findus' factory in Bjuv. I have great sympathy for all the people who have to leave the country and for all the farmers who have delivered to Findus for years. But it is the tax-raising policy and the planned economic dreams that Mr Sjöstedt is behind that force companies out of the country. The truth is that Jonas Sjöstedt only cares about companies when they close down. Then come the crocodile tears. The fact that Jonas Sjöstedt goes to Bjuv as a knight on his white runner is nothing more than hypocrisy. My question is therefore: Is the Left Party prepared to reconsider its entrepreneurial policy, reduce costs and improve conditions for Sweden's companies so that more companies do not leave the country?
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-470	Mr President, I would like to I think it is important to have a competitive industry and to have more food industry in Sweden. But I think I have another way there in terms of increasing demand, increasing innovation and providing support for smaller companies. I think that Annie Lööf sometimes shows a startling naivety about how modern capitalism works. The Findu industry is profit-making, not loss-making. It's a hostile takeover when a large multinational company wants to close this to avoid competition, get rid of the market that you usually talk about. And you have no point on it. You never went to Bjuv. You didn't stand there talking to the farmers and workers who were worried. You seem to think this isn't a problem. We want to do something about this. For example, we want the AP funds not to invest in such companies. They should be involved in building up in Sweden, not being involved in tearing down. There's the big difference between us.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-474	Mr President, I would like to There were many nice words but very little information about how Jonas Sjöstedt wants to strengthen Swedish companies, and that is often what it usually looks like in the Left Party: a lot of talk and a little workshop. It makes no difference to go down to Bjuv and hold a demonstration. Then you have crocodile tears that you wipe away. You go down on your white runner and try to be honest and honest. But the fact is that it is a policy of higher taxes and increased regulatory burdens that drive businesses out of the country. Unlike Jonas Sjöstedt, I do my utmost to prevent more companies from leaving Sweden. The costs of jobs and businesses are among the highest in Europe. Special taxes and charges affect competitiveness. Basically, this is about competitiveness, not least in the food industry. That is why I am giving Jonas Sjöstedt the opportunity again to talk about what your entrepreneurial policy is that ensures that companies have a stronger competitiveness, that lowers costs and that creates better rules for companies to actually stay here and not leave the country.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-478	Mr President, I would like to The basic premise of Annie Lööf's question, that you should have raised the taxes on Findus in Bjuv, is hardly true. The second is that they would go badly because of it. That's absolutely not true, because they made a profit. In addition, Findu's owner company is safely located on a Caribbean island where all taxes are avoided. That's the kind of company we're dealing with. The question is not why I was in Bjuv. The question is, why weren't you there? Why did you have nothing to say to the people affected by this type of robber capitalism, where profitable jobs are laid down and they are being removed from the country? Why didn't you have anything to say about the money that was used to move out their jobs? Then you're in the Center Party completely silent. Why did you have nothing to say to the 500 growers around Skåne who have had a good supply from the contracts with Bjuv? When big business moves jobs out, when it affects ordinary people's everyday lives, then the Center Party is unanswered.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-481	Mr President, I would like to Jonas Sjöstedt is the most persistent person in Swedish politics to argue for increased planning economic elements in area by area, in and for itself closely followed by the government. Now we are going to build more homes, and then the Left Party's line is to keep regulations and to have more subsidies. There will be a number of billions pumped into construction subsidies. The strange thing is that the industry itself says that that is not what is needed. They will certainly receive the money when they receive it, but they feel that this is not the answer. A great experience is that this type of subsidy often increases the profits for the developers of the buildings that would still have been built. Why, Jonas Sjöstedt, do you want to fatten the construction companies?
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-485	Mr President, I would like to We want to do this because investment aid works. This is how they built 1 million homes in Sweden before to build away the housing shortage. We do so by setting a rent ceiling as a condition for subsidies, that is to say, that the money ends up in reasonable rents and more housing, not in the client's pockets. Of course they want market rents and not to build so much. Then they'll make more money. But it's the homeless who lose out. In the last party leader debate Jan Björklund made a big deal of the fact that it is faster for Nasa to send a probe to Pluto than it is possible to get an apartment in Stockholm's residential queue. Have you considered that the Stockholm housing market is a privatised market while NASA is a state-owned company, Jan Björklund?
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-489	Mr President, I would like to If you build a number of houses with cool subsidies, you can of course lower the rent. I admit it; you are right on that point. It's just that when people move into these houses, you have to go after the housing queue. It is those who have stood 14 years in line who get priority to the cheap apartments. Does Jonas Sjöstedt seriously believe that it is newly arrived, homeless, young people or students who have been in line for 14 years? No, it is mainly quite wealthy families who have stood for 14 years to trade up and so on. Subsidies end up in the wrong pockets. If you want to help people on low incomes, it is much more effective to give them higher housing allowances and allowances than to subsidise these buildings, because the money ends up either in wealthy middle-class families who have been in line for a long time or in construction companies' pockets. It is the truth and experience of these subsidies, Jonas Sjöstedt.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-492	Mr President, I would like to Jan Björklund seems to be most concerned that someone should get a low rent and that you should not pay a really high rent. I have a completely different concern, and that is that people today have to leave their homes because of high rents, not least after renovations. This shows the difference between right and left. You're worried about people getting too low a rent. We worry that people have no place to live. You want to raise people's rent and lower their salary. We believe that a completely different policy is the solution. There is a clear political difference. When you find out about this with NASA, Pluto and the housing market, please contact Jan Björklund.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-495	Mr President, I would like to Jonas Sjöstedt usually storms against Brussels. We heard that in the speech as well. He speaks in terms of the undemocratic nature of the EU and the shift of power away from the Member States. I wonder why your own MEP is acting quite differently. She wants Brussels to decide more about gender equality, parental insurance, welfare and labour law, for example. In the end, Jonas Sjöstedt, you do not seem to have anything against Europe as long as the EU is left. We Christian Democrats want the right agenda in Brussels with a narrower focus and a focus on the core tasks. The Left Party's line is rather a hidden agenda in Brussels. Jonas Sjöstedt! Can you explain your actions in the European Parliament to those voters who voted for the Left Party precisely for your principled criticism of more supranationality?
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-500	Mr President, I would like to I'd love to. We stand everywhere for feminism, for employees' rights, for social justice and for LGBTQ rights. We do it in municipalities, we do it in parliament and we do it when we vote in the European Parliament. You often do the opposite no matter where it is. There's a difference in valuation between us. When do you decide what power the EU has? Yes, you do that, above all, when you change the EU's treaties. The EU's decision-making powers will be increased. You have been for every treaty change that increases the power of the European Union. Your speech about a narrower Europe is simply wrong. You were even in favour of abolishing the Swedish currency and entering a monetary union that works very badly – something that had hit Sweden hard. It is simply hypocrisy. You are voting against the rights of women and employees because you are on the right and are against them in Sweden too. We vote for them wherever we are.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-505	Mr President, I would like to We voted against the examples raised by Mr Sjöstedt because we believe that these are issues that do not belong at European level. Sjöstedt tries to sit on two chairs at the same time. You claim that Europe is undemocratic and fundamentally wrong. At the same time, you are using Europe to pursue left-wing politics. Will what you describe yourself as undemocratic decisions taken in an undemocratic way become more legitimate just because you like them?
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-508	Mr President, I would like to We have a very simple principle. It means that we are voting against extending the power of the European Union, for example in the case of Treaty changes, while you are voting in favour. We voted against the euro while you voted in favour. However, when the EU already has power, we vote to make the legislation as good as possible because the EU is already exercising power. You vote to make it as bad as possible. You've gone to elections on that, and I respect that you do. But we are voting to do it as well as possible where the EU is already exercising power. That is exactly what we have said to the voters, that is exactly what we are doing and that is exactly why we are so necessary in the European Parliament.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-511	Mr President, I would like to I wanted to agree with the Prime Minister on one point: the Swedish economy is doing well. This is particularly remarkable given that Sweden has recently gone through the deepest financial crisis in 80 years. You have to be very old to remember for yourself the previous financial crisis of this dimension. We are doing well because during the financial crisis we conducted a very responsible economic policy. We have nine years of the Alliance's economic policy behind us and five months of red-green economic policy. First we had eight years of alliance government, and then the Alliance got through its budget last year. It was so hopeless, the Löfven One thought, that he announced new elections. But it was fortunate that this budget had to be implemented, because now we are so successful. We can agree with each other that Sweden is doing well. It can't be that things have gone so well for Sweden only in the last five months. Löfven can't even imagine that. It is clear that this is because we have pursued a responsible economic policy. During these years, Löfven constantly attacked the core of our economic policy, namely the work line. Stup in one he said it was an attack on the Swedish model. We reduced the income tax for ordinary people. The members of IF Metall and Kommunal received significantly reduced income tax on work. This attacked the Löfven One hard. You voted against all these tax cuts. We reduced corporate tax and removed the wealth tax. You voted against it too. You voted no and again no. However, you are not restoring any of this, and that is because you think it was quite good. Can't you admit it? I admit that Sweden is doing well. Can't you, Stefan Löfven, admit that the Alliance's policy was successful? Sweden came out of the financial crisis as one of the strongest economies in the Western world. Can't you admit it, Stefan Löfven?
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-520	Mr President, I would like to Maybe we should start with some clarifications. I'm usually accused of having too little routine in parliament and not knowing what's going on. But Björklund who has spent a lot of time in this house should know that there is something called our amending budget. We haven't been running your budget all this time. Last year we presented a spring budget for change, and that started to change. It is also true, Jan Björklund, that you took over a budget surplus and left a huge budget deficit. It is a fact; it is impossible to get away from. We had the crisis in 2008 – 2009. I know it well, because you sat with your arms crossed and did nothing. With our community building we will defend the Swedish model. Part of that is that we have more tax revenue. Jan Björklund chooses tax reductions again, and he chooses tax reductions for those who earn the most. What do Jan Björklund sees as major socio-economic problems for the 20 per cent who earn the most that get 80 per cent of Björklund's wallet investments?
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-526	Mr President, I would like to Some changes were made from 1 July 2015; I admit that. But does Löfven really mean that the boom began then, on 1 July 2015, with the small changes that were made then? Seriously, Stefan Löfven, it is below your intellectual level to stand and claim it. Sweden came out of the financial crisis as one of the strongest economies in the Western world. People traveled from all over the West to Sweden to think about what we had done. Why don't you admit it was good? And if it wasn't good, why don't you put forward proposals to raise these taxes again – the job tax deductions that you stand and bark at and that made your IF Metall members – all bus drivers, nurses and nurses – get reduced tax for working. You're not raising. Why don't you do it if it was so wrong? It is a good medicine for Sweden that it pays to work, Stefan Löfven. That's the truth. That's why you don't touch these taxes.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-529	Mr President, I would like to We already said in the election movement that we will not change the conditions for households. What's on the households is there, and we won't change that. That's what we're holding on to. The big dividing line is whether we should have more tax revenue in order to cope with the construction of society or whether we should have less tax revenue. We are now increasing and investing SEK 60 billion annually. It is a very good policy. If that policy had been harmful, it would have had no confidence, no growth and no investment that we now see. Now society, entrepreneurs and people see that we are investing in Sweden again. This creates confidence in the future and optimism. We intend to continue to build that community. We will develop the Swedish model, not phase it out.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-532	Mr President, I would like to To look to the future, it is no art to be optimists when there is 4 percent growth. The art is what happens when the economic cycle goes down next time. What you are doing now is very dangerous, Stefan Löfven. The fact that we have 4% growth depends on the responsible economic policy that has been pursued. But now you are increasing the budget deficit, both this year and next year, even though it is booming. I believe in Keyne, and the Social Democrats have always believed in Keyne. According to Keyne, the budget deficit should be reduced when it is booming. In addition, we have a doped interest rate. Imagine when it starts to return to normal levels again – that's when the challenges come. There is no art now with zero interest rates when people borrow and spend and there is momentum in the economy. The art will come in a few years, Stefan Löfven. You're on a dangerous path. You inherited barns that were well cared for under eight years. Now you're emptying the barns, Stefan Löfven. The problem is not today, but when there is a recession. That's when there needs to be gunpowder in the barns, but there won't be.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-535	Mr President, I would like to Politics often boils down to priorities. We never have unlimited resources, but we have to do the best and most important with those we have. I think the most important thing in a society is school. It lays the foundation for any other development, and it determines the opportunity to meet other challenges. In the latest budget of the alliance government, 62% of the efforts were made to reduce taxes. Only 2% was spent on school. When we took office as a government, nearly 10,000 fewer educational employees worked at school. It's not just about teachers. Teacher density is a difficult measure when we have such a large teacher shortage. When you cut down on staff who make teachers have time for their job, the students get less time with the teachers. We have invested, and today 13 000 more people work in school than when we took office. That is our priority. The liberals have another. In his draft budget, Jan Björklund spent 14 times more on tax cuts than on school. It's a little surprising. Does the Liberals really think that tax cuts are 14 times more important than school?
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-538	Mr President, I would like to Of course it is embarrassing, Gustav Fridolin, that the teacher density increased during the alliance government but is falling with you as Minister of Education. The teacher density of educated teachers in comprehensive school was approximately 84 per cent when I took office in 2006. By the time I left, it had increased by a few percentage points. Although it was difficult to get young people to apply for teacher training, the teacher density of educated teachers in comprehensive school increased during the alliance period. Now it's sinking, and it's sunk fast. It took a little more than 100 days to lower the teacher density, but you have succeeded in one and a half years, Gustav Fridolin. Now it sinks sharply. It is true that you are hiring some new teachers, but they are unauthorized teachers. I want us to have qualified, trained teachers in Swedish school. The teacher density of trained teachers rose with the alliance government. With Gustav Fridolin it sinks.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-542	Mr President, I would like to No, Jan Björklund, that's not disturbing, because you got fewer students, which increases the numbers automatically. Now there will be more children, more students in the Swedish school. That's reasonable. At the same time we have a great teacher shortage that has been built up for many years, also during your eight years, Jan Björklund. I think one in four teachers left the profession for reasons other than retirement during your time as Minister of Education. Then we have to hire. We need to train more teachers. It is great that the search pressure increases to teacher and special teacher training now, but we also have to hire others who make the teachers have time for their job. Teachers need to create order in the classrooms, and then it's great to be able to work with someone else – a student assistant or leisure teacher. If a student needs extra help, it is good to have the opportunity to have a special teacher. If a student is ill, student health is extremely important. If a student does not speak Swedish, a study supervisor is very good. That's why we hire more people in Swedish schools. You cut off 10,000 employees. We have reinstated 13 000 employees in Swedish schools.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-546	Mr President, I would like to I think most people think that this debate is a bit of a mess. We both think it is important to have teachers at school, and we both think it is important to have staff. The teacher density varies and goes up and down. The truth is, it's sinking now, and you're going to have to work with that, Gustav Fridolin. The problem is that the school has been municipal for 25 years. For every thing that's going to improve now, the government has to intervene. Why is that? There was a recent investigation from the School Commission, which you yourself have set up. It analysed the municipalisation. Basically everything was wrong with it. There is nothing that the state does not want to go in and rule more. But then the question finally arises whether the state should govern everything and why the municipalities should manage the school. Gustav Fridolin! Can't you use your last minute to tell me why you think the publicization of the school was good? ( First VICE TALMANN: Gustav Fridolin has no more lines. The line's finished. )
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-551	Mr President, I would like to Sweden is one of the world's major arms exporters per capita. One of the major importers from Sweden is Saudi Arabia. Saudi Arabia has been involved in a very brutal war in Yemen for some years. The UN estimates that only the Saudi booms have resulted in 785 children being killed and over 1,000 maimed. Saudi Arabia is therefore a country in war, except that it is a dictatorship and violates human rights. The European Parliament calls on countries to launch an arms embargo on Saudi Arabia. I think that's reasonable. The Netherlands has just implemented such an embargo, but I am surprised that the Liberals do not join us and say that we cannot actually export arms to a country that is bombing the civilian population with its bombers and which, moreover, is a dictatorship and violates human rights.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-554	Mr President, I would like to We have just made a very broad deal in the parliamentary arms export investigation, where the rules are tightened up. The whole aim of the tightening up is that arms exports will no longer be allowed to other countries such as Saudi Arabia. The law has not yet entered into force; I am fully aware of that. But this is exactly what is the tightening up of legislation, and there are probably a few other countries – potential buyers of Swedish weapons – that are going to suffer from this list. I defend the fact that Sweden has a defence equipment industry and that it needs to be able to export arms. But Swedish weapons should be used to defend freedom and democracy, not threaten freedom and democracy.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-557	Mr President, I would like to Can I interpret your answer, Jan Björklund, as saying that you think it is wrong for Sweden to export weapons to Saudi Arabia while the country is involved in a war that kills, maims and drives people on the run? Let us make the question very simple: Do you think it is wrong that Sweden continues to export weapons to Saudi Arabia?
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-559	Mr President, I would like to Yes, that is why I have supported the majority opinion of the arms export investigation, where the Alliance and the government agree that we should tighten the rules considerably. The meaning is that countries like Saudi Arabia will not be eligible for continued Swedish arms exports.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-560	Mr President, I would like to Today's debate has strained a number of areas. An important part has been the challenges of integrating new arrivals better into our society. To my disappointment, there are no concrete answers from the Red-Green parties on how the breadth of challenges linked to integration can be addressed and turned into opportunities. Has the Prime Minister missed that it is not unemployment or segregation that drives jihadism but that it is values? Omar Mateen had a job, was born in the United States and spoke good English. He did not live in exclusion; he lived in radicalization. Mr President, I would like to During this debate, I have highlighted the crisis of valuation that Sweden is in the middle of and that no responsible politician in Sweden can turn a blind eye to. We must not allow hopelessness to grow or insecurity to bite. We must pursue a policy that encourages good values and is rooted in what makes Sweden strong: freedom, human dignity, equality, own responsibility and humanity. Mr President, I would like to Such things are not built with more of the politics of passivity, but, like all constructions, with a solid and stable foundation of values.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-565	Mr President, I would like to Save the Children reports that a quarter of a million children grow up in poverty in Sweden. It's about children who can't afford a bus ticket or glasses and can't go to the movies with their friends. A society is tested in how it treats its weakest, it is said, and it is these children that politics must also be about. That is why we have given it to break child poverty. We raise the minimum level of parental insurance, we ensure that children who need medicine will receive it regardless of their parents' finances, we guarantee that children who need glasses in order to read what is on the board at school will receive it and we increase the maintenance allowance, which has been still for ten years, for children who grow up with a single parent. There are issues where the Christian Democrats and the Green Party have different opinions. In a debate such as this, we can point to the LGBT issues, for example. But there are also issues where I think we share a community of values, and this is one of them. I think that the KD also wants us to do what is necessary to ensure that no child has to grow up in poverty in Sweden. Yet you go against most of these requirements that can make life a little safer for the children who need it most. Why?
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-568	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking, Gustav Fridolin! It is important that we ensure that the development of the most vulnerable is reversed. There are children who see that the parent cannot go to a job and does not have a workplace where someone is waiting. A policy is needed for more people to get to work. This is what is the economic policy of the Christian Democrats – everyone should be able to work 100 percent of their ability. It is also a way to turn the development of children who do not see their parent – one of them or both – into work. The initiatives highlighted by Gustav Fridolin are also to a large extent all for everyone. We Christian Democrats were very concerned when the government, among other things, removed the leisure money, which was an effort that was right in terms of distribution policy and aimed at the most vulnerable people who might not be able to afford to buy a floorball club or go on the leisure activity they want. For them there was leisure money, but it took Gustav Fridolin away. Why?
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-570	Mr President, I would like to All for everyone. Is that what you say, Andreas Carlson, to a child who is unable to get glasses and who has a headache in school because it is not possible to read what is on the board? Is that what you say to a child whose parents are forced to prioritize between medicine or something else? Toll-free medicine for children and the possibility of glasses for those who need it as well as to increase maintenance support that has remained still throughout your time in government is not everything for everyone, is it? It is a functioning welfare and action against child poverty. We fully compensate for the change in leisure allowances in a better way to really reach parents without having to apply for support in the same way as before. Certainly, jobs are extremely important and crucial to breaking child poverty in the long term. However, the children who are poor here and now and have parents who are unemployed and do not find a job must actually also make an effort. That is what we are doing, and unfortunately you are saying no to it.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-572	Mr President, I would like to We can have some different solutions to the problem that Gustav Fridolin addresses in this debate. But he does not answer the question why the government is taking away the leisure money, which was, of course, an effort that we Christian Democrats and the Alliance carried out and which was targeted, distributional policy right and which could help those who might not be able to afford the leisure activities they wanted to take part in. The government is removing that proposal. Job is the most important thing in order to reverse the trend. As a child not being able to see his or her parent go to work is not only about crowns and crowns, but it is also about dignity, we think, and for the parent to feel needed and be part of a community in a workplace. That's why we need more of a policy that lets people work 100 percent of their ability.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-576	Mr President, I would like to There have been many hours of party leader debate here, and I note that the House has gradually become more empty. Unfortunately, I would add, because the Nordic countries are a large part of our lives and a large part of where we live and work. For perfectly clear reasons, the party leader debate, which has just ended, has had a very great focus on foreign policy, at least in the first half. The events that we have seen in our surrounding world, not least the terrible events of the weekend in Orlando, are painfully raising the fact that we are not alone and isolated in our little corner of the earth but that we are part of a larger world where there is much left to do. The Nordic countries have an important and common place in this. For a long time, Nordic cooperation has shown that it is possible to work together and achieve success in a well-balanced and friendly way. In the middle of the party leader debate, I noted a change of line between my party chairman Jimmie Åkesson and our Prime Minister Stefan Löfven. It was about the Brexit vote next week and about the EU and whether to continue to be a member of the Union as it stands today or not – or whether you are ready at least to renegotiate the agreement. In that shift, it became painfully clear that for our Prime Minister, as well as for too many others in our country, it is unclear what is cooperation and whether it can look like in more ways than one. Cooperation in the Nordic Council – which I have the privilege and the honour of being part of – clearly demonstrates what cooperation is without, for that reason, having to go too far and get into state formation or establish laws at a supranational level and run over the citizens of each Member State or Member State. In the same change of line, the Prime Minister pointed out, among other things, that as part of a global world, we must work together to make ourselves heard. We must be part of greater cooperation. I am therefore very pleased that the Nordic Council and the Swedish delegation are also discussing and highlighting the fact that the Nordic region is jointly the world's tenth largest economy and should therefore be able to work together in a much deeper way as part of the G20 cooperation. For a long time, as I have highlighted, the Nordic countries have had a well-functioning cooperation, and we have developed. We have had freedom of passport and freedom of movement and worked with labour markets, trade and removing border barriers between our countries. The letters we are dealing with here also highlight the issues of border barriers as issues of great importance in the future. That's where we put a lot of focus, for perfectly natural reasons. As we all know, the pressures of the last year have led to the creation of certain new barriers. We have seen new obstacles to the freedom of passports that we have been able to enjoy for a long time thanks to good cooperation between countries that have a long history together. We have a good understanding of each other and have gradually been able to develop well-functioning systems to continue living together even if we are separate countries. Internal border controls have been reintroduced. These are border controls which my party certainly fully supports, as is the case today. But we were also the party that pushed most strongly for us to grab the hand that Denmark hastily stretched out that we should perhaps ensure that freedom of movement and passport freedom within the Nordic region continues to be preserved. We have also pushed for help to preserve the external borders of Nordic cooperation. The reasons given for the identification checks and, as I have said, the external border controls for Schengen have fallen. You haven't done what you're supposed to have done there. But within the Nordic countries we have managed to have functioning external borders and have freedom of movement between our countries earlier, even before we took part in passport freedom and freedom of movement throughout the EU. It should not be very difficult or strange to want to return to it. Unfortunately, during the year, I have noted that such interest does not seem to exist in others. It's extremely sad. Within the framework of Nordic cooperation, the Swedish Democrats have repeatedly pointed out that we want to focus, among other things, on strengthened defence cooperation. Some progress is being made there, albeit slowly. We know that there are strong intentions also in Finland to work more closely with Sweden. I wish to continue to work on this throughout the Nordic region. As I said, we have a long history of community and similar development in our countries. We understand what the work is like in our neighbours as well as in our own, and we have developed systems to make this go together. Mr President, I would like to In the report we are debating today, the Swedish Democrats have a reservation, reservation No 1, which I would like to take this opportunity to ask for approval. It is about celebrating a Nordic year, to provide support for the very cooperation that has characterized the Nordic region for a long time. At this time, when we see that international collaborations do not really work as it was supposed to – they do not have a popular attachment and risk dividing the outside world rather than continuing to hold it together and demonstrate peaceful development through the exchange of experiences, knowledge, skills and skills – we believe it is important to highlight and celebrate what we have succeeded in the Nordic region. We have had more than 200 years of mutual peace and freedom of passports and trade, as I have highlighted in the past. We have had a community and a development that has strengthened values that are fundamental not only to our way of life but to a large part of what we consider self-evident in the democratic world. This is true both in the Western world and in all states that call themselves democratic. We have a deeply rooted attitude to equality, to respect for differences and to freedom for everyone to live as that person wants, as long as it does not go out on anyone else. At a time when the unrest in our surrounding world is growing and taking on increasingly darker and appalling expressions, and which coincides with the 100th anniversary of the Nordic Association, we think it would be reasonable and pleasant to show and stand up for how well-functioning international collaborations can be built. We believe that we should stand up for the common values that have built the Nordic countries strong, both separately and together, and thus also celebrate our cooperation by celebrating a Nordic year, 2019.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-594	Mr President, I would like to Welcome to this debate, the new Minister for Nordic Affairs! It's always nice to see someone from the government present. This is a report based on the work of parliamentarians in the Nordic Council but also on the work of the Council of Ministers. The letter that has come up with this is a report on 2015 and what has happened in those contexts. Mr President, I would like to For the Center Party, there is no doubt about our strong Nordic commitment. A forerunner of the Foreign Minister, Karin Söder, who was our party leader and the first female party leader, was a strong Northist throughout his work. Many green threads can be seen in the Nordic construction. For us, Mr President, an important way forward is to open up borders. This is precisely what Nordic cooperation has shown. Let's open boundaries! One should base the work on democracy, justice and the importance of the rule of law and see where it leads. The cooperation has had and has a strong foundation here in the Chamber but also in Swedish society. We have seen in the past year that our cooperation does not stop, that we do not build walls around the Nordic region. That's a good thing. We do not want to see it stop. We want to take advantage of the openness and limitlessness that we have tried to work for and make it bigger anyway. It is therefore welcome that we are also working together around the Baltic Sea, that we are working more closely with the Baltic States and also Poland. At least we have had talks with and worked with our great neighbour to the east, Russia. It is natural that we regret what happened in 2015, when the offices of the Nordic Council in St Petersburg and Kaliningrad were branded as foreign agents and closed. It's very serious. Now there are still some contacts. Our member of the Nordic Council, Staffan Danielsson, is currently in Russia at an Arctic parliamentary conference with others from that group. Otherwise, he would have taken part in this debate. But I'm in his place. Mr President, I would like to The work for a borderless Nordic region is a model that others have looked at. It can serve as a model for a borderless Europe and beyond. We are pleased that the government continues to work on the basis of the reform package agreed by the Council of Ministers in 2014 to develop the effectiveness of the Council of Ministers' work. I hope and expect, on behalf of the Center Party, that something will be passed on until it is completed in 2017. The idea that we as citizens should be able to move freely between countries, choose where we want to live, study, work, operate or other activities is fine, Mr President. It is a dream that we have driven relatively far in our Nordic neighbourhood without being hindered by national borders. It's been a pervasive, weighty thought. Much remains to be done here to remove obstacles and to facilitate further integration and cooperation. We can work together and still be different. That's what's so good-- that unparalleledness enriches and not diminishes. Mr President, I would like to Government and Parliament have taken steps in 2015 – 2016 that we haven't seen in a long time. Border controls and ID controls have been introduced, and this has been an historic decision. We from the Center Party have opposed ID checks and internal border controls. On a normal day 15 000 people commute across Öresund. Of these, 64 per cent say that they have been affected and felt increased stress, and 82 per cent say that they have had longer travel times. Every day this costs SEK 3 million. The costs over a year are estimated at approximately 11⁄2 billion. This shows that transparency brings prosperity and economic development as a result of opportunities for people to move across borders while facilitating trade for all of us. During World War I 1914, passport controls were introduced. On 1 July 1954, the Parliament adopted a decision replacing the protocol on freedom of passports of 14 July 1952. That's when we opened boundaries. Unfortunately, this Parliament has withdrawn the historic decision. We are working intensively to ensure that border controls are short-lived, and Parliament will soon have other debates on this issue. We from the Center Party presented a proposal to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Nordic Council. It was a strategy for how we should deal together with the development of the refugee situation. That was our intention, and I am pleased with the support we received. We are also pleased with the support for not making decisions that have negative consequences for Nordic cooperation but that the decision is first lifted in the Nordic Council of Ministers. It is important that we build cooperation, not just through a phone call to someone. This concerns all of us, and it is therefore important to have a joint discussion before landing in any decisions. As I said, now the ID checks will be extended. There are some wordings in the report that make us have a reservation on our part. We demand that the motions be rejected, but we justify our refusal in a different way. I would like to vote in favour of reservation 4 at paragraph 2. Otherwise, I would like to reject the reservations.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-612	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by welcoming Margot Wallström to the new job as Minister for the Nordic Region. I think it is very good that our Foreign Minister is now also responsible for the Nordic countries. The Nordic countries will then be higher on the Foreign Minister's agenda. I listened to Kai Eide, Norway's ambassador to Sweden. He noted that in the foreign policy debate in February, the Nordic countries were not raised once, either by the Foreign Minister or by one of the parliamentary parties' spokespersons for foreign policy. I hope it will sound different in February next year when the Foreign Minister will speak. But the Minister for Foreign Affairs does not have a simple job as Minister for the Nordics. Social democracy has been declining in the Nordic countries for a long time. Today, Minister Wallström will cooperate with governments where racists are part of Norway as well as Finland and with Denmark where racist Danish Folkepartie is a support party to the government despite the fact that it is even larger than the government party itself. In Iceland, right-wing populists cling to power even though they have hidden without taxes and even though popular opinion has demanded new elections. But the political situation should not prevent Sweden from putting on a leadership shirt in the Nordic cooperation. Mr President, I would like to I have the privilege, together with Moderate Cecilie Tenfjord-Toftby, of chairing the Swedish-Norwegian Parliamentary Association in Parliament. We started up the business during the spring and the interest in the Swedish-Norwegian collaboration has been quite great. Everyone who has attended our meetings has been able to note that the Swedish-Norwegian exchange is larger than you think, regardless of whether you measure it in border commuters or in exports. There is also a lively Finnish Friends' Association in the Riksdag. I believe that these associations play an important role in Parliament's work towards the Nordic countries. But the biggest debate of the year has been the Swedish-Danish cooperation. For the first time in decades, the government's border controls between Sweden and Denmark have meant a wall for free movement in the Nordic countries. The government's decision to introduce border controls and ID controls has resulted in a domino effect across Europe. Denmark, Austria, Slovenia and Macedonia have closed their borders following the government's decision. The EU's agreement with Turkey can be seen as a consequence of Swedish action, and now Turkey has also partially closed its border with Syria. Border controls and ID controls also have concrete consequences in our neighbourhood. Recently a boat capsized with four refugees in Öresund. Two of them were injured, one person so seriously that he ended up in a ventilator. Several attempts to hide in trucks before crossing the Öresund Bridge or ferries have also been discovered. There have been cases where young people ran through the railway tunnel all the way to Sweden. The introduction of border controls and ID controls restricts one of the most important advances in Nordic cooperation, free movement and passport freedom between our countries. The freedom of passports, which has existed since the 1950s, has deepened and strengthened the Nordic community. Today, the Nordic labour market is clearly linked thanks to the freedom of passport. People around the Nordic region have had greater opportunities to study, work, travel, settle and meet within the Nordic region. This has helped to make the Nordic region richer. But border controls and ID controls now make everyday life difficult for many in the Nordic countries, but also for our economies. The Left Party wants a humane refugee policy in Sweden and Europe. We stand up for the right of asylum, the fundamental human right for refugees to have the right to seek asylum, to have their asylum grounds tried in a legally secure way and to be offered a refuge when there is a need for it. It is through an expanded and well-functioning reception system that we are dealing with the fact that a large number of people are seeking asylum to Sweden and Europe, not by limiting the possibilities of being able to apply for asylum. The government's policy imposes restrictions on the right of asylum, which we cannot support. Nor do we share the view that public order and internal security have been threatened. When the EU is unable to deal with the refugee situation, the Nordic countries should take the lead and work together to receive the people who are fleeing. Instead, we see how the Nordic countries have deliberately made it difficult for people to use their right to seek asylum. It is a dangerous path that jeopardises the right to asylum and human rights. We in the Left Party see great potential in developing Nordic cooperation across national borders. We have a lot in common and would all benefit from developing cooperation. Many times we can solve problems, border barriers, develop collaboration and develop strategies for the challenges of the future better in the Nordic countries than run to all 28 EU Member States each time and try to solve the issue, while forgetting our neighbours Norway and Iceland. Mr President, I would like to Having said that, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 5.
i-37JKsDTQPJXVgoXvf7ojSo	Mr President, I would like to Today, we are debating the Foreign Affairs Committee's report on the 2015 report of the Swedish delegation to the Nordic Council and the Government's letter on the work of the Nordic Council of Ministers. The report's starting point is the issues raised in motions during the general period of exercise. Nordic cooperation has a strong popular base. Cooperation is based on common values in terms of democracy, justice, transparency and the importance of the rule of law. In many ways Nordic cooperation is unique, especially in an international comparison. But last year our cooperation got a big thorn. This was shown not least in a television debate in autumn 2015 between Swedish and Danish politicians and debaters on how best to deal with the refugee situation. Swedish government representatives claimed that we could certainly handle the reception of refugees in a good way, while the Danes had a completely different picture of the situation. The Swedish representatives were disappointed that the Danes were not involved in taking greater responsibility. At the annual session of the Nordic Council in Iceland at the end of October 2015, a debate was held on the refugee situation, and the differences between our countries became evident. Instead of gathering as a Nordic country when it really was true, our countries were fragmented into different opinions. There was no consensus; everyone was sure that their line was right and right. There was no understanding that the truths are often in between. Mr President, I would like to Sweden's introduction of border controls and ID controls poses challenges for the most integrated part of our Nordic cooperation, the Öresund region. It concerns public transport authorities, transport companies and all the people commuting. The benefits developed by the Öresund region are at risk of weakening. The business community in southern Sweden has the Öresund connection as a natural and everyday hub. The Öresund region is the Nordic region's largest cooperation region. In total, some 3.8 million people live in the region. Every day about 15 000 people travel between countries. The Christian Democrats therefore stress the importance of the government reviewing and continuously evaluating the impact of border controls and ID controls on Nordic cooperation and making proposals to minimise their impact on this cooperation region. The annual report from the Nordic Council of Ministers contains an interesting summary of the most visited pages on Hallå Norden. In Denmark, for example, most people are looking for work in Norway, tax in Norway and moving to Sweden. In Sweden, people are mostly looking for trips with pets to Norway, trips with pets to Denmark and jobs in Norway. In Norway, people are mostly looking for accommodation in Sweden. What conclusions can we draw from this, except that Swedes like to travel with pets and that Danes want to work in Norway but preferably live in Sweden? Well, it shows that the Nordics have a great interest in moving freely between our countries – the number of residents who received help via Hallå Norden exceeded 1 million last year. However, information is sought because it is known that border barriers remain. In the Government's letter we can read that the regulations, although the Nordic countries have long been a common market for goods, services and capital, are still designed on the basis that citizens and companies move in the individual country. This is obviously not the case in the Nordic countries, on the contrary. Nordic cooperation must therefore focus on solving the border barriers that hinder free movement and integration between the Nordic countries. We appreciate the appointment of the Border Barriers Council, which is tasked with promoting freedom of movement within the Nordic region, and assume that the Government will provide the Riksdag with ongoing reports on its work. Mr President, I would like to Regardless of the work of the Council of Border Barriers, integration between our countries will continue, but the pace will be determined by the willingness of our national governments to help remove the border barriers that exist. Only in this way can more citizens and businesses benefit from the positive effects of further integration. It is not reasonable that joint Nordic research projects are hindered by the fact that it is not possible to use Swedish research grants abroad or that Danes travelling between the mainland and Bornholm will face a number of problems on the way just because they pass Sweden. Unfortunately, the list can be made longer. Mr President, I would like to The Christian Democrats want to see strong and effective Nordic cooperation where we meet not only by tradition but because we believe that our community has a strength. We must dare to let go of areas of cooperation where our cooperation no longer has any added value. We must dare to see that today we meet in other constellations than before. We must see the benefits of European cooperation, including for those of our neighbours who have chosen to remain outside the Community. We need to strengthen areas where we can become a stronger region together and simplify work and entrepreneurship, for researchers and carers. We gather power, we can also achieve results. I am in favour of reservation 3 in paragraph 2 on border barriers. Finally, Mr President, I would like to welcome the Minister for Foreign Affairs to this debate on the Nordic region. I, who grew up in a border region, find it really difficult to see this as foreign affairs. I hope that issues relating to border issues in the Nordic countries will be prioritised and look forward to further discussions and debates in this area.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-638	Mr President, I would like to I too would like to take this opportunity to welcome Minister Wallström. I look forward to our cooperation on the Nordic region and Nordic issues. I would also like to take this opportunity, for the record, to thank Kristina Persson for her time as Minister and for the cooperation we had. Mr President, I would like to Nordic cooperation is a strength in a troubled time. Our cooperation has existed for a long time and is based on fundamental values, such as democracy and human rights. We are 26 million people in the Nordic countries, and we are quite small countries, but together we are actually one of the world's largest economies. Together, we can raise our voice strongly in international contexts and influence developments in the direction in which we believe. Together, we are stronger than we are separately. Nordic cooperation is a success story, and it also has broad popular support. The purpose of Nordic cooperation is – and has always been – to facilitate everyday life for our residents. It is about increasing the mobility of our citizens so that it will be better to work, live, study, run companies and cross-border commutes in the Nordic countries. This in turn contributes to a great Nordic benefit. I am thinking, for example, of the labour market. It is easy to move from one part of the Nordic countries with high unemployment to another part that demands labour. This allows companies to employ skilled staff and the unemployed to find employment. Many of our young people work in Norway because they have found it difficult to get jobs at home, but today we see that youth unemployment is decreasing in Sweden, which is very gratifying. Reducing the number of border barriers is important work. It is good that the Border Barriers Council is now in place and that the work is aimed at reducing border barriers between our countries and preventing new ones from emerging. The framework is designed on the basis that we live, work and run companies in the same country. It is important to tackle border barriers so that people do not fall outside security systems and so that regulations do not make it difficult for companies to grow. It is good that the issues of border barriers are high on the agenda for Nordic cooperation. Having said that, I would like to mention the border controls in the Öresund region. They affect mobility in the region, but our hope is that they will not last long. They were set up as everyone knows in a difficult situation, and border controls within the Nordic countries are not a normal state. In 2015, two issues dominated the agenda of the Nordic Council: terrorism and the refugee crisis. At the mini-session in Copenhagen, terrorism became a major issue. Copenhagen had a few weeks before suffered a terrorist attack. This led our Nordic ministers to conclude a new cooperation agreement to prevent extremism, focusing on inclusion, education and jobs. Civil society and NGOs should also be involved in this work. It is important to work preventively, and it is a major challenge to prevent young people from getting involved in extremist networks. The success of this work is of the utmost importance. One strength of the Nordic work is that we cooperate, inform and learn from each other on difficult and complex issues. At the Reykjavik session, the current refugee crisis became a major issue. We Social Democrats think it was good that the refugee crisis came up on the agenda because today there is a major humanitarian disaster in which many people are fleeing for their lives. To alleviate the disaster, the outside world must show humanity and help to deal with this situation. We Social Democrats in Sweden believe that the refugee crisis must be dealt with at European level, and joint decisions must be taken and implemented. The crisis cannot be the responsibility of a few countries; everyone has a responsibility. We also mean that we have a common Nordic responsibility. The Nordic countries have received many asylum seekers in a short time. Our Nordic countries have an important responsibility to integrate those who can stay in the best way. It is a challenge to have a large population increase in a short time. New arrivals will receive language training, education, housing and work. The unaccompanied refugee children need schooling and safe housing. We also need to work on attitudes so that discrimination, racism and xenophobia do not increase and take a foothold. Our new citizens can be a great asset to our countries. The Nordic countries have an ageing population, and if we do well with integration, we will have a supplement that our countries need. My hope is that we can make this journey together and learn from each other. The exchange of knowledge and positive examples are the strength of Nordic cooperation. The Social Democrats in the Nordic Council have been an active group in 2015. We have put forward and pushed forward many issues during the year, including welfare, the labour market, the environment, transport and tourism. The Nordic Council is a good arena for pursuing and developing policies within the Council's various bodies. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to finish where I started. Nordic cooperation is a strength in a troubled time, given what is happening in the outside world and in the EU. It is important that we in the Nordic region can continue our good cooperation, develop it even more and share knowledge and experience. It is also important that we take care of our relations with the outside world. Because, as I said, together we are stronger. Having said that, Mr President, I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report and reject all motions.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-651	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of the Foreign Affairs Committee's motion for a resolution in UU18 and for the rejection of all motions for resolutions. I, too, would like to welcome our new Minister for Foreign Affairs Margot Wallström. Today's debate is about Nordic cooperation both historically, what it looks like today and not least how we can develop it in the future. First of all, I would like to point out that Nordic cooperation has a strong popular base, and this has good reason to do so. We feel a great sense of belonging and share common values on many issues such as democracy, justice, transparency and the importance of the rule of law. We also have a common history that has not always been peaceful. Moreover, it is an old truth that when external threats come, it binds people and states together in a stronger way. The Nordic cooperation is divided into the Nordic Council of Ministers and the Nordic Council, which are the bodies of the various parliaments. Cooperation dates back to the 1950s, and on several occasions since then there have been discussions on how to develop cooperation in order to achieve the best possible results. One such issue is the problem with the fact that the parliaments in the Nordic countries have elections on different occasions. As a result, there will be new ministers and members every year. This is positive in itself, but sometimes hinders effective management of the issues. In this report, we discuss most of the Nordic Council of Ministers' proposals and focus on activities. In 2015, the Nordic Council held its thematic session on 25 and 26 March in Copenhagen and its 67th session on 27 and 29 October in Reykjavik, Iceland. Here, a number of priority issues within Nordic cooperation were addressed. But we also dealt with the Baltic Sea, Arctic cooperation and the Barent Conference in our area. The activities of the Council of Ministers have focused on green change and climate, the labour market and competitiveness, but not least, as has been said here before, border barriers cooperation. However, EU issues for Nordic foreign, security and defence policy cooperation and bilateral Nordic cooperation have also been discussed. With regard to issues discussed in the Nordic Council, migration issues and border issues have, of course, come up as important issues, not least in the last year. These issues are, of course, issues on which we must work together both within the EU and, not least, here in the Nordic countries. I myself sit as a member of the Swedish delegation in the Nordic Council and feel that it has been very valuable to be able to discuss these issues with our neighbours in the Nordic countries. Mr President, I would like to A very important issue both for the EU and for Nordic cooperation is how we can develop infrastructure in and between our countries. That is why I am pleased to note that the Nordic Council has adopted a statement that the Danish, Swedish and Norwegian governments are recommended to set up a working group to highlight the socio-economic benefits and conditions of a faster railway between Copenhagen, Gothenburg and Oslo. It was also noted that Jernbaneverket in Norway and Trafikverket in Sweden are already investigating the conditions for developing rail traffic between Oslo and Gothenburg. These plans come into the important long-term plans both in our Nordic countries and in the EU plans. This is very important for the future of jobs and development in our countries. Many still do not know that Norway, for example, is Sweden's most important export country – Germany comes as number two – and that the border traffic for goods and persons is actually greater between Norway and Sweden than from South Sweden and abroad. There are large traffic flows in the southern part of Sweden. Here it is important to stress that we need investments in many different places within Sweden but also between the Nordic countries to promote this development. A classic issue for Nordic cooperation is the issue of border barriers. Much has been done. It is now easier to work in a Nordic neighbouring country than if you were to move to another country in the EU or outside the EU. But when this is said, it's easy to sigh a little. There's still a lot to do. Many people can testify to difficulties in a number of areas. These may include taxes, customs handling, registration and driving and owning a car in another country, social security and pensions. It can also be practical obstacles such as poor infrastructure between our countries. There is therefore much still to be done to further harmonise the rules in the Nordic countries. Of course, the new rules on identity control have also caused the passengers in the Skåne region to be annoyed. However, Sweden was faced with an extreme situation, and it is difficult to see that we could have done differently when external border control in the EU did not work. However, it is important that we can minimise the inconvenience and, for example, in cooperation with Denmark, do not have two checks on the route. Mr President, I would like to I mentioned at the outset that security policy is an important issue in Nordic cooperation. In particular, Russia's annexation of Crimea and intrusion into neighbouring Ukraine have sent corps through many countries that still have a fresh memory of post-war cold wars. What will be the next move or step you intend to take? Due to the annexation, the Nordic office in St. Petersburg has been closed. On the other hand, cooperation with the Baltic countries has increased and is now an important part of Nordic cooperation. I was privileged to be there in October 2015. There were several cordial meetings where Sweden was seen as an important neighbour. Nor was it possible to mistake their desire for both Finland and Sweden to join NATO in order to have a stable region here in the Nordic region. Mr President, I would like to I am well aware that, here in Parliament, we have differences of opinion about NATO, and of course I respect that. The same discussion also takes place in Finland. But there is an essential difference, which is a little worrying. In Finland, it is pragmatically said that the matter is not at present mature but may be in the future. In Sweden, among others, the Social Democrats say that this is not the case for the foreseeable future. How can one take a firm stand on such an important issue when we really do not know anything about the future? Things can change faster than we think. I may not have to say that Norway and Denmark, regardless of the colour of the government, want Sweden to join NATO in order to strengthen security policy in the Nordic countries. Mr President, I would like to I will conclude my speech by emphasising the community of values between our Nordic neighbours. Although there are differences and language differences, it is not possible to get away from the fact that we are very close together in many areas in terms of ethics, morality and laws, as well as culture and religious history. This should not be underestimated when it comes to tying together our different Nordic issues. I particularly value this when I meet my fellow party members in the other Nordic countries. We have a very good exchange with an open discussion on many issues. I also dare to say that most parties have this experience. I would therefore like to conclude this speech by greeting our Nordic neighbours Denmark, Finland, Iceland and Norway. I would also like to address a greeting to the Åland Islands, the Faroe Islands and the Baltic countries, Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania.
i-DHk3kYEKisTv4v3o5r1H6W	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. The annual report on the Nordic region is always a pleasant reading. As a member of the Association of the Nordic Region Organisation in Dalarna and a member of the Swedish delegation to the Nordic Council, I naturally read the report with great interest. I see in the report that the Committee on Foreign Affairs has carried out some activities focusing on the Nordic region, which I am naturally pleased about. It is also positive that the committee recalls the original thoughts and intentions behind formal Nordic cooperation. What I miss in the report is a bit more passionate about an extended and developed Nordic cooperation. Between the lines you can get the view that the Committee on Foreign Affairs, of which I am not a member, sees Nordic cooperation as something difficult and difficult that the cat has dragged in. On the other hand, I like the great optimism and desire for increased Nordic cooperation. We should, of course, have a common infrastructure in the Nordic countries. We should have the same electricity and safety system for the railways so that there are no problems with cross-border rail travel. Equally obviously, the road network in the Nordic countries should be uniform with uniform signage to facilitate and increase road safety. Of course, post-secondary studies should lead to a degree that is viable without additions to the entire Nordic labour market. It is really strange that it has not been implemented for a long time. No exerciser has this year proposed a single Nordic currency, which I personally think should be a matter of course. There is therefore a great deal that should still be done in order for the goal of a fully integrated Nordic labour market to become a reality. I think we are actually working quite hard for it in the Nordic Council. In 2015, however, the Nordic region has been characterised to a very large extent by what happened at the end of the year, in autumn 2015: the large influx of refugees into the Nordic region. I think we all felt it was a big setback for the whole Nordic idea when the problems for many authorities became so extensive that the Swedish government saw itself forced to introduce controls between Denmark and Sweden. I do not think that any authority was really prepared for what was happening at all. Everyone seemed so surprised. Of course, no one wanted to make it more difficult for border crossings, but the measure in the form of ID checks was probably necessary in view of the rather serious signals that many authorities sent to us. For example, there was a dramatic increase in sick leave in some authorities, and it was almost impossible to find replacements. Current cases were neglected, and several authorities failed even the most urgent assignments. Mr President, I would like to What surprised me most was that so many seemed to be taken on the bed. For many, the great influx seemed to come as a surprise. But we have known for many years that the large flow of climate-related migration is under way. The changing climate on the planet means this very thing: that people are forced to flee. When many migrate, therefore, it is not possible to survive after many years of drought or because of floods that have washed away infrastructure and topsoil, there are also progressive changes. Migrants, of course, migrate as short a distance as possible to neighbouring areas where the conditions for making a living are better. However, competition for limited resources in these places, such as land for cultivation and drinking water, can lead to conflicts with those already living in the area. As long as migration takes place within a country and in areas with relatively homogeneous ethnic and religious structures, help from the international community on the ground can be successful. However, when migration takes place across land borders and when migrants find no other areas to live in than those already inhabited by people and where other traditions prevail, it is significantly more difficult for international relief efforts to achieve success. The conflicts in Syria and throughout the Middle East region have been preceded by clear climate effects, such as five years of drought. In addition to all the problems caused by drought, the countries in the region, not least Syria, have for a long time also received large groups of refugees from other conflict areas. WHO and the Red Cross have long warned against major climate-related migratory flows. There was talk of 12 million in 2007, 50 million in 2015 and now more than 60 million on the way. Mr President, I would like to The Nordic Council recognised the problem at an early stage. As early as 2007, the Nordic Council adopted a recommendation to the Nordic governments inviting governments to pursue the issue of the introduction of global rules for the management of climate-related migration. The Nordic Council therefore already understood in 2007 what was going on. I think most people who work in different ways with the consequences of the changed climate also understood what was going on already then, 2007. Unfortunately, however, our Nordic governments showed very little interest in the issue. When the Nordic governments received follow-up questions in 2008 about how they intended to act in order to initiate work to create rules for climate-related migration – i.e. how to deal with this – within the framework of the Nordic countries' roles and positions in the EU and the UN, this was not considered a priority issue. When I was given the opportunity in 2010 to present the proposal to the United Nations Special Climate Office in New York, they had not even heard of it. Of course, it is disappointing when the Nordic governments take recommendations from the Nordic Council so lightly. As we are now in the midst of a reality of large migratory flows, to some extent of course triggered by terrorist attacks, by ongoing terror and by military conflicts, but which are essentially due to climate change, we see how difficult it is to negotiate between countries on rules and on responsibility in a constructive way. Nobody wants to be sitting with Svarte Petter. In fact, the problem of negotiations could be summed up as simple as that. As responsible for the decision of the Nordic Council in 2007, I naturally think that it is a major failure to stand here today once again and note that the governments did not listen. I could say, what did we say? But I try to avoid such things as far as possible. After all, it is not constructive to blame governments that almost never really, in practice, have the energy to look further than possibly two financial years forward. With this example, I would first of all like to show how important it is that we have a viable Nordic Council. The biggest difference that I myself experience between the national parliaments – our Parliament – and the Nordic Council is that in the Nordic Council it is possible to raise your eyes in a completely different way than in the Nordic parliaments. Of course, the Nordic Council also has a lot of up-to-date things on its agenda. These are cross-border issues, student exchanges, raccoons, which we can read about in the newspaper today, pledges, fisker conflicts, waste management and much more. But we can also be allowed to discuss the future in a completely different way and to debate both visions and targets and threats. On the issue of climate change, I believe that the Nordic governments, including our Swedish Government, should listen to and learn from the Nordic Council to a much greater extent than they do today. I also find it a little sad that all the good thoughts about increased Nordic integration and increased Nordic coordination of activities that often come up on the agenda in the Nordic context, at Nordic meetings, in debates like this and in reports like this get so little support from the governments of the countries. I believe that many of the motions for motion dealt with in this report are partly drawn from reports drawn up in the framework of Nordic cooperation. For the sake of clarity, it is perhaps appropriate for me to point out here that I support the committee's proposal in the report and reject all motions. I am not going to cause any political scandal by doing something unexpected in that particular part of my speech. But I still think it is appropriate, when I have my foot in the Nordic as often as I have, to air some disappointment that it is so slow to develop the common Nordic. I am thinking, for example, of governments not transferring more activities to a common Nordic level. If I may dream, I would say that it would be great to have a joint Nordic external customs and border control authority that can act if necessary with a joint Nordic mandate. It would be great to have a Nordic Aviation Authority, a Nordic Maritime Authority and a Nordic Railway Authority. A Nordic Higher Education Authority would facilitate a common Nordic labour market. A Nordic boat and car register would solve many problems for the police and also for taxpayers. It would be natural to have a Nordic environmental court when we in the Nordic countries are so aware that environmental issues are cross-border. And why not a Nordic pension agency? You can also be a little extra nervous and come up with something that no one expects: Why not a joint Nordic Ministry of Peace? Personally, I think that the great globalisation that we have seen in recent years actually makes much of what we traditionally put into the concept of nation states today seem rather out of date. It is certainly a good thing that the Council of Ministers is running some projects such as the Nordic gene bank and Nordforsk, that we are preparing joint briefings of future EU legislation so that when we implement them in our respective countries, we do not create new border barriers and that we have started Nord Mobility, as mentioned in the report. But is it not time, dear Members of this House, for us to do something more concrete in common Nordic? Why not try a joint Nordic Aviation Agency? Think about it! Would the nation states really lose much prestige and repent if they were to leave such a national function – their own aviation service – to a Nordic level? I don't think so. Mr President, I would like to I support the committee's proposal in the report and reject the motions.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-693	Mr President, I would like to After this enthusiastic speech, I could not keep from requesting a reply. I heard, Mr President, how intensely the Environment Party argued in the debate on various issues, for example, for a Nordic Ministry of Peace or Ministry of Peace. I also heard that debate at the Congress of the Green Party. I wonder, Mr President, is this the policy of the Green Party? Or is the representative in this debate just a representative of himself?
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-694	Mr President, I would like to I think I was quite clear about telling you that I have a list of things that I find interesting if I can dream or make suggestions myself. I am not on the Foreign Affairs Committee, so I am not representing the environmental partners of the Foreign Affairs Committee. I have had this opportunity to talk about how I view this from my commitment to the Nordic Council. I think it would be very interesting if we dared to try some new grips and tried to move businesses that today we have nationally to a Nordic platform. I think it would be very simple when it comes to some of the things that I lined up. I think, for example, that we would win a lot and save a lot of resources on having a Nordic aviation agency.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-696	Mr President, I would like to It is interesting to hear the honourable Member talk about his dreams. That is, of course, an obvious right. But surely it would be exciting to hear what the Green Party's views on these dreams are, because it is clearly not the Green Party's line that we are hearing. It's more like a single voice. In such a debate, it is of course a little exciting, Mr President, to know what support there is for these views in the Green Party. At the same time, I hear an argument about limitlessness that I like. It could also apply to the EU. I hope there is the same enthusiasm there. One could rather raise some of the issues discussed to our common European level in order to achieve efficiency. It is, after all, efficiency that should be central, Mr President.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-698	Mr President, I would like to I believe that Kerstin Lundgren and everyone else here are aware that we in the Green Party who are pushing the issue of a peace ministry lost at the Congress of the Green Party. So it is not the Green Party's line to establish a peace ministry in Sweden. Now that is not what I proposed, but I suggested that we could have it as a neuroscientist at the Nordic level: to discuss whether we in the Nordic countries could not have such a joint institution. Kerstin Lundgren asks me if these things could not be done at European level. I have listened to those of you who have been in the debate. You all describe the great Nordic community that our Nordic citizens know. I believe that there is quite a difference between the feeling that exists among the citizens of our Nordic countries about the common Nordic and the feeling that exists for the common at EU level. I do not think it is as easy to get popular support for developing increased cooperation at EU level as at Nordic level. I think it might have been easier ten years ago, but it has become harder and harder. We've got Brexit ahead of us. Let's see how it goes. There are many who say that if England leaves the EU, Denmark will also leave the EU. It would be very sad, I think, if Europe were to implode because of it. I also think it shows signs that there is popular scepticism about cooperation at European level, not only in England but in many EU countries. I therefore think it would be good if we could concentrate, both in this debate and in our international cooperation, on building a stronger community within the Nordic region.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-702	Mr President, I would like to The Minister for Foreign Affairs has been welcomed here many times, but I would like to add that I, too, find it nice that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is here to take part in his Nordic responsibilities. Much is also said about the Nordic countries. It has in a way been a united tribute to the Nordic countries, and it is well just to agree with it and to state that Nordic cooperation is historic. It has been around for a long time and has a lot of dimensions. If I'm going to be a little personal, I can tell you that I myself live very close to the Norwegian border, in northern Bohuslän. Then the cooperation with the Nordic countries and not least with Norway is very tangible on a down-to-earth level. It is about extensive trade, the labour market, health care and so on. Perhaps that is why this does not really feel like the foreign affairs of heaven, although it is the first time in 14 years here that I am discussing a report from the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Much in the Nordic countries is about historical ties and community of values. We have been very much intertwined. It is about luck; it is often about language and common social systems. In rankings regarding gender equality, corruption, the state of freedom of the press, freedom and so on, the Nordic countries are always very high and stand as examples in these contexts. Mr President, I would like to It can probably be said that Nordic cooperation can also be seen as a great example of joint European cooperation within the EU through our open labour market and open cooperation between universities, business and associations. It has been possible to travel freely across borders in terms of both studies and work opportunities, and this has obviously bound us together. What we are debating today is based on two letters or statements. It is about both the Nordic Council and the Nordic Council of Ministers. Of course, we have different roles. I myself sit on the Nordic Council and see it as a great privilege. What gets a lot of focus is border barriers. With regard to the reform work now under way both within the Council of Ministers and the Nordic Council, my conclusion is that the focus should be more and more on what is really an obstacle. Of course, differences can be identified, but differences are not always the same as obstacles. We are going to solve the problems that exist in everyday life for people, and that is why we on the Liberal side welcome this reform work. The Government's letter, which builds heavily on the activities of the Nordic Council of Ministers, highlights three areas: green transition and climate, labour market and competitiveness, and border barriers. Border barriers have already been mentioned, and this is of course very important for Nordic cooperation. It is also about Nordic cooperation in foreign, security and defence policy. In the past, NATO membership has been mentioned here, and it is of course no big secret that the Liberals see a Swedish NATO membership as a natural continuation of cooperation between the Nordic countries and those already in NATO. Enough about this. Mr President, I would like to Another point raised here is climate cooperation. I also had the privilege of attending the climate negotiations in Paris, and what was striking there was that the joint Nordic pavilion became the natural focal point for participants in the Nordic countries and that they had joint discussions. What it meant in the end is always very difficult to say, but it was still a place where you could discuss questions, feel community of values and get strength in pushing Nordic issues. It felt like a very good initiative. If you express yourself carelessly, this Nordic cooperation feels very obvious in some way, at least if you have lived close to a border for a long time. It can't be so difficult in heaven. However, as the committee puts it, and I think that we can take note of this: our social development means that regulations are created, disappeared or reformed. Each change poses a risk of new border barriers. Therefore, efforts to prevent and eliminate barriers to borders must be high on the agenda of Nordic cooperation. ..................................................... The removal of border barriers has been self-evident and central. Perhaps we have focused on it just because there have been differences and not always so many obstacles. At the same time, we can see that it is at least as important that we prevent new barriers, and there has been a discussion at least in the Nordic Council of parliamentarians about reviewing how to get some kind of active dialogue on the implementation of EU directives so that we do not create unnecessary obstacles. After all, we can open up a dialogue so that we match each other as far as possible. Of course, we are also different, and we implement in different ways. Other important areas that I would like to highlight are the Nordic electricity market and infrastructure planning. Infrastructure planning has become much better, because now we are discussing cross-border railways and so on, but if we look at the planning maps from our respective traffic authorities, we often see rail going to a border, and then it is only white. Then you wonder where it went. Usually it continues on the other side of the border. I think this will be very important, not least that the Copenhagen railway – Gothenburg– Oslo will be renovated to decent standards, something that Lars-Lars-Arne Staxäng also lifted up. Mr President, I would like to When the wall fell, the Nordic region also got another important task to take on. We Liberals naturally turned to democrats in the Baltics, Poland and Russia, because we felt that we had quite a lot to contribute. It is not only serious, as was said here earlier, but it is, quite frankly, regrettable that the office of the Nordic Council of Ministers in St Petersburg had to close. It is only a clear sign that the grip is tightening on Russian civil society. It is obvious that one wants to in some way isolate people from one another. Then I, too, realise that the human rights situation of Russian citizens is, of course, a difficult balance. We must show our friendship and our support for the Russian people, while at the same time being very clear and criticising the expansion of the Putin regime in the world, not least the annexation of Ukraine, the threats to the Baltic countries and so on. Here, of course, teamwork within the Nordic region has a very important importance. Internationally and over time, we can see that the Nordic countries have great confidence in these kinds of issues. I can conclude by saying that, as far as engagement in Russia is concerned, we can see that without Russian democrats, no Russian democracy will emerge. And without Russian democracy, it will be a little harder to live here in the Nordic countries.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-721	Mr President, I would like to Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you very much for your kind welcome words! I think there is reason also to say thank you to my predecessor in this task, Kristina Persson. I know how committed she was to these issues, and I think she has laid a good foundation. It has also been nice to listen to all the contributions so far, because it gives a common description of the historical value of Nordic cooperation. I also think that what is never before important is to safeguard the platforms that we have for political and diplomatic dialogue. In times of polarisation and extreme postures, when everything that takes time and calls for compromises is in danger of being pushed back, we should be very careful about this. It was no coincidence that we were invited to the United States to meet President Obama also for the sake of valuing Nordic cooperation. I'll get back to that. We have all said the same things about what is appreciated in the Nordic cooperation. For 45 years, government cooperation within the Nordic Council of Ministers has helped to bring our countries closer together. This cooperation also has a deep popular base, as several of you have said. In this way, we are considered to be a region of the past. We can also be a very strong force for change. The geographical, economic and cultural proximity of the countries gives us significant opportunities to meet common challenges, create new opportunities and play a more important role globally. At the same time as we are now safeguarding historical Nordic cooperation, it is important to look ahead as well. Sweden is driving the process of reforming the Nordic Council of Ministers, because we need more dynamic cooperation so that we may be able to react even faster and more forcefully to events in our environment and so that we also respond to political challenges, such as some of those you have mentioned. Then we need to raise our ambitions in a number of areas, perhaps change our focus and have a more forward-looking organisation. A concrete example of this is the Nordic Council of Ministers' three-year cross-border programme for democracy, inclusion and security. This programme was launched in the spring and aims to combat social marginalisation, extremism and religious discrimination. Furthermore, priority is given to reducing and further preventing border barriers in the Nordic countries. It is concretized by an enhanced dialogue with the social partners. Finally, the reform work includes broader initiatives that give this Nordic cooperation increased visibility. The screening of the Nordic labour market and the energy sector are examples of this. Sweden, together with Finland in the autumn of 2015, initiated the next phase of the reform process, Nytt Norden 2.0, which will continue throughout this year. With the help of a high-level group of representatives of all Member States, new ideas and ideas will be introduced into the reform process. It is the author and historian Gunnar Wetterberg who is the Swedish representative in the high-level group. As I said, the Nordic countries have a very high international reputation. The Nordic-American summit in Washington in May was very exciting. It also believes that we are somehow able to have a greater influence in the world than is the equivalent of our population and size. We do this because of our cooperation and because we also have a value-based cooperation, which someone talked about here. It is not only purely economic interests, so to speak, but we can build it on popular support and a common approach. It gives us a greater strength, and I believe that we should be very careful to spread knowledge about the Nordic region and our values in order to promote tourism and trade and also participate in the work to solve problems in an increasingly globalised world. This Nordic cooperation has improved the conditions for entrepreneurship and innovation. It has strengthened the conditions for new and growing companies. The Nordic Co-operation Ministers adopted a shared vision in 2014– Together we are stronger – about a borderless, innovative, visible and outward-looking Nordic region. Last year, the Ministers for Cooperation approved a strategy for this further work on profiling and positioning of the Nordic region and Nordic cooperation. To spread this positive image of the Nordic region and to strengthen the Nordic countries' competitiveness and international influence is important. In line with the profiling strategy, there will be a Nordic cultural initiative at the Southbank Centre in London throughout 2017. At the meeting of the Nordic Council Session Week in October, the Nordic Prime Ministers adopted a new initiative to disseminate Nordic experiences on global societal challenges. The initiative is closely linked to both the profiling strategy and Agenda 2030. From the Swedish side we see it as both desirable and necessary. The resources in the Nordic countries must be used in a sustainable way, and the issue is linked to both Nordic solutions to global societal challenges and the implementation of Agenda 2030. The Nordic region is seen by many as a pre-region, especially in terms of growth, environment and innovation. It has been clear not least in the work on the UN 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and Climate Change on the Council, where the Nordic countries, as we have heard, worked closely together for the Paris talks and took effective climate action. The positive outcome of the Paris Conference will now be followed up at the Nordic level, and a concrete implementation plan will be developed. The Nordic countries remain determined to take climate action and create energy efficient low-carbon societies. The Swedish government will work to ensure that the Nordic region, supported by the Nordic Council of Ministers, will serve as a model for other countries in the world in these contexts. We need to remove existing border barriers and prevent new ones from emerging. It was exciting to read the list of remaining border obstacles, with everything from how to transport pets to snowmobile driving and I don't know what. I therefore hope that you will not press me for too many details on these very issues. Nordic cooperation covers everything from Agenda 2030 and the climate issue to cybersecurity and all the way down to these very practical and of course very important issues, such as border barriers, because they affect people's everyday lives. I believe that this is the essence and the strength of this cooperation, and we show that we can manage both, and do so in a peaceful and constructive climate. An important step along this path is the Border Barriers Council established in 2014. The Council will help to solve existing border barriers, prevent the emergence of new ones and increase and streamline information efforts for people and companies wishing to move across a Nordic border. The 2015 Annual Report shows that the Council's work during the year was successful and actually led to a solution of twelve of the obstacles. It's an outcome that's beyond expectation. At the same time, there are many obstacles that affect the possibility of moving, commuting, studying and operating business. This hinders growth and employment in the Nordic countries. Priority is given to border barriers in labour market, social, education and tax areas. Sweden initiated a new Danish-Swedish working group last year to look specifically at Danish-Swedish border barriers. Great attention will be paid to Nordic cooperation in the coming years. During 2018, Sweden holds the Presidency of the Nordic Council of Ministers. In the same year, we lead informal foreign policy cooperation in the Nordic circle, and we are responsible for coordinating Nordic-Baltic cooperation. The following year, Nordic cooperation will also be recognised, as we hold the Presidency of the Nordic Council and host the annual autumn session. Preparations for the Presidency of the Nordic Council of Ministers begin this autumn. The government's good dialogue and cooperation with the Swedish delegation in the Nordic Council has been very important for Nordic cooperation over the years. I am keen to protect and further develop this collaboration in the future. Mr President, I would like to The Nordic Council of Ministers carries out important democracy work in the neighbourhood. There are now information offices in the three Baltic capitals, and since 1995, there has been a successful effort to strengthen democracy and human rights through the offices in north-west Russia. Following the decision to wind up operations at the offices in Russia, the Nordic Council of Ministers continues its work in the country through other channels and administrative bodies. It is now decided to establish a new cooperation programme with Russia with an annual budget of DKK 15 to 20 million. This means efforts in the fields of environment, health, civil society and human rights. It is a continuation of the estimated activities in north-west Russia that have been going on for 20 years. It has been of mutual benefit to the two parties; I am convinced of that. It is in the interests of Sweden and indeed of the rest of Europe to improve the conditions for Russia to become a more democratic and open society. The development of security policy in our neighbourhood, but also globally, has made cooperation in the area of security policy and foreign policy increasingly important. We continue to develop and deepen this too. This means a continued Nordic commitment to local issues and increased collaboration on important global issues and international development. There is also a deepening of Nordic defence cooperation within Nordefco. During the Swedish Presidency in 2015, negotiations were held on alternative base agreements on the air side. A concept was developed for the prerequisites for a qualified flying exercise in the Nordic region, Northern Flag, and the defence ministers decided on a system for safe communication. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. A more dynamic Nordic collaboration means meeting challenges together and creating opportunities in a troubled world. Over the years, the borderless Nordic region has been a huge advantage for the Nordic countries and helped to secure success and growth. The current migration crisis has put pressure on free movement in the Nordic countries. The crisis has posed major challenges for public order and security. Within the framework of their international obligations, the Nordic governments have taken the necessary steps to deal with this difficult situation responsibly. As far as Sweden is concerned, the measures have, as everyone knows, consisted of two temporary tools: the reintroduction of border control at internal borders and the control by carriers of the fact that travellers in certain traffic across the border to Sweden from Denmark have a valid identity document. Despite the temporary challenges caused by the migration crisis, the vision should continue to be a borderless Nordic region. At the same time, we should remember that the solutions to the current migration crisis do not exist at Nordic level, but at European and global level. Therefore, we work together with ministerial colleagues responsible for border control to ensure mobility between the Nordic countries in relation to the measures introduced to deal with the international migration crisis at national, European and global level. In parallel, the Secretary-General of the Nordic Council of Ministers is responsible for continuously analysing the impact of temporary border controls on free movement in the Nordic countries and the consequences of this on jobs, the economy and investments. The current crisis has put pressure on the Nordic countries but also underlined the need for dialogue. Crisises in our surrounding world need to be met together, and it is now the combined Nordic voice that is most needed. That is why we have decided to establish more effective cooperation on the exchange of experience and knowledge between migration authorities. We are now taking this issue further in a Nordic cooperation programme on the integration of refugees and immigrants. As I said: Together, the Nordic countries are a strong force for change. In a troubled world, dynamic Nordic cooperation is a necessary tool for responding to current political challenges and creating new opportunities. It is my intention to play an active part in this and, of course, I hope for your continued commitment and support in that process. I also hope for good cooperation and thank you for everything you have done so far.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-753	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start with what I said in my speech: Prime Minister comes, and Minister goes. Former Minister of State and Minister of the Nordic Countries Kristina Persson has left. She had a huge ambition in the Nordic cooperation, and it is important that this does not go down so that there is a gap in these issues without us being able to get the Nordic cooperation going and the issues that Sweden is taking the initiative on. I would first like to ask our new Minister for the Nordic Region Margot Wallström what she will prioritise in the Nordic cooperation. Is that the question of border barriers? Is it the infrastructure? Is there anything else, for example the acute problems we have down in the Skåne region when it comes to IDs and so on? I think it may be important for us not to go down on these issues to talk about what is going to happen in the next six months. Question number two is how we can facilitate the harmonisation and integration of working life and housing between our countries. There are so many examples. The Government mentioned a few – small but intense. I live in a border landscape, and there are so many questions when you talk to Norwegians but also with Swedes who work in Norway. There is much to do in this area. The third issue is NATO. It is situated and chafes both in Sweden and in the Nordic cooperation. Every time Russia challenges us by crossing national borders, the issue will be topical and alive.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-757	Mr President, I would like to I do not think there is a need to add new issues. I have no intention of adding new questions except if reality makes it necessary. It could happen to anything in the world. What is important is that Nordic cooperation allows for this – that we can put current issues on the agenda and respond quickly and efficiently. Otherwise, I think we already have most important issues in different structures and processes and on the agenda. Those who are most pressing, such as the issue of migration, but also the issue of border barriers, we now have models and forums to address. So I am not going to add any new priorities that you have not heard of before. It is incredibly important that working life issues are also included. It is the intention of the Nordic Prime Ministers to give priority to this issue, and I think it is on our new agenda to address those challenges. Finally, on the NATO issue: we regularly debate it here, and the Swedish Government's line is that we should invest more in our own defence. We believe that we should invest more in cooperation and develop different forms of cooperation. We're in the process of doing that. We also believe that in these troubled times we should not waver about our security policy stance, but should preserve our military alliance freedom. We're gonna stick to it and not change it. We will always do what we think is best to ensure the safety of the Swedish population.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-761	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much for your answer, Minister for Foreign Affairs. I believe that the harmonisation and integration of working life is crucial if we are to achieve growth in jobs and housing between our countries. All these growth barriers must be helped to try and remove them. I therefore welcome the answer. That's where we're going to focus. Why am I raising the issue of NATO? In fact, perhaps one would like to have it in some defence debate instead. This is why it comes up every time we meet our Nordic neighbours. Norway, Denmark and many of the others raise the question, not least in party cooperation: how is it that it is such a hard-line no from Sweden? It comes from all parties. That's why I'm bringing it up. For example, should the Brexit vote go wrong – from my point of view – so that the UK says no to continued cooperation with the EU and perhaps even wants to withdraw, it will be a completely new situation for Sweden as well. Sweden will be affected very much. My last question is therefore: should we be in this situation within a few weeks, what does the Government think will apply – not least in the Nordic cooperation? It will be a whole new situation, a whole new situation, if Brexit should go through.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-765	Mr President, I would like to It concerns me and us in European and Nordic cooperation a lot if the UK were to leave the EU. It will also be problematic if they stay. It risks having an effect also on the other countries where they can say that if the British can negotiate an agreement, why shouldn't the other countries have both referendums on withdrawal or start such negotiations? In the time we are living now, it is not this kind of problem that we need in the first place. We need to stand together on our attitude towards Russia and on the challenges of the European security regime. We need to stick together as the world's largest donor. We need to stick together as a force for democracy and human rights around the world. We need to stick together because it is cohesion itself that is so important. We work particularly closely with the United Kingdom on many issues. It is important that we also have time to analyse the outcome of the referendum in the Nordic context as well as in bilateral contacts and contexts and in the EU. We look at all the consequences – economic and foreign policy consequences. We'll go through them very carefully. It is important that we stand on the side that says that there is a need for cooperation of this kind in Europe. It has guaranteed peace and prosperity for a very long time. We also hope that it will do so in the future. That's how I see it.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-770	Mr President, I would like to I described in my speech that Minister Wallström unfortunately had to cooperate with several racist parties in power in the Nordic countries. At the same time, there is an issue that should be at the top of the government's agenda for cooperation in the Nordic region, based on what happened in the Öresund region, namely the question of how to create legal pathways to the Nordic region so that people can exercise their human right to seek asylum. It is not just people on the run who cross a border. Daily, people cross the borders of the Nordic countries, and they have done so ever since passport freedom was introduced. Now that Sweden has erected walls against other countries, it is much more difficult for everyone who commutes across a border. It is particularly the daily lives of train commuters that have deteriorated significantly due to delays and uncertainties in travel times. Due to the double controls both at Kastrup in Denmark and in Hyllie in Sweden, many train commuters have had travel times that are on average half an hour longer. Train travel across Öresund has decreased by 12 per cent since the controls were introduced and car traffic has increased. How are we going to get people to commute across the Nordic borders?
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-774	Mr President, I would like to I can understand the point of view. If we are to have Nordic cooperation, we have to cooperate with the governments that are popularly elected in those countries and appointed on a democratic basis. We cannot say that we are not cooperating with a government because it and that party are in the government. We have to work with all the governments, to try to make the best of the situation and to try to hear our views and position. I believe that this is still the way forward to engage and talk about common challenges. One of the common challenges has to do with how we manage refugee and migration flows. It is with great anguish that the government has made decisions of that kind. It is nothing a government does easily, when we have fought so hard to preserve and safeguard the fact that we should be able to travel freely across borders without such controls. At the same time, however, this was necessary in order to preserve the security of our own country and to safeguard the systems in place to take care of people who come here in a dignified way. It is not our fault; it is actually about what it looks like in other countries. We lived for a long time in the belief that there would be a solidarity-based welcome for refugees – from those who sought protection in Europe – even in the very urgent situation that the EU was in. So we discovered that it was a long way forward to persuade other countries to share responsibility as well. I don't think anyone's accusing us today. The OECD has shown that Sweden has historically received the most refugees ever per capita. It was a great strain. We had to take action. It was not from the beginning that the other Nordic countries showed great understanding and cooperation. But now we're at the speaking term with our neighbors.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-778	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for your answer. I was going to change the subject and not go into a specific border barrier but well on a specific recommendation adopted by the Nordic Council last year. The Nordic Council adopted a recommendation on Israel and Palestine by a large majority in November. The Council stressed the importance of a peace process in Palestine and Israel and the need for a two-state solution in the long term. I myself had the privilege of handing over the recommendation to President Abbas on a visit to Palestine. The Nordic Council had even had it translated into Arabic, which I thought was a fine gesture. I wonder what the Foreign Minister has done to highlight the recommendation and the question of Israel and Palestine and in the long term get recognition of Palestine in other Nordic countries. Iceland has already recognised, just like Sweden, but what has the Minister of Foreign Affairs done for other Nordic countries to join the recognition of Sweden and Iceland, highlight the recommendation and get to a more positive process in Israel and Palestine?
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-783	Mr President, I would like to Let me finish the previous discussion we had. We hope that the restrictions on free movement across borders will be as short-term as possible and that we will soon be able to return to a situation where we can travel freely without controls. Of course, the government wants that too. Sweden is very active in the debate on the Middle East. Our recognition has led others to ask us questions about how they can contribute. Sweden was invited to the conference that took place in Paris. Countries wishing to see a move in the right direction gathered there. The hope is that the parties will eventually sit at a negotiating table and discuss the way forward. We also use our influence to influence the Palestinians to make the necessary reforms so that they can also contribute constructively. We make constant statements and try to be active with our Nordic friends. These issues are more on the foreign policy agenda than on the agenda of the Council of Ministers. I don't think anyone can say we've been passive. On the contrary, we are very active. We present our arguments, why the government thinks this is important and why it needs to be pushed on. Otherwise, it may very soon be too late. Then it will be bad for both Israel and Palestine.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-787	Mr President, I would like to Minister for Foreign Affairs Margot Wallström has now taken over responsibility for Nordic cooperation. I have listened with great interest to her first speech as Minister of the Nordic Countries. Nevertheless, I would like to know a little more about the foreign minister's view of the important Öresund integration. This is the largest cooperation region in the Nordic region. Around 3.8 million people live in the region and they produce 26 per cent of Sweden's and Denmark's total bnp. There are 12 universities, 155 000 students and 12 000 researchers. What border barriers are at the top of the wish list to solve to make the Öresund region even more successful? Since the Minister for Foreign Affairs is the minister responsible, she cannot ignore the fact that the introduction of border controls and ID controls, as we have talked about earlier today, poses major challenges. In what way does the Nordic Minister work with other responsible ministers in the government to continue to protect Öresund integration while maintaining order and security? Is this possible to combine?
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-791	Mr President, I would like to Let us really hope that it can be combined. As I said earlier, we all want to be able to return as soon as possible to a situation where we do not have ID checks and border controls. This is the normal situation, and we are well aware of the concerns that have come with this, such as delays and other things. At the same time, I think there is quite a great deal of understanding in many. It can be seen that the situation as it developed became untenable. We will keep this as long as we consider it necessary to have a full grasp of developments and to be able to deal with the challenges that come with so many refugees and asylum seekers. There are still quite a large number; it is not that we have built any wall or quite said stop. There are still up to 700 people seeking asylum every week. We have to work on getting more legal ways, and we have to work in the European circle. Otherwise, I have been chairman of the board of Lund University. I know how important the region is and how important it is to tackle border barriers. Above all, it is important to promote cooperation and solve common issues and challenges. It is very much about the opportunities for business to develop and about the fact that we really use the cross-border forums we have created to solve all the concrete, which is often what puts the biggest obstacles in the way. It is not our beautiful objectives, even if they are there, but it is that which helps to set up a business, get a student exchange or whatever it may be. That remains our priority. I think that the Ministers of State have taken on this issue very well, and it is good that they are continuing to discuss it.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-795	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for the answer. I would like the Minister for the Nordic Region to give concrete thought to the cooperation with Denmark. If I understood the previous speech correctly, it was said that we are now on speaking terms but that there have been frosty relations. In fact, commuters between Copenhagen and Malmö have two border controls on their way to and from work. This should be possible in a more effective way. The Foreign Minister has also said that crises need to be resolved jointly, but what initiatives do we have to resolve this together with our Danish friends? How's the relationship today?
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-797	Mr President, I would like to There are now established and good contacts also on the issue of border controls. Perhaps it is not primarily at the level of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, but it is the Minister for Migration and, in some cases, the Minister for Home Affairs or the Minister for Justice who talks to his colleagues. It is determined to try to deal with this in the best way and to reduce the pressure on all those who travel daily, businesses and others. We need to discuss this in the various forums we have. If this is about education issues, entrepreneurs or other obstacles, then it is in the forums we have set up that we have to solve the problems. It therefore depends on what it is about, but I think that this has come up higher on the agenda of the Nordic ministers. That is something we all still hope to be a temporary solution, although we now see that we also need to work together on how we manage integration and deal with the whole issue. So I do not think we need new compositions or new forums for these issues, but we should deal with the issues where we already exist – from the compositions of the Council of Ministers to the Council of Border Barriers.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-800	Mr President, I would like to I share the view that the work has been aimed at preventing border barriers and that this is one of the most important tasks. It is about tearing down barriers and national boundaries in order to be able to cooperate and develop our Nordic region as far as we can, for well-being, for jobs and for people's opportunities not only to dream but also to realize dreams based on their own choices. However, it cannot be avoided that the position taken on 11 November 2015 meant that Sweden took the lead in introducing border barriers. I also understood clearly that the Prime Minister noted that the ID controls had been prepared for a long time – or at least prepared – which takes a while. The minister responsible also says that he informed the Danish colleague. But where was the Nordic perspective on ID controls? I do not note any of this from the government and, of course, I question that position. If you really want to be the leader in the work to remove border barriers and work for people to travel freely, it is extremely important that you also ensure that the Nordic countries have a common view on these issues. I am therefore a little surprised that the government did not choose to consult its Nordic colleagues in the Nordic Council of Ministers in 2015 to deal with the issue. I'm asking myself how we make sure it doesn't happen again.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-803	Mr President, I would like to I thank Kerstin Lundgren for the questions. There was no consensus on this issue in the Nordic countries. It was quite the opposite: we felt that on one edge there was no control, but they sent people to Sweden. We are responsible for ensuring that Sweden and our Swedish systems work and that we can receive people in a dignified way. We did not want a situation where they would sleep outdoors and where we could no longer care for unaccompanied children. We had to act, and we did. However, there was no Nordic consensus on this issue, and unfortunately this is still difficult. We have different starting points. I don't know what the alternative would be. Does Kerstin Lundgren have an alternative? What would the government have done? We had a duty to act. We did not take the lead; that is far from true. I myself sat on the Foreign Affairs Council and listened to colleagues, and as I have said before, it was really in a situation where some countries bought all the barbed wire while other countries bought all the blankets. We were among the countries that bought blankets and actually tried to help people in the best way. However, we also have a duty to the order and security of the country to ensure that we can receive people in a dignified way, and that is what we did. We did not do it with a happy heart, but we definitely also had the Nordic cooperation in the back of our head when we had to take these measures. So what were we supposed to do? We couldn't wait. We had to act.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-807	Mr President, I would like to Of course, the government has a responsibility to act, and we agreed on a migration settlement. We were in that part, but ID controls are not the only solution and the only thing that could have happened. I asked what they were doing, and apparently they had talks with Denmark. But were there talks with Norway and Finland? Was there, as it were, the Nordic consultation, which is important? If you go so far as to decide to introduce a new border where we in the Nordic countries have had a job for borderlessness, it is of course an important signal to the others. If this was not done in November, I would like to ask the Minister whether there has been a new discussion in the Council of Ministers with a view to the extension decisions being taken.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-810	Mr President, I would like to This issue is always discussed when we meet in the Nordic circle. It is constantly at the top of our agenda. When the Nordic ministers meet, this is what we are talking about, and we sometimes have to say that we agree that we do not agree. This concerns a number of questions of principle and, in fact, the approach to the whole issue. That's just the way it is. Then we will continue to deal with the practical issues, but it is definitely part of our conversation ever since we ended up in such a desperate situation. I have not seen that anyone has been able to say how we would otherwise have handled this situation. Moreover, we saw very little European solidarity in that situation. There too, we are working to ensure that measures are taken with respect for human rights. We persuade other countries and make them understand what this means, not least in terms of the task of caring for record numbers of unaccompanied minors. Sweden has done so – as a single country we received 30% of all unaccompanied minors who came to Europe. And it was untenable in the long run, because in the end our systems are so strained that we cannot do it in a dignified way. Just look at the debate that is going on right now! Then it is important to act and show that we are capable of action and can take the necessary measures. It is not something we have done with a light heart, but we continue the discussion and dialogue. From all such processes you learn how important it is to look forward, and so also in the Nordic Council and the Nordic cooperation. We must be careful to think long-term and forward-looking.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-814	Mr President, I would like to I would like to return to what I started with. It is quite clear that Nordic cooperation has an enormous number of dimensions. We are discussing security policy and NATO membership – it may not be useful to continue any discussion there because we know that we have different positions. Perhaps we are all concerned about developments in Russia, not least what was mentioned a few times earlier in the debate that the Nordic Council of Ministers had to close its office in north-west Russia and its consequences. The Minister mentioned in his speech that the Council of Ministers is working with other channels and in other ways. It would be interesting to hear a little bit about what kind of initiatives are being taken by the Council of Ministers in order to maintain the activities that apparently had a very successful democratic work. We had a contact and an office in St. Petersburg and northwestern Russia. How is this work continuing in Russia right now?
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-816	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking, Lars Tysklind! It is true that all these dimensions exist. Nevertheless, I dare venture to say that I wonder whether even the most avid NATO supporters think it is the right time to see that the US might have a President who has very strong views on NATO cooperation and what to use NATO and nuclear weapons for. Should we, in this situation, suddenly change a 200-year view of military alliance freedom? Would that make Sweden safer? On the issue of the offices in north-west Russia and the decision to phase out their activities, we are working hard to change the decision, and we are trying to talk to Russia about how counterproductive it is. The Council of Ministers with the Ministers for Cooperation has also decided on a new cooperation programme with an annual budget of between 15 and 20 million. It is distributed as a contribution to projects that can be applied for and which relate to studies, various priority projects, project preparation and other things. It is a way of simply channelling funds that can continue to be used for what we hope will promote democratic development and people-to-people contacts. We are also working on this politically between foreign ministers and not least in the EU context but also in the Nordic context. We're trying to keep people-to-people contacts and develop them.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-818	Mr President, I would like to With regard to the comment on the next President of the United States, I believe that many of us are concerned about how it can affect us in other ways than NATO membership. I would like to turn to a more earthy question. Development and growth in the Nordic region has a very central role in Nordic cooperation. It is, of course, about the labour market, but also a lot about infrastructure as part of this. We now see what happens– we don't need to have another discussion about it – when you start with ID controls on a bridge, a connection that has become a natural commuting trail for people in everyday life. It is a very natural reaction that this is something that you feel deep down that you do not want to accept, although there may of course be reasons to do so. There was a meeting planned at the end of April between the Nordic Transport Ministers who felt like a start to something. We would start discussing cross-border rail links. You can travel by train between Stockholm and Oslo, but it takes some time. Of course, it is such a stretch that one should be able to discuss together. Unfortunately, the meeting didn't go off because of illness. I just want to send the Minister for the Nordics that she really should press for these meetings to take place, because I think it is extremely important that we start discussing such issues.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-823	Mr President, I would like to We are in complete agreement on this. I think it is important to start such talks, although the situation may be very different in terms of the size of the budget and the plans to build railways. But we should be able to think cross-border there too and invest in systems that are compatible and hopefully be able to have traffic between Oslo and Copenhagen. I sometimes travel between Oslo and Värmland have seen that it would really be necessary, so this is something that I think you can have on your wish list. It always starts with a dialogue about what is possible and how long a time perspective one should have. I have tried to read some of those questions, even if I do not master them in all the details. But it starts with conversations, and I'm the first to support that they happen.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-825	Mr President, I would like to I would first of all like to support the committee's proposal and reject all motions. Mr President, I would like to The North's business is ours. This has been the case for decades. The historical links between the Nordic countries are strong and continue to be developmental. We have many common denominators. We have a common desire for a general and well-functioning well-being for all residents in the Nordic countries, a labour market that opens up for labour migration between countries, a tourism sector that complements each other's unique conditions of experiences and a community with the aim of reducing border barriers between countries. The possibilities for increased energy cooperation are good, not least in the light of the broad, historically important Swedish energy agreement. We work together in security policy issues and also in education issues. We are trying to find good transport and infrastructure solutions. We are trying to find common solutions to the validation of professional qualifications. The Nordic Passport Union is unique and must be preserved and defended in all situations. Mr President, I would like to Last year, the Nordic Council of Ministers commissioned Poul Nielsen to conduct a strategic review of the Nordic labour market. The report has recently been presented and will be approved in the autumn following the usual consultation. The report presents a number of important proposals for measures that can be taken in the Community between countries without circumventing national labour market rules. A few picks: Invest more in a compulsory joint adult education in collaboration between the social partners. In an increasingly digital and technological labour market, lifelong learning needs to be developed. We're getting older, and more and more people are working longer. This also means that education and training opportunities must be developed throughout working life, not just at the beginning of working life. This is an important proposal which must certainly be highlighted in several aspects, but which also points to the challenges facing the future Nordic labour market. Mr President, I would like to The mental work environment should be further explored in a Nordic context. We talk mainly about physical health and safety barriers and shortcomings and often forget that the shortcomings in the mental work environment are probably so costly to society and burdening the affected workers. A faster introduction to working life is also crucial for the Nordic countries. In light of the increase in migration, the Nordic countries must find solutions that are in line with the Nordic model to help migrants quickly enter the labour market. In Sweden we have, among other things, introduced the Fast Track. More models that do not lead to a low-wage sector, but instead exploit the skills of job seekers and create jobs with decent conditions, are therefore necessary. Mr President, I would like to The Nordic countries have unique conditions regarding tourism. Each country owns great wealth in the form of natural experiences, culinary food moments and historical impact. Tourism in the Nordic countries is one of the key issues in the Nordic Council. It can be developed on several levels. Joint Nordic efforts to attract tourists from the rest of Europe and the rest of the world are much discussed and can eventually create even more jobs for the Nordic countries. Energy cooperation can be strengthened considerably. Last year, the Energy Group in the Committee on Economic Affairs, the current Committee on Growth and Development in the Nordic Region, carried out an analysis of a number of areas that should be discussed further in the energy sector. Several issues have been highlighted and touched upon: joint charging stations, harmonised renewable energy systems, energy efficiency in energy-intensive industries, joint research efforts in the Nordic region and more. The Nordic Council of Ministers has appointed Ollila Jorma to examine a further number of other areas in the energy sector. A report will be presented next year. Mr President, I would like to A functioning Samnordic infrastructure is necessary to counter border barriers and increase Nordic labour migration and trade. There are many discussions about reinforced rail between Oslo and Stockholm, about 8 million villages, Oslo-Göteborg-Copenhagen and about improved transport between the northern parts of Norway, Sweden and Finland. It is extremely important that the infrastructure works and that we connect the Nordic countries on all sides to reduce different border barriers. The abolition of border barriers is fundamental to Nordic cooperation. As the representative of the Nordic Council in the Border Barriers Council, I am well aware of the possibilities of solving border barriers but also of the challenges of agreeing between countries. Here, parliamentarians and ministers in the Nordic countries have a large and comprehensive responsibility to increase the pace of solving more border barriers with the overall and clear aim of increasing mobility for Nordic residents and cooperation on labour market and trade issues, among other things.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-840	Mr President, I would like to This debate on UU19 deals with the letter Strategic Export Control 2015. After the debate, we will most likely decide to add this letter to the file. The debate, like the report, will also deal with a number of motions in this area, and that is why I am standing here as the first speaker and reserve officer. The Moderates have a committee motion in which we raise and argue for international collaboration regarding export control. We would like to see more active work by the government to find legally binding systems. We also lift up an area that is often forgotten. In export control cases, the major advanced systems are often in focus. That's why we're highlighting small light weapons. Many of the conflicts that are now taking place with the devastating loss of human lives and atrocities are not happening with the most advanced and sophisticated weapons, but because of the uncontrolled proliferation of light weapons. The report deals with a number of other motions that we do not support, but I will come back to that in my lines.
i-CNg2KnHNvU1pztThzFWzQ6	Mr President, I would like to I request the approval of reservation 5. We discuss and will add to the document a letter from the Government on strategic control of arms exports in 2015. We can see in the statistics how total armaments exports have decreased over a number of years. One should know, however, that the curve is quite thorny. Larger export orders come and go. The future of Swedish armaments exports looks bright. Best paid is the manufacturer of advanced systems. Sweden does. We are often world leaders. That Sweden is so prominent depends on our skilled engineers but also on previous research that was paid for by the state during the Cold War. Now exports themselves pay for the research needed to develop new defence equipment. Export success can be very great for several Swedish defence equipment systems that are strong on the market. Mr President, I would like to Revenues Sweden received from the export of the flying radar, Erieye, to Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates started a panic in the political debate a few years ago. One should know that Sweden has the world's strictest export control of defence equipment after Japan. This is particularly true for war material for combat. As far as other armaments are concerned, control is somewhat less strict. The flying radar, Erieye, the Swedish alternative to the Americans' Awacs, counts as other armaments. These systems are advanced and require a high price. When a number of these systems were sold to Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates pulled the numbers away. One could angle it all and say that Sweden exports war material for many billions to non-democrats. A debate flared up, and the result was a parliamentary inquiry into export control and the possibility of making it even more thorough. It should not be forgotten, however, that we have the second most stringent export regime in the world. We can tell if we compare this with other countries. The US and a wide range of European countries exported defence equipment in the years 2005-2010 to Bahrain, Egypt, Libya, Syria and Yemen. Cameron allowed exports of 70 Eurofighters to Saudi Arabia in 2007, and Obama allowed an export order of 60 billion dollars to Saudi Arabia in 2011, including 84 F – 15 planes. It is my assessment that such an export could not take place from Sweden with our current guidelines. This concerns war material for combat. The Social Democratic Government, of course, decided at the beginning of the 00's on the export of Robot 56 Bill to Saudi Arabia, and now we are obliged to supply consequential supplies. The view of Saudi Arabia was at this time different from that of today. It was a bad decision from several perspectives. The effective robot systems were taken from the Swedish defence. Mr President, I would like to It turned out that the Swedish system of strategic export control was better than many had initially thought. When the parties selected their strongest disarmers to sit in the Armaments Export Review Committee, KEX, it wasn't long before they realized that the Swedish system was really good. As I said, it is the second most stringent export control system in the world. Making the Swedish system even more accurate was not so easy. Almost everyone realises that the new guidelines should be built on the old system. In fact, we would do well with the system we have today. The fact that our export controls are already relatively good is evidenced by Amnesty's reports. However, if we are going to change the system, I would like to clarify a few points. Each country has a duty to defend its territory. It is part of the modern Western world order, which is aimed at peace on earth. The hard component of a country's defence is the military defence, which in turn is made up of units, exercises and armaments. The countries themselves develop or buy their defence equipment. Since Sweden was non-aligned during the Cold War, we developed much of our defence equipment ourselves and were largely self-sufficient. When the Swedish defence was then drastically dismantled, it became necessary for the Swedish defence industry to invest in exports in order to survive. Today it is only in industry that exports release money for research to develop new defence equipment. For example, Svenska Saab invests SEK 6 billion in research, which is more than KTH and Chalmers combined. Few countries in the world are capable of producing advanced defence equipment. In Europe we have the so-called sex nation cooperation, LOI, which houses the major producers: Germany, England, France, Spain, Italy and Sweden. Globally, we have the United States, Russia, China, India, Brazil and others. Most producing countries have complex export control rules and institutes, yet they export war material for combat to recipients in the MENA countries and other similarly dubious recipient countries. The world problem with weapons in the wrong hands rarely has to do with Sweden. Sweden does not need stricter export regulations, but it would be good if other exporting countries caught up with Sweden in this area. The current Swedish guidelines provide that exports shall not be made to countries in internal or external wars or in danger of war or to countries with serious and extensive human rights violations. The export permit should be in line with Swedish foreign policy and promote Sweden's own armaments supply. There is now a new criterion: the democratic status of the recipient country. Mr President, I would like to The proposal for a democracy criterion is a good one. Like the other criteria, it shall be assessed as a scale and shall, together with the other criteria, be included in an overall assessment. No other country has democratic status as an assessment basis for export authorisations. It would therefore make us unique, which in itself is sensitive to us when developing materials together with other countries. It is important that our export controls do not deviate significantly from other defence-related products. The loss of export markets is only a threat. The fact that Swedish companies are denied access to materiel cooperation poses an equal threat. An increasing number of defence equipment systems are now being developed due to the cost of cooperation between companies from different countries. However, the criterion of democracy, if handled with caution and wisdom, can contribute to closer export control. After all, the risk of miscalculation is reduced. A further criterion has been added, although it was not part of the KEX mission: the PGU criterion. This means that in the permit assessment we shall assess what a recipient country can afford and how it should prioritise its resources. This is the wrong way to go. A PGU criterion should therefore not be introduced. KEX proposes narrower limits to what a consequential delivery is. It is not easy to see the consequences of this. It is crucial that the conditions remain normal industrial conditions. We must not deviate too much from other countries and normal standards. Transparency in the decision-making process for authorisations for the export of armaments is not easy to achieve. Business, foreign and defence secrecy means that documents must be secret. However, the annual publication from the Inspection of Strategic Products, ISP, to the Riksdag may be more detailed. To demand responsibility from the Export Control Council, EKR, is the wrong way to go. EKR is just a piece of advice to help ISP and the government. The EKR receives documents for meetings, and after the meetings the documents are collected again. In principle, post-control has not been carried out by ISP because it has not been requested or even budgeted. If introduced, it will tighten our export controls by following up on-site end-user certificates in recipient countries, much as the US does. This strengthening of control can benefit our cooperation with other important countries, as they can see that we have good export controls that prevent us from uncontrollably spreading sensitive technologies. Finally, at the last harrowing hour of KEX's work, another legislative proposal was introduced, namely restrictions on foreign policy by law as a governance for export control. We do not think that is necessary or even desirable. Mr President, I would like to There are those who are prepared to destroy the Swedish defence industry. If we are to tighten export conditions for defence equipment, we must exercise caution. If our guidelines are for different countries and if we stop guaranteeing consequential deliveries on already granted permits, we put our defence industry at risk. It can go very badly. If the Swedish defence industry fails, Sweden will have a more expensive supply of defence equipment, and then we will no longer be able to switch to other countries' first-class systems. Moreover, the problems of armaments in the wrong hands in the world will not look better but probably worse. Mr President, I would like to The government has a great responsibility to write a good bill on new guidelines for strategic export control of armaments.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-880	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 4. We have now listened to Mikael Jansson, who sang the praises of arms exports. I have a question for Mikael Jansson. In terms of security policy, the Swedish Democrats are now in the same group as the Left Party, which, a little later in the debate, will present a completely different paragraph. How do you view that company, Mikael Jansson?
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-882	Mr President, I would like to The security policies of the Left Party and the Swedish Democrats differ greatly. In some cases they may approach each other, but in essence they differ. It is most visible on our investment in the defence grant, which is highest among parties, while the Left Party has the lowest. This shows the ambitions. The fact that Sweden has a weak military capability is due to the fact that both Social Democratic governments and alliance governments have disarmed the Swedish defence. We are in a difficult position. Today, however, the question is not how to regain military capabilities and use NATO as quickly as possible, but the question is about the two options we have: to be a NATO member or to be non-aligned. Looking at the two options as a whole, we believe that it is better to be non-aligned and not a member of NATO.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-885	Mr President, I would like to Then I wonder: What does Mikael Jansson think a defence budget would have to be on, as a proportion of the bnp, to cope with the material ambition that one has?
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-886	Mr President, I would like to We usually say 2% over time. It's a little barely. In fact, between 50 and 80 billion would have to be spent on a single page, and then it would be 2 to 2.5 per cent. That's about the same estimate as I know the Liberals are doing too. That's where the Moderates lie.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-887	Mr President, I would like to Far beyond the headlines, the spotlight of the media and the political debate here in Sweden is one of the bloodiest wars of our time in Yemen. Over the past year, 6,000 people have been killed. Half of them are civilians and innocent women, men and children. The battles and the massive bombings have left an entire country in ruins. It is estimated that 21 million Yemeni, 80% of the country's population, are now dependent on external humanitarian aid. In March 2015, a coalition of countries under the leadership of Saudi Arabia launched a massive bombing attack against Yemen. The UN recently showed that the Saudi air raids have killed 785 children and maimed 1 168 children. Only between August and October, Saudi Arabia managed to attack five schools in Yemen and kill four of their students according to Amnesty International. Already a year ago, Human Rights Watch, another human rights organisation, showed that Saudi Arabia uses cluster weapons in Yemen. From other conflicts, we know that 98% of the victims of cluster weapons are civilians and many times children. Much is in favour of seeing the same bloody results of cluster bombs in Yemen as well. The majority of Saudi Arabia's weapons come from EU Member States. Between 2009 and 2014, 59% of the arms imported by Saudi Arabia from the EU came, according to the Peace Research Institute Sipri. Between 2009 and 2013, EU countries issued licences for military equipment worth EUR 19 billion to the country. Unfortunately, Sweden is no exception. For a number of years Saudi Arabia was the main buyer of Swedish weapons. Between 2004 and 2014, Saudi Arabia bought war material from Sweden for more than SEK 5.2 billion. These arms exports continue to this day. Of the ten countries that are part of the Saudi-led coalition fighting in Yemen, six purchased war material and weapons from Sweden in 2015. While Sweden is selling arms to belligerent dictatorships such as Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates, ida is contributing 148 million in humanitarian aid and humanitarian aid to Yemen this year. This is a foreign policy that in no way makes any sense. It is not sustainable to arm warring states with one hand and then, with the other hand, go in with humanitarian aid and humanitarian aid to those affected by the war. You cannot call yourself a feminist voice in the world with credibility if you arm the women's oppression regime in Riyadh. It is not possible to export arms to dictatorships and, at the same time, to claim that it is a country and a government that defends human rights. Mr President, I would like to It was therefore very gratifying that on 25 February this year the European Parliament adopted a resolution calling for an arms embargo on Saudi Arabia in connection with the country's warfare in Yemen. The European Parliament argued that arms exports to Saudi Arabia were clearly contrary to the EU's own regulatory framework. It called on the High Representative of the EU for Foreign and Security Affairs, Federica Mogherini, to come up with a proposal for an arms embargo against Saudi Arabia. The European Parliament also sent a very clear signal to the Member States to stop exporting arms to the dictatorship of Saudi Arabia. The Netherlands has listened and decided in March to impose a national Dutch arms embargo on Saudi Arabia with reference to both Saudi Arabia's warfare in Yemen and the mass executions carried out in Saudi Arabia. Unfortunately, neither Mogherini nor the Swedish Government have yet acted. In the European Parliament, the proposal for an arms embargo was supported by all Swedish parliamentarians except for three Moderates and the two Swedish Democrats. However, when the Left Party here in Parliament has made proposals for Sweden to implement the resolution and introduce a national Swedish arms embargo against Saudi Arabia, all other parties say no. But, Mr President, the people of Yemen cannot wait. It is time to act, and we need to do it now. Mr President, I would like to In 2003, the Parliament decided on a policy for global development, PGU. Parliament's decision was crystal clear and still valid. All Swedish policies in all areas should be permeated by a rights perspective and based on the poor's perspective on development. All policies, including arms exports, shall contribute to meeting the development policy objectives of fair and sustainable global development. Arms exports are perhaps the clearest example of Sweden having a long way to go before we have a policy that is connected and coherent. In the government's so-called new start for PGU, which was presented last week, the government writes that by the end of 2017 they should have contributed to strengthening the conditions for assessing how export control cases concerning armaments affect justice and sustainable global development. Mr President, I would like to This is snow mosh. This type of watered down wording means that the government continues to turn a blind eye to the most serious conflict in Swedish foreign and development policy. Even the former bourgeois government was clearer when they described the target conflict regarding Swedish arms exports and Swedish development policy. In connection with the recent transformation of the government, the government also chose to transfer the responsibility for arms exports from the Ministry for Foreign Affairs, which deals with issues of development policy, sustainable development, human rights and democracy, to the Minister for Migration and Justice. It will hardly increase the opportunities for Sweden to conduct a related foreign policy. I must say that the government's handling of arms exports is concerned. On 19 May 2011, the Riksdag decided to see stricter rules for arms exports to non-democratic states. Since then, Sweden has sold arms to dictatorships like Saudi Arabia for SEK 15 billion. But we are still waiting for legislation to be delivered. The Government says that they may present new legislative proposals at the earliest in spring 2017. At the same time, unfortunately, there is a signal from the Ministry for Foreign Affairs and the Government that the government is not prepared to propose a clear ban on arms exports to dictatorships. Let me conclude, therefore, by saying that, for the Left Party, it is crystal clear. We can no longer wait for new legislation on Swedish arms exports. This issue can no longer be drawn in the long line. We now want the Parliament to put its foot down and ask the government to come back with a new and clear framework for arms exports by the end of the year and to introduce a clear ban on arms exports to dictatorships, belligerent states and regimes that violate human rights. With that, I would like to conclude and call for the approval of reservation 1.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-904	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the Liberals' reservation 2 to be approved. SEK 1 452 is the price for a nine-year-old Yazi girl who is sold as a sex slave by the Islamic terrorists in Daish/ IS. This sum symbolises the oppression of women in the world, perhaps more than anything else in this day and age. Twelve-year-old little girls get pregnant through rape. In the war, mothers are brutally torn from their families to be part of the harem of Islamists. Teenage girls are forced to live under the worst female oppression we've seen in a long time in the world. What does this have to do with this parliamentary debate? Well, for us liberals, feminism never becomes synonymous with pacifism. We want to be able to support the forces that are fighting against the women's oppressors in Daish. You can't talk Daish into gender theory. Sometimes freedom must be defended militarily, even by feminists. It therefore seems morally inconsistent that Sweden can send officers to Iraq to train military forces, but at the same time we consider ourselves prevented from delivering war material in support of their fight against Daish/ IS. Several other Western democracies – Germany, the United States, France and the United Kingdom – are already supporting the international coalition against IS by military means. We Liberals have long fought for a democracy criterion in arms legislation. Note that as early as 2005, eleven years ago, when the war material investigation, Krut, presented its proposal, it was only the Liberals and the Green Party who wanted a clear democracy criterion. The coach wins. And politics, as you know, is a marathon race. We Liberals were therefore extremely pleased on 26 June 2015 when the Parliamentary Committee on Armaments Export Review, the KEX, presented its final report and proposed the inclusion of a democracy criterion in the authorisation test itself. I would also like to thank the Swedish Peace Party, which has, during all these years, courageously, clearly and perseveringly pushed Swedish politics for a democracy criterion. Without you and civil society, we would not be where we are today. Sweden should not sell weapons to Islamic dictatorships like Saudi Arabia, which execute homosexuals, deny women their freedom and imprison liberal bloggers and feminists like Raif Badawi. He was sentenced to a thousand whips and ten years in prison for blogging about feminism. I would like to encourage everyone in this House, in the gallery and at home to read his hugely strong and important document, which I present to this House. There you can read about the ideals of freedom that he has now been imprisoned for. A thousand whips and ten years in prison he was sentenced to for blogging about feminism and freedom. The Saudi dictatorship will not be allowed to buy our weapons. We must also be equally militaryly clear against the violence-promoting Islamist extremism in the region. In the interests of consistency, we must understand that this view means that we must be open to the export of war material to states that are fighting these authoritarian, dictatorial forces that violate international law. The committee and also the KEX investigation point out that conflicts or conflict risks risk undermining the overall objective of Swedish foreign policy, namely to promote security democracy and respect for human rights. It is important to see that consistency. That is why we Liberals can see nothing but that the proposed addition to conflicts devalues the very value of the Armaments Act. If we are to add a clear democracy criterion that takes into account democratic status and respect for human rights, we must also support the forces that want to stand on the side of democracy when war prevails. Mr President, I would like to Against this background, the Liberals in our second reservation, which I called for, believe that the proposal to strengthen the armaments law for countries in or at risk of becoming involved in armed conflict, should not be included in the case of democracies.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-916	Mr President, I would like to The Left Party and the Liberals, or the People's Party as you were before, have over the years been able to work together against Swedish arms exports to belligerent states, dictatorships, countries and regimes that violate human rights. I and Birgitta Ohlsson have often agreed on these issues. That is why I am surprised today and when I read the reservation by Birgitta Ohlsson and the Liberals. Now they suddenly make a main issue of fighting and fighting for Sweden to continue exporting arms to belligerent states. They go so far as to even opt for a reservation against the majority of committees to safeguard arms exports to belligerent states. It sounds simple and good when Birgitta Ohlsson talks about arming the good forces to fight the evil forces in the Middle East. But that's not how it works, Birgitta Ohlsson. That is not the reality. The weapons we export to our friends today may well end up in the hands of our enemies tomorrow. We have seen a wide range of examples of this. Many of the weapons that Daish is using today are weapons that the United States once exported to the Central Government of Iraq and which Daish has conquered over the years. If we look at the list of warring states that bought weapons in 2015, we will find Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates, Kuwait, Qatar, Jordan, Bahrain, Pakistan, Thailand and Turkey. Which of these belligerent states wants Birgitta Ohlsson to protect? Which of these belligerent states does Birgitta Ohlsson want us to continue exporting weapons to?
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-920	Mr President, I would like to As Hans Linde well knows, the Liberals were much faster than his own party, the Left Party, in demanding a democracy criterion. If there are any parties to be hailed and honored in this matter, it is the Green Party and the Liberals who were very sharp when that debate was going on. Then you weren't on our side, Hans Linde. It is quite obvious to us liberals that we should not sell weapons to belligerent dictatorships. We've never said otherwise. But we think that our Swedish nation should raise our voice clearly, as do other Western modern democracies. Examples of this are France, Germany, the United Kingdom and others who are much more military in the fight against Islamist terrorists on the ground. Hans Linde and I, like our respective parties, the Liberals and the Left Party, are very committed to the future of Kurdistan. We think it is important that the Kurds should be able to gain greater recognition in the future and also independence. Who, then, is at the front today? Who is it that frees the Yazidian nine-year-old little girls who are sold as sex slaves in this now? Who is it that stands at the front and takes the bravest, strongest responsibility? Yes, they are our Kurdish friends. They take that fight against the Islamic oppressors. That Sweden would then turn its back on these groups is, I think, totally wrong. I agree that there can often be a conflict of objectives; that is absolutely something to be made clear. In war, there are no simple situations at all. The discussions on this should be taken very seriously. But I do not agree with the Swedish political stance, that we should always sit in the gallery and defend vulnerable people with aid and be active in the humanitarian aid but never be there. If Hans Linde's party were to be allowed to decide even more in this Parliament and this House, Sweden would sit completely passively all the time and not be present in the situations where the war is and people are slaughtered daily. We say absolutely clearly no to selling weapons to dictatorships.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-926	Mr President, I would like to It would be interesting to hear from Birgitta Ohlsson exactly who in the Middle East she thinks we should sell Swedish weapons to. The Left Party has a strong commitment to combat Daish and support the forces now standing up for peace and democratic development in the region. To do so, we in the Left Party have, for example, made it clear that we think that we should go in with increased humanitarian aid to the Kurds in northern Syria. For example, you need to look at the possibilities to go in with mine clearance help. As a party, we have raised money to build up Kobane. We raised over 100,000 that we have sent to the then Kurdish Red Crescent. I would like to know which Kurdish groups it is that Birgitta Ohlsson wants us to arm. There are a few different types of Kurdish groups that are fighting Daish today, such as the PKK, which are terror-listed. Is it an organization that Birgitta Ohlsson thinks we should sell weapons to? Is it to the Kurds in Syria who fight under YPG's and YPJ's banners? Or is it to the KRG in northern Iraq, a regional cooperation where we unfortunately see human rights violations being committed, where there have been restrictions on democracy and where there is an internal political power struggle. It would be interesting to hear Birgitta Ohlsson break down the haughty rhetoric and describe exactly which groups it is that Birgitta Ohlsson wants to arm in the Middle East.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-931	Mr President, I would like to I think that what the Left Party has done is worthy and important. We also support, of course, the fact that Swedish aid should be increased in areas such as mine clearance and much stronger civil support. But that is not enough for us. Of course, we do not think that we should support groups that are terror-stamped – there we differ from the Left Party. But we think that there is a very good foundation if, for example, you go through the KRG and also that you should look at the system that we have already built up. Sweden has sent officers to Iraq to train military forces. Like many other people who form part of the great coalition against Daish or IS, we believe that it is also possible to provide military support through it, that it would be the right and proper structure. I want to get back to what I was going to say in my first line. Like Mr Linde, I promise to continue to be a part of the current red-green government in relation to the situation in Saudi Arabia. We have waited a very long time to have a democracy criterion at all. Sometimes I say that there is too much S&M in Swedish politics, and it has certainly been on this issue. The two major parties have blocked a sharp policy containing a democracy criterion. We are also, of course, voting in favour of the resolution referred to by Mr Linde in the European Parliament. We must certainly continue to fight that battle. It is completely untenable to have a democracy criterion – no matter how long it takes before it comes into place – where there is a double standard.
i-MH5v4pdeAWty4VaQ6twTbw	Mr President, I would like to Today, a report is being debated in which the Committee on Foreign Affairs deals with the government's letter on strategic export control in 2015 concerning war equipment and dual-use items. We are proud to see that Sweden places itself at the top of the list year after year when it comes to income from the export of music. We are also proud when Swedish interior design and clothing design increase in popularity around the world. However, the fact that we are also at the absolute peak of arms exports is not something of which we feel the same pride. On the contrary, armaments are associated with a feeling of unease, unease at the contexts in which our Swedish products may end up. But Sweden needs a strong defence industry. Through participation in international cooperation in the field of defence equipment, Sweden secures long-term security and defence policy interests. The Christian Democrats believe that trade in defence equipment with certain countries is defensible. However, we must not disregard our principles. There must be clear rules for who can be the buyer of the equipment we sell. This is absolutely necessary. Otherwise, trade clashes with the values that form the cornerstones of our society – human dignity and human rights. It clashes with our policy of global development. If we export war material to dictatorships and regimes that oppress, while we talk about the importance of democracy and human rights, there will be false song. Words and deeds must be connected. Arming dictatorships does not contribute to peace and security for either the people of the recipient country or for us here in Sweden. Mr President, I would like to It is clear that Sweden must have strict export control legislation. We must constantly affirm that the defence industry is working under international development and cooperation agreements. We need to look at the question from a real angle: some defence equipment we should buy from other countries' manufacturers and some equipment is wise to produce itself. For three years, the people who were part of the war material investigation were working. Arguments and tanks were screwed, bent and adjusted. But finally, in June last year, the results were presented in the parliamentary armaments export investigation, which is called the KEX investigation. The proposals in the investigation, including a democracy criterion, were due to enter into force in April 2016. Now April has passed, but no legislation is in place. As early as 2001, we included the issue of a democracy criterion for defence equipment exports as a requirement in our Christian Democratic Principle Programme. For the Christian Democrats, however, in addition to the democracy criterion, two further issues were in focus during the investigation process, follow-up deliveries and the issue of increased openness and transparency in the Export Control Council. We got through a clear tightening up in the investigation so that consequential deliveries are not allowed automatically. According to the investigation's proposal, each delivery must be balanced against whether developments in human rights and democracy have changed in the country of destination in question. We also pushed on the question of how members of the Export Control Council vote. This is what we propose to change so that they can now tell us how they voted, without giving out any other confidential information. This means that the public will have greater transparency and the opportunity to make parties more accountable than today. Mr President, I would like to It is most urgent for the government to present in 2016 a bill with proposals for new legislation based on the investigation's proposal in order to strengthen export control towards non-democratic states. That is why I am in favour of the Christian Democrats' reservation number 3. The best prerequisite for avoiding armed conflict is to promote respect for human rights and freedoms and to ensure a democratic tradition of society. These basic values must be constantly conquered and defended. In the event of conflict, peaceful methods such as discussion and negotiation naturally take precedence over the use of weapons. Aggression and offensive war are not ethically justifiable. However, as all other efforts to resolve the conflict have been tried by peaceful means, weapons must be used, albeit subject to clear criteria. We know that sometimes weapons must be used to defend innocent civilians or when violence is used for oppressive purposes. But the balance we have to face all the time, and what we have to balance, is that the more weapons there are in circulation, the more insecure our world becomes. Martin Luther King captured in a speech the doubleness in which we humans are destroyed and operating. He said, "We speak devotedly of peace, but at the same time we are working unwittingly to prepare the war." ..................................................... With a new strengthened export control, Sweden would take a clear step away from belonging to those countries that talk about peace but are preparing for the war.
i-7KDJNtJZtEXf1kqi3c92bY	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating the annual government letter on strategic export control. The letter sets out the Swedish export control policy for war equipment and dual-use items in 2015 and exports during the year. In addition, cooperation within the EU and in other international fora on issues related to strategic export control of both military and dual-use items is described. Mr President, I would like to The Committee on Foreign Affairs recalls in its report on Parliament's announcement that the government will return to Parliament with a proposal for new armaments legislation in order to tighten export control towards non-democratic states. The report also recalls how, through this announcement, the Riksdag initiated the investigation carried out by the so-called Armaments Export Review Committee and that in June 2015, the KEX Committee submitted its final report to the Government. The Committee has proposed a number of measures to increase the transparency and transparency of export controls, and I would like to mention some of them in particular. A new law on armaments is proposed to be adopted in which an overall assessment is to be made in the licensing process, and it is also proposed that the licensing process should take into account the democratic status of the receiving state, its respect for human rights and freedoms and the extent to which the state is in armed conflict or is in danger of being taken into account. In addition, I would like to highlight in particular the amendments proposed to the Government's guidelines on arms exports, which have been decided by Parliament: . that the guidelines are updated to incorporate Sweden's international obligations and commitments in the field of export control; the introduction of a democracy criterion to complement the current conditional barriers to arms exports, thus constituting a central condition for the licensing process; the strengthening of the guidelines on the conditional obstacle to human rights; the continuation of the conditional obstacle to armed conflict; and 中 that the guidelines should make it clear that global development policy, PGU, should be taken into account in the licensing process. Mr President, I would like to We Social Democrats do not want to sell material that contributes to conflicts in the world or is used to violate human rights or oppress people. At the same time, we know that the export of defence equipment is necessary to enable the Swedish defence industry to maintain its capacity and know-how so that Swedish defence interests can be properly met and thus give the Swedish Armed Forces the opportunity to fulfil their mission in terms of protecting our country's defence and security. There must always be a balance between different interests, and the more transparency we have on the basis of these positions, the better it is for democracy, transparency and participation. With this in mind, I welcome the fact that legislative work has begun in the Government Office with the aim of drafting a proposal to tighten up export control vis-à-vis non-democratic states and that we have been informed that the government plans to present a proposal on the matter in Parliament during the first half of 2017. Mr President, I would like to Every year an estimated 700 000 people die from armed conflict or violence in civil society. A multiple increase in numbers is damaged or driven on the run. The humanitarian consequences of armed violence have reached unacceptably high levels. It is therefore more than welcome that the UN General Assembly adopted the International Arms Trade Treaty in spring 2013. The objective of the Treaty is to establish the highest possible common international standards to regulate or improve the regulation of international trade in conventional weapons and to prevent and eradicate the illicit trade in conventional weapons and prevent their spread. The Arms Trade Treaty establishes a ban on exports where the weapons exported risk being used for genocide, war crimes, organised crime or terrorist acts. Mr President, I would like to Sweden is one of the 130 countries that had signed the Treaty by the end of 2015 and one of the 80 countries that had ratified it. In 2015, Sweden contributed to the implementation of the Treaty by coordinating international work on the preparation of reporting templates for the Treaty. The government attaches great importance to broad adherence to and effective implementation of the Arms Trade Treaty. The Government intends to continue to participate actively in the achievement of the objectives of the Treaty and contributed in 2015 for the second time to the UN fund established for cooperation on arms regulation, including for projects supporting the implementation of the Arms Trade Treaty. It is welcome and important that Sweden participates in the work to get more countries to sign the Treaty. Getting countries such as the United States, China, Canada, India, Israel and Russia to accede to the Arms Trade Treaty is of paramount importance. Mr President, I would like to The uncontrolled arms trade is a direct threat to people's security and freedom. A global and legally binding treaty that strengthens worldwide control of conventional arms trade is an effective way to overcome the cross-border illegal arms trade that in many parts of the world breeds armed violence and armed conflicts that lead to instability at regional or national level, causing massive humanitarian suffering and hampering or overturning economic development. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I support the committee's proposal to add the letter from the government to the document and reject the motions.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-963	Mr President, I would like to Krister Örnfjäder described the message that the government has previously given, namely that it intends to present a proposal for new legislation on Swedish arms exports in spring 2017. There are two major problems with this. The first is that it has then been more than six years since the Riksdag instructed the previous government to draft such a bill. The second is that we have already seen that this process has been repeatedly delayed and postponed. I guess there's a real danger that it's gonna happen again. This responsibility rests with both present and former governments. In other areas, both the current and the previous government have quickly investigated issues and been able to get new legislation in place quickly, even when there have been complex issues relating to the rule of law, human rights or people's basic economic security. Then you have been able to move at race speed. But when it comes to the regulation of arms exports, there are glaciers that move faster than the present and the former government. I'd like to put it on the record. But I would like to ask Krister Örnfjäder another question. On 25 February, the European Parliament adopted a resolution calling for an arms embargo on Saudi Arabia. It called on the EU to act at Union level and called on the Member States to impose an arms embargo. As I described in my speech, the Netherlands has already done so. When it voted in the European Parliament, all the social democrats and environmentalists who were present chose to vote in favour of the resolution. I therefore assume that it is the policy of the Social Democrats and the Green Party that the Member States of the European Union should implement national arms embargoes against Saudi Arabia. I would therefore like to know: when is Sweden introducing a national arms embargo on Saudi Arabia? It cannot be that this is something you say in the European Parliament but then forget on the flight home to Stockholm?
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-968	Mr President, I would like to As Hans Linde knows, Sweden belongs to the countries that follow most and perhaps most of the decisions taken in the European Parliament. If a decision of this kind has now been taken, I assume that it will also have repercussions on Swedish legislation and application. I have no reason to believe that it would be any other way. No one has said anything else to me. I cannot give more information on this matter than that.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-969	Mr President, I would like to Then we are waiting with great excitement for the government to come back with a proposal for an arms embargo against Saudi Arabia. In that case, the Left Party will be happy to vote in favour of such a proposal. But I am also a little confused, because there is an opportunity to take a decision on such an arms embargo at today's vote, if we have time to debate within half an hour. The Left Party has raised such a motion in the Riksdag, and we are discussing such a motion today, but the Social Democrats and the Green Party have chosen to say no to it. Why do you decide today to reject a clear proposal here in the Swedish Parliament to impose an arms embargo on Saudi Arabia?
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-970	Mr President, I would like to It is quite right that we in the majority of the committee say no to this. The reason for this paragraph in the report is as follows: According to the Armaments Act, war material may only be exported if there are security or defence policy reasons for it and this does not conflict with Sweden's foreign policy. According to the Government's current guidelines for arms exports, as decided by the Riksdag, the Inspection of Strategic Products (ISP) in the authorisation review shall make an overall assessment of all significant circumstances for the matter based on the above principles. Furthermore, the authorisation testing takes into account the criteria of the EU Common Position on Arms Exports and the UN Arms Trade Treaty, which Sweden has undertaken to comply with. The guidelines distinguish between the so-called ‘society'. unconditional and conditional obstacles. Unconditional barriers are barriers that prohibit exports. A decision by the UN Security Council, the EU or the OSSE on an arms embargo is an unconditional obstacle to Swedish arms exports. ..................................................... Hans Linde has already read this. That's the answer to his exercise. What he is asking of me and what I have done is that I repeat what we have already taken as a decision.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-972	Mr President, I would like to In last year's debate on strategic export control, perhaps we could not be as clear as we would have liked. The war material investigation was in its final stage, and we were all concerned that the result would be as good as possible. In the same month as our debate last year, June 2015, the investigation presented its proposals to enter into force in June 2016. Now, apparently, we'll have to wait until 2017. Why? Has the government encountered any problems? Surely it cannot be the case that your partner is holding you back on this?
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-974	Mr President, I would like to I don't know why. However, in all these years I have had the privilege of being in this Chamber and in Parliament, I have learned that I would rather wait six months or a year to get a good product than to get something that does not win Parliament's approval. I assume that the work carried out by the government looks at all aspects, such as those that have been and will be presented here today, to ensure that there is as broad a support as possible for the proposal that will then come. If it comes in 2017 instead of 2016 it is boring. But it is better than not having the voice of Parliament.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-977	Mr President, I would like to It is clear that an investigation in which our parties are represented and where a common position was adopted has broad support. Krister Eagle feather doesn't have to doubt that. The fact that exports to Saudi Arabia have fallen so clearly is, of course, a good thing, as we have been able to read here. However, the current legislation that laid the foundations for exports to Saudi Arabia remains. There is nothing to prevent the conclusion of new MOUs. This should be something that upsets Krister Eagle feather. At least it upsets me.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-980	Mr President, I would like to I don't know if it was a question or a statement. I can still say the following. I don't think Saudi Arabia is the best country in the world. It does not always have the best opinions or the best way of life. I have many views on it as a country and as a regime. I also understand that agreements have to be respected. But now we have already begun to remove the parts that were agreed upon at one time. That is why our commitment to Saudi Arabia is constantly decreasing. At least Sofia Damm and I can agree that things are moving in the right direction. With the help of the things that have been proposed in the investigation, when they are fully implemented, we will be in a completely different situation from when the agreement was signed for the first time.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-984	Mr President, I would like to Like the previous speaker, I would really like to emphasise the importance of getting this legislation in place. It feels a little like it's taking a while. It is clear that legislation must be reviewed and developed in a very serious way. But we can see that we already two years ago were very united on this front. The question has been massaged for 10, 15 and almost 20 years where party after party has gradually become for a democracy criterion that the Liberals and the Green Party took a stand too early. Now Krister Örnfjäder here said that we will get legislation in the first half of 2017. I want to follow up on what Hans Linde, Sofia Damm and others highlighted earlier. It is a question of an arms embargo against very clear dictatorships such as Saudi Arabia. Can you assure us right now that it will be clear that we will not have these so-called gaps that were in the proposal that was put forward? That's my first question. My second question concerns a problem which is contained in the proposal that has been tabled. It is about the fact that the strengthening of the Armaments Act can affect, for example, the great global responsibility of democracies that the United States is taking today. It is a country that is involved in conflicts in very many different ways because it takes responsibility when the rest of the world fails in the fight against dictatorships, genocide and other things. There I wonder how you view the conflict situation. It refers to not being able to sell weapons in situations where we have conflicts or conflict risks. I believe that it risks undermining the democracy criterion itself.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-988	Mr President, I would like to I'll start with gaps. I assume that one of the reasons why we are now delaying, if we are to use the Alliance's own words, the introduction of the new legislation is that there should be no gaps in the future legislation. That must still be the purpose. Then we who have the privilege of being Members of Parliament will have to try to examine it as best we can now and look at it. Where are any weaknesses, if any? We must ensure that they are closed before the decision is taken in this House. That was the first part. The second part concerns: What can be done and not done? In her speech, Birgitta Ohlsson spoke earlier about what is happening in northern Iraq and elsewhere. I had the privilege of being in Iraq on behalf of the committee a few weeks ago. We do not belong directly to the warring parties in that conflict. What we do n is we help educate p eshmerga is very important. Many were the people who thanked us for being there and contributed to the situation. I do not think that we should underestimate what we are doing anyway. That is something that is also needed. We take our responsibility in that part too.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-993	Mr President, I would like to It is very good that Sweden is in place and military training on eshmerga. I am pleased that we have found a great deal of agreement in this House. But we Liberals want more. We think that Sweden should be able to make more efforts, such as Germany, the UK, France, the United States and others. Not only can we sit on the sideline, but we also need to be a little more active. Finally, with regard to the criterion of democracy, there will be many in this comma from different parties on the right, left and centre, who will follow the issue extremely closely. It is very important when we have reached agreement on the introduction of a democracy criterion for arms exports after such a long struggle, for so many years and with so many actors not least from civil society, Swedish Peace, Amnesty and others who have fought extremely hard. Then it is important that the criterion of democracy does not become untenable, unclear or unsharp. It must be a real democracy criterion that means something.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-995	Mr President, I would like to That's what I've said before. It is our role as Members of Parliament regardless of which party we represent and whether we are behind the present government constellation or whether we are in opposition. We shall ensure that any decision taken in this House is the best possible decision. This means that we should push forward on various issues and push the government to deliver as good a basis as possible. I want you to do exactly what Birgitta Ohlsson is now saying. Move it! That is the intention.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-997	Mr President, I would like to Ladies and gentlemen! We are not building peace through a rearmament spiral. As UN Secretary-General Ban Ki Moon once said, the world is over-armed, and peace is underfunded. It is therefore important that our government pursues a feminist foreign policy – a policy in which peace policy is at the centre, and where Sweden, not least through Minister for Foreign Affairs Margot Wallström, really shows that the Ministry for Foreign Affairs is a Ministry of Peace. It is therefore important that our government has recently stated that we intend to join the humanitarian initiative for nuclear disarmament. It is also important that we have been able to go out and announce that we will set up a group of specialized peace diplomats so that Sweden can once again be at the forefront of conflict resolution in the world. Peace diplomats are something I am particularly proud of, as I have been pushing this issue very hard for a number of years. My political baby is about to become a reality. Another important thing is that Sweden will investigate more closely how we can contribute to the establishment of a civil peace corps in the EU. Mr President, I would like to It is also important that our government has taken a clear approach to the implementation of global development policy, the policy adopted by a united parliament 13 years ago. It is therefore the policy that says that there should be coherence between policy areas and that the policy should move in the same direction. We will not give with one hand and then take back many times with the other hand. So we should not export weapons to countries that can use them for repressive purposes or in war. One could say that this policy has somehow come to the conclusion that our government took a holistic approach to implementation through a clear organisation in the Government Office and that each ministry is now drawing up action plans to implement this important policy. An important part of tackling the policy of coherence is also the armaments export investigation, the KEX investigation, which was submitted with great agreement last June. This will be dealt with in this House next year. Although I want to make it clear that the Green Party would have liked to go further in the regulation of Swedish arms exports, we still see that it was a big gain that six parties could support the final report of the investigation, so that Sweden will now be able to tighten up its arms exports further. The investigation proposes a number of tightening up of the rules for the export of armaments. There will be restrictions, stricter control and greater transparency. Mr President, I would like to Let me point out three of the biggest benefits of the agreement, as I see it. Firstly, with the implementation of the KEX investigation, Sweden will be the first country in the world to introduce a democracy criterion in arms exports. This is a very big and important step in the right direction, especially since Sweden is one of the world's largest arms exporters calculated per capita. Secondly, the threshold is lowered for what is needed to stop exports with the investigation's wording on serious violations of human rights. This means that more human rights violations can fall under the new rules compared to what is currently said about serious violations. Last but not least: In the case of successive deliveries, Sweden must take into account the situation that has arisen in the country of destination. This means that if a country goes to war or violates human rights, it should be able to stop subsequent deliveries. There is no such regulation today, and that is also one of the reasons why we see consequential deliveries to Saudi Arabia, among others. The major issue that I know was much discussed in the KEX investigation is whether defence and security policy interests should take precedence over respect for human rights and democracy. What happens when the interests crash? I think it is extremely important that an overall assessment is made and that the government as a current government should take a clear responsibility and explain and defend how to make its decisions. It is important that the issues and decisions in these contexts are seen in a PGU perspective. Post-control should be tightened – and this is important – so that exported weapons do not move on to another country. Mr President, I would like to An intensive work will now be carried out with bill writing so that a bill can be presented to the Riksdag in spring 2017. It is the Green Party's clear line that Swedish arms exports should be tightened. It is also something that the preparation in a broad agreement agreed. In doing so, I call for the proposal of the Committee on Foreign Affairs to be approved in the report and for reservations to be rejected.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-1014	Mr President, I would like to The Armaments Act in force today prohibits the export of armaments. This ban can be broken by Sweden's defence and security policy interests provided it does not conflict with Swedish foreign policy. There are a number of conditional obstacles that go through our legislation. If the UN Security Council takes a decision, and if the EU or the OSSE say no, that applies to us. There are also a number of unconditional obstacles. The accounts made by the government and dealt with in the report point to how the obstacles and our exports have been dealt with. We can see that war material exports for war have increased while other armaments exports have decreased. But, as has been said before, this is something that changes over time depending on what happens. A JAS export will for a long time increase the Swedish figures when it comes to export returns. Mr President, I would like to In view of the time of this House, I shall shorten my speech. I simply note that everything this report concerns is not military material. There are many dual-use items. They are intended for civilian use but can also be used for the manufacture of war material. It is important to look behind the figures to see what it is about. The KEX investigation has already been touched upon. We were six out of eight parties that agreed on the conclusions, and we hope that this unity would lead to what was said from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs when we – I myself was in the investigation – handed over the report. Then it was said: We should not delay this. We will be quick to respond back to the unity that existed in KEX and present a new team with sharpenings. Since then we have had a consultation of the investigation. 105 referrals have been received. They were finished on November 6, last year. So it has been almost three quarters since then, and we have not seen any results. I find it difficult to see that it will have to take as long as 2017 Mr President. The only thing I have been able to see and note is that the responsibility for writing the bill has moved from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to Morgan Johansson and the Ministry of Justice. This is hopefully not an aggravating circumstance, because I assume that much has happened before at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Mr President, I would like to We look forward to new legislation on criteria, democracy, human rights and exports in the area of war or conflict. We want to see a review of consequential deliveries with more transparency and transparency. Even then, Mr President, it is crucial that Swedish exports of armaments will take place. Because we need it – it's about defence interest. Our security requires it, too. Of course, this must always be a priority. With this, Mr President, I would like to support the committee's proposal and reject the reservations pending new legislation, which I hope we will have when we have the next letter to consider. I would also like to emphasise that we are selling to states and not to groups. There are those who want to open up to sell or hand over weapons to groups. On the part of the Center Party, we do not think it is a way forward. It only risks increasing internal conflicts and fighting. Mr President, I would like to Happy summer! This is the last debate that the Committee on Foreign Affairs has in plenary during this Parliamentary session. Thank you for your help and good work! I would also like to thank my colleagues in the Committee on Foreign Affairs for the past parliamentary year.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-1031	Mr President, I would like to The state and capital – you could say a lot about that. One could say, for example, that it should be less state and more capital. That would be entirely correct, because that is what we want. We want to generate more capital that can be involved in investing in our future industries. Mr President, I would like to In order to promote development, entrepreneurship and innovation, the role of the State should be to remove barriers, to act where market failures prevail but also to lubricate functioning systems. The conditions for development vary greatly between different sectors. Innovation policies and the needs of venture capital provision must therefore be adapted to take account of sectoral considerations, maturity and growth conditions with an individual bottom-up approach, taking into account the variations of sectors, geography and market structures. Let's take life science as an example. It takes a lot of time and money in the early stages, in basic research. It's a long process, it costs a lot and it's uncertain. A 15-year development process may fall in the last six months. Then there are companies that operate in industries that enter new and risky phases. They may have been established for decades, but technological and market developments mean that they need to innovate. Capital is needed for that. There is also a significant difference in the conditions for young innovative companies compared to companies that are expanding. Both can be innovative but at different stages. Then they also have different needs for external support. Today, the bulk of risk-taking and investment is done by private operators, and that is a good thing. But the government bill focuses on the role of the state in capital, which of course can serve a purpose. A fund-in-fund solution has been proposed by the alliance parties in the past. But it's just a piece of the puzzle. More needs to be done to strengthen and encourage private venture capital to invest – even without state interference. The government's unilateral focus on the state's active role in venture capital can be a severe constraint on most of the investments made. We therefore believe that the government should return to Parliament with proposals on how private venture capital can be stimulated without direct intervention by the state. Mr President, I would like to We in the Alliance and the Moderates support the Government's proposal to set up a national development company. It will invest in private funds which in turn will invest in companies in development phases. The Government's proposal is a step in the right direction. However, it is our opinion that the government's proposal to restrict this only to very early phases is too restrictive. More should be done to attract private capital. A bill called State and capital refers somewhere to the old chorus: side by side, together they help each other. The state and the capital, they're in the same boat. Then you have to ask yourself, ‘ But who is it that rowes? ' Is that the same direction? And what about the ekan-- is it leaking in water, or is it rank? You also have to watch out for currents that can take the craft in a completely different direction, no matter how you row and what you decide. It is a step in the right direction, but it is important that in these contexts you also have the perspective that when there is a market failure, that is, when private capital does not stand up without help, then you should look at: Can you make private capital come to the surface of itself, should the state take incentives to attract it or need the state itself to go in with money and invest directly? Yes, capital and finance are crucial for companies. The central government's initial value should be that private capital should be the starting point for corporate finance. The basic principle of state risk capital in the innovation system must be that it is justified only at the stages of market failures and risky new phases for companies. The proposal that has now been put forward to set up Fondinvest means that there are two companies that will be in Fondinvest and will subsequently be wound up. These companies were activated during the eight years of power of the alliance government. One company is Fouriertransform, which first focused on the automotive and mechanical engineering industries, but later was given an extended mandate to include the life science and clean technology industries – what in real Swedish is called clean tech. The second company is Inlandsinnovation, which was commissioned to operate in the interior of Norrland. So it was a geographical task. There may be symbolism in the fact that the Red-Green Government now believes it is appropriate to remove these companies. That may be the case, but what we want to draw attention to is the importance of the tasks that Fouriertransform and Inland Innovation have had remaining in the new Fondinvest, that is to say, that competence is included. You usually talk about intelligent capital. Then what is it? Well, it is when it comes with services other than pure money that mentors, advisors and capacity can be brought along to help businesses. It is not just about getting a balance sheet balance sheet or ensuring that the cash flow works, but also about contributing to structuring a future business. This competence is currently available in Fouriertransform, and it is available in Inlandsinnovation. We want it to remain, and therefore we want the government to return with a report on how that competence can continue to be included in this context. Because it's important. This is important for many of the small businesses in Sweden. Even the many smaller companies that grow but feel lonely in the big market should have the intelligent capital to hold in hand. Mr President, I would like to It's a very exciting subject, this venture capital thing. Speaking of venture capital, what was it like now? Side by side, together they iron out the State and capital, two wolves pious as lamb It is a pleasure to see venture capital as not only evil, but perhaps also, in this context, a little more pious. Mr President, I would like to There is much more to say about venture capital and the involvement of the state in it. Our criticism is summed up in the simple theses that the qualities of Fouriertransform and Inland Innovation must be secured for the future and that the government should come back to Parliament and have ideas on how to stimulate private capital. I hereby request the approval of reservations 2 and 3.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-1050	Mr President, I would like to We are therefore debating the Committee on Economic Affairs' report No 23 State and capital – the structure for financing innovation and sustainable growth. It's a long title. In the report, the Swedish Democrats have a reservation, No 4, which I naturally support. Mr President, I would like to Private venture capital tends to target investment in later phases. At the same time, a gap arises for many companies in the pre-commercial stages. There can therefore be very good grounds for complementing the market on the part of the State with state venture capital focusing primarily on pre-commercial phases. There are many good examples that such support has been crucial for the commercialisation of good ideas, including in the automotive sector. There are of course more areas you can and should work with to make the climate more attractive so that high-tech and innovative ideas, products and companies can be formed, grow and thrive in Sweden. Not only does it have to be about venture capital, but it can be about tax rules, for example – we spoke in a previous debate on employee options. It can also be about such things as so-called science parks and innovation offices. The proposal we are debating today contains proposals to change the organisational structure of state venture capital operations for companies through the creation of a new national development company. This company shall in turn, in any case primarily, invest indirectly in enterprises in development phases through privately managed funds. So that's the idea. On the whole, we in the Swedish Democrats have supported the Government's proposal, as we look positively at the merger of many of the state actors that have existed. It simply creates greater overall responsibility for the state's venture capital efforts throughout the country. However, we believe that there are several ambiguities in the proposal regarding the governance of the national development company and how the proposal affects companies in different parts of the country, for example in sparsely populated areas and in depopulation areas. We note that the proposal leaves a lot of gaps in how implementation is to be done in detail. For example, we wonder to what governance the government will actually give to the national development company, which funds will be financed by the company and which types of companies these private funds will in turn invest in. We also think that there are some uncertainties regarding the company's future capital needs, geographical priorities and industry priorities. It is remarkable, in our view, that the government is so unclear on these issues. We believe that the Riksdag should announce to the Government that at a later stage the Government should return to the Riksdag with a clarified directional decision for the Company, so that parties in the Riksdag have the opportunity to think about and perhaps come up with proposals for improvement. For us, it is important that the company is used to strengthen Swedish growth and economic prosperity on a business basis, but there is a concern that clout politicians instead control the business to meet goals of a more ideological nature. Among other things, the proposal mentions the ambition to set up a so-called green investment fund, and we do not yet know what this in detail is supposed to mean. I have doubts as to whether this type of corporate governance is in the interests of the citizens, as the risk increases that the money will be consumed in a black hole. Based on the experience of this and previous governments, it is at hand to believe that there will be new hidden, ideologically motivated subsidies that place a cuckoo in the middle of the nest. Mr President, I would like to One concern we in the Swedish Democrats raise in our reservation is that the geographical distribution of efforts risks being centralised to the metropolitan areas, at the expense of sparsely populated and rural areas. We see it as crucial that it should be made clear at the start of the new national development company that the whole country, especially sparsely populated areas and depopulated areas, needs access to capital. Similarly, it is necessary to assess at an early stage the impact of this change in State financing measures on the geographical distribution of capital to different undertakings. We believe that it is in the government's mission to ensure that you can live, operate and develop companies throughout Sweden. Today we see a general trend that banks take less risk in corporate loans, which affects not least companies in depopulated municipalities. For example, it may be more difficult to obtain loans to build industrial properties if an establishment takes place a bit outside the growth areas, which tends to be a strengthening effect for an involuntary and unwelcome centralisation of economic activities and tends to further strengthen the relocation from many municipalities. In order to overcome this distortion in the willingness to lend in urban versus rural areas, we want to introduce, or at least to review whether we can introduce, some form of market-supplementary fund solution with lower yield requirements. The aim should be to target capital towards investments in depopulated municipalities because that is where the risks are extra high in real estate investments. Another criterion should be that capital is directed to property expansion linked to primary industrial activities where there is a high unemployment rate and social benefits are extra high. We therefore believe that the government should investigate the possibility of introducing a government fund solution for expansion loans in precisely depopulated areas. Mr President, I would like to I am slightly exceeding the speaking time now. In this context, however, it may also be worth raising the question of the so-called investment deduction, which is a deduction aimed precisely at increasing the availability of private capital. We believe that the investor credit can be a very good tool for directing venture capital towards smaller companies that would otherwise probably have been less interesting for investors. At the same time, however, we can note that the deduction is not used to any huge extent and to the extent that may have been originally intended. In view of this, we see reason to look at how to make it more attractive to attract more people to take advantage of the deduction. This can, of course, be done in different ways, but we see an opportunity by allowing the state-owned company Almi to invite the public to invest in companies in which Almi intends to invest and which thus entails the right to an investor deduction. There are also other solutions for making it more attractive, but we will have to come back to that in some other debate.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-1067	Mr President, I would like to After Hans Rothenberg's literary odyssey, it is perhaps not even worthwhile that I begin by trying to quote Ebba Grön's fantastic song State and capital. I must nevertheless agree that it is a rather clever title on the bill. Instead, I go directly into the heart of the matter. The government has carried out an investigation and a review of state capital, and that is very good. It was initiated by the Alliance Government last term of office, because it is never wrong to review how state venture capital is used, if it is used effectively and so on. There is therefore a great deal in the bill that the Center Party agrees with. But there are also some that we absolutely do not agree with, and I will go into that. The proposal is to form a national venture capital company, Fondinvest AB. The intention is to increase public money by investing it in various private funds that in turn invest in different companies. It is a very good way, because that way you get more money in the money bag. At the same time, it is good to focus on companies at the beginning and their need for seed capital, because it is usually at the beginning that it is toughest for companies to get someone to believe in your idea. That is why it is particularly good to focus precisely on this. In addition, I and the Center Party welcome the use of supplementary funds. Additional funds are also something that Inlandsinnovation has worked successfully with and where the state capital goes together with private local capital to form smaller venture capital companies that focus on the local area. It has been successful in the areas where this has been tried. I look forward to this being continued. I also hope for some bank guarantees. Although there is no proposal in the bill, an investigation will be set up to design a bank guarantee system. In some areas of Sweden in particular today, just as some speakers have mentioned, it is very difficult to borrow money from the banks. If the government were to act as a guarantor of loans, this would make it much easier. Mr President, I would like to Fondinvest will invest in a demonstration fund. It is welcomed, because there are very few companies, especially in the beginning, who can afford to test their innovations. It may also require capital that they do not actually have. Then it's good that the government helps. But what I and some of us in the Alliance are worried about is how to secure this money in the long term, because demonstration facilities are often quite capital-intensive. We therefore wonder how to ensure that there is sufficient return to keep capital intact over time. These are question marks that need to be straightened out. I would like to emphasise once again that I think it is a good thing that the state should join forces with private venture capital, not only because the money is increased but also because it is a way of spreading the risks. I myself come from northern Sweden and can testify that that part of the country faces major challenges, not least because it is very long distances and a population development that in some cases tends to point in the wrong direction. In many cases, sparseness is a challenge. At the same time, this area has a huge amount of natural resources, not least ore and forest, which benefit all of Sweden. This is positive, not only for northern Sweden but for the whole of Sweden's economy. There is potential to refine these raw materials even more in place in order to make an even greater contribution to a sustainable society. The problem here is that venture capital often shines with its absence. And, as I said, banks are becoming increasingly reluctant to lend money, not least in the hinterland. In 2010, the Alliance government established Inland innovation to include northern Sweden and later Dalarna and Värmland in venture capital, as there was almost nothing else available. I think it's right that the state should be there when no one else is there. As you know, it is not exactly the case of venture capitalists in these areas, and it is very difficult if the banks say no. That is why we saw it as very positive that Inland innovation came about. And that is why we cannot accept the proposal in the bill, that is to say, to close Inlandsinvasion in the long term and to incorporate nearly SEK 2 000 million into the new venture capital company Fondinvest AB. Believe me, I have nothing against Fondinvest AB. The problem is that you take money from the most vulnerable parts of the country to sneak it out across the rest of the country. And we know that most of this money goes to bigger cities. Growth analysis, which is the government's own authority, has produced a report on how venture capital is distributed in Sweden and notes that 80 per cent of all venture capital ends up in the three major cities of Malmö, Gothenburg and Stockholm, of which 50 per cent in Stockholm. My friends, I think that there are already enough venture capitalists and venture capital in these areas. Why, then, should we take from areas where it is much leaner? For me, it's really hard to accept, and I can't for my life understand it. I had a debate on Radio Västerbotten this morning with one of my social democratic colleagues, whom I too like very much, who are very wise and who have to defend the government's proposal – I understand that, because that is how it is. The Socialist colleague says that the Inlandsinovation project has not quite filled the galoshes. Then I say: how can you think it is okay to take 2 000 million from these areas and throw them into the rest of the country or into the big cities, instead of reorganising and looking at what could have been done better and if the money could have been managed differently? There's actually a big difference. Mr President, I would like to A few months ago, on February 9, I read an interview with Minister for Economic Affairs Mikael Damberg on Västerbottensnytts website. There he speaks about the opportunities of companies in Norrland. He says: The five N orrland counties testify that it is longer to capital in the form that it is longer to banks and good offers. This has made it more difficult for them to expand their activities. The article also states that a two-year guarantee agreement has now been concluded between the European Investment Fund and the Norrland Fund. You may be familiar with the Norrland Fund. It is a foundation whose task is to promote the development of companies in Norrbotten, Västerbotten, Västernorrland, Jämtland and Gävleborg. The agreement means that the European Investment Fund does not deposit any money at all in the Norrland Fund, but guarantees 50% of the credit loss if the borrower is unable to repay his loans for two years. But it's not real money. Damberg is lyrical about this and says, which I noticed in particular: ..................................................... But if so, why does the same Damberg take 2 billion from these areas with the other hand without blinking? Is this a social democratic centralisation policy in a nutshell?
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-1085	Mr President, I would like to The conditions for entrepreneurship are, of course, crucial for our future opportunities to have good prosperity, but also for people to be able to master their dreams and ideas. The country's entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs thus need good conditions to translate their innovative ideas and to develop growing companies. Herein lies one of the good business climate in the sense that it will pay off to run companies and take risks. H is in place competitive tax rules and functioning financial markets. The latter, the ability of companies to find venture capital at fair market conditions, is a key factor in securing business opportunities to develop and create new jobs. For that reason, the challenge lies in a functioning financing system for small and medium-sized enterprises, which are facing expansion or need to be pushed past the Valley of Death or the Valley of DEath, as is sometimes said. The starting point is that companies should primarily be financed on the market with private capital but that public venture capital can complement the private sector if there are special needs. In such cases, the primary aim should be to stimulate private venture capital on the market. Here it is important to parry so that state intervention in the venture capital market does not crowd out private venture capital. Mr President, I would like to Liberals are in favour of increased cooperation between private and state venture capital, and we have also partly supported the Government's proposal to set up a national development company that will invest in private funds, which in turn will of course invest in early stage companies and in development phases. This concludes the Inland Innovation and Fouriertransform structures. I would like to thank these two structures but above all Fouriertransform for the efforts they have contributed to Trollhättan in the transition after Saab, where they have successfully helped a company, Leannova, to change. It is very successful today and works intensively with both Combitech and Nevs. Thank you for that! The Government's proposal is a step in the right direction and in line with what the Liberals and alliance parties have previously advocated. We need to continue to develop and increase the efficiency of state venture capital in order to develop even more economically motivated actions. We also need to do more to strengthen private venture capital and to encourage investment at earlier stages. One example would be the introduction of a tax incentive system that could increase the availability of risk capital. One country that has done this with great interest is the United Kingdom, where natural persons are offered various tax incentives and they invest in unlisted or smaller companies. Alternatively, the investor deduction could be developed so that more ordinary employees can be involved in owning companies. Such a proposal contains added value as a more sound distribution of ownership. Mr President, I would like to If we are to have a good business climate in Sweden with many people who want to run a business or where to own others' companies, the foundation is that we improve the general conditions and conditions. It is therefore regrettable that Sweden has an administration, a government, which leads our country on the wrong path by just reducing these general conditions and conditions for a good nutritional climate. For example, this has been done by reducing RUT and ROT, increasing employers' fees for younger and older people, jeopardising air transport and making it more difficult for entrepreneurs in the welfare sector, and through their discourse on employee options, which are almost in the process of emigrating tech companies. And then we are not going to talk about the plans to shut out a majority of the country's entrepreneurs from public procurement or, for that matter, the absurd proposal to pass on sick pay for long-term sick leave to the entrepreneur. In addition, the holder shall be personally liable for the sick employee. This will have absolutely devastating consequences for both the long-term sick leave and the entrepreneur. My point with this is that the conditions of industrial policy are not an isolated area of preparation or a specific report. D is rather the whole and symbiosis of the combined and accumulating policies which have an impact on the general conditions and conditions in the business world. Mr President, I would like to One hand knows what the other is doing, to quote the old blue t way and not the Ebba Green. Finally, Mr President, it is always the case that venture capital is capital that can be put at risk, and it is always best that it is the owner of the money that also assesses whether the risk is worth taking. It is therefore vital that people in general have more money of their own in their wallet to risk. In this respect, we Swedes are the most heavily taxed people in the world. Nowhere else on Mother Earth must man pay such a small portion of his wages. Finally, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 2 and to complete the reservation in reservation 7.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-1097	Mr President, I would like to The ability of companies to find venture capital at favourable market conditions is a key factor in securing the business community's ability to develop, grow and create new jobs. The Christian Democrats believe that it is mainly private capital that should be put at risk when companies are set up and developed, whether they are listed groups, medium-sized enterprises in the growth phase or business ideas in the early stages. But, of course, we understand that there is also a need for state-owned market-supplementary efforts. The state should promote business creation by creating a good climate for innovation and product and market development. Public bodies should contribute to the availability of the necessary risk capital, not least for smaller companies and in regions with low capital formation and employment problems. We also believe that special efforts should be made to stimulate female entrepreneurship and not least for our new Swedes. Getting more people in Sweden to have the courage to start and run businesses is a prerequisite not only for economic growth but also an important part for people when it comes to being co-creators in society and not just citizens. It's about getting more people to feel that it's worth keeping and running a business within the family, in the small town and in rural areas and how access to capital, commitment, mentoring and skills increase for all three sectors of society – the non-profit, private and public – can complement each other locally, regionally and nationally. Efforts are needed to achieve this. Mr President, I would like to Sweden has a well-developed venture capital supply sector for companies, which however needs to be restructured or developed. The availability of early stage capital for companies is a frequently acknowledged problem. Few individuals and institutions want to risk money in companies that have not yet established a full-scale business. There is therefore a market complementary role for the State to fulfil. We Christian Democrats really want to tighten up the whole state venture capital – perhaps even more than in this bill – including what is being invested in the AP funds so that it is always invested in parallel with private capital and in order to generate more private capital. The proposal involves, among other things, redeploying state venture capital precisely for early stage operations. The Swedish National Audit Office has indicated that they are missing. That is why, of course, we welcome the fact that there should be a fund-in-fund, as the Christian Democrats and the Alliance have also argued for in the past. Several of my colleagues have spoken here before that, in the case of Fouriertransform and Inland Innovation, it is proposed that they be included in a joint group. I think it is absolutely essential that we bring together the state actors in this area. However, the business councils and working methods of Fouriertransform and Inlandsinnovation should also be part of the continued work of the development company. As my colleague, Said Abdu, rightly pointed out, Mr Trollhättan, from whom I also come, has benefited from Fouriertransform on behalf of the car industry. And we know that Inland innovation has had and has a major impact on the area to which it is assigned to provide capital. It is therefore important that the areas of activity should be given priority in the future. In order for both public and private venture capital to have the best possible impact on investment, it is necessary, not least, for inventors, innovators and entrepreneurs at different stages to find available funds. This calls for a clearer organisation of stakeholders throughout the innovation system. Some of us attended a large gathering this morning. For the first time in a very long time or perhaps at all, a book was presented in Swedish about the Swedish innovation system, as we usually call it. We see that we need a review of the process chain for most people who rely on public funds at local, regional and national level. This applies from the inventive stage with business advisors, research and development in incubators, to science center and so on. We must reach the stages where it is a question of financing the commercialisation of products and services, in order to clarify their respective competences in different areas and in different sectors. I would say that it is a knot that is not covered by or can be solved by means of this bill, but is a continuation of that work. As a Christian Democrat, I cannot help but mention, as I have done in the past in various contexts, that we believe that capital supply should be possible regardless of the form of association used. It is rather strange that we allow cooperatives in Sweden. We allow economic and non-profit associations to set up companies. But we obviously do not think that they should receive capital to help them grow and develop. We really want to push that. It is with satisfaction that I nevertheless note that it is mentioned in the Government proposal: In the non-profit sector and in social entrepreneurship, this can be considered. It is therefore a question of capital. It also says: ..................................................... That's good. It's a success. Although it is not enough, it is a success that it is mentioned. We want more companies to be set up, and we talk about the interestingness of new types of companies in the sharing economy and other areas. You talk about that there is a great sphere of interest, not least that everyone should be able to participate and be the owner of companies, through crowdfunding, for example. You usually talk about three f – friends, fools and families. They are, as it were, the most bereaved to invest. Crowdfunding also gives anyone the opportunity to be interested in – and be able – investing with a small amount, and where more people are involved. We have received new legislation from the European Union in this regard. I understand that taxation has been agreed and so on. We're not going into this. But the important thing about crowdfunding is that it must be complemented by public venture capital. I hope that we will not stop at the thoughts of this proposal alone, but that we can continue to develop the potential of state venture capital to cater for new and growing companies at all levels.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-1115	Mr President, I would like to Now that we are going to debate a bill and a report with the clever title State and capital, I wish I could sing. Now I can't. But I seriously considered doing it anyway. There is a strof in the song that I think should be pointed out. That's what made me want to sing; it's that the state and capital go side by side. I would have liked the bill and the report to have had the full title. That is precisely what the report is about. I also feel happy and could almost sing – if I could – for the reason that we have the opportunity today to finally debate and then take a decision on this important issue of funding in this House. It has been a subject for debate as long as I have been involved in economic policy in the Swedish Parliament. I'm gonna start with some history. There have been criticisms for a long time, from all the parties in this House – I believe – but also from the business community at large and from the financial institutions. The criticism has been that there have been quite significant problems with the functioning of the capital supply in certain segments of the Swedish market. It has been noted that although much of the private capital works well – it is primarily private capital that should operate in that market – there are both market failures and the financial gap that are significant. This applies not least in the very early stages, that is, what is called seed financing, and development phases in certain regions and so on. A number of problems have been identified in this area. In this context, the state's efforts in this – this side by side, to go hand in hand – will be decisive and important. Our role is not to replace state capital. Where it works well, it works well. But when it doesn't work, we as politicians have a responsibility to make sure that we do what we can to create the basic conditions for a functioning business climate in Sweden. Capital supply is just such a basic condition. It can also be said that the development has not improved but rather the opposite. It's getting worse. There are clear trends towards investment with risk capital entering increasingly later stages, in increasingly mature companies. The willingness to risk is clearly reduced, in the case of venture capital, which one might think is somewhat ironically given the name, but also in the case of banks for ordinary lending. As has been mentioned earlier in the debate, the Swedish National Audit Office carried out an audit. The results came in 2014, and there were stinging criticisms of how the state has chosen to organise its part of this, i.e. the state venture capital. The criticism consisted of several parts. It was about the fact that much of state risk capital, despite the great needs in the areas I have mentioned, was unused. More than half of the capital was inactive and thus did not work as intended when we politicians in this House decided that this would be implemented. It was also noted that, although political action often expressed a desire to invest in early phases, in development phases and in innovation, it did not look like that. State capital, like private capital, entered later and later stages of the processes. The effect of this was that there has been a constant discussion about displacement effects which are of course very unhappy and which should be done everything to ensure that they are removed. The centralisation of banks made it more difficult and more difficult to obtain a bank loan, which is what most entrepreneurs actually want when they build up their business. It is not venture capital that is primarily requested. After we took office, the government parties have stepped up their efforts to solve this problem. Although all the representatives of the opposition parties before me have stated in the speaker's chair that they have wanted to do this for a long time, in fact nothing was done in this area, but it was a question that was left over without any solution. One of the first things that Mikael Damberg did was to set up an investigation that had a very short time to deliver proposals for solutions, because it was considered that this was urgent and urgent. The proposal which is now on the table and which we are debating is based on the criticism that has existed. This means restructuring the existing risk capital. The two funds, which have received the most criticism, are being merged because they have not been effective. The Swedish National Audit Office described it as that geography or industry were poor criteria for this type of activity. Fouriertransform and Inlandsinnovation are being merged into a development company. This does not mean taking any money away from something, but it means reshaping the capital that exists to make it work more efficiently and use it for what we want to use it together for. More effective, simpler and clearer is the objective. In addition, it calls for a system that more clearly supports innovation and sustainable growth. That is something that I believe all political parties are up to. It is also very clear that, in order to avoid evasive effects and to shift volume, not least outside the growth regions, we are moving to a fund-in-fund system, as has been described earlier in the debate, but in principle it means that the state, together with private capital, makes investments. This makes use of the skills, knowledge and expertise of private capital. Sharing the risk can also increase the risk propensity for venture capital as we wish. In other words, the state is taking part in and directs where there is a need for capital and where there is a need for capital, not to the metropolitan regions that Helena Lindahl talked about in her speech, for example. There's capital. Of course, in sectors where there is capital, state capital should not be, but should be where there is a shortage. This is the way everyone I've spoken to has recommended, so I think it's a very good idea. I also see that there is broad support for this in this House. The loan perspective is also addressed. It's just as important. In particular, Almi is given the task of returning to Parliament with an analysis and a proposal on what tools are needed. At the same time, it is clear that the government has already changed up Almis's ability to lend money in this sector. Almi has received an increase of 1.2 billion in so-called innovation loans, something that so far has been a huge success, as far as I can understand. The Norrland Fund has received a final guarantee agreement of half a billion. It is also a way of increasing regular bank lending in a sector where banks withdraw. I find it regrettable that Helena Lindahl considers it a bad idea. She should think it's a good idea given what she says should be the ambition for how to push this issue. There are, in principle, two more parts that I would like to mention. One is that you have two distinct tracks. First there are seed funds, i.e. early-stage investments and development phases. These could be university or university-related investments. The incubators play a natural and important role linked to these. But it should also be business angels' networks and local growth funds – which is also clearly expressed in the bill – which was established during Inland innovation and which has been a good idea. They've worked well, and now they're building on them. It can also be about the non-profit sector or social enterprise. The point is that it should have growth potential for the future in areas where external private capital is not available in other ways. A demo fund is also being set up. The point is to invest in demonstration facilities. The focus should be on smaller companies, especially in materials, energy and environmental technologies. It is estimated that there is a clear flaw here. Questions have been raised about how to keep this part of capital intact. When dealing with finance and lending, it is always a prerequisite that you constantly work to keep capital intact. There's no difference in this case. To conclude, however, I would like to note that listening to this debate and reading the reservations is a very broad consensus on everything that is fundamentally important in the proposal that we are now debating, and I am pleased about that. For show, there are a number of announcements, primarily about things that we are already doing or that are about to be done. You break one open door or another. In some cases you want to keep the cake and at the same time eat it. I suspect it's coming up in line shifts. Overall, there is a very broad consensus, and it is a good thing for long-term stable rules of play in this area that I believe is a prerequisite for sustainable growth over time in Sweden for more jobs and for better welfare, and I welcome that. With this, I would like to support the committee's proposal and reject all reservations.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-1143	Mr President, I would like to During the last two terms of office, the Alliance government activated Fouriertransform to provide capital for the engineering industry. As a result, Fouriertransform switched to life science and cleantec h. We also activated Inland innovation that would work specifically with investments in the interior of Norrland. This did not exist before, and it was reforms carried out by the Alliance. Now the government is pushing this and putting it in a new company. I'm not saying it's wrong, but it's not exactly a big revolution. But you need to do more than develop Fouriertransform and Inlandsinnovation to Fondinvest. You also need to go further and see what kind of capital it is that can be attracted outside government efforts to make it more capital and less state. In the life science sector, major restructuring has taken place over the last decade. New structure means that global life science companies acquire a large part of their development projects from smaller life science companies operating around the world. Investments in these companies are often made by highly specialised investors because the conditions are different from many other industries. If the life science sector is to be given extra growth power, it is important that that capital is market complementary. It acts as a lever for increased private investment and attracts more international capital that contributes commercially and through skills to companies. My question to Jennie Nilsson is: How will this competence be secured within Fondinvest? My second question is: what other business conditions is the government prepared to introduce more than the expert tax, the investor deduction, employee stock options, etc.?
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-1149	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mr Rothenberg for the questions. I am very pleased that there is such a desire to develop this area, which for me is central to creating good business conditions in Sweden. The fund-in-fund variant, or the choice of the fund-in-fund solution for the fund, is partly a response to the first question. Investing with the private sector ensures that the skills available in the private sector are used. We normally expect private investors to choose the good growth targets to invest in. What you do when you invest in fund-in-fund is you push down the risk-indigenousness of the system and thus get more money out on that side. Then, of course – it is also written in the bill – that there are a number of different competences that you need to take advantage of to ensure that they are in place all the time. It can be industry-specific, but it can also be other. What is important and crucial is to realise that the need will change over time. The problem with the old system is that it has been static. Thus, capital has not worked maximum. With that in mind, it is of course the case that one should take advantage of the great expertise that exists, not least in life science, the automotive industry and so on. But there also needs to be a readiness to constantly meet the needs and ensure that you have the skills needed at the moment. The other questions I didn't have time to answer, but I'll have another chance in a moment.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-1154	Mr President, I would like to Second chance comes here! It is true that capital must be intelligent. That's where Fouriertransform has played a special role. We who have followed this company during the almost eight years it has been active know that within the company there are staff who have the competence to be a helpful force hand in hand with the entrepreneur. It has been one of the unique advantages of Fouriertransform. Fund-in-funds seem to be the solution to all problems in this context. But fund-in-fund is really just a way of placing money. What I am looking for is how the new fund investment ensures that there is competence to contribute other resources than just the purely monetary, that is, the money. It went a little fast in the last line-up, so I repeat the questions. It is about how capital will come to long-term investments in, for example, the life science industry, which is global. It is not specifically in Sweden that things are being developed, but it is a global network of development. Then there is also a need for a global perspective. How to attract international capital that can go hand in hand? The expert tax is an important factor in attracting foreign companies. Is the government prepared to develop the expert tax? Is the government prepared to develop the investor deduction? That would be excellent in this context. Is the government prepared to introduce employee options?
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-1159	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mr Rothenberg for the questions. When it comes to ensuring competence, I think it is extremely important to recognise that this is flexible over time. The state has in every situation in these contexts to ensure that it has the skills needed to deliver in accordance with the mandate to the company. For me, it's pretty obvious. What Mr Rothenberg indirectly says and what is also written in this call is that you want to keep the cake and eat it. You are very positive to fund-in-fund solutions, because that's what the market wants, and that's what the experts say is successful. At the same time, however, one clings to the solutions that have existed since before and says that in principle they should preferably go intact into the new system and never be decommissioned. I think that's an unfortunate thought. At the same time, the government is very clear that what works well and is effective should continue. The money, the staff and the skills come with us. The investments that are good and even consequential will be pursued. There is a great deal of unnecessary concern about those effects, I think. When it comes to the larger picture of what is horribly important to attract competence in Sweden, I think that long-term rules of the game are one thing. Stable systems are different. Clarity and transparency is a third. All these things are getting better with the government's proposals for changes in this area. Then there is every reason to constantly look at what we need to do to stay competitive. There is very little to suggest that it would be a wise idea to develop the investor deduction, which has not been a success at all. But there is an investigation that looks, for example, at crowdfunding and crowdfunding. The Government's ambition is to constantly be prepared to make the necessary changes in order for us to be as efficient as possible.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-1165	Mr President, I would like to Indeed, Jennie Nilsson, I believe that the Social Democrats and the government are taking over 2 000 million from the most vulnerable areas covered by Inland innovation. I have to repeat that. The answer I get from Jennie Nilsson is: we reshape the capital available – we take no capital. For me, this feels like a poltruk answer, Jennie Nilsson. It can be seen as a rewriting of some sort of reversed Robin Hood policy, which takes money from the less well-off and gives to those who are more well-off, that is to say to the cities. In fact, that is exactly what is happening. This money from Inlandsinnovation was not snowed out just because it was fun to throw it out to Norrlandslänen, Värmland and Dalarna. There was a reason why they were given there. These areas are extremely vulnerable. That's what Mikael Damberg himself says, although he takes back 2,000 million and distributes small crumbs instead. There is no geographical orientation whatsoever in this bill. For me, it is very strange that Jennie Nilsson stands and says that this venture capital will not go to the cities but to those who need it and to areas that need it. There is nowhere in the bill that there is a geographical orientation. When I have had meetings with Mikael Damberg, he has also rejected that there would be any geographical orientation whatsoever. I would very much like to have an explanation for this. How will the Social Democrats ensure that these areas have the same conditions as before?
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-1168	Mr President, I would like to I thank Helena Lindahl for the question. The most comic of this line shift is that my politicuk answer, as Helena Lindahl calls it, is basically the same as the expert response from those who deal with these things. The investigator, the Swedish National Audit Office, the Venture Capital Association, the Banking Association and so on have one thing in common in his criticism of how the old system worked: The toughest and most stinging criticism was directed against Fouriertransform and Inland Innovation. That is why our proposal for change looks like it does. Geography and industry were considered to be poor criteria for how to get venture capital in Sweden. What was needed were systems that invested in fund-in-funds, took advantage of private expertise, steered towards the early stages where deficiencies existed, and were market-supplementary to avoid displacement effects. Helena Lindahl is trying to make a number of taking money from a certain region. She says that 80% of what is private is in the cities, which is a correct description. Therefore, the government is so awfully careful to press so hard on that the point of the state's involvement in venture capital or financing issues at all is to supplement where there are market failures or funding requirements. It is, for example, in the interior of Norrland, in some industries and so on. There is no one – and I firmly say this, Helena Lindahl – who is taking some money from Norrland or elsewhere. Properly designed, this also provides better conditions for the interior of Norrland than the old system gave. Helena Lindahl should welcome that.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-1171	Mr President, I would like to Jennie Nilsson forgets to mention that there are a lot of other referrals that think quite the opposite. They think Inland innovation is very good for the reason I mentioned earlier. However, Jennie Nilsson has either not read about or perhaps forgotten to mention here. Maybe it didn't fit the post. I know that there were a lot of venture capitalists who were insane, especially here in the Stockholm area, when Inland innovation was introduced. That would be 2,000 million to the inland of Norrland. What was that? Was it something to invest in, and also EUR 2 billion? Yeah, I'd say. It definitely is. I am very proud that the Alliance and, above all, the Center Party were the driving force in providing these areas where there is hardly any risk capital to bring in the 2 000 million. There is no one who can fool me into thinking that 2 000 million less in these areas would be better for those areas. Does Jennie Nilsson hear what Jennie Nilsson says? It is better to take 2 000 million from those areas and place them in the rest of Sweden, because it will benefit the hinterland of Norrland. There's no one going for it. I think Jennie Nilsson is mixing the cards here. There are very many people involved in the so-called restructuring. Have the Social Democrats spoken to them at all? Reference is made, for example, to the Swedish National Audit Office and other expertise. They're advisory. It is we as politicians who make decisions in the Swedish Parliament. I am here because I have my own opinion and can form my own views. I don't always have to follow the experts' advice. They are advisory and not decision-making. Otherwise, we wouldn't be needed.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-1176	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Helena Lindahl! The last part of the post is quite logical, that Helena Lindahl and the Center Party do not follow the experts but have their own opinion. They are demonstrably opposed to what the vast majority of the consultation bodies are saying. There were two referrals that thought this was a bad idea. One of them was Inland innovation. The others were neutral or positive. I'm just saying that in order for the debate to be right, Helena Lindahl. I can only say that we are not taking 2 000 million, and 2 000 million is no more than 2 billion, as everyone else says in the debate. It is also just one way to mix the cards away and try to confuse. We do not take 2 billion, but put the money into two funds into a larger fund to create better conditions. Instead of being left to seek money out of 2 billion, we now have 5 billion available for everything that should be market-supplementary where private capital does not exist. There are, for example, in the metropolitan regions or at the moment in the gaming industry, or where it is now for the industry that is This should be complementary, for example, to the interior of Norrland. What the Center Party is trying to do in the debate is purely distortive. I can possibly understand that, because it was Maud Olofsson's baby. It should be protected at any price. Helena Lindahl's concern is that she somewhere has knitted herself – an expression that she herself used in a debate with Mikael Damberg – a couple of damn sticky lovers. I think it's time Helena Lindahl and the Center took them off now, because they're self-made.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-1181	Mr President, I would like to I listened, of course, to Jennie Nilsson's speech. There are no big conflicts between us about what was said in the speech. It is perhaps rather something that Jennie Nilsson does not mention that I would like to talk about. Maybe it's a little talking. This applies to the green investment funds which are advertised in the bill but where it is rather weakly defined what they are actually going to do. I think that might be quite interesting. Actually, I'm saying the whole bill feels a little out of hand. In the area by area, there are not very clear visions. Therefore, the Swedish Democrats have wanted the Riksdag to have the chance to have an opinion on the decision to focus before it is launched seriously. As far as the green investment funds are concerned, my question is this: is there any idea of how to avoid that there are only new hidden subsidies? Is there any thought about how to avoid that there will be a new ideological playhouse where the currently sitting government spends money on things that may sound nice and good but that in reality both reduces resource efficiency and perhaps increases the environmental impact?
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-1185	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Josef Fransson, for the question! It's really hard to answer in any sense. It is clear that everything that every government does must of course be evaluated. Of course, it is not possible to guarantee that everything will always be right at all times. If we look at the example of a green investment fund, we can see that it is a proposal in which the government intends to come back in more detail and specify what it should look like. It is also an adaptation to the fact that the European Investment Fund has identified two areas where it will be possible, for example, for the state to get involved. One of our great ambitions with the bill is to exchange the capital available and be smart in what you do. It is, for example, a question of hooking up with the things that are happening in Europe with directives and the money that is being released there and where we need to match with our own money. It is smart and something we have been very bad at in Sweden since before. In my world, the Swedish Democrats should welcome that. To imagine that you should always go to the Riksdag with the questions so that it can have an opinion about the directional decisions or evaluate each year I think would be deeply unfortunate. There is a report every year on the state-owned companies that report the development of all state-owned companies. Every year there will naturally be an opportunity to debate this, to think about it and to follow developments. To demand that before you do something all the time to come here to Parliament and turn around means that you lose one of the other important things in the bill, namely efficiency.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-1190	Mr President, I would like to Thanks for the answer, Jennie Nilsson! From experience I feel that we know quite well what types of industries the Red-Green parties, the Center Party and so on, want to favor. I think I've seen a certain red thread. These are products that the market does not really want. They receive substantial subsidies that usually work significantly worse than the original. Another red thread that I think I can see is that it should be for companies that want to help reduce carbon dioxide emissions. Another common thread in much of the green policy is that CO2 emissions tend to increase rather than decrease. This applies to many biofuels as well as to many energy policies, such as wind power and solar power, which are very resource-efficient. Therefore, it would be very interesting to know more about the green investment fund, how it will work, what it is expected to achieve, and so on. It would be reasonable, at least in this part, to return to Parliament so that we have a real opportunity to express our opinion. Is it the Parliament's opinion or is it the current government's view that one should have a certain direction?
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-1193	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Josef Fransson! I thought in the first round I answered quite well how I looked at this, but I can repeat myself a little bit. I can only say that Mr Fransson is, of course, absolutely right. It is clear that there is a major dividing line between the policies of Josef Fransson and the Swedish Democrats and the policies of the Social Democrats and the Green Party in government positions. It does so in a variety of areas. This also applies to the idea of whether to invest in climate-smart technologies and technology transition for the future. We have seen this in very many other debates. We'll split up there. This does not mean that I think it is a smart thing that every time you want to make a directional decision or decide the details of something that the government does, you should go to the Swedish parliament and ask the parliament's chamber. One should ask about the horizontal issues and the overall direction. A majority in the Riksdag shall give its approval. However, in terms of how to manage the day-to-day work and how to advise the systems, and if this is to be effective and deliver results, the government must have some room for manoeuvre. Then this will be constantly evaluated, because it is in the nature of the matter. There will be reports to the Riksdag, and Josef Fransson will have every opportunity in the world to read these reports. When we debate the state companies in this House, he also has the opportunity to have views on the way things are going. I would not be surprised if we would have different views on whether progress is good or bad, because we have fundamentally different views on this issue.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-1198	Mr President, I would like to Sweden depends on a viable environment for companies and entrepreneurship to grow and develop in. In order to get companies to establish and grow, a wide range of ingredients are needed. There is a need for innovation that can be developed and commercialised. It requires access to employees with the right skills that know participation and responsibility to drive the business forward. It is necessary to create a space that can be adapted for the planned activities and an infrastructure that works, and this involves both an actual and a digital infrastructure. To make this whole organism a reality, venture capital is needed. Without capital, the intended activity is only intended. Mr President, I would like to Today, we are here to debate venture capital, more specifically state venture capital, on the basis of the Government proposal State and capital – the structure for financing innovation and sustainable growth. L for us look a little in the rearview mirror to see what is causing the bill one. As it is now, it is difficult to find the right place in the jungle and the amount of different types of government venture capital. State venture capital is relatively large for companies which have already started and established themselves and which are located in designated regions and sectors. When the Swedish National Audit Office reviewed the operations, it appeared that the government's governance of state venture capital has not focused on increasing the supply of venture capital for companies that are in their infancy, but almost the other way around. Actors that limit their activities to certain regions or sectors, mainly Inlandsinnovat ion, Fouriertransform and Almi I nvest, receive close to 60 percent of the state offering of venture capital of approximately SEK 10 billion. Start-up companies received only 27% of government initial investment. The review also shows that more than 40% of state venture capital is invested in stages where private operators are already active and in companies that have made good progress in their development. According to the Swedish National Audit Office, it is difficult to stimulate early stage investments by co-investing with private actors. There is a conflict of objectives in that state actors should have low yield requirements while cooperating on equal terms with private operators. Mr. Alman! The proposal that we have today to decide on aims to clarify and simplify the current system of government funding. It should be market complementary and enter early stages when companies are about to establish themselves and really need capital in order to get their business started. One will increase the will and opportunity for new entrepreneurs to realize their business ideas. Many are the projects that have stagnated in their development or even fallen on the fact that they do not have access to capital – often because there is not enough certainty. Some good ideas you may never get to the start but end up in some drawer somewhere. There are those who have invested everything they own and have reached almost all the way but have been forced to go bankrupt due to a lack of capital. Therefore, many companies welcome the Government's proposal for a new structure for state venture capital investments through Fondinvest AB, which will be a so-called fund-in-fund investment structure. Here there will be an increased flexibility where different funds can be formed depending on the needs at the moment. State capital must be as active as possible in order to contribute to development throughout the country. It should be easy to have the opportunity to apply, and money should not be spent because the company does not meet specific requirements for posting or industry. When state capital cooperates with private capital, it can be a catalyst to activate private capital into sectors s if not so attractive to it today. Another part of the propositis ion I like to highlight is the d emofonden, which I see as incredibly important. This is where innovators who need help with investment in demo facilities will be able to test new technology, and they will be able to find investment capital for processes. More demonstration plants can, among other things, develop new renewable fuels, bio-based materials and connected products. You can also test completely new technologies in environmental technology. A flexible and modern venture capital management structure provides good conditions for sustainable development. Having said that, I support the committee's proposal and reject all motions.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-1210	Mr President, I would like to 中 Side by side, together they help each other, the state and capital are in the same boat. Today's proposal is called State and Capital – the structure for financing innovation and sustainable growth. It's about government capital supply, but that's probably not what Blue Train thought when the song was written in 1972, nor Ebba Grön when they later recorded it. This is still what it is about: how the state can best support and complement in order for us to have more and growing companies in Sweden. The bill has been prepared after negotiations between the Left Party and the government. There are currently too many state actors to achieve efficiency. In order for it to work well, it is important to have good political governance on state venture capital. When politics wants to create new missions, it should not mean creating a new body, but it should be able to realise new ideas within existing structures. Today, state risk capital functions poorly, mainly because too much of the state's risk capital is in the account without benefiting any company. The State's efforts must be complementary to market funding and, in particular, support innovation and development. This bill on state and capital is therefore needed. For us in the Left Party, it is important that gender equality is highlighted. Private venture capital tends to move structurally towards what fits the current standards. This means that women get a smaller share. It is therefore important that the new company works to enable more women to realize their ideas. It is important for us in the Left Party to see the whole country in this bill. Inland innovation has had a geographical mission involving seven counties in Sweden. It may sometimes be justified that the same structures and rules do not apply throughout the country, but then it must bring concrete benefits. In today's Inland innovation, too much of state venture capital has been locked up without doing any good. The efforts made have had a limited geographical spread. In Värmland, for example, only one bet has been made. The question is whether it has been complementary to the market to the extent that can be demanded. We can see that state venture capital has gone to already established players who want to continue to grow rather than to those small ones who want to diversify business and increase competition. With the new structure, I think we can get the whole state's venture capital to start working and at the same time see opportunities throughout the country. We need to shift the focus to seed funding, so that as many as possible have the opportunity to test their idea, and to early stages, where the money is most useful and the needs are greatest. What is raised in the bill is the possibility of so-called fund-in-fund investments or fund-in-fund solutions, i.e. that the state invests in a fund that invests in a company at the next stage. In this way the state can cooperate with other capital and move power over decisions closer to those concerned. We now see, for example, how several regional funds are growing up to support companies, businesses and projects in the social economy and local development. This can be about companies that have a good idea but do not have enough security to get an important bank loan or an overdraft. It may be a cooperative that has found an excellent location, but the landlord wants a rent guarantee for a year. It may be an association that has EU-funded projects and needs to borrow in order to pay salaries before the project funds come. Here we see that micro-funds can go in with guarantees and cover inadequate collateral on the basis of customary credit management. These are parts that the market alone could never handle. These complementary initiatives are therefore needed. With those words, I support the committee's proposal.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-1219	Mr President, I would like to Now the Riksdag will decide on how investments from state risk capital should be distributed. Norrland, Värmland and Dalarna risk losing billions in investments with the proposal before us. However, I would also like to say that there is a great deal of good in the proposal we are discussing today. It has long been clear that state venture capital needs to be streamlined and modernised and better coordinated. It is therefore positive that the Government's proposal goes ahead with the proposal for a fund-in-fund solution for state venture capital advocated by the Center Party and the Alliance. What I am opposed to is the Government's intention to phase out Inland innovation over time as well. Inland innovation, with a capital of SEK 2 000 million, or 2 billion, includes Norrlandslänen and Dalarna and Värmland County. The aim is to strengthen and exploit the potential for growth and to complement a basically non-existent venture capital market. The government is now taking the opposite path and is proposing to move the money managed by Inland Innovation to a national venture capital company. I, like many of us who are here, heard Minister of Economic Affairs Mikael Damberg say on a visit to the Committee on Economic Affairs in March that Inland innovation has had certain geographical limitations. I agree, but that was the whole idea of Inland innovation. Living and working outside the metropolitan regions as an innovator and entrepreneur is a constant struggle to obtain capital in order to develop their business and create new jobs. I have been to Vansbro, located in western Dalarna, and visited a company called Lyko. In a few years it has gone from a turnover of zero crowns to being about to blow up the billion dollar wall. It is a company that has created lots of jobs for young people in rural areas. Now you need to expand your business, but you have difficulty obtaining capital, because the banks value industrial properties in rural areas very low. Do rural businesses have to move to Stockholm in order to expand? The proposal we are going to vote on means that the geographical mission of Innlandsinnovation is replaced by a system aimed at investments from a national perspective, and this without the government knowing the impact of such a proposal on the geographical distribution of investments. Growth analysis already showed in 2013 that early stage venture capital investments in unlisted companies and growth phases are highly concentrated in metropolitan regions. Stockholm alone accounted for half of the volume, and the three metropolitan regions together accounted for over 80% of the investment. Mr President, I would like to It is not acceptable for me and the Center Party that one of the most vulnerable areas in the country in terms of risk capital should be investment capital for the benefit of the larger cities. The fact that the government now chooses not to give special support to those parts of the country that need the most state venture capital and, instead, to rub it out across the country and also to the metropolitan regions, which are in less need of state capital, is a mystery to me. I wonder how the Members of Parliament who are elected by the people of Norrland, Värmland and Dalarna can vote for Inland innovation to be phased out over time, as the text says. Small and growing companies are Sweden's job creators. Swedish policy must ensure that enterprising entrepreneurs have the opportunity to obtain capital in order to grow and employ wherever in the country they operate. If the government is serious about the whole country's growth, Inlandsinnovation should be maintained and continued to operate in Norrlandslänen, Värmland and Dalarna. Mr President, I would like to I am, of course, behind all the reservations of the Center Party, but in order to save some time, I only ask for the Center Party's reservation No 1 and the alliance reservation No 2.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-1228	Mr President, I would like to In a number of speeches, I intend to endorse reservations 1 and 2. Now I do so, so that it is recorded in the Minutes. Then I can't help but commenting on what Jennie Nilsson said about me taking off the homemade mittens. We in the Center Party like locally grown products. Then you actually like to wear homemade mittens, especially in Norrland. As you know, it can be very cold there. You also know that in winter it can blow pretty cool. Then home-knit mittens, even prickly ones, can be very good to have.
i-2EgVn2oShywgJRzG6Gpeef	Mr President, I would like to Today, we are debating the Committee on Transport's report on Maritime Affairs, which covers 36 requests for exercise from the general period of exercise, and the Government proposal on the implementation of the new Marine Equipment Directive. The timing of this debate could not have been more appropriate. The Transport Committee started the week with a study visit to Gothenburg – the theme was sustainable transport, with emphasis on shipping and electric vehicles. Maritime issues are involved, and the committee has a conviction across party boundaries that well-functioning shipping is of great importance for transport policy. Creating a coherent transport system, where shipping is well integrated, is an important task in which policy plays a crucial role. It is politics that sets the rules of the game, and we must ensure that these rules are fair. This is not the case with the sanctioning system for compliance with the sulphur directive. To those who are not familiar with the matter, I can say that the sulphur directive is about the sulphur content of the marine fuel used in the SECA area, including the Baltic Sea and the North Sea, not exceeding 0.1%. This causes significant costs for the Swedish shipping industry. The Swedish shipping companies have converted to more expensive low sulphur fuel or installed expensive scrubbers that wash away the sulphur. It has happened that other shipping companies, which occasionally visit the SECA area, have risked and driven with high sulphur fuel, as it is in principle impossible to impose sanctions on the offence of the current rules. I would like to commend my colleagues on the red-green side because they have shown integrity by agreeing to the Alliance's request for effective sanctions against those who violate the sulphur directive. Together, we have announced to the government that an effective sanction system should be put in place as soon as possible, which cannot be so difficult given that there is a solid investigation in which administrative sanctions are proposed, in other words heavy fines that are distributed on the ground instead of trials that never happen because those who commit the crime have time to leave the country. Unfortunately, we in the Alliance were alone in our demand for the competitiveness of shipping. Do members of the government think that everything is fine? Have Members forgotten the Committee's report on the maritime industry and its competitiveness, which came last year? Should our own analyses remain just a paper product, or should we make sure that they become real decisions that strengthen Swedish shipping? It is true that the government completed the work on the maritime strategy initiated by the Alliance during the previous term of office, but it requires not only intentions but also practical action, and action does not seem to be the government's Löfven – Lövin's parade branch. In the majority text on the point, it is pointed out that in February, the Government commissioned the Swedish Maritime Administration, in cooperation with the Swedish Transport Administration, to analyse the development potential of inland waterway transport and coastal shipping. Judging by the reactions we received when the committee was visited by the Swedish Maritime Transport and Maritime Forum and by letters received from industry representatives, the proposal for a new fairway charging system is directly counterproductive in terms of the promotion of inland navigation. When the discount on the pilot fee for shipping on Lake Vänern disappears, the costs increase by 130 percent. Yes, you heard correctly – 130 percent! Such increases directly kill development potential. It is not just inland navigation that is affected. The new proposal proposes an emergency fee for pilotage where everyone pays solidarity for preparedness, whether or not they use it. In the port of Trelleborg, for example, the majority of the port's customers have to pay for something they do not use. We in the Alliance understand and share the concerns and criticism that the industry is addressing the proposal. The development of inland navigation may be the answer to some questions. How do we free up space on already overloaded roads and railways? How do we reduce emissions? How do we promote energy efficient transport? As early as 2012, the Alliance government decided to transpose the EU's Inland Waterway acquis and took a number of decisions to this end. We believe it is important that the regulations contain as few Swedish special rules as possible without jeopardising the safety of those travelling. In addition, we believe that the method a door should be introduced for government contacts where a single contact with the world of government is sufficient, in order to reduce the time spent by shipping companies on administration and to improve the competitiveness of Swedish shipping. Mr President, I would like to In Sweden there are five so-called core ports, or in other words ports, which the EU has classified as particularly important for the European transport network. These ports – Trelleborg, Malmö, Gothenburg, Stockholm and Luleå – must be prioritised, protected and developed if Sweden is to be a maritime nation. Our core ports need deep enough fairways to be able to receive the ships that are getting bigger and bigger. This is something that we were reminded of during yesterday's visit to the port of Gothenburg. If we want large ships from other parts of the world to come to Sweden, we must create conditions, otherwise we risk being cut off when the shipping companies choose Hamburg or Rotterdam as their final destination. Adequate capacity for land connections is also needed. Mr President, I would like to Working to not only maintain but also increase the number of Swedish flagged ships and strengthen the competitiveness of the Swedish fleet is an important goal for us alliance politicians in the Transport Committee. There are many reasons to strive for a growing Swedish-flagged fleet, for example because it gives Sweden influence in important international organisations, such as IMO, when environmental and safety issues are addressed. It also offers opportunities for test beds for Swedish companies in the marine industry and helps to maintain maritime competence in Sweden. An important reason for the flagging out that is usually stated by the industry is the lack of tonnage tax, a tax that has been longed for by both shipowners and unions, both by Social Democrats and Moderates. Someone may object: a treasure longed for by the Moderates! What is man talking about? I would add that the tonnage tax is a highly voluntary tax, which means that the income of shipping companies is determined on a flat-rate basis, based on the size of the vessels rather than on actual income. The advantage of tonnage taxation is that it equalises the tax costs for shipping companies, whether low or booming, and shipping companies can make their ship purchases when necessary and not when it is advantageous for fiscal reasons. We welcome the fact that Parliament's first announcement on the tonnage tax that came in 2004 will now finally be heard by the government. Although there may be comments on the funding, tonnage tax is a step in the right direction towards smoothing the competitive environment for shipping in EU countries. Mr President, I would like to Of course, I support all our reservations, but for time winning, I agree to reservation 1.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-1253	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 5. Today I was walking in the beautiful weather. Yesterday, while we were walking, my fiancée stopped me and asked me to look to the right. Can you understand what a beautiful building you work in, she said and pointed to the Parliament House. It's really beautiful. But I had a beautiful place of work before I started in Parliament as well. Then I was a dock worker, sitting on the cranes, looking far out over the sea, and saw the ships, large and small, of all nationalities. On the big ships I hardly saw any Swedish flag at all, while it waved beautifully yellow and blue back on almost every recreational boat. Swedish shipping has long been left in the dark, outside the spotlight. There has not been a greater focus on shipping, but now it is on everyone's lips. At last, Mr President, things have started to happen! The light has been redirected, towards shipping. The environmental benefits and efficiency of transport have proved to be on everyone's lips. As much as 95 percent of the world's export goods are transported on ships. Shipping is something that you have always taken for granted, something that you have anticipated should just be there. It has also been taken for granted that the goods should be in our stores. Sweden, with its long coastline and location, can be regarded as an island, an island where you have enormous opportunities to use shipping in particular for the transport of goods. So shipping accounts for 95% of export trade. But how much transport do we have at sea in our neighbourhoods in Sweden and around Sweden? It's not as much. What is the most important thing for a merchant? There are different criteria. But the most important thing is that the product arrives in time. It can do that with shipping. It may not be as fast as by train or truck with trailer. We Swedish democrats are in favour of all forms of transport. Many times it is a combination of rail, trailer and ship. I told you that there has been light on shipping. What's that light? This is, for example, what Boriana Åberg spoke about earlier, namely the tonnage tax, which is up-to-date and hopefully soon implemented. With this we hope to get more Swedish-flagged ships and that Swedish-flagged ships will have competitive conditions similar to those of other shipping in the world. Of course we hope for Swedish flagging. But there may not be much to hope for initially. But we hope that, at least in the case of new construction, we will have Swedish flagged ships. The government has an inland waterway strategy. With Sweden having the advantage of our inland waterways not crossing any other country's waterways, we have the possibility of exceptions. I think that we should take this opportunity to affirm and exploit as much as we can. Swedish shipping gives us more jobs, not only on the lake but also on land. As a port worker, I can only rejoice that Sweden has a greater focus on shipping, of course for the sake of my colleagues, but also because we have more jobs. More jobs will be created in many areas directly or indirectly linked to maritime transport. Is it so easy to give shipping a real boost? No, of course it's not. It's about a lot more than that. There is also a need to review fairway charges, pilotage fees and other costs of operating maritime – coastal, inland waterway and other shipping. These are costs that are already perceived as unfair, as Boriana Åberg said. It is about piloting fees to the port of Trelleborg, but it is also about vessels operating in Trelleborg also having to pay for ice mining up in Norrland. Above all, shipping companies must have an opportunity to make money out of their business. This applies in particular to inland navigation, as shown by the Swedish Maritime Administration's models. Mr President, I would like to On April 12, 1810, Baltzar von Platen was granted permission to build the canal that would serve as a shortcut between Stockholm and Gothenburg. It was a fantastic opportunity, and at that time perhaps the only real opportunity, to transport heavy and bulky goods. Today there is little tourism and, to some extent, shipping. But the channel can be used much more than it is today. Very much goods are transported today by rail and by lorry. I assume that the government with the inland shipping strategy will also make it possible to carry out this shipping, so that it does not just stop at fine words on a piece of paper. New locks need to be built in Göta River now. The locks will soon be out of use. There is also a need for landslide securing of the river. It is not necessary today, but it would have been necessary yesterday. There may be landslides at any time. If there is a landslide in the river traffic stops. There are also huge environmental disasters. The Gothenburgers who take their drinking water from the river are very smoldering to. Then we have a question that is huge for me as a Gothenburger. It's about the Göta River Bridge. It is a bridge in Gothenburg, in the mouth of the river that goes up to Lake Vänern. The Gothenburgers have an overbelief in cycling in the city. Today we have a bridge that has a sailless height of 19 1⁄2 meters. The bridge is run by trams, buses, pedestrians, cars, cyclists, mopeds and all sorts of things, and it has worked very well. Now they want to build a suspension bridge – Hisingsbron – which will be 12 meters high to make it easier for cyclists. A lower bridge, of course, saves land. They want to build many homes around this attractive water area. What I see as a danger is the construction of an obstacle to ships. There are two railway bridges just behind this bridge. But they can be moved away with a fairly simple handling, so that the ships can easily pass. But if you had a low bridge of 12 meters, it would mean that you either have to leave the ships on the ship, which is not easy because the water in the river is quite current. This would leave the ships waiting and the industry would suffer. Or you can open the bridge, and then it will be like a heart attack in Gothenburg. We need these transports and this collective crossing of the bridge. But as soon as you open the bridge, there will be huge queues inside the city centre of Gothenburg and also on the Hisings side. What we Swedish democrats had wanted was for a double solution to be made and for the new bridge to be built with the same sail-free height as the lowest height and on this bridge to have a fast-lifting bicycle bridge that pedestrians and cyclists could have as an alternative. This means that you would have the benefit of shipping but that you would also benefit from this bridge at a lower level. Everyone would benefit from this.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-1275	Mr President, I would like to Scandinavia and Sweden are, with regard to exporting and importing goods and with regard to trading, to consider as an island. We are surrounded by water, and that is why the shipping industry is central to our industry, our prosperity and our contact with other countries – that is, our trade. In December 2015, the Government commissioned Löfven – Lövin Transportstyrelsen, Skatteverket and the Swedish Transport Agency's Delegation for Maritime Support to investigate the financial, practical and legal conditions for a coherent procedure for ship registration in our country. The mission includes investigating what is required to enable ship registration by addressing only one authority. That is a good thing, and it is something that I, as a centre party and alliance representative, find positive. But I do not believe that this is the only thing a government can do to strengthen Swedish shipping. More needs to be done. For example, I am very concerned about the conditions that are now emerging for inland navigation. After all, inland shipping is identified by many in the transport debate as the problem solver of freight flows in our country and is often described as an untapped capacity. But then, of course, we must strengthen it and strengthen its competitiveness. In this context, it is worth recalling and pointing out that industry representatives at the meeting of the Transport Committee only last May expressed great concern and sharp criticism of the Swedish Maritime Administration's proposal for new fairway fees and demands for increased pilotage for inland navigation. I am absolutely convinced that representatives of the government parties Social Democrats and the Green Party, who are about to come up in the debate, will explain how the industry has carried forward its deep concern about new conditions for inland navigation and how it has addressed this concern to the responsible Minister, Anna Johansson. It obliges us to be a government-supporting party in the Swedish parliament. Mr President, I would like to The report also contains an announcement to the government. It is a united committee that supports the Riksdag's announcement to the Government that it should review the design of the sanction system for compliance with the sulphur directive in order to promote fair competition. The committee also believes that an effective system of sanctions must be put in place as a matter of urgency. What, then, is this? Well, as a nation within the framework of international cooperation, we have undertaken to switch to a more environmentally friendly – in this context low sulphur – fuel in ships operating in Swedish waters. Several Swedish shipping companies have already gone much further than that and have led the way to switch to methanol, liquefied natural gas and other much better environmental fuels. There is a Swedish regulation on sulphur fuel, which in turn refers to the environmental code as regards penalties for those who violate the legislation. The scale of penalties is a fine or even a prison sentence for up to two years. The government gave as long ago as June 2013 – it was the then alliance government – the Swedish Transport Agency's task to investigate supervision and compliance with the strengthened rules for low sulphur fuel. The Swedish Transport Agency worked quickly and reported on its mission already in June 2014. The report considered that there were major problems with the current system of sanctions in terms of how to prevent ships' masters from breaching the sulphur rules. It was argued that it is almost impossible today to get infringements to lead to prosecution and conviction, especially in the case of foreign ships. So there is a risk that this entire fine legislation, with its strong sanctioning possibilities, will become a paper tiger. The committee has subsequently dealt on several occasions with the issue of the strengthened sulphur rules introduced in January 2015, most recently in a report in 2015. The committee then assumed that the government would closely monitor the implementation and the consequences it could have for the industries concerned. The committee still believes that the issue is of enormous importance and believes that an effective sanction system for everyone to comply with the rules of the sulphur directive should be put in place as a matter of urgency. Although the Swedish Transport Agency's report, i.e. full documentation, was received at the Government Office in June 2014 – that was two years ago – the Government has not yet presented any measures to improve the sanctioning system. That is why a united committee believes that there is a risk that there will be a further delay before there are better rules in place. Of course, it cannot be considered satisfactory. It is against this background that the committee believes that the Riksdag should address a sharp announcement to the government that it must step up in the process of reviewing the design of the sanctioning system that makes all ships in Swedish waterways comply with the sulphur directive. Basically, it is about the environment and human health as well as healthy conditions of competition. Mr President, I would like to I naturally agree with the proposal contained in the report, except in those parts in which the Centre Party and the Alliance have expressed reservations, but for time, I only ask for reservation 1 to be accepted.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-1289	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of our reservation 3. Of course, I support our other reservations as well. It is a good thing that shipping is now being emphasised more as a solution to get away from the large increase in, among other things, truck transport. The waterways are already there, and it is a relatively environmentally friendly mode of transport. It is therefore very positive that we are all talking more about shipping now than before. The Left Party wants to review fairway charges to better cover infrastructure costs for the fishing industry, archipelago and recreational boat traffic and maritime costs at all. Maritime transport is currently at a disadvantage in that, compared to the other modes of transport, it pays more for the infrastructure and provides funds itself. It's not fair. At the same time, however, we want to make fairway charges more environmentally friendly. There is now a proposal for more environmentally friendly fairway charges which has been submitted in a referral. However, we have listened to the various consultation bodies and see concerns in the proposal that is on the table. Among other things, it does not benefit already installed environmental improvement equipment, such as catalysts. It is also that there will be a reduction of the pilot discount in, for example, Trollhätte Canal, Lake Vänern and Lake Mälaren, plus that the exemption from the fairway fee for transport of cargo between ports located within the Gothenburg and Lake Vänern area will disappear. This is difficult, because it may cause us to again disadvantage shipping in general. Since these are unfair conditions, it is important that we do not do this without the government looking at these details and improving the system so that we benefit shipping as a whole. It's better for the environment. If we are to have environmentally differentiated fairway charges, it is important that we better achieve environmental objectives. We also want to see other systems to promote an environmentally friendly merchant fleet in Sweden. Swedish shipping has taken the lead when it comes to testing new environmentally friendly technologies. Many shipping companies are at the forefront, which is very positive. We would like the rules to help those who want to do well, by putting a little higher environmental standards on everyone, to push things forward to speed things up. But we want to do this without overburdening ourselves. The Baltic Sea is classified as an area of ecological, socio-economic, cultural and scientific importance. This means that you need to be extra careful about the environment in the Baltic Sea. It's a sensitive sea. That is why we simply need stronger environmental regulations. But this may be beneficial for shipping companies that take precedence in Sweden to export this technology to other parts of the world. Now that we are so dependent on a change and everyone will need new technology, this can benefit us in the long run and also benefit those shipping companies and that industry in the long run. We also want to ensure that working conditions are good in shipping. We think it is very important to try to get the same rules for working conditions in shipping all over the world so that working conditions are improved. It must not be social dumping in shipping, just as it should not be in any other area either. Unfortunately, we have seen social dumping in many areas of the Committee on Transport and Tourism, and it is important that we monitor this, constantly tightening up the regulations and being in place to counter this. We have worked for a long time to introduce driving licences and age limits in the case of watercraft. Now we have a report in which we have tabled a proposal to the government to make a proposal on this. We wait patiently for this to come on the table. Until it has done so, the Left Party wants to stress that this is important to deal with, because there have been nasty accidents in the use of jet skis. It is important that this is regulated as soon as possible. We therefore point out that the regulation must be on the table as soon as possible. I would like to briefly highlight the issue of nitrogen removal in the Baltic Sea. Shipping emits a lot of nitrogen, and we have had very little regulation on nitrogen, even though this is a very big problem. It is approaching such levels that shipping emits much more than car traffic, and that is an unfortunate development. Part of this is that the boats previously emptied the wastewater at sea. From 1 April 2015, it is prohibited for recreational craft to drain their waste water at sea. That is very positive. But this has not been the case with the big ships, which have been a lot in the media. The Left Party wants to ensure that the regulations surrounding this will be in place as soon as possible. Now the UN Maritime Organisation IMO has introduced a ban on waste dumping from 2019 for new ships and 2021 for all ships. But it is too far ahead, says the Left Party. That is why we have a proposal to regulate the current port charge, which imposes an obligation on the port to accept toilet waste so that it is simply more beneficial for those ships that assume their responsibilities. We would like to see this in place earlier than 2019 in order to address this problem.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-1303	Mr President, I would like to I am in favour of reservation 6 on the implementation of EU rules on inland waterways but, of course, I am also in favour of reservation 1 on the competitiveness of maritime transport. These are two reservations that we in the Liberals have together with the other alliance parties. Then I would also like to say at the outset that it is very good that the committee has agreed on a declaration to the government on the design of the sanction system linked to compliance with the sulphur directive and has therefore approved the motion of the alliance parties. I will come back to that. Mr President, I would like to Now that we are again debating shipping, we are dealing with two main issues. One is to exploit the full potential of shipping in the transport system. It's general. The second is that we should be able to give the Swedish shipping industry good conditions of competition under the Swedish flag. It's two sides of the same coin. With regard to the former, the central role of shipping in the transport system, the fundamental question is always how to link maritime transport with other modes of transport. It is about so-called intermodality, i.e. interaction between different modes of transport and transhipment between them. It is a fundamental condition for us to be able to make full use of the maritime traffic in short-haul traffic. During the Transport Committee's study visit to Gothenburg on Monday, we got a good idea of how a broad exchange of information and IT can create efficient transport flows. It was both cost-effective and less environmentally-burdening transport flows. It is known as STM, Sea Traffic Management, and I think it is a very important road. We need to expand the infrastructure but also make it work digitally in an efficient way. Before I go into the reservations specifically, I would also like to say with some pleasure that we finally have a Swedish tonnage tax system in place. It appears that it will enter into force on 20 July 2016. Boriana Åberg mentioned when the first announcement came, and it was a while ago – just over ten years. Now we have a proposal under way based on the investigation initiated by the previous alliance government and presented in early 2015. This has been a change that has long been a priority of the Swedish shipping industry when they themselves have been allowed to mention what measures they think are needed to create good economic conditions. We can only conclude that the lack of tonnage tax has been a clear contributor to the heavy flagging from Sweden that has taken place in recent years. I don't know exactly what the statistics look like right now when it comes to how many cargo ships we have under the Swedish flag, but I think we were down to just under 100 in 2015. It's a critical limit that we're on now. There has been some discussion when the proposal has been drawn up, which should be mentioned anyway. It is about the limitation that exists around the so-called gross tonnage. There are very technical terms here, bridge height and so on, but I venture to say that this concept is about a limit of 100 gross tonnes. It's a volume measure. Denmark has a limit of 20 gross tonnes. This requirement excludes some vessels, including those engaged in offshore activities which are considerably smaller. Today they are largely Danish-flagged. We may have to consider following up on what the outcome of this system is. Mr President, I would like to That is how we come to the sulphur directive and the stricter rules on sulphur emissions. It has to be said, however, that it is not just a burden in general, but it means that the environmental impact of shipping is greatly reduced. This happens not least in the SECA, or Sulphur Control Areas, that exist here in northern Europe. A maximum of 0.5 per cent sulphur from 1 January 2015 applies. It is about reducing the environmental impact of acidification, for example, but there will also be major health effects with reduced emissions. That side of the coin is also worth mentioning. If we now have demands for low sulphur fuels that generate higher costs – perhaps not quite as high as we fear but higher – then of course we also need an effective control and sanction system in order to never pay to cheat in a system. You should always get paid for doing the right thing. When a system fails a lot. It is important with this announcement that the government urgently looks at the issue and looks at how the sanction system should work in order to ensure competition on equal terms. That is, of course, a lot of what is at issue here. Mr President, I would like to I would like to say a few words about the other two reservations of the Liberals, which we have raised together with the other alliance parties. In reservation 1 we highlight the importance of the competitiveness of Swedish shipping. I don't think we have very different views on that. Swedish competitiveness is worthwhile. I note that the alliance government started many positive processes and that many are being pursued by the current government. That, of course, is good. There are many reasons why we should have national economic framework conditions that will allow the Swedish flagged merchant fleet to increase. It is about employment, both directly and indirectly, in peripheral activities, as mentioned earlier. It is also about maintaining marine competence. Sweden is a leading country in terms of both maritime safety and environmental work in shipping. Internationally, it is also a matter of credibility. If you are to act decisively on such issues, you must have your own merchant fleet. It is probably not just a matter of having it; it is probably a prerequisite for being able to pursue those issues. Sweden has been a member of the IMO's governing body for the sole reason that we have a high level of competence. It is important that we have that picture clear to us. Sweden has been – and can continue to be – a leading maritime nation. We have to start from that. As far as the environmental differentiation of fairway charges, as has been discussed here, I understand that most people support the basic principle that environmental measures should be able to pay off here too. There has been quite a lot of criticism of the proposal that is now on the table. I assume that this will be taken into account in the further process. Anders Åkesson also mentioned this problem. Mr President, I would like to Reservation 6 deals with the implementation of EU rules on inland waterways. The reservation is due to movements from us in the Liberals, among others. Despite the fact that the regulatory framework, at least the basic principles, have been in place since December 2014, the inland navigation regulatory framework is not being used. Why not? The Swedish Maritime Administration and the Swedish Transport Administration are now tasked with analysing the development potential of inland and coastal shipping and perhaps, above all, identifying obstacles. When it comes to competitiveness, it is important to look at what it is because the rules are not fully exploited. An extremely important thing that we highlight here and that we have been pushing all along is that it is inhibiting competitiveness if we have many Swedish special rules. One of the basic principles must be that we should not have more Swedish special rules than is absolutely necessary. It is not a question of jeopardising maritime safety in any way. It's all about us being able to compete on equal terms. So, as I began with, I am in favour of this particular reservation.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-1328	Mr President, I would like to Maritime transport has been and is important for the development of Sweden. Maritime transport is of great importance to the Swedish transport system and to the business community and is job creation. Sweden is an export-dependent country, and shipping carries about 90 per cent of Sweden's goods. Maritime transport contributes to the growth of the country, to jobs and strengthens our competitiveness. Maritime transport contributes not least to better climate and environment, compared with other modes of transport and transport. It is therefore important that shipping and its industry have the best opportunities for development. In other words, we will make it easier for Swedish-flagged boats to re-register, reduce the high administrative costs, complicated rules and red tape, make it easier for shipping companies to operate under the Swedish flag and in various ways contribute to strengthening the competitiveness of the shipping industry. Mr President, I would like to Different modes of transport complement each other and contribute to the development of society in different ways. It is therefore important that we ensure an efficient, robust and sustainable transport supply for travellers and business needs. Transport has too high CO2 emissions and too much negative impact on the environment. It is therefore necessary that more goods are transported by sea and by rail rather than by lorry. Not least, it is important for more modes of transport to be free of fossil fuels, for us to reduce carbon dioxide emissions and for us to have better climate and environment. Here, shipping plays an important role, especially if more transport can go by sea, rather than by lorry. We have more than 50 ports in the country and one of Europe's longest coastlines with many inland waterways that can be better used to carry more goods. It should be stimulated in different ways and not imposed on costs, such as new fairway charges and pilotage obligations for inland navigation. Mr President, I would like to It is important to give priority to inland waterways. In particular, rail's potential for more freight transport is currently limited due to the current lack of capacity. Maritime transport's ability to carry more goods should be stimulated in order not to hamper growth in the country. The Finnish Transport Agency has pointed out how important inland waterways are to free up capacity on the railways. That is something that is definitely needed. It is important to continue to safeguard the competitiveness of maritime transport and to seize its opportunities. Inland waterways are of great importance and contribute to better and more environmentally friendly transport and should be stimulated. The Christian Democrats believe that it would be very unfortunate if we could not strengthen and prioritise inland navigation, strengthen its competitiveness and ensure that more goods are transported via inland waterways. Mr President, I would like to Companies should engage in entrepreneurship, not be subject to complicated rules and be confronted by excessive administrative bureaucracy. That is why we Christian Democrats, together with the Alliance, have pushed for a system with a so-called door in for shipping. Administration and paperwork today take far too much time from shipping companies. It is time that they should instead spend on their core business. Today, shipping companies have to turn to a variety of authorities, and government contacts often become too bureaucratic. The Christian Democrats, together with the Alliance, therefore want to introduce a guarantee that the shipping industry will have to submit a task only once to the authorities, and then it will be passed on to the right authority. That's what we call a door in. Mr President, I would like to Shipping is important, but it is equally important to reduce the environmental impact of boats as well. The Christian Democrats therefore believe that the new sulphur directive and compliance with it are important for the environment. There must be a system of sanctions that promotes fair competition and compliance with rules. The Swedish Transport Agency points out that the current system of sanctions is not sufficient. Nevertheless, the government has not yet presented any measures to improve the system of sanctions. Strengthened sulphur rules are of great importance for reducing the environmental impact of shipping. A functioning sanctioning system ensures compliance with the strengthened rules. The same rules shall apply to all vessels in the North Sea and the Baltic Sea. Swedish shipping companies have adapted to the new sulphur directives, at high costs. But there are foreign shipping companies in the Baltic Sea and the North Sea that do not meet the requirements. Today it can be economically viable to breach the sulphur directive, because high sulphur fuel is so much cheaper than low sulphur fuel. It is not possible to have a regulatory framework that is designed to protect the environment but which emitters violate. That is why we Christian Democrats, together with the Alliance, believe that it is important that there be control systems in place to ensure compliance with the directive so that it pays the shipping companies to do the right thing. That is why we are calling for an effective control system to be put in place to ensure compliance with the sulphur directive. We want to announce to the government that it should review the design of the sanction system for better compliance with the sulphur directive in order to promote fair competition and more environmentally friendly marine fuels. Mr President, I would like to Fairway charges are criticised by many maritime operators, not least in the Lake Vänern area. It is important that the Swedish Maritime Administration listens to the criticism, so that shipping is not excluded by excessive charges. The Maritime Administration must take into account the need to facilitate the transfer of goods from road transport to maritime transport. For too long, Swedish shipowners have not only lived under harsh bureaucratic rules, but have also been more heavily taxed than their European competitors, as competitors have been subject to tonnage tax. Sweden, together with Austria and Po rtugal, has been the only EU Member States not subject to tonnage tax. It has put an unreasonable tax burden on our maritime industry for many years. The introduction of tonnage tax one, which is under way, hopefully means a halt to the flagging out of Swedish vessels and that we can bring home some of the fleet that we have already lost. Mr President, I would like to Maritime transport is important for meeting the climate threat while at the same time creating jobs. It is important that we have the best interests of shipping in mind when formulating the transport policy of the future. If we are to have good communications that are less environmentally friendly and achieve the goals of a fossil-free transport sector in the future, we need to make use of the natural roads we have in the form of water. This applies not least to inland waterways, which can help us to relieve the strained railways. Good communications are the engine of the Swedish economy. We need to equip Sweden for the future, a future where our communications and different modes of traffic complement each other on land, in the air and in the water. Mr President, I would like to I support the Alliance's joint reservation No 1, but I support all the common reservations of the Alliance.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-1350	Mr President, I would like to Today we are dealing with a maritime report. I support the committee's proposal, and I am very pleased that we have agreed to demand a system of sanctions. It should not pay to break environmental rules, and then we must ensure that the rules are complied with and that there is punishment for those who do not behave. I've been in Parliament for a long time. I have experienced the developments in which we ensured that the Baltic Sea was labelled as particularly pollution-sensitive water. This meant that the IMO had the right to impose higher standards. That is why we are really going to ensure that the Baltic Sea is guarded. It's a very large asset that we can't be without. I also note that shipping is more of a cry than I think it has been some time since I entered Parliament in 1998. I'm taking part in Alme Valley Week this summer. I think it's the 20th time, so I guess I'll have to be considered a senior in this context. I have never seen such a large proportion of maritime seminars in the field of transport. It is probably a sign of time that more and more people have discovered the advantages of shipping. First of all, it's energy-efficient. There is no other mode of transport where there is so little friction between the vehicle and the ground. Rubber wheels against asphalt require a lot of energy for the vehicle to run, whether on electricity or something else. Steel wheels against rails are much more effective. That is why we are protecting the railways. However, ship hulls against water are quite superior in terms of transporting large volumes of goods, and that is the great advantage. There are also other advantages, not least the cost. We are now considering how much to allocate to infrastructure investments for the next planning period 2018 – 2029. It is only to be noted that the waterway is unbeatable in terms of both investment and maintenance. That is why it is good if we can agree to make better use of shipping than we do today. In the case of accidents, shipping is a clear winner compared to road transport. The working conditions are also good, and I think it is partly because there is such a powerful trade union, Mr Seko, who has seen that there is not the same unfair competition as for road traffic, for example. We must safeguard this, because there are many more jobs that shipping could create if we put the right effort into it. With regard to congestion in the system, the cargo in each truck that can be transported by shipping means that it is easier for both roads and conurbations. If we can transfer more goods to the lake, it is also an incredibly fast switchover to achieve the goal we have agreed on – a fossil-free vehicle sector. Then I thought I'd talk a little bit about the threats to shipping. What is it that makes it possible not to make good use of shipping? I share the concerns expressed in the report regarding the proposal for new fairway charges. It is important to apply fair principles to the different modes of transport. It was a long time ago that Parliament agreed on the principle of internalisation of externalities. It is expressed theoretically, but in practice it means that all the expenditure generated by the mode of transport must be reflected in pricing. It has been said that all modes of transport must pay the costs they incur. This is done to quite a large extent via port charges and fairway charges. The railway does so via the track charges. Now it is time for the biggest competitor of both – truck transport – to do likewise. That's why this government has set up an investigation into wear and tear charges for trucks. Until then, I think you should think about it. The proposal on new fairway charges, which is now being consulted, has, as has been said to the Committee on Transport and Tourism, a far too restrictive effect on the development of coastal shipping. I think we should be careful not to implement that proposal. I would like to see a much greater environmental differentiation so that those shipowners who have ordered new modern tonnage, LNG vessels, get a bigger carrot so that it pays to take a higher cost to reduce the environmental burden. If the costs of CO2 and nitrogen emissions are raised properly for those who do not make these investments, the more costs can be reduced for those who take responsibility for the future through good investments. One can also reflect on whether it would not be reasonable for the Swedish Transport Agency and not the Swedish Maritime Administration itself to decide what is justified fairway fees. Another point that has been highlighted on several occasions is the necessity of pilotage. We have new technology now, and I think it is time for general piloting to be replaced by requiring a safety-motivated pilot, for example when travelling west of Gotland, where it is very sensitive to accidents and other things. For us in committee, who have taken part in modern technology – whether it is A vatar or modern tonnage with new forward-looking control systems – it seems very old time to demand pilotage of these ships. As mentioned earlier, during our visit to Victoria Swedish ICT, we took part in the development of Sea Traffic Management, STM. It is fun that Sweden is involved in developing new technology that not only benefits shipping in Sweden but probably has a great potential to streamline shipping all over the world. That Sweden can help reduce and streamline ship movements, to reduce energy consumption, to make shipping safer and to curb accidents is very fun. I would also think it would be interesting if you could imagine a Stockholm with a bit more modern tonnage than what you have now. A capital city is still some kind of front of a country. People who come from other countries think that this is where you invest in the new and modern and want to show the prides of the nation. But when you board the ferry to Djurgården it doesn't exactly feel like that's where you get to see the new and fresh. These ferries are from 1904 and should soon be replaced by something that, for example, combines biogas and electricity and where wheelchairs, strollers and bicycles can fit. We need to use Stockholm's inland waterways both for freight transport and for commuting goods. How are we going to make this better? I believe that Vinnova needs to have a specific mission to arrange for an excellence centre for shipping, so that we stimulate the development that is taking place at the university and find a good way to commercialise and use the new innovations that are emerging. I also think it would be wise if we worked more closely with Norway and Finland on shipping. Norway has invested in its green coastal shipping. We have a great deal to learn from them in this regard. When we went on a trip with Viking Grace, we saw that Wärtsilä and Finland are investing in LNG in a way that we will probably be able to benefit from if we cooperate with them more. We should bear in mind that there is a bill that the government recently submitted to Parliament and which we do not deal with until after the summer break. It is about infrastructure for alternative fuels. It is a question of the implementation of EU directives, but it would speed up the possibilities if we had a forward-looking strategy with Finland and Norway to ensure that there are opportunities to use LNG in more places than today. There is uncertainty among shipowners as to what tonnage to invest in. The whole chain of fuel propulsion, access and distribution to ships must be in place in order to reduce the fossil impact of shipping as much as is necessary in this context. It is also necessary to cooperate more with ports and to make the necessary investments. As previous speakers have mentioned here, we need – I know this very well – new locks in Trollhätte Canal, which the County Administrative Board strongly informed us about when we greeted them on Monday in Gothenburg. It also requires dredging, so that more deep-sea vessels can dock Swedish ports. I also think it is time to dust off the national port strategy that investigator Bengt Owe Birgersson once developed. Neither this government nor the former have done much to accommodate and incorporate the proposals that were well criticised by the consultative bodies. I think shipping has a bright future to face. I also believe that here in the Swedish Parliament we can facilitate and contribute to this.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-1372	Mr President, I would like to The transfer of freight transport from land to maritime transport reduces both land congestion and the environmental impact of the transport sector. The maritime strategy states that factors that counteract such relocation need to be identified and addressed. This morning both me and Karin Svensson Smith attended a knowledge seminar where cross-border rail transport was discussed. There was great concern that railway ferry services via Trelleborg will soon be shut down unless something is done. There is a lack of investment in the necessary infrastructure, and the operator Stena Line is not willing to invest in new ferries due to the uncertainty.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-1375	Mr President, I would like to To begin with, I would like to thank Boriana Åberg and Rikard Larsson, who initiated this very important seminar. I very much share the concerns expressed at the seminar. I cannot load the shipping company because it does not order new tracks to the ferry, because we have too bad conditions for the railways today. I share the criticism that was made. Then what does the government do? We've set up an investigation into wear and tear charges for trucks. What Mrs Green Cargo and other freight operators, both existing and already bankrupt, point out very clearly is that they are losing market shares against truck transport because oil is cheap and staff costs are low. The railway can't match that. This wear and tear charge we think is very important. There are a great many countries in Europe that have already introduced mileage taxes or equivalents for truck transport. The Cooperation Government and the Left Party agree on this, but the Alliance has notoriously opposed this way of doing fair tariffs, although it is a prerequisite for the survival of the railways. We have also investigated environmental compensation for increased rail charges. It is an increase that you started and which this government has unfortunately continued with.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-1378	Mr President, I would like to I thank Karin Svensson Smith for her reply. However, I did not mean sanctions against other modes of transport, but measures that make shipping easier. I can partly help Karin Svensson Smith with the answer to what the government is doing. Because the government's not doing anything. The government doesn't even want to see the problem. Last September, Trelleborg Port and Stena Line wrote to the Minister for Infrastructure and wanted to discuss the issue of a national strategy for cross-border rail transport. To this day, they have not received an answer. A report on preparedness for a long-term stop on the Öresund Bridge assumes that train ferries in Trelleborg and Ystad have spare capacity in the event of a serious incident on the Öresund Bridge, without any contact from interested parties. The responsibility is placed on a private operator. But this must of course give priority to its customers, who need its transport services 12 months a year. Therefore, this operator cannot easily deal with urgent unforeseen needs.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-1383	Mr President, I would like to As the seminar this morning showed, this is a development that has been taking place for a long time. Over the past ten years, approximately 90% of the shares have been lost. This development began during the time when the alliance government was responsible. Now the question is, what do we do about this? Anyone who buys transport rarely engages in non-profit activities. It's so crass that it's the cheapest shipment that wins. Now it is the trucks that are taking market share of the railways. It is necessary to make driving more expensive for investments in rail to pay off. A national strategy is needed. It is not Stena Line who should be responsible for this, but it is a political responsibility. It was in the harbour of Trelleborg that I made my very first visit as a Member of Parliament after the 2014 elections. I very much share the commitment that is there for more intermodal transport. The combination of shipping and rail is excellent, and I will do my utmost to ensure that this decline does not continue.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-1387	Mr President, I would like to Karin Svensson Smith stressed her seniority as a Member of Parliament on at least three occasions during her speech. It naturally gives a very good insight into the difference between being a majority and opposition representative in the Swedish parliament. Karin Svensson Smith now represents one of the parties that govern our country, the Green Party. It also means a responsibility, I mean by the experience I have – I have only been ten years in the Riksdag – to also carry questions into the office building. It is in the office building of the Minister for Infrastructure that proposals, regulations and eectives are written and written, and they govern and influence the reality that constitutes everyday life for Swedish shipping companies. In connection with my speech, I raised the very deep concern expressed by a number of representatives of the Swedish shipping industry when they visited the committee just over a month ago. It was then a matter of proposals for new fairways, demands for increased pilotage, etc., which they felt would be a serious barrier to competition for their ambition to develop Swedish inland navigation. I also felt as a member of the committee that the concern and the commitment included everyone around the table. Mr President, I would like to I would now like to take this opportunity to ask a representative of the government parties. There is also no minister responsible in this debate. In what way has Karin Svensson Smith, the chairman of the committee, brought the questions to the House of Registry, and what can we expect the result of this?
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-1391	Mr President, I would like to Just as I said in the answer to Boriana Åberg, I can probably count as a strong driver that there is now an investigation into road wear and tear taxes. This is in order to have fair fees. It is reasonable that all modes of transport pay the costs they incur. This could give a real boost to both rail and maritime transport in terms of freight. I have also been involved in having an impact – but I am certainly not in any way alone – with regard to what you complained about during most of the period 1998-2006, that is to say, we did not have tonnage tax. We have now ensured that this is done. That has been the main demand of shipowners. It has been a way of facilitating shipping. I agree that much more is needed before we have an efficient and climate-smart transport system. Both increased pilot duty and the proposal on fairway fees that is now being consulted is something that I do not think fits into a system that goes towards the goal of having a fossil fuel-free transport sector in Sweden.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-1394	Mr President, I would like to I know that the government has set up an inquiry into mileage tax – or road wear charge, if Mrs Juholt renamed it a few years ago. It shall report in December 2016. It's already leaked terrible information. But I'm sure we'll take that in a later debate. There will be a tax at a distance in our country that will particularly hit the forest industry and the construction industry. But my question, Karin Svensson Smith, was not about the road wear charge, the kilometre tax, the tax at a distance or the tax on trucks. My question was: in what way has the chairman of the Transport Committee and also the representative of one of the governing parties raised the extraordinary concern expressed by representatives of the shipping industry to the Government Office with a view to getting a different order of things as regards fairway dues, requirements for pilot licences, Swedish special rules, etc. in inland navigation? The Director-General of the Finnish Transport Administration and a number of others place great hopes on inland navigation as problem solvers and capacity increasers. They rarely think in terms of killing one mode of transport in order to benefit another, but rather about accepting new solutions. The question is: in what way has the chairman of the Transport Committee borne in mind the concerns of the industry, and what has been the result?
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-1397	Mr President, I would like to What I say in the speaker's chair here in Parliament is, of course, also what I raise when I have talks with State Secretary, Minister and other officials at the Ministry of Enterprise. It's not a secret. I think I am an unusually transparent person in this context. The proposal for new fairway fees is quite new and for consultation. The Ministry of Industry will not take a position on this until the referral is completed. On the other hand, I have argued very actively for what the industry demanded and have been demanding for many years, including in connection with the Almedal events, i.e. fair charges between the different modes of transport. Only then will we have an efficient transport system. I was involved in investigating this in the 1990s in something called the Communications Committee. That is the basis for the transport policy direction that we then agreed here in Parliament. It is only when all modes of transport have the same conditions that we can have an effective distribution between road, rail and maritime. All three are needed. But it is a wiser distribution if we are to meet environmental objectives and the future. Of course, shipping should play a much greater role in this. I work very purposefully for that.
i-FvgcQdofjkxAiM5YEN29Pw	Mr President, I would like to Today we are dealing with the Transport Committee's report TU17 Maritime Affairs and the Government's proposal 2015/ 16:158 Implementation of the new Marine Equipment Directive. The aim of the Act is to implement the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on marine equipment, which provides for requirements on marine equipment and obligations for manufacturers and other economic operators making such equipment available on the market. The Act contains provisions on market surveillance and penalties. The directive is intended to improve maritime safety and prevent pollution at sea. The Directive also aims to ensure the free movement of such equipment within the European Economic Area, the EEA. The Act is proposed to enter into force in 2016. The second part of the report deals with sports on shipping and recreational craft from the general exercise period 2015. Mr President, I would like to I shall begin by asking for the committee's proposal and, therefore, the proposal and the rejection of all reservations. Mr President, I would like to Sweden is a country with a long coastline, as many here have pointed out. Maritime transport is an important part of a coherent Swedish transport system. About 90 – 95 per cent of Sweden's foreign trade is transported by sea, which means about 180 million tonnes of goods. About 30 million passengers a year travel by ferry to and from Sweden. In Swedish shipping and in companies linked to maritime transport, an estimated 100,000 people work. Today in the morning at a breakfast meeting in Parliament, it was upgraded with another 10,000. Many people are occupied. With the increase in transport in our country and with the forecasts prepared by the Finnish Transport Administration in the Road and Rail Capacity Assessment, we see that shipping will play an increasingly important role in the future. It is with shipping that there are good opportunities for capacity increases. It is a year since we debated Swedish shipping and recreational boating issues. The issues that we discussed at the time have been addressed or put in place by the government in order to strengthen and make Swedish shipping more competitive. What I want to start with is the tonnage tax, which we have discussed a lot in this House and which has taken many years to come up with a proposal. The tonnage tax is seen as an important symbol for shipping. There, Sweden is the second-last country of maritime nations in the EU to introduce this tax. Now I'm saying... and I'm assuming a lot of people are with me... at last! The Tonnage Tax will be debated and decided by the Parliament on 21 June in order for it to take effect immediately. The government decided on a Swedish maritime strategy for people, jobs and the environment last year. The strategy spans several departments, and now the Ministry of Industry is continuing to develop the part concerning shipping. In December 2015, the Government commissioned the Swedish Transport Agency, the Swedish Tax Agency and the Swedish Transport Agency for Maritime Support to investigate the financial, practical and legal conditions for a coherent procedure for ship registration and the possibility to contact only one authority in these matters. The government wants to strengthen maritime industries. It is both about creating more jobs and about sustainable attractive habitats. Today, good statistical data are not available to monitor the development of industries in terms of turnover, number of employees and number of enterprises. Therefore, the Government has commissioned SCB to develop business statistics for maritime industries. This will be completed by 31 January 2017. It will also get started in 2018, to reflect 2017. In February 2016, the Government commissioned the Swedish Maritime Administration, in close cooperation with the Swedish Transport Administration, to analyse the development potential of inland waterways and coastal shipping in Sweden. The mandate includes identifying possible obstacles to development and proposing, if necessary, measures to promote the conditions for maritime freight and passenger transport. The investigation will be completed by 31 December 2016. It feels particularly good that the government has been a driving force on a ban on the discharge of toilet waste from passenger ships. The UN body, the IMO, took a decision in April of this year on a ban. It shall apply to new vessels as from 2019. Existing ships shall be rebuilt by 2021. This will help to reduce phosphorus and nitrogen emissions and thus reduce eutrophication in the Baltic Sea. This decision is good, not only for sustainable shipping and for the environment, but also for coastal tourism. With regard to the recreational craft sector and our announcement last year on the licence for jet skis, I can say that the matter has been on the table. The Ministry is working on a proposal. It's a little uncertain when it comes. Mr President, I would like to In March 2016, the Swedish Maritime Administration presented a new charging model for fairway fees, which will both secure the Swedish Maritime Administration's basic funding and contribute to reducing the overall environmental impact of shipping. The proposal provides for a reduction in the levying of cargo and an increase in the levying of cargo on vessel calls and an emergency fee. We welcome the work of the work to use fairway charges as an instrument to reduce the environmental impact of shipping. The new charging model is scheduled to enter into force on 1 January 2017. However, there has been a lot of criticism from the industry and organisations for shipping and ports. The proposal does not imply a negligible increase in fairway charges, I have seen in various referrals. For example, this would mean an increase of 145% for inland waterway transport. Mr President, I would like to We therefore assume that the comments received from the Swedish Maritime Administration are taken into account as far as possible and that, when setting the fees, consideration is given to the need to facilitate the transfer of goods from road transport to maritime transport. Mr President, I would like to In terms of research and education, Trafikverket has overall responsibility for research in the transport sector and thus maritime transport. Sweden has a strong international position in the field of maritime technology, focusing on ship fuel, future fuels, fuel efficiency and measures to reduce maritime emissions of air pollution and climate impact. I would like to take this opportunity to highlight the maritime industry, which contributes to economic conditions together with state authorities. It also provides its own strategies for a better environment and for testing alternative fuels, building new ships that are more energy efficient and so on. As a result, Swedish maritime environmental development has been world-class. Mr President, I would like to As far as the regulations for inland navigation are concerned, we have dealt with the EU's regulations on manning issues, among other things, this spring. It is important that the adaptations to Swedish legislation are put in place quickly. There is an interest in inland navigation in both Lake Mälaren and Lake Vänern, and it is important to get started. This could also, in the long run, mean that more freight could be transferred to shipping. In addition, the Swedish Transport Administration has made it clear that it does not want the rock masses on its way, but that they should be transported away by sea. That's good. It is important to think about these issues in a new way. The Government has made an agreement with Stockholm University, which has been tasked with reviewing what rules for cabotage for inland navigation should look like. This shall be reported on 15 December 2016. Through motions, the committee has dealt with the issue of the Götaälv bridge in Gothenburg and had it up for discussion. We note that the case has been dealt with in court. I would just like to Göta how the committee has reasoned by reading from the report: It is important that this happens. The decision has gained legal force, and it has chosen not to appeal. The report also contains some objects relating to measures in Lake Väner, Trollhätte Canal and Lake Mälaren. There are, of course, other important maritime objects as well. These proposals will be addressed in the forthcoming action plan presented in connection with the infrastructure proposal coming in autumn or next spring. Mr President, I would like to On 1 January 2015, the Sulphur Directive entered into force in the Baltic Sea, the English Channel and the North Sea. The level was lowered to 0,1 % w/w. The previous government commissioned the Swedish Transport Agency to investigate the supervision of the new regulatory framework, and in June 2014 it presented its views to the government. These comments were also communicated to the committee at a conference at the beginning of its term of office. It has been related here to the conference at Viking Grace, and that was also where we discussed this. The Swedish Transport Agency then proposed that the existing system of criminal sanctions should be replaced by administrative sanctions and that an air pollution charge should be levied in the event of an infringement of the sulphur rules. Compliance with SECA was also debated last year in the maritime debate. I was critical that the previous government had not taken enough action. Now I must also be critical of my own government. I can only say that a year later no action has yet been taken. That is why we agree with the criticism, and it will be a joint announcement to the government to get the regulations in place as soon as possible. As the last speaker on behalf of the committee, I would like to take this opportunity to thank the President, on the one hand, with office staff and, on the other hand, the committee and the parliamentary staff of the committee for their good work and for their good tone. I wish you all a pleasant and relaxing summer vacation.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-1424	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Suzanne Svensson, for the fine conclusion, which I forgot myself! As mentioned, the government has expressed its intention to stimulate the transfer of goods by waterways. It is therefore very surprising that the Swedish Maritime Administration, on behalf of the Government, has made proposals that, according to the industry, steer traffic away from shipping. Even more surprising is the text of the majority in the current paragraph of the report, which Suzanne Svensson quoted. The majority assume that the Swedish Maritime Administration takes into account the comments received. When the work started, the idea was to do so in cooperation with the industry. Instead, industry stakeholders feel that no dialogue has taken place and that no one has listened to them – therefore this has been the result. In addition to all the disadvantages that the proposal creates for inland navigation, the proposal for new fairway charges is particularly hard on cruise and ferry traffic, although the government says it wants to develop Sweden as a cruise destination. That is why I wonder: what does Suzanne Svensson think about the proposal? I wonder, not least, given that ferry services are a fairly important employer in Blekinge, which is Suzanne Svensson's constituency.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-1427	Mr President, I would like to It is the Swedish Maritime Administration that has been commissioned to review the fairway fees. The Swedish Maritime Administration is working on this. They have also made a proposal, as Boriana Åberg knows. Now there's a referral on it. You are always supposed to look at what is said in the referee and then make a proposal. We are, of course, expressing the views we are hearing with the government. We'll see where it lands somewhere. If there were to be accidents, which I think would be regrettable, there is also an investigation into how to remove obstacles and so on to make it more attractive to shipping. We will simply first see what the Swedish Maritime Administration is presenting. Then we'll have to discuss other things.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-1429	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Suzanne Svensson, for your answer! I'll continue on the same theme. Furthermore, the industry organisations criticise the reliability of the Swedish Maritime Administration's calculations. For example, the impact assessment presents an average reduction in the fees for passenger ships of around 6%, while the industry's own estimates show increases of between 30% and 100%, depending on the size of the vessels. Similar examples can be given for oil tankers. Industry organisations agree that there is a need for a different, more reliable, impact assessment. I wonder: Will Suzanne Svensson himself, as responsible for maritime issues in the Socialist parliamentary group, work towards the creation of a new impact assessment?
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-1432	Mr President, I would like to I can say that we always discuss such matters with our ministry and our minister. We do so as soon as the opportunity is given, and it is given quite often. If there are any such strange things we must, of course, discuss them.
i-4eV1iCNKk3SpvZJqTWRNYv	Mr President, I would like to Thanks for the summer greeting, and thank you, Suzanne Svensson! It was a bit of a bomb that Suzanne Svensson dropped in her speech: that we may have to look forward to an infrastructure bill not until spring 2017. The normal course is autumn 2016, if we are to follow how it has been before. But we'll get back to that. That's not what I was going to ask you. In my speech, I asked a question. I know that Suzanne Svensson is a very responsible and hardworking Member, not only for her constituency but also for her responsibilities in Parliament's Transport Committee. In what way has Suzanne Svensson borne in the concern that I felt she took very seriously when representatives of the industry were in the Committee on Transport and Expressing what they felt about the proposal on fairway fees, requirements for pilots, etc., which was now being consulted? It didn't send any faith in the future to the industry. I might have a tip, Suzanne Svensson, from other transport modes. As far as aviation is concerned, the Swedish Civil Aviation Authority, LFV, must not set the rate. It is the Swedish Transport Agency that sets the rate and tries to design tariffs and tariffs in such a way that the competitive neutrality between the modes of transport with which they can live arises. One way of solving this would perhaps be to deprive the Swedish Maritime Administration of the possibility, perhaps with budget zeal, of setting its tariffs and instead allowing the Swedish Transport Agency to do so on the basis of a reasonable assessment. What do we want to achieve overall as far as the transport situation is concerned? M a first is the question: Has Suzanne – of which I am sure – carried this in, and what answer has Suzanne received?
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-1437	Mr President, I would like to As I said to Boriana Åberg, we are discussing this quite diligently at the department and with the minister. Of course, I have also had other contacts with shipping to hear what they are saying. It is not just through the committee that I have met them. We've been having this discussion for a while with the department. It is also an ongoing process. We have done nothing more than express our views and discuss this. It is clear that you can think about fees and who will do what, but then it is a whole new thought we must have. I guess we're some people who thought about it, but that's it. I guess that's what I can say today.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-1439	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for one, as I see it, positive answer, Suzanne Svensson! It is a matter of responsibility to carry the matter forward and seek a solution. I'll buy you the idea. I know that more people than I've put forward it, so I don't have any copyright. But I think it is reasonable to think more deeply about it, that is, to allow someone other than the Swedish Maritime Administration to design tariffs, rules, requirements for pilots, etc. to achieve intermodal solutions and justice between modes of transport. After all, there is always a risk that the ambition to achieve a tough budgetary target overshadows the desire to achieve an effective tariff system. But the idea's on me. It's a common ambition to get this right.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-1441	Mr President, I would like to I see that there is every reason to continue the discussion, not only now but perhaps also more strategically in the future. Let's see what it carries. But first we will see what the proposal will be after the consultation at the Swedish Maritime Administration.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-1442	Mr President, I would like to To go on crutches is Suzanne Svensson very fast, so I thought I would be a little humble here in the speaker's chair. What I heard about toilet waste in the Baltic Sea is very pleasing. We Swedish democrats have been at the forefront of this particular issue. I have had an interpellation debate with the Minister on toilet waste. If recreational boat owners emit waste, they can get up to two years in prison while cruise ships can release more or less freely into the Baltic Sea. The fact that the issue has been raised and that this will also be implemented makes me very happy. Then I come to what I really want to ask Suzanne Svensson about. We've made a calculation. A relief could be provided to cruise ships if they choose to discharge their waste into port facilities at a maximum cost of 27 million. This could have been done as a relief for those who want to do the right thing by 2019. Is there any intention from government to be able to get such a subsidy and get a faster environmental improvement in the Baltic Sea?
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-1446	Mr President, I would like to I think it is the ports that have looked at this in the first place. It has not been discussed at government level. Now, I suppose this work has not been quite simple. It's been going on for a while. I have also worked hard on this issue in various instances, and I know that there are some countries around the Baltic Sea that last summer, when we had a major parliamentary conference in Germany, said no to doing these measures. Of course you should do so, it is also other countries that should be on this wagon and not just Sweden. But now, thanks to Helcom and the work of the IMO on this issue, it has been successful, although I may think it is a few years before then and would like to see measures taken accordingly. But it is not Swedish ships that are involved, and then you don't control as much. There is also a competition aspect that is being discussed: I might not go to Stockholm or wherever it is for. As has been said: U tan to know with certainty I think it is some ports that offer this service.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-1450	Mr President, I would like to I must have expressed myself a little vaguely, because I did not feel that I received an answer from Suzanne Svensson. The idea was to make it cheaper for cruise ships. They are relieved by emptying their waste. So they get a fairway reduction. So if I was not clear enough in my question, I am very sorry. Already with the SECA directive, we have had huge environmental benefits in the Baltic Sea, and that would have made things much easier with these things as well. I know that Suzanne Svensson cares about the environment, so there is probably no strangeness at all. I was going to go into my speech quickly, what was about Göta River and the question of landslides in the river with the flashler. Does Suzanne Svensson have any time frame that she can share, as it is more than acute at present?
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-1454	Mr President, I would like to If Jimmy Ståhl was thinking about the fairway fee, I misunderstood. The new fairway fee proposal also provides for environmental thinking and a discount. In that case, it should apply to all ships, and what I meant was that some ports take care of it instead and perhaps subsidise it. We have not discussed it, but of course it is an issue that we can raise. When it comes to Göta River, I have no time. I believe that colleagues from all parties in Parliament are exercising precisely on these things and have been doing so for years. Now we are going to redo the measure part in relation to the infrastructure bill, so it has to go in there. Then we will see when there may be a directive.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-1457	Mr President, I would like to Many Swedes today eat meat from animals slaughtered in a completely ruthless manner without any respect for the dignity of the animal, and this meat is often eaten completely without knowing it. The animals are killed and bled without stunning, which means a prolonged death course with unnecessary suffering, pain and anxiety. This ritual method of slaughter is called halal or kosher slaughter. Before I go further in my speech, I would like to warn any detail-sensitive spectators and television viewers. Undeaf animals– it may be sheep, it may be lamb, it may be cows– are trapped in a position in what can be described as if a tumble drier and turned upside down in an unnatural and painful way to finally have the throat cut. Nerves, arteries and gullet and trachea are cut off, but the knife does not reach two large arteries, causing the blood to continue pumping up to the brain. After this, the animal can live for up to 11 minutes before it finally meets its fate and dies of blood loss. A veterinarian describes the procedure in the following way: In all other circumstances, as a veterinarian, I would immediately be deprived of my identification if I did something like that. ..................................................... Here I have a couple of articles from Svenska Dagbladet with the headlines An article from SVT has the title. Sheep got throats cut off on pizzeria. In Sweden, slaughter without stunning is still prohibited, but according to the former CEO of the meat and meat companies, it is common for many Swedes, without knowing it, to get ritually slaughtered halal- and kosher meat on their dinner table. Slaughterhouses in other countries over-produce ritually slaughtered meat in order not to lack it, and are then exported and sold as normal meat in other countries. According to a study by Svenska Dagbladet, none of the country's largest charkgrossists were able to report control papers or contract texts that guarantee that meat from animals that have been tormented to death does not reach the Swedish consumers. As there seems to be a market for these products and thus also economic incentives, an increasing number of meat producers are moving towards these slaughter methods. For example, in some producer countries all sheep and lambs are slaughtered using this approach. The authorities do not carry out current statistics, but French figures show that up to 80 % of the lambs and 15 % of the cows are slaughtered without stunning. In Belgium, the proportion of unneeded sheep and lambs is estimated at 90% of veterinarians. Only in England, according to the figures from Meat Hygiene Service, as many as 114 million animals are slaughtered by slippery slaughter– annually. It is difficult to say exactly how best to tackle this growing problem, but the Swedish Democrats believe that the problem needs to be tackled from several angles. On the one hand, Sweden must take a strong stance towards the EU, which works for a general ban on this brutal form of slaughter throughout the Union, and on the other hand Sweden must actively seek derogations in the EU so that Sweden can ban imports of meat slaughtered using methods that deviate from the intentions of Swedish animal welfare legislation. Meat from animals slaughtered and bled without stunning must also be labelled with a clear warning to enable consumers to opt out of these products before Sweden has been banned. In addition, Sweden shall require that all food – all food – procured through public procurement is guaranteed to be from animals slaughtered and bled after stunning, in accordance with Swedish animal welfare rules. We may have the most ambitious animal welfare in the world. This is something that the Swedish Democrats are proud of and want to protect. I believe that we must be tough in the negotiations with the European Union on this issue. Any compromise with ethical standards and respect must never be accepted. I support the Swedish Democrats' reservation.
i-c56e3b0e48b75b44-1472	Mr President, I would like to I support the proposal in the report on public procurement and rejection of the motion, which only contains flossels in order to try to whip up fear and increase xenophobia. Mr President, I would like to Every year, public Sweden procures goods and services for more than SEK 600 billion. It is about transport – both the transport of goods, the school bus and the transport service. It's about cleaning services. It's about school supplies. It's about food for our children, and for Grandma and Grandpa at home. It is also about health care and medicines and more. It is a huge amount of goods and services that we buy for tax money in order for health care, school and care to be as good as possible for everyone in society. Of course, this tax money should be spent in the best possible way. Swedish innovation power will be used to develop goods and services, create climate benefits and contribute to social sustainability. By using public procurement more strategically, we use the common resources more strategically and effectively. Many wise municipal politicians are already using the procurement process to develop their municipality or county councils in the desired direction, for example through locally produced food at school, through demands to give unemployed trainees or employment in construction, for example, or by providing supplies to meet the demands of sj ysta conditions and white jobs. Of course, we must also make demands on the best possible protection of animals, and that is important. But just as important as making animal welfare requirements for sheep, lambs, pigs and cows, it is to have the best possible occupational safety and conditions for the workers. Unfortunately, these demands are not being made right in all areas today. When the service was procured in Stockholm, the salary had been dumped at the lowest rate of 27 SEK per hour. This was shown by Swedish Radio's review of the taxi market last year. When the Tax Agency controlled the cleaning industry, the lowest wages were SEK 11 per hour. Mr President, I would like to We can't have this. In the public sector today, we are using common funds to drive professional groups and workers back into wages that no one can live on. The consequences are that the social divide will widen and widen and that social vulnerability will increase even further. This is as out-of-date as it is dangerous for the cohesion of our country. The previous government ignored this for eight years, although there were reports of public procurement contributing to social dumping. We do not accept that. It is time once and for all to put an end to continued wage dumping in the labour market. The level of ambition on our part will never be lower than that Swedish salaries and conditions should apply to everyone who works in Sweden. This is how we build our country stronger and develop the Swedish model. It strengthens the serious companies, which otherwise have to compete in an unhealthy market. The legislative referral submitted in the spring will soon lead to a bill being put on the board of Parliament. It addresses the new directives, which emphasise procurement as a tool for promoting common societal objectives. The directives also give greater and greater scope to environmental, social and labour law considerations. D a bill will come shortly, as I said. In the meantime, we shall be content with this report.
