i-9DNDw8niacBYAb32SATBhC	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered today by Minister Ibrahim Baylan, Minister Helene Hellmark Knutsson, Minister for Social Security Annika Strandhäll and Minister for the Environment Karolina Skog. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. The Government of Ibrahim Baylan answers both general policy questions and questions within its own area of responsibility.
i-1227b078b36de96c-1	Mr President, I would like to The Red-Green Government declares its commitment to environmental interests and is happy to highlight people's role in the transition to a sustainable energy system. The same government introduced a penalty tax on solar electricity this year. According to the government, this was a demand from the EU. That's wrong. There is no such requirement. It was therefore at best a misunderstanding based on ignorance. At worst, it was a declaration of intent, that is to say, a way for the government to avoid taking responsibility for its decisions. My question goes to Minister Baylan: now that we know and have sorted out that the EU does not impose any such tax requirements on Sweden, will the government do it again and do it right? If so, when? There's a lot of environmental heroes out there waiting for news.
i-1227b078b36de96c-4	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mrs Cecilie-Toftby for a good question. We are seeing fantastic developments in the energy sector with massive falls in the costs of renewable energy. This creates great opportunities for a country like Sweden with great assets in the forest, water and wind. It is no coincidence that we are today the leading EU country in the field of renewable energy. It is also gratifying that we have been able to agree to switch the Swedish energy system to 100% renewable by 2040. Although we do not have much sun, it is of course an opportunity, especially when storage possibilities increase. As the honourable Member says, we made the assessment on the basis of an investigation carried out by the previous government that the tax was a requirement for commercial installations. But as it opens up opportunities, of course, we will look at it. This is not a fiscal issue, it is a question of legal correctness.
i-1227b078b36de96c-10	Mr President, I would like to That is not the answer that the people facing large investments in solar electricity wanted. The government has used EU state aid rules as an excuse to impose a penalty tax on solar electricity. This proved to be wrong. I therefore repeat the question: your motive was the EU's state aid rules. It's fallen. Does the government intend to redo and do the right thing? Now give notice to those out there who are facing investment decisions!
i-1227b078b36de96c-12	Mr President, I would like to The answer to that question is yes. We are doing our utmost to promote renewable electricity, including solar cells. It is gratifying that these are increasing sharply in the country. We have eightfold increased the support for solar cells in Sweden over the last two years. If we can also simplify the regulatory framework, we will, of course, do so, but that must be done properly. Then one cannot ignore the expert opinions that have existed in the past. The government is working intensively to find solutions to this. I believe that although the sun is concentrated in the summer months, solar electricity has a future in Sweden.
i-1227b078b36de96c-16	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask Minister Helene Hellmark Knutsson a question. Unfortunately, the results of knowledge in Swedish schools have been questionable for several years. It is both worrying and serious. We must do everything we can to break this negative trend so that we have a world-class school. Now we have a government that does not focus on tax cuts but invests in school through many strong measures. It invests in smaller class sizes and more teachers, in efforts to strengthen schools that are struggling and in measures to strengthen teachers and school leaders. The school's teaching should be based on science and proven experience. Then research related to the school becomes important.
i-1227b078b36de96c-21	Mr President, I would like to I thank Thomas Strand for an important question. We have to face both falling learning outcomes and a great shortage of teachers, and therefore we are making strong investments. Instead of reducing the tax by 140 billion, we invest 10 billion in school, in addition to the 10 welfare billions that go to municipalities and county councils to strengthen welfare. We are also building up the teacher training to meet the great need for teachers. We must also ensure quality. What we propose in the budget proposal is to have graduate schools for teacher training and pre-school education. Then we can get more PhD teachers and strengthen the scientific foundation of the education and eventually also in school.
i-1227b078b36de96c-25	Mr President, I would like to Research schools linked to teacher education sound good. In the budget, you can identify some more measures, such as the School Research Institute, the Educational Science Committee within the Swedish Research Council and a pilot project with school research linked between principals and higher education institutions. But how do we get synergies on this? To speak in math terms, how is one plus three?
i-1227b078b36de96c-27	Mr President, I would like to We need to strengthen collaboration between colleges and universities and municipalities and free schools to dimension teacher education and to get high-quality practical research. As an inspiration, I have the ALF agreements we see in health care and set aside funds to start pilot projects with similar agreements between school leaders and colleges and universities in order to perhaps also offer combined services that can strengthen research and activities.
i-1227b078b36de96c-29	Mr President, I would like to I would like to put a question to the Minister for the Environment, Karolina Skog, about the legislation. In June, 23 municipal councillors in different parts of the country and from different parties, including government parties, Peter Eriksson, drew attention to the fact that water and sewage legislation has become a serious obstacle to housing construction outside urban areas. At the same time, the legislation makes it difficult to deal with a large number of unapproved individual sewers. The Construction Act simply clashes with the Water Services Act's requirement that it should always be municipal responsibility for water and sewage in larger contexts. According to the 23 municipal councillors, dealing with the consequences of a conflict of laws means that construction with a detailed plan outside urban areas is virtually impossible and that the handling of a large number of unapproved sewers is made more difficult.
i-1227b078b36de96c-33	Mr President, I would like to I thank the honourable Member for a relevant question. Increasing housing construction across the country is an urgent task that the government takes very seriously. We are working broadly on this issue. As the honourable Member points out, we have been brought to the attention of the House that there are shortcomings in the delimitation of va-legislation which do not correspond to the high level of ambition we have with regard to va-legislation. We have drawn attention to the issue and share the problem picture. I cannot say any more in detail today, but I can inform you that we have taken note of the problem. I share the picture that it would be good to fix it. The question is under consideration by the government. I cannot tell you exactly what is going to happen today.
i-1227b078b36de96c-37	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. I have a recent example from reality. Norrtälje Municipality has 388 areas that according to the Water Services Act should have municipal water and sewage. Until 2023, the municipality will address 12 of these with current legislation. To finance it, you raise the va-taxe by 5%. After that, the 376 areas remain that they will not be able to cope with. It's a big problem. It is good that you have drawn attention to the problems, but what is the timetable?
i-1227b078b36de96c-39	Mr President, I would like to What is collapsing is an ambition. We have high ambitions in terms of emissions and to have good va-systems. On the other hand, we have a housing shortage throughout the country and thus also construction across the country. Here it has turned out that the legislation does not fully match. The issue is to be prepared in due course and will be done so, and I cannot anticipate that process.
i-1227b078b36de96c-42	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for the Minister for Social Security in view of the fact that there are many elderly people living in poor economic conditions in Sweden. It is a quarter of a million people living below the poverty line of the European Union. Yet there is a lack of investment in the government budget on the very large group of guarantee pensioners. It is a common attitude of your constituents and people in common that it is a great shame that the people – mainly women, as you know – who built up our country and our welfare with toil in working life and toil at home today live on the margins. I, too, have that attitude. Why is it that, of all the billions and billions proposed by the government, among other things, for various immigration-related projects and reforms, there is nothing left for the guarantee pensioners? These are the ones that you and I owe to us for even having some welfare to manage.
i-1227b078b36de96c-45	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr Bylund, for a question which concerns an extremely urgent group. Of course, the government does not make any efforts to meet this group in this year's budget. This year we are investing approximately SEK 10 billion in Swedish welfare. It is resources that should go to health care, school and, not least, care for the elderly. It hits this group. In addition, the single largest investment in the government's budget last autumn was that we spent 3 billion on, among other things, the removal of pensioner's tax on the most deprived. The Swedish Democrats voted against this. I also note the concern of this particular group, which consists of 80% women. Should the Swedish Democrats' proposal on co-taxation be implemented, we could be sure that in future we would have significantly more women guarantee pensioners.
i-1227b078b36de96c-48	Mr President, I would like to I'll start by correcting the Minister for Social Security. We do not have such a proposal from our party as co-taxation. Furthermore, I see that you think it is urgent, and that is very good. The investments made in public welfare cannot be told about how much money people have to move with. These are two completely different things, especially for those who do not need the care you invest in. I simply hope that there will be changes on this point when we stand here in a year's time.
i-1227b078b36de96c-51	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank you for that and to say that I did not have time to say everything in the minute I had. In addition to the 3 billion we spent on reducing pensioner tax, the government also strengthened the housing supplement, which meets the very group that Linus Bylund is now talking about. The government has also analysed the basic protection during the last year and presented a large anthology before the summer. In the autumn, the Pensions Group will continue to consider how we can strengthen basic protection for the most deprived pensioners.
i-1227b078b36de96c-53	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of Coordination Ibrahim Baylan. The problems of exclusion and particularly vulnerable areas cannot have escaped any of us in this House. It's about car fires that, unfortunately, are recurring. The Minister for Coordination has been in charge since 25 May. I think it has been very sparse and not least that proposals are absent from concrete measures to tackle the problem. Mr President, I would like to What I have noted is that the government intends to appoint a delegation only in 2017. My question to Minister Baylan is: Is that enough?
i-1227b078b36de96c-56	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for an urgent question, Roger Haddad! The challenges did not begin on May 25. We have had them in our society for a very long time and also during the eight years that the bourgeois government ruled the country. One might wonder how the priorities of the previous government have helped this. It was a tax reduction after a tax reduction. This government has completely turned politics around. We invest to ensure that we face up to the challenges. It is about strengthening welfare and schools. That is something that I think Roger Haddad can understand is very important in this context. It is about the existence of a public service and that people have a job to go to. I also believe that we need to strengthen the police and the judiciary. It must never be acceptable to, for example, react in Malmö by burning cars when the police tackle serious criminals. That is not acceptable. That's why the government in the budget is also strengthening the police here and now.
i-1227b078b36de96c-60	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister. I am pleased that Ibrahim Baylan mentioned justice policy, because I happen to be responsible for this issue with the Liberals. It is with great disappointment that I note that the police receive only 75 million in next year's budget. We'll add a lot more. The police officers in Botkyrka mentioned by Government colleague Ygeman are moving from other areas of the Police Authority. They're not new cops. The Government has pointed out security and school as the two most important things. How can the calculation go together when you don't bet more?
i-1227b078b36de96c-62	Mr President, I would like to We have in every budget we have put forward and in every proposal we put forward with regard to the judiciary both strengthened the tools and ensured that the police get more resources. If we add together the investments in the spring budget, the ones we are entering into this budget and the money that the police will have to take with them next year, it will be in parity with what they themselves have demanded. The question could be put to the Liberals: why have you waited until now? What are the measures that you now want to take that you could not take for eight years in government with responsibility for these very issues? It is not good enough now to raise issues populistly in opposition. You had the chance for eight years.
i-1227b078b36de96c-64	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for the Minister for the Environment. The fish stock is declining at a frightening rate around the world. Unfortunately, our Swedish seas and waters are no exception. Therefore, more gentle fishing methods and also clean protection against fishing are needed so that commercial fishing is prohibited in certain areas. Such an area is located in southern Kattegat, where fishing is completely prohibited. But now Sweden and Denmark are negotiating, and there is pressure from Denmark to reopen the area of fishing. That is why I would like to know from the Minister for the Environment: will the government guard the closure of fishing? I would also like to know whether the government is following the recommendation of the Maritime and Water Authority not to make any decisions on fishing in the area until their investigation is fully reported, which I believe is the last October of this year.
i-1227b078b36de96c-67	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Jens Holm, for highlighting an important and highly topical issue! It is incredibly important that we protect marine environments, fish stocks and bottoms of our seas. The honourable Member points to a trend which is worrying. We in Sweden are increasingly alone in our position that this type of decision should be made on a scientific basis. It is a consensus that we have previously had in the Nordic countries and that does not continue in the same way, and that is worrying. I can confirm that this is the case. There is a negotiation with Denmark on a specific area in the Kattegat. The negotiations are ongoing, and I cannot, of course, comment on the details of it yet. In the parts we can do ourselves, Sweden is actively working in accordance with the action plan developed by the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management.
i-1227b078b36de96c-70	Mr President, I would like to I'm a little puzzled. Does the Minister for the Environment not mean that the Swedish Government is guarding the closure of fishing in the south of Kattegat? If so, say it loud and clear so that we can hear it! Do you follow the recommendation of our expert authority, the Maritime and Water Authority, not to make any decisions on fishing in the area until their reporting is complete, which I think is at the end of October this year? You should be able to answer that.
i-1227b078b36de96c-71	Mr President, I would like to Issues relating to the protection of the seas and how they relate to fishing are complex. Fishing is fully based on EU level. Sweden has very high ambitions, but it would be a mistake for me to move the negotiation with a neighbouring country to plenary here. It could degrade our positions. However, I can say that we are moving forward in the zones where we have the power to do so, and we will be able to provide protection for other areas within a very short time.
i-1227b078b36de96c-73	Mr President, I would like to I would like to address my question to Minister of Energy Ibrahim Baylan. It is about low-carbon technology in the construction of socially important infrastructure. It is clear that, for a number of reasons, conflicts of interest arise between individual landowners, including municipalities, and representatives of society when society expresses a desire to use land for purposes other than the use it was intended for from the outset. A very high-profile example is the infected discussions between landowners and municipalities on the one hand and a state developer on the other hand when building new strong lines for electricity transmissions in South Sweden. In a modern society, we sometimes end up in situations where these conflicts arise, and we need to find ways out of them. I have previously raised the issue with the Minister for Energy of finding incentives and instruments to use more low-carbon technology when building modern and important societal infrastructure. In what way does the Minister of Energy push the matter forward in his talks with the responsible authorities?
i-1227b078b36de96c-76	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Anders Åkesson! The honourable Member is very committed to the issues; that is a good thing. I would also like to thank you for the fact that, following our last debate on this issue, we have been able to agree between the Center Party, the Christian Democrats, the Moderates and the Government on how to approach energy policy. It's good, and it's a force for the country. In the settlement there is also that we will further strengthen the infrastructure transmission in the country and outside the country. Of course, in this work we must also embrace new technologies when it comes. However, it must be efficient and cost-effective so that consumers do not incur unnecessary costs. In the end, we must succeed in solving the electricity needs we have in the country, because that is basically what this means. Unfortunately, both now and in the future will also cause inconvenience to some of our citizens, but it goes without saying that it is not possible to draw electricity to places where no one lives. This is the situation, and this is what we will continue to work on.
i-1227b078b36de96c-79	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much for your answer so far. It is quite right that a stable agreement has been reached on the future supply of energy, partly based on the possibility of transforming and transferring amounts of energy. But in what way is the Minister, in the shadow of this agreement, prepared to develop and provide directives, and even incentives, for those who are to build the power lines to take responsibility for using a more low-ground technology? What else can one do than traditionally go in and offer a lump sum for land that is seized for a very long time?
i-1227b078b36de96c-81	Mr President, I would like to We will soon be presenting an energy policy research proposal. As a country, we must be in the front line, but the regulations governing this are exactly the same regulations that ruled when we had a centre-party Minister for Energy. It must be appropriate, it must work and it must be cost-effective. That is the essence of today, and I hope that we can agree that that is the essence of tomorrow too. We will continue to invest in technology so that we improve this gradually.
i-1227b078b36de96c-83	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to the Minister for the Environment. The government is now proposing a chemical tax, which will be a completely new consumption tax on tablets, mobile phones, computers and other consumer electronics. The tax hits households directly. On average it is about 1 000 SEK per family and year. A laptop becomes more than $300 more expensive. The work for a non-toxic environment is an enormous priority. That's also why the alliance government set up an investigation. But the model presented by the government hits households directly, especially low-income households. The government itself states that. That is why my question is: why does the government place this burden on households rather than targeting environmentally hazardous substances and those who may affect the presence of environmentally hazardous substances?
i-1227b078b36de96c-86	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, honourable Member, for a topical question. However, the honourable Member has misunderstood where the tax ends up. The cost of using dangerous chemicals. It is an important part of keeping pace in getting them out of our everyday lives, where they are too widespread today. The tax will be substitution-driven, i.e. those who import or produce goods and who keep track of their supply chain and actively choose less dangerous alternatives will benefit relative to those who carelessly and do not ask for what different goods contain or do not care about using good and available technology. In this way, we benefit active entrepreneurs in this country and those who choose to take precedence over those who choose not to do anything.
i-1227b078b36de96c-89	Mr President, I would like to There's a lot that's going to cost households with this government. The government's budget costs an ordinary family with two children and two cars almost SEK 17 000 per year in increased taxes, and then I have only counted on income taxes, petrol taxes and reduced ROT deductions. In addition, there are several other tax increases, and now the chemical tax. The government itself assesses that it affects households, jobs and Swedish sales. Why does the government not present another model for this?
i-1227b078b36de96c-91	Mr President, I would like to Chemicals policy consists of different elements and must do so. We are actively using the legislative tool, but it is a slow machine that is not moving at a fast enough pace as the market develops. A tax complements this type of restriction and favours those who choose to take precedence. Above all, it favors the one who checks his supply chain and asks questions: Can you do this better, and how can we move forward?
i-1227b078b36de96c-94	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Helene Hellmark Knutsson. Every fourth child who starts preschool today can be found here in the Stockholm region. So we can assume that in the near future we will also find one in four schoolchildren here in the region. This creates a particular challenge when it comes to the appointment of teachers. On the basis of the great needs that exist, I am pleased that the government has now announced that it will greatly expand the places of teacher training during its term of office. My question to the Government is therefore whether the specific challenge of the Stockholm region is taken into account when distributing funds for the expanded teacher training courses.
i-1227b078b36de96c-96	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Alexandra Völker, for an important question! It is my and the government's absolute goal that all children and students should meet a qualified and competent teacher. That is the way forward to reverse the falling knowledge we have had. Now we extend the extension of teacher and pre-school teacher training with 3 600 training places. Fully expanded means that we will add a total of over 10,000 new seats by 2021. Of the 3,600 new sites, 750 will go to the Stockholm region. 415 of them will go to Stockholm University, 75 to GI H, 50 to Konstfack, 50 to the Royal College of Music and 160 to Södertörn University. As much as 20 percent of the seats will go to the Stockholm region.
i-1227b078b36de96c-99	Mr President, I would like to It was gratifying to hear, above all, that several of the higher education institutions in the region are included.
i-1227b078b36de96c-100	Mr President, I would like to Minister of Coordination Ibrahim Baylan! The government has developed a bill on public procurement, which, unfortunately, we cannot support in its current form. In Sweden, the right conditions and reasonable wages shall apply to all employees. In order for this to be achieved, a main contractor's responsibility is needed and civil servants responsible for procurement are further trained in the requirements that can be imposed on companies. We also need to strengthen the follow-up to inspections. These follow-ups must be comprehensive, regular and consistent. All this could have been done if the government had been prepared to negotiate with us. My question is therefore: is the government prepared to take responsibility by talking to the Swedish Democrats, for the benefit of the workers?
i-1227b078b36de96c-103	Mr President, I would like to The Government has submitted a proposal to this Parliament. It is precisely a question of strengthening the position of employees, of not pitting employees against each other and of ensuring that these are the right conditions. Such a proposal is on the table of the Riksdag. The fact that the bourgeois parties quickly announced that they will not stand up for it is perhaps not surprising. But it is a little more surprising that the Swedish Democrats are saying that they should join forces with the bourgeois parties. In the election campaign it sounded different. They said they were on the employees' side. But when it comes to concrete positions, it is quite clear that, in addition to the xenophobic rhetoric, the Swedish Democrats are also a party far to the right. They call this socialism. Yes, strengthening employees is a social democratic issue. That is why we are presenting this proposal. Now the Swedish Democrats and the rest of the Riksdag have to take a position on this. That's what's going on right now.
i-1227b078b36de96c-107	Mr President, I would like to At a negotiation, the government had understood that we cannot support those parts of the proposal that exclude the majority of Swedish small businesses from procurement. Nor can we support rules that result in companies employing foreign workers gaining competitive advantages vis-à-vis companies employing Swedish workers, or rules that make it possible to discriminate against companies that, according to authorities, have too large a proportion of Swedish born in their workforce. Such proposals are directly harmful to Swedish workers. And then we say no.
i-1227b078b36de96c-109	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish democrats say no to strengthening the position of employees in our country. The Swedish democrats are saying yes to pit employees against each other in Sweden today. It's clear. The government will never do that. We will push this forward. That is why we are presenting the proposal to Parliament. We will also continue to pursue this in the election movement, in order to seek the support of the Swedish people. I believe that the Swedish people are tired of this kind of unfair competition. The Swedish democrats are, once again, at the wrong end.
i-1227b078b36de96c-113	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for the Minister for the Environment, Karolina Skog, on the report on the House of Land and Waters, which was discussed in Parliament in April. The report announced that the government intended to submit in September a bill on the testing of water activities, and that is where we are now. But I have noticed that it is not on the bill list, at least not on the list that is valid until January 2017. My specific question to the Minister for the Environment is: when does the government intend to present the important proposal? And in what way does the Minister intend to respond to Parliament's announcement that permit processes should be so flexible that they can be adapted to small-scale water activities?
i-1227b078b36de96c-115	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Lars Tysklind! You are asking questions that partly concern the time before I took office as a minister; I am not fully aware of the details of this matter. What has happened between April and today is that we have got an energy agreement, and it also concerns the testing of water activities. For the government, it is self-evident to satisfy and take advantage of that agreement. As a result, we do not go forward on our own with the part on water activities, until we have ensured that all parts running out of the energy agreement are in place. It must go hand in hand, otherwise it could be a sign that we would not respect the whole energy agreement. And, of course, we cannot act in such a way.
i-1227b078b36de96c-117	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank you for your answer. Many people in the so-called reality run small-scale activities, and they are being subjected to trials and such things today. It is clear that permits according to the environmental code are highly relevant. However, what has been discussed is that we have so complex and costly licensing processes that activities that can actually meet a lot of environmental requirements are instead closed down. The last Minister for the Environment paid attention to that. How does the current minister view it?
i-1227b078b36de96c-120	Mr President, I would like to On the one hand, there is parliamentary treatment, on the other, we have the energy agreement and on the other hand we have ongoing trials in the legal system. The government must act in such a way that we do not anticipate the judicial review. But we must also ensure that we implement all parts of the energy agreement and do things in the right order. The issue is important, but we have to do things in the right order.
i-1227b078b36de96c-123	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask a question to the Social Security Mini s ter Annika Strandhäll. My question concerns the possibilities for young people with an activity allowance to get out of work or to try out studies. When the compensation that now exists was introduced, in 2003, the idea was to make it easier for people to get out, if there was the opportunity and the ability to do so. There is, but it is somewhat limited. I often get questions about the possibility of trying out studies and trying out a job, or some type of employment, for a longer time before you know if you are ready to handle a job.
i-1227b078b36de96c-128	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank you for the urgent question. The activity compensation was introduced in 2003 and replaced early retirement for young people. The idea was that if you were under 29 years of age and were granted this, it would be reviewed every three years. Since 2003, we have seen explosive developments. Initially, it was mainly physical disability that led to this. Now seven out of eight who receive activity compensation have a mental disability. That is very worrying. Therefore, before the summer, the government put forward a number of proposals to achieve what Eva Lindh is asking, namely the possibility to try to study for six months while maintaining activity compensation. That proposal is now on the table. This also involves a greater possibility of trying to work with dormant activity compensation. The proposal is that it should be possible to do so for 24 months. The idea is that it will enter into force on 1 February next year. But more needs to be done.
i-1227b078b36de96c-132	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much for your answer. It is good to be able to come back to those who ask the questions with the answer given today by the Minister for Social Security.
i-1227b078b36de96c-133	Mr President, I would like to We need to do that. This is one of the important issues for all of us politicians to keep an eye on in the future, so that we prevent that group from growing further. We will give young people with disabilities the opportunity to enter the labour market. We all have a responsibility for that.
i-1227b078b36de96c-137	Mr President, I would like to M in question goes to Minister Hellmark Knutsson. The government budget states that skilled, committed teachers are the key to improved knowledge outcomes. Teacher education should be the key to producing skilled teachers, but this requires that teacher education is of high quality. The Alliance government changed teacher training from scratch, but there are still challenges of drop-out and quality. The government invests in quantity and expands the places in teacher training. But what about investments in quality? The Government has said in a previous interpellation debate that the Government will continue to invest in improving teacher training. Can the Government tell us what efforts the Government is making to improve the quality of teacher education?
i-HMoetuJnXE7CV47xj8CJ94	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Maria Stockhaus, for this question. I fully agree that we need to continue to develop and strengthen the quality of teacher education. If we want top-class teachers, we must also have a teacher training that is absolutely top-notch. That was also my message when I met all the university directors and their chairmen yesterday at a large seminar. We are now making big investments. Among other things, we will invest a total of almost SEK 900 million during this term of office to raise the staff to the so-called homicidal training courses, which include the teacher training, for more teacher-led time. We have also introduced a new quality assurance system that is now being implemented and where teacher training is the first to get experiments with individual teacher training. A major national evaluation will then be carried out. As I said to Member of Parliament Thomas Strand earlier, we are now also investing in doctoral studies that will lead to more PhD teachers in teacher education.
i-GpBVurM3cLfAMzhyuLivqC	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Teachers today have an average of eight hours of teaching hours per week. It is well-provoked to invest in homing education in general, but the teacher education needs special efforts if we are to meet the challenges that the school is facing in the future. In our draft budget, we have spent SEK 300 million for 2017 and fully increased SEK 1.2 billion per year to increase teaching time by 50%, specifically on teacher training because it has special challenges. We need to increase the quality radically in order to bring about a change in Swedish schools.
i-4nt63Kdzu8DSNLMCqgB9uR	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Maria Stockhaus. As I said, your efforts mainly concern the next parliamentary term. Our investment is 900 million for this term of office. That is what will help to make a difference. The trial of training schools is ongoing. We want to strengthen collaboration between higher education institutions and schools to ensure that the quality of applied education can also be strengthened. This work is very much under way, now with regional dialogues. Our goal is to have the highest quality of teacher training.
i-1227b078b36de96c-151	Mr President, I would like to My question is addressed to Minister Baylan. Over the past six months, five people have been murdered in the district where I live in northwest Stockholm. The majority of the shootings have taken place on the open street. In a year and a half, over 16 people have been murdered. This is a violence that now bends over the conversation on the coffee breaks, among those who engage in civil society and above all among those who live and work in my residential area. Citizens are genuinely concerned about the future prospects of their children – a concern that we must all take very seriously. My question, therefore, is what the Minister for Coordination intends to focus on in the work to curb segregation in big cities and what measures he intends to take.
i-1227b078b36de96c-155	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Lawen Redar, for a very urgent question! There are no shortcuts. In the short term, we need to strengthen the police and ensure that law enforcement authorities have the resources and tools they need to tackle this type of serious crime. Violence must never be acceptable simply because it mainly affects criminals. There must be zero tolerance to this type of serious crime. It's good to strengthen the police, it's good to tighten penalties and other tools. But that is not enough to reverse developments in the long term. In addition, schools need to be strengthened. We need to make sure that parents have a job to go to. We must ensure that civil society is present and that public services are better so that people feel part of society and participate in the work to reverse developments. It must be done jointly nationally and locally and with the people living in these areas.
i-1227b078b36de96c-158	Mr President, I would like to The answer given to me here by the Minister for Coordination is reassuring. That is an answer that I will take to the citizens where I live. Like the Minister for Coordination, I also believe that we are obliged to take measures to get weapons into the hands of young people. The results of schools must be reversed, and our policy must be a priority. We must get more young people to work, strengthen local life in the local community and, above all, work towards the social security to which all citizens must be entitled.
i-3Y1K4gdD74gTvXb6aXv8ZZ	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr President. There are no easy solutions to this. It's important to have with you. Here we need to give priority to reducing taxes each year to investing in the construction of society in order to ensure that the police and the judiciary have the resources they need. There we are now taking serious action in the budget that we are presenting to Parliament. We must gradually reverse developments. For example, I am very keen that we should reverse developments in these schools. Basically, it is not possible to build an equal society unless the school becomes more equal.
i-1227b078b36de96c-163	Mr President, I would like to My question concerns small-scale hydropower and is addressed to Minister for the Environment Karolina Skog. Around the country there are about 7,000 hydropower plants run by small units – there are no large companies like Vattenfall that own these. For a couple of years, county administrative boards have exercised supervision in a way that is perceived as legally insecure and sometimes with a bit of random selection. These processes have put pressure on the existing rules to be reviewed. Where the County Administrative Board has called for a new trial, there are other votes saying that it is a review that would be reasonable. I have had debates before with your predecessor, Minister of the Environment Åsa Romson, and we have not really agreed. It is therefore very gratifying to see an energy agreement that clearly determines the importance of hydropower for the transition to a sustainable system. It is also particularly positive that it is so clearly expressed that the licensing rules are to be reviewed, but work needs to move forward.
i-Nvo9JR5gcwAjFJrdbWW9pn	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Annika Qarlsson! Of course, I share your joy that these issues were included in the energy agreement, which is a stable and important agreement between the parties and which is to be implemented in all its parts. The government has already taken some steps in this work through the budget proposal that we have presented. The Energy Agreement will create the conditions for hydropower to know what applies over time.
i-1227b078b36de96c-170	Mr President, I would like to The concern is that there are a lot of people who are currently operating under these conditions. They are already in the process and must comply with the rules that the majority here in Parliament no longer supports in view of the announcements that have been made. That is a good reason for delay, but the delay is also a concern. Somewhere there are many who will give up, and the risk is that while the grass germinates, the cow dies. What is the Minister prepared to do here and now to ensure that these owners do not get into trouble?
i-1227b078b36de96c-173	Mr President, I would like to I count on Parliament's support to give priority to the implementation of the Energy Agreement. It also shows that we take it seriously. It would be a strange procedure if, at the same time, we were to take action on exactly the same issues. Now we have to do things in the right order and ensure that those who operate hydropower have stable conditions.
i-1227b078b36de96c-176	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Ibrahim Baylan. Energy and climate issues have an impact, not only on our society at large, but also on the individual. Studies have shown that attitudes to different types of energy differ between men and women. Women are more concerned about climate change and its consequences. However, women are poorly represented in the energy sector.
i-1227b078b36de96c-179	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Hanna Westerén, for an urgent question! I believe that this is basically about the potential and survival of the energy sector. The sector has traditionally been very male-dominated. I noticed that immediately when I was appointed Minister of Energy. In view of the developments we are experiencing today, since we know that in some sectors there are labour shortages and skills shortages, it is dangerous to address only one part of the population. It is therefore not only a question of justice but also a question of competence and development. From the time the government took office as a feminist government, it has initiated talks as well as seminars, and has also put forward proposals to make this visible. I am very pleased that there is a commitment from the sector and that it sees that this is basically a strategic development issue. I have begun this work and look forward to continuing with it.
i-1227b078b36de96c-182	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. This clarification is pleasing, as is the clear awareness of how worrying it is. Like the Government, I believe that this is a strategic development issue. That is why, of course, I would like to raise my eyes still a little further and ask how the government sees that the issue of an equal energy sector could also be pursued at an international level.
i-1227b078b36de96c-184	Mr President, I would like to We may think that the situation is not good enough in Sweden, but one might say that it is not much better internationally. Of course we are lifting this up too. Sweden is part of a gender equality network within the international energy context to strengthen gender equality work there too, and for the same reason. Today, two thirds of all those who leave our colleges with a degree are women. Then a sector cannot just, or mainly, focus on the remaining third, as it risks losing valuable skills. Then you don't evolve.
i-1227b078b36de96c-187	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister for the Environment Karolina Skog. The Government's budget bill allocates 700 million to the super-environmental car premium. This is a rather substantial increase in relation to the budget amount in 2016. The super-environmental car premium was introduced by the alliance government in 2012, and it has been successful. But the premium per car has fallen in recent years. In 2016, the premium has been granted until the day before yesterday for 7,994 cars, but only 216 million of the total funding has been spent.
i-1227b078b36de96c-190	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking, even if it makes me somewhat puzzled! I understand that the honourable Member's concern is that the reform launched by the Alliance Government is becoming too expensive, which I agree with. Just subsidising new car purchases right off for those who do environmentally good things is an expensive way. That is why we are investigating a completely different model that does not burden public finances in the same way at all. However, getting our share of the reform in place has proved to take a little longer than planned. We must therefore ensure that new car buyers do not end up between the seats, but that there will always be some form of support. For this reason, we are extending the reform of the previous government. It is based on forecasts of new car sales, and this is the basis for the sum we budget.
i-1227b078b36de96c-193	Mr President, I would like to No, my concern is not because it is too expensive, but my concern is that the government is allocating money that has very little probability of spending unless the government intends to stimulate these super-environmental cars. So it is only a matter of symbolic policy to spend so much money if you do not think that more than half will be spent.
i-1227b078b36de96c-194	Mr President, I would like to The previous government made a number of subsidies to different parts of society – both to solar cells and to environmental cars – but it had a bad habit to under-finance the support. We see a rather small risk of overdoing it. The only thing that happens is that there'll be money left over. However, it is the case that new car sales in Sweden go up, and then it is relevant to raise the available amount so that no one who takes the step risks being without.
i-1227b078b36de96c-197	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister for the Environment Karolina Skog. The government has now put in a historic environmental budget, and we have a government that really wants to achieve environmental objectives. This can be compared to the former Prime Minister who, in his eight declarations of government, did not even take the floor in his mouth. As a social democrat, I am particularly pleased that there is a link in the budget proposal that shows that the work to achieve environmental objectives is also a work for more jobs, increased growth and more innovation. In addition to improvements in biodiversity and accessibility for citizens, the reinforcement of the appropriation for valuable nature has already provided many jobs, not least in rural areas. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for the Environment what effects she sees on employment in relation to these efforts.
i-1227b078b36de96c-200	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Johan Büser, for an important question! Nature conservation and job creation go hand in hand. It is important to remember that on many occasions it has been presented as a contradiction. The government has a very high level of ambition in terms of protection and management of a valuable nature. Funds are also added to the mobile outdoor life. In this way, many local entrepreneurs and consultants are hired, creating employment across the country. In 2015, the allocation of valuable resources provided more than 1 100 direct years of employment and indirectly a further 200. That's what I call a success. We will also continue to provide funding for next year to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, so that they can take a coordinating role in order to further strengthen these effects in the future.
i-1227b078b36de96c-203	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister for the Environment, for your answer. I have also noted that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has received more money for the coordination of green jobs. I wonder whether these, too, are actions which, in addition to the effects on employment, can strengthen environmental objectives as a whole.
i-1227b078b36de96c-204	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's coordinating role in creating green jobs and more jobs with low qualification requirements also reinforces nature conservation work. It creates acceptance and commitment locally across the country to these efforts when it is made clear what impact it has on business and the opportunity to create new jobs. Among other things, we see enormous growth in the ecotourism industry in Sweden, which is incredibly gratifying.
i-1227b078b36de96c-205	There are no further notified questioners. That concludes today's Question Time. I would like to thank the ministers and the participating Members.
i-KELQT1FC3P2qv3LBBHdCtQ	Mr President, I would like to Last Friday, the Heads of State or Government of 27 EU Member States met informally in Bratislava to discuss the future of the Union. So the United Kingdom did not participate in this meeting. The meeting stated that Europe is absolutely essential to us – we need our cooperation. There was a clear will to seek unity and hold the Union together. There was also a broad consensus on the major issues we have to deal with in the future. Several of the leaders felt that further work should focus primarily on three areas. The first is jobs and growth. The EU needs to continue to develop the internal market in order to achieve greater prosperity. We need open and competitive economies, and that requires more free trade agreements and a deeper internal market. But it also requires good working conditions. Several leaders, including myself, stressed the importance of making the Union's economic policy fairer and strengthening the social dimension. It is by both bringing down unemployment and creating a fairer market that our societies are developing and growing. The second area is migration. Despite the decline in migratory flows to the EU, there was an awareness that the EU needs to continue to develop its policy in this area. There was also agreement on a well-functioning external border. In my speech, I supported well-functioning border cooperation and continued focus on increased cooperation with third countries. Above all, however, I mentioned that a sustainable migration policy requires a common functioning asylum system and that we cannot duck the issue just because it is difficult. The third area is security. Several expressed the wish that the EU should strengthen cooperation on military crisis management. It was something that I also presented. Sweden is in favour of an EU that strengthens its crisis management capabilities both militarily and civilianly. There is a clear potential for improvement in this area. I was also clear that Sweden will not support a common defence. No one at the meeting advocated it either. There was agreement that more needs to be done in the fight against terrorism. In particular, we need to strengthen cooperation between the Member States. In addition to these points, we discussed the importance of the EU ratifying the Paris Agreement as a matter of urgency, and I and several others stressed how important it is that we continue to push for an ambitious environmental and climate policy. Mr President, I would like to Since this was an informal meeting, no conclusions were adopted. On the other hand, the Heads of State or Government agreed on a declaration stressing the importance of unity and creating a Europe that citizens can support and trust. The President of the European Council, Mr Tusk, the Slovak Presidency and the Commission also listed a number of challenges facing the Union and measures they wish to develop further. Given the informal nature of the meeting, it was important for me and several of my colleagues to make the distinction that this was their proposal and not decided by the European Council. That was the result, too. However, we all agreed that the meeting in Bratislava was a starting point for further discussion on the future of the European Union, and this work is planned to run until the celebration of the Treaty of Rome in March next year. In order to create sufficient time for discussion, an extraordinary informal summit is planned in Malta at the beginning of next year, in addition to the formal European Councils already planned. For the government, it is important that the EU now delivers on issues where people expect delivery. I also said this at the meeting, and I was far from alone in that position. I therefore look forward to further and regular discussions on this in the future.
i-1227b078b36de96c-216	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Prime Minister for the statement of the informal summit in Bratislava. It was important to have a meeting in view of all the challenges facing the EU. Brexit is, of course, one, but it is also about many other things: the euro area countries that are discussing whether to cooperate even more, the refugee crisis, unemployment – the list can really be long. There are a lot of different moves now. Hungary and Poland are making moves to have more national policies. Other countries in southern Europe want to cooperate more closely. Other countries are playing games about other things. I believe, as the Prime Minister says, that it is important to have ice in your stomach now, to try to concentrate on the most important issues and to put into practice what we have actually already decided. Jobs and growth are such a thing, strengthening the internal market and increasing trade. Migration is another, and in fact it has been decided that we should have a fair distribution in Europe. Anything else would be extremely tragic. Europe must live up to its fundamental values of a Europe of solidarity. Environment and climate are another issue, but of course we also have social issues, which in various ways must permeate the discussions. We know how many people have gone so badly since the financial crisis. If the EU is to have credibility in the future, these issues must be raised and then, of course, implemented at national level. I would like to ask the Prime Minister how he feels about the discussions. Does the Prime Minister think that there can be some peace and order in the ranks so that we can really begin to tackle the issues that we have already decided on and which are the most important in the European Union?
i-1227b078b36de96c-220	Mr President, I would like to There is a deep understanding of the need for this cooperation, as I said at the outset in my report. There's no doubt about it. Therefore, the process until March next year will be very important in order to get both the focus and in some areas perhaps also deeper and clarify what is the mission ahead. At the same time, we should be honest and say that there are obviously some issues where we will have rather difficult discussions. One such issue is migration and asylum policy. The forthcoming referendum in Hungary will not facilitate further discussion, and several countries will find it difficult to take that discussion, which is absolutely necessary. There is a clear main strategy, and that is to ensure that all countries take responsibility in some way. Otherwise, this is going to be really hard. I think we should also be prepared to discuss what happens if all the Member States do not assume their responsibilities and follow the decisions made. If we have order in the European Union where it is okay not to follow decisions made, we are on a sloping level. I'm sure that discussion will come up. I want to be honest and say that there is a consensus on the need for this but also some very difficult issues that we will have to work on in the future. But basically we go in with a pragmatic approach. We will try to find solutions, because EU cooperation is so important to Sweden. Nevertheless, that is the basic tone and significance of this – the consensus on strengthening cooperation.
i-1227b078b36de96c-224	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answer. Yesterday, Commissioner Malmström visited the Riksdag, and we had the opportunity to listen to her. She presented the same picture as the Prime Minister – the rather complicated situation and, of course, the importance of European cooperation. She stressed extremely strongly the responsibility of the various nation states for us now to be able to hold the Union together, and it is clear that this is a major challenge. You have different values and you think in different ways. But it should not be impossible to move forward anyway. Migration is a question that you cannot just think about. It's there, and it won't solve itself. The European Union really needs to take a strong stance here, so it is simply a matter of persevering.
i-1227b078b36de96c-226	Mr President, I would like to I share this view, and not least Cecilia Malmström herself is aware of the discussions on trade issues. It is extremely important to us that we get to the trade agreement and, for example, that we can ratify the CETA agreement, but there too what seems obvious to us is not obvious everywhere. This is proof that there is a great deal of scepticism among many citizens in many countries about this very thing about market and free trade. We will not be able to develop as we want if we do not manage that part, but it also points out that Europe must be more socially oriented and show its citizens that, even in an economy that is developing and where trade must increase, there is security and a way forward. I think it's important now.
i-1227b078b36de96c-227	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by thanking the Prime Minister for his report. The challenges for Europe are many and great. Meeting the challenges facing Europe today places great demands on leadership. How do we best work together within the Union to create faith in the future? All of us citizens must see results: that decisions taken actually make a difference. I therefore welcome the fact that the Prime Minister and his colleagues agreed that promises should be made – that the mechanism for implementing decisions should be strengthened. The issue of migration is probably the clearest example that decisions taken have not been complied with. Here we from the Moderates have asked for tools for better implementation of decisions. We have highlighted the importance of using the budget as a whip and carrot. It is worth doing the right thing and punishing oneself to do the wrong thing, something that the Prime Minister has not wanted to pursue within the Union. Given that the Prime Minister now participated in the decision to strengthen implementation, Mr President, my first question to the Prime Minister is whether he has re-evaluated his position on driving the budget issue as a means of better implementation of decisions taken. Furthermore, we Moderates believe that it is important that we do not become obsessed at this point with new and more institutions and procedural issues. There is no point in building new floors on a building when the foundation shows cracks. All the decisions that need to be taken to address the challenges of the future and to create a better Europe are already in place. We already have the framework today. We do not need new institutions or new funds. The EU does not need a Minister of Finance. We already have one; it is called the Stability and Growth Pact. We are very concerned that the Commission now wants to see a more flexible interpretation of the fiscal rules. So my second question, Mr President, is: what does Sweden and the other Member States think about the more flexible interpretations of the fiscal rules?
i-1227b078b36de96c-232	Mr President, I would like to We believe that it is important to have a tight fiscal stance and stand up for order in public finances. This also applies at European level, and it is absolutely crucial. As far as how the budget can be used is concerned, I think that everyone knows that there is no regulatory framework that makes it possible to punish someone in terms of the budget for failing to comply with decisions taken. That does not allow the rules, and then it is perhaps a bit artificial to pursue such an issue. On the other hand, it is pragmatic – we must push the question of what such a regulatory framework should look like. This is an important discussion. We cannot have a system where we allow some over time not to follow the decisions made or to obstinate. That discussion is legitimate. Today, however, there is no such regulatory framework. There are no such possibilities. We have to deal with that. This is our position. There are several Member States that are now beginning to talk about the need to look at what tools we can use, not least to ensure that we have a common asylum policy. I also share the view that we do not need many new institutions. The main line must now be to deliver on what is the mission and what is already decided: fewer promises and more results.
i-1227b078b36de96c-237	Mr President, I would like to I very much welcome what the Prime Minister says about order in the budget, both nationally and within the EU. I also note that at the meeting in Bratislava, the Prime Minister did not succeed with the social pillar; instead, the Bratislava roadmap addresses our future solutions to these important societal problems and challenges. The result is generally good, but I still lack a discussion on the reform agenda, deregulation, budgetary reforms, re-priorities and budgetary constraint. Given that we are now losing one of the major non-euro countries with the result of the referendum in Britain, I wonder how the discussions on budgetary restraint went and what alliances the Prime Minister tied to brake and to ensure that the Swedish taxpayer will not have to pay more for the British withdrawal.
i-1227b078b36de96c-239	Mr President, I would like to The Brexit negotiations and what should come out of them were not discussed. It was not this that was on the agenda, but the question was what future issues we should focus on and how we should address the common challenges we face. There was no discussion of budgetary restraint, deregulation or whatever. The focus was on gathering – that we need to make sure that cooperation works. What questions should be focused on? Yes, they are the ones I mentioned in my report. The social pillar was not discussed in itself. There is a draft that will be discussed in the autumn. The Commission will then come back with a proposal in this area. Let's see how it goes. But I still stand by the fact that if Europe needs anything, it is to show people that there is also social security in a world that is constantly changing.
i-1227b078b36de96c-242	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by thanking the Prime Minister for the return of the informal European Council. After the meeting in Bratislava, it is becoming increasingly clear that the EU as an institution is not able to cope with the trials it is facing. A breakdown of border protection and politicians without realism have in a short time destroyed much of what has been built up in the past. The Bratislava Declaration mentions, among other things, that last year's migratory flows must never be repeated. Yet some in the Swedish government from both the Social Democrats and the Green Party are talking about Sweden returning to last year's levels as soon as possible. The fact that the declaration refers to enhanced cooperation on migrants also echoes empty as several Member States have openly stated that they will not participate in this. Furthermore, there is a problem with the speech on the establishment of an EU common border guard, as this should be a matter for each Member State. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister the following: how does the Prime Minister feel about a return to last year's volumes of immigration, as some in the Prime Minister's own party and government advocate, but which the Bratislava meeting rejects? I would also like to ask how the Prime Minister sees Schengen working when, for example, Italy sends thousands and thousands of people north to put the problem to other Member States. Finally, I also wonder how the Swedish border controls will be maintained after 12 November, when they will end. How will the Swedish Government ensure that we will have adequate border protection in Sweden even after this date?
i-1227b078b36de96c-247	Mr President, I would like to Swedish border protection was not on the agenda. We talked about the challenges facing Europe. It is a little strange to hear then, on the one hand, criticism of the fact that border protection is not working and, on the other hand, criticism of the fact that we are trying to strengthen border protection. We have Schengen cooperation which means that we have to manage the external borders. We must strengthen that cooperation and make it work. This is the first prerequisite for having an orderly migration policy. I think it is quite correct that we should discuss external border protection and ensure that it is improved. It will then be complemented by a common asylum policy in which all Member States assume their responsibilities. I realise very well that this is a complex and difficult issue. There are some who do not want us to have it that way, but we must continue to discuss it. The Commission's proposal is on the table. We'll take a stand on that. We believe it is important that we push for such a common policy.
i-1227b078b36de96c-250	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Prime Minister for the answer to my questions, although I do not feel that they were very helpful. The reason I am asking about Swedish border protection is precisely that after 12 November we will no longer have these border controls in Sweden. Nor will we be able to live up to what was agreed between the Prime Minister and the other 26 Heads of State or Government at the Bratislava meeting. The declaration clearly states that the levels we had for the EU and Sweden must never be repeated. At the same time, there are several ministers and a plethora of municipal representatives in the Social Democrats and the Environment Party, the two government parties, who want a return to these levels. This doesn't make any sense. There, the Prime Minister is guilty of the answer: how does the concrete government policy go together with what was agreed at the Bratislava meeting? How, on the one hand, can you want levels back and, on the other hand, in the EU context, support for never having a similar situation again?
i-1227b078b36de96c-252	Mr President, I would like to We are not going back to such a situation. As I said, discussions are taking place in the EU context on what the new rules should look like. It will affect us too. We do not yet know what the rules will look like, but we will have to relate to them. Internationally, a discussion is under way where the UNHCR now has a mandate to review what refugee and migration policy should look like at a global level. We don't know the livelihood of that either. It is likely that a proposal will be made in perhaps two years' time. It will also affect us, and we will have to deal with it. We're not going back to a situation where we're not in control. But exactly what it will look like in the future, we must take a stand on, taking into account what is happening in the world around us.
i-1227b078b36de96c-255	Mr President, I would like to I would also like to thank the Prime Minister for the re-report of the informal summit and the clarification of the issues raised at the meeting. I understand that after that, the Prime Minister has also discussed migration issues in a wider and global context. Basically, it is about reducing people's need to flee and also ensuring that we have an asylum system that Europe can also manage. As the Prime Minister said, Sweden advocates a sustainable common asylum system. I know that Sweden has also pointed out in the past that the foundation of an asylum system is that people must be able to apply for asylum. The tragedy in terms of the escape routes to Europe has been largely about the lack of legal roads. I am pleased that many decisions were made by many Heads of Government in New York to increase the number of quota refugees, but I would like to hear whether the Prime Minister has anything more to add in terms of how the global debate can have an influence on the European one as well. It is not easy to find a way forward in a European context.
i-1227b078b36de96c-258	Mr President, I would like to I very much agree that we need to see the whole picture here. Our main task is really to ensure that people do not have to flee at all and make the insanely dangerous journeys across the Mediterranean. Therefore, talks are ongoing with third countries. How can the EU help in those countries, but also in neighbouring areas? Here there will be a number of different perspectives that determine. It is the climate issue – it is drought, and it can be floods, of course. But it's also pure war. It's terror and all this. There the EU has a greater role to play, and there is now, as I said, discussions with third countries. Then there is the question of whether asylum policy in the global context will affect the EU. Yeah, I think so. I can't say for sure. However, if the UNHCR puts forward proposals as acceptances in the United Nations and calls for change at European level, I believe that we must accept it. It is important that we have global rules. I am extremely pleased that we have had such a discussion now. D is a global crisis, and that means that it is a global responsibility. A New York declaration was also adopted. These include fundamental views on refugee policy. And there is now a mission for the UNHCR to come back with suggestions as to what it might look like. Then we'll have to deal with it later.
i-1227b078b36de96c-261	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the answer to the very tender question! The Prime Minister mentioned in the presentation and now in the response the influence of environmental and climate issues. This is an urgent and very important area of cooperation for the EU countries. In this context, I can note that while we are having the discussion that an EU country, the United Kingdom, has chosen to leave the Union, there are still a few countries that want to join. Bosnia is a country which today took a step closer to membership negotiations. One can see what basic EU environmental and climate legislation means in a country such as Bosnia, which is building an administration, institutionalisation, and what it means for the environmental benefit of Bosnia and the Mediterranean region. In fact, I believe that we will gradually see that European cooperation has many utility aspects to work with and can deliver very good welfare, such as clean water and clean air, to its citizens.
i-1227b078b36de96c-263	Mr President, I would like to Yes, it's important. It is a good thing that the issue of climate and the environment is one of the focus issues mentioned in Bratislava. We can really make a difference there. We agree to try to manage the ratification process in such a way that we can come to COP 22 with a ratified agreement. This is very complicated. The Government has today decided to submit a proposal to the Riksdag for its approval. However, all Member States should make their decisions. The EU shall make its decisions. But we are trying to get to it in such a way that it is clear that the European Union has ratified this when we come to COP 22. When not least the USA and China showed such a forward-looking attitude – it was unexpected, one must say – we must not fall behind, but we must be involved in pushing for a smart climate and environmental policy.
i-1227b078b36de96c-265	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Prime Minister, for the report from the informal Council meeting! The meeting was about the future of Europe. It's probably a future without Britain, I'm afraid. Britain is a very important trading partner for many European countries, including Sweden. My question in this connection is whether the Prime Minister made any advances towards his colleagues and the Commission in order to bring about the trade agreements which are now under way and which I believe may be a contributing factor in the Union's continuing growth and have the growth that we need in order, among other things, to counter the social unrest that exists in many and large parts of our Union. I am also saying this because I have noted that in different parts of Europe, including Sweden, there are parties, individuals and organisations that do not think we should have the trade agreements that I think are very important for us to get what we want, namely a successful Europe in the future too. I consider this to be particularly important now that, as it seems, the United Kingdom has decided to separate itself from our Union. Speaking of the UK's position to withdraw from the Union, I wonder if the Prime Minister made any moves towards his colleagues in order to bring about an organised and as rapid a process as possible. I say this because my concern is that the process is running out of time, and that only creates uncertainty for activities. These are activities that would help us to create the growth that we need to achieve what we want to achieve in our Europe, namely the good Europe.
i-1227b078b36de96c-268	Mr President, I would like to As far as trade agreements are concerned, I fully share Mrs Erlandsson's view on the need for these agreements. In our opinion, the CETA agreement should be ratified as quickly as ever. I had a conversation last Saturday with Canada's Prime Minister Trudeau about this. It's the same on the Canadian side. Unfortunately, there is a discussion in Europe, particularly on the continent of some countries. It has almost become a religion to be against trade agreements. For me, that is an extremely strange attitude. But we are pushing ahead in all possible contexts, and we naturally support the Commission in this work. We want to ratify CETA. We are also talking about how we can ensure that TTIP gets as far as it ever goes. Now it seems to be rather slow, to be honest, given the debate that is taking place in Europe but also in connection with the presidential election campaign in the United States. But we give full support in all different contexts for both these processes. As far as Britain and that process are concerned, from the moment the decision came, we have been clear to the United Kingdom, but also to our colleagues and the Commission, that it is important that it does not go too far. However, given that the Brexit side did not have the slightest idea of how to deal with this situation, it is also good if Britain has some time to think this through. I have also said this on telephone calls with Prime Minister Theresa May. She makes her own assessment that at about the turn of the year they are ready to execute this. Then we have also had the opportunity to think about how we should view it. But the United Kingdom must first give an indication of the relationship they want. There will be no model that already exists, but they want their own model. We have to wait for that.
i-1227b078b36de96c-272	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the comments on my questions! The follow-up question will be whether the Prime Minister has already initiated any economic discussions in response to the supposed British withdrawal from the European Union. That is to bear in mind that we have a budget that is currently operating in Brussels. But it is not infinite, but a new budget is to be drawn up. That budget is probably exclusive of the United Kingdom. I know from experience that discussions are beginning now. I would like a Swedish attitude to be announced in this area. Our approach is budgetary restraint and restraint with public money.
i-1227b078b36de96c-274	Mr President, I would like to That is quite correct. It will be a while before the next long-term budget comes into force. However, that discussion is already under way with the fact that we assume that Britain will pursue this. Then our position is: if there are fewer members, less money comes in, and if there is less money in, there must also be less money out in costs. That is our position, quite simply. No other stance is possible. You cannot continue with the same costs if there is less income. You just have to fix your mouth after your lunch, that's all. That is the simple message.
i-1227b078b36de96c-275	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Prime Minister, for the report from the summit. We are witnessing a sort of breakdown in the right of asylum in Europe. The clearest example of this is, in my opinion, the scandalous agreement with Turkey. We are paying Turkey to be our border guard, even though it does not provide adequate protection for people on the run. We are also seeing a kind of race in Europe to the bottom of the right of asylum. One element of this race is that EU countries are now openly saying that they are not complying with the legislation or agreements that exist in this area even within the European Union. Hungary is the clearest example. European legislation is certainly being violated in a number of ways in the area of asylum, but most obviously the Dublin Convention is being ignored. And it is intended to set aside the entire agreed redistribution of refugees and to vote in favour of breaking, as it were, agreements entered into. The question then is how Sweden reacts or whether Sweden reacts at all. We pay almost the most in the EU per capita, and the Hungarians get the most in the EU per capita. Is it reasonable for Hungary to ignore the agreements it has made? Isn't it time we hit hard? Then I wonder if the Prime Minister can think of any of the following ways to do so. Does the Prime Minister think that one should try to bring Hungary before the Court if they do not comply with their commitments? Is that Sweden's position? Is that reasonable? Does the Prime Minister think that if the country fails to fulfil its obligations, it should try to suspend regional aid to Hungary? After all, they get a very generous share of the EU's various support functions. And is it not reasonable to link the Swedish membership fee to countries actually complying with their obligations? Unless otherwise, this link can be made in the renegotiation of the budget due to British leaving the EU. If you are not prepared to do any of this, you only accept a kind of disintegration. Most seriously, it is for those people who need protection and asylum.
i-1227b078b36de96c-279	Mr President, I would like to We have told Hungary directly, and in other contexts, that there is no organisation where one can only take what is easy and convenient. In fact, we must also take on what is a little more difficult and take joint responsibility in these matters too. Hungary must also do so together with other countries. As I said earlier to Ulrika Karlsson, there is currently no regulation to withdraw regional aid. Just like here in Sweden, I think it is important to stick to the existing regulatory framework. On the other hand, it is a legitimate discussion to consider what such a system might look like. What could be the penalty? We think that the Commission should do more on the basis of the current regulatory framework and follow up more if it is the case that decisions taken are not being followed up. We must adhere to the existing rules on which we agree. There is no doubt that this is an extremely difficult issue. However, if Europe is to make it through in the long term, we must follow the decisions made. In view of this, we must continue to discuss what the penalty will be if we do not follow the decisions made. The Commission's task is to ensure that decisions taken are actually respected and to take action on the basis of the rules that exist here and now.
i-1227b078b36de96c-283	Mr President, I would like to I have a question in another area. I think that the government's view of the debate on CETA and TTIP is extremely simplified. The criticism has never been about free trade! It has never applied tolls! We have not heard a single voice in the debate that is not in favour of lowering tariffs. The criticism is primarily about giving big companies the right to sue us as a nation if we introduce rules for better environment, consumer protection and health. For example, the Canadian trade union movement is against CETA. Why? Because they see these problems. Stefan Lövven's German colleague is against TTIP because she sees these problems. I think it is dishonest not to discuss what the debate is actually about: if we are to give big business the right to sue if we legislate as we want in our own country. I would therefore like to call on the Prime Minister to take the debate on investment protection, because that is what the debate on CETA and TTIP is actually about.
i-1227b078b36de96c-286	Mr President, I would like to Our line is clear. You have to respect democratically made decisions. This shall apply to the protection of workers, human and animal health and so on. That's the deal. The discussion concerning CETA has meant that the agreement was re-established during the negotiations on precisely this. The views expressed by Europe were taken into account by Canada. Then suddenly there was a finished agreement that we agree on. It is signed and clear, and everyone understands that there will be no further negotiation on this. If we can't even get through such a deal, we're in trouble. We should remember that we live in a global economy. If the EU does not sign these agreements, someone else will sign agreements, be ahead of us and set another standard that will be significantly worse. I am absolutely convinced of this. The world is moving all the time. If we cannot write these kinds of agreements in Europe, we will have great problems delivering prosperity to our citizens, so for me it is extremely important that we manage this.
i-1227b078b36de96c-290	Mr President, I would like to Thank you to the Prime Minister for the presentation of this first meeting, which may have to say 27 Member States instead of 28. For a Liberal who would have liked to hear you say 29, 30 and 31 instead, it feels harsh. It is therefore nice to hear that this meeting would be a start – the beginning of a process, as the Prime Minister says. You get a little refined after a while, though. My question, therefore, is how this starting shot differs from all the other European Councils, where we have always said that the knife is against the throat and that it is up to evidence. In crisis, something new can be born, and it is possible that we have now reached that point of view. The Prime Minister says that it is agreed to present new guidelines for our common future in the EU in spring 2017, but that this is a difficult situation and that he wants a pragmatic approach. Then I'll be a little worried. Although I like pragmatism very much, you have to focus on what you really want. I would like to ask the Prime Minister what the image of the European Union looks like behind the pragmatic approach and the troubled look. What does the Prime Minister want out of this start-up process? What would the presentation look like if the Prime Minister were to decide what the EU should look like, and what is actually possible to achieve?
i-1227b078b36de96c-294	Mr President, I would like to I thank Tina Acketoft for the opportunity to decide in the EU – then I do! As I said, I think it is extremely important that the European Union can deliver added value. It's always like this. What is the added value of the EU? One added value for me is that we can have a functioning internal market, because this means that we get a volume that allows us to compete with other major players like India, China and the United States. This requires us to complete the internal market as we have planned, not least the digital single market. Then we will have the right conditions – the basic conditions if we are to be able to compete. There are training initiatives and other things. Another thing is that people should get to work. There we can make great joint investments and ensure that young people, in particular, get to work. One must be able to see that there is a future and that one will get a job and be able to make a living. This is absolutely crucial. A third point is security issues. We can work together to combat terrorism and to improve military and civilian emergency preparedness. There is a clear added value of cooperation to increase citizens' security. Another area is environmental and climate issues, where we will push to ensure that we live up to the Paris Agreement. I myself have mentioned the social dimension, which should not mean a new supranationality – it is in many and very national decisions that determine how we manage that part – but which means that we have a common ambition to strengthen citizens' social security. Such issues – which can be communicated to citizens and which can be perceived as added value – are, I believe, crucial. I can agree with Tina Acketoft's thoughts as to whether another starting shot will actually lead to something this time, but I still believe that there is a deeper understanding of the problem.
i-1227b078b36de96c-301	Mr President, I would like to A strengthened internal market, a common fight against climate threats and cooperation in security matters is something we can all support, so it was not a big speech from the Prime Minister. I would like to dwell on the security issues. In the run-up to the Prime Minister's trip, we highlighted the issue of Russia. Although it should be discussed later, it should nevertheless be an important point in the security section, including during the informal meeting that took place earlier. I would like to ask the Prime Minister how the discussion was about, for example, Nord Stream 2, which we discussed. Did the Prime Minister – and does he intend to stand – actively support the ten EU countries that wrote to the Commission last winter and raised concerns and were very critical of Nord Stream? The discussion about Nord Stream came up at all, and how did it take place?
i-1227b078b36de96c-304	Mr President, I would like to No, the discussion about Nord Stream didn't come up. There is, however, a process in progress in which the Commission is examining the issue from the point of view of, for example, the objectives and policies of the Energy Union, but also from the point of view of security and Russia. So that discussion was not held in Bratislava, but rather on the overall picture and on the main subject areas on which we need to focus, which I have mentioned. In addition, no specific discussions were held on such issues.
i-1227b078b36de96c-306	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Prime Minister, for the introduction. Donald Tusk, President-in-Office of the Council, made a very good comment after the meeting. He felt that it was a fact that millions of Europeans felt insecure. People are concerned about what they feel is a lack of control. They feel fear of migration and terrorism and, last but not least, concern for their economic and social future. This is a dark picture. What more can we do when borders are closed and immigration is regulated to help the people who are far from Europe and waiting for help? Migration is also about legal ways in. We're talking about emergency visas. Is the Prime Minister also pushing the issue of labour immigration? This is something that exists in Sweden to increase the opportunities for migrants to safely get to Europe.
i-1227b078b36de96c-309	Mr President, I would like to People are worried. It's a real picture. It's just as well to see reality as it is. Then it can meet, and you can take hold of things that need to be taken care of. There are several possibilities to help people. That's why I'm happy for the conference that was held the other day in New York. The United States has taken the lead in getting more counties to assist countries in conflict and neighbourhoods, so that more children can go to school, adults can work and the number of quota refugees can double, i.e. more can travel safely. There is a discussion about labour immigration and the so-called blue cards. Discussions concern the most highly qualified workforce. We do not yet know the outcome of the discussions.
i-1227b078b36de96c-312	Mr President, I would like to I didn't really get a clear answer. The Blue Card is for qualified labour, but my question was whether the Prime Minister was willing to pursue the issue of labour immigration according to the Swedish model. We may think that if there is a Swedish model, it should be run in the rest of Europe. My second question concerns Turkey. There is a Turkey agreement. That agreement stipulates that Turkey will grant more work permits to Syrians, schooling and health care. The UNHCR shall be involved in selecting the persons to come to the different Member States in the exchange of refugees. How does the Prime Minister intend to press ahead with the follow-up to the Turkey agreement? I have not heard that the Turkey agreement has been discussed, nor has it been the result of the billions that have been sent to Turkey. How does the Prime Minister view this?
i-1227b078b36de96c-315	Mr President, I would like to The reason we are not proposing things in terms of the workforce is precisely that the Blue Card discussion is taking place. That is the discussion that is going on now, and then it is not so much time to propose further things. No, we have not pushed that issue further. Now the Blue Cards will have to be investigated to see how they can work. Support for Turkey is, in particular, about aid for the refugees in Turkey. It is the refugees who should have help with schooling, opportunities for work, social protection and so on. Those projects may be declared. You don't just pour a sum of money into a country and then see how it goes. The money may be applied for for specific projects, such as building a school. If it is considered that a school is to receive support, a report shall then be returned. Such work has just begun. I cannot say right now how much money has been spent, but they will be reported projects for projects.
i-1227b078b36de96c-317	Mr President, I would like to The Prime Minister often comes back to the wording that he wants to see a more social Europe, that is, to give a social dimension to European policy. When the Prime Minister is criticized for that, because it would mean more supranationality, have to say quickly that it is not about Treaty changes but about a common social ambition. It does not really matter very much whether this policy is implemented with or without Treaty changes. Basically, the focus is that the Prime Minister wants things that we decide on in Parliament to be decided in Brussels. I belong to the parliamentary group – as does the Prime Minister – who believes that EU cooperation is important. It is important that there is effective EU cooperation to meet the common challenges of the future. The greatest threat to the future of Europe is that there is a growing feeling that the EU has taken on too much decision-making power, that power that should exist in the national parliaments has been removed from it. That was the root cause of Brexit. It is basically the criticism in those countries where we see growing Euroscepticism, such as France, the Czech Republic and Hungary – a feeling that too much power is being transferred to an anonymous institution that is far away. This is a serious development. Does the Prime Minister see the problem?
i-1227b078b36de96c-322	Mr President, I would like to I see a clear problem, namely that people feel a great deal of uncertainty about a global economy. Far from everyone feels like a winner. We fundamentally believe in the merits of the global economy, but they do not all benefit. A lot of people feel insecure. It is important that we consider how the social dimension in Europe can be strengthened. It doesn't matter how many times I say this because the Moderates still claim it is, but this will not mean a shift of power to Brussels. I recommend reading the draft social pillar. It clearly shows what this is all about. There's a draft to read. The idea is that, based on the countries' own conditions, environments and traditions, we should develop the social dimension just as we want to. This means that the decisions are made here in the Swedish Parliament, not anywhere else. The fact that there are dimensions is the point. People must see that there is such a thought. The EU is not only a market forum, the free movement of capital and the free movement of people, but also a social dimension. We should agree that it is probably so important to know that it is the people, the employees, who are bringing prosperity together. They're the ones who work together prosperity. We have the advantage of having the resources at our disposal and allocating them. But if the people hadn't worked together, there wouldn't have been any resources. It would also have been a very small budget to decide on in this House. Thinking about how those people should feel a little more social security is highly justified, but it should not mean further shifts in power.
i-1227b078b36de96c-328	Mr President, I would like to There is a very broad consensus that it is important to parry the effects of globalisation and create social security so that large groups do not feel that they are lagging behind or feel that society does not see their problems and therefore seek extreme political movements. On this point, the Prime Minister and I are in complete agreement. But why should such issues be addressed in the EU? Why can't we solve those issues nationally? The Prime Minister says that the social protocol and the social dimension mean nothing. But then they have no relevance. Why, then, is the Prime Minister constantly talking about something that does not matter? The fact is, it's not like that. There are far-reaching demands for harmonisation of social and welfare policies. That's a problem.
i-1227b078b36de96c-331	Mr President, I would like to I'm not so sure there's a broad consensus. I hear quite often that you probably want and need to do both one and the other but that you shouldn't do anything. So I am not sure that the consensus is so broad. If you want something for real, you can at least make an effort, read what is proposed, participate in discussions and say: If this is to work, we want this order and direction. You can't just say it doesn't mean anything. I didn't say it didn't mean anything. This means something because we have an ambition to strengthen the social dimension in Europe – it is extremely important for people to feel that it is there. When it comes to how this should be done, we will do it in a Swedish way in Sweden, in a German way in Germany and so on. It is a combination of national decision-making and a common ambition in the EU to strengthen the social dimension.
i-1227b078b36de96c-334	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Prime Minister for his report. As far as economic cooperation is concerned, the Commission has indicated that it now wants to loosen the rules applicable to the Member States. It is a rather dangerous path if you want Sweden to avoid having to pay for countries that cannot save their own resources, preferably as one of Sweden's few allies in keeping the EU budget limited – the UK – now to leave the Union. At the same time as this happens, Mr Juncker goes out and says that he wants an EU Finance Minister. I did not quite get the answer to the question from Ulrika Karlsson. Can the Prime Minister think of a European finance minister, or is that a blank no?
i-1227b078b36de96c-337	Mr President, I would like to Once again, as far as the Commission's view of flexibility is concerned, we are clear about the need to keep track of the finances it has to manage. This applies at European level, and it applies at national level. There is no other opinion, and we stand up for that. As far as a finance minister is concerned, work is under way in the context of euro cooperation and the view on how to strengthen it. It has been going on for a long time and the five have proposed a way forward. For my part, I do not believe that the time has come to take any major steps in this direction now, but we cannot control how we want to develop the euro. I don't believe in the idea. We are not in the euro at all, and then the EU should not have a finance minister. How the euro area countries choose to develop their cooperation is up to them. My assessment is that it is not time for such great exercises now, and I did not hear such a wish in the Bratislava discussion.
i-1227b078b36de96c-340	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Prime Minister for his reply. Consideration can be given to how to ensure the influence of such a minister for non-euro countries. That is my supplementary question.
i-1227b078b36de96c-342	Mr President, I would like to A discussion that has been going on for a while is how we both respect the fact that in some respects the euro area countries want to move forward in their cooperation and ensure that such reinforcements do not adversely affect the whole of the EU. This issue must be taken into consideration, but my assessment is once again that the euro area countries are not pushing for a common finance minister. With regard to the map presented a while ago, we will see how far and how quickly you can take it further, but it is not my assessment that you want this now.
i-1227b078b36de96c-344	Mr President, I would like to My question also concerns the EU's migration settlement with Turkey. It includes some questionable measures but also some positive ones, on which I have a question. Last spring, we discussed Action Point 2 of the agreement, which was that irregular migration from Syria via Turkey would mean a return, but that after such a measure we would resettle a Syrian from Turkey. This was considered by the whole EU Board to be a positive element to remove the devastating smuggling activity, but also an opportunity to bring about a legal path to the EU. Did this come up at the informal meeting, and does the Prime Minister understand that this process is in progress at all?
i-1227b078b36de96c-346	Mr President, I would like to It didn't come up specifically. As I said, the meeting in Bratislava was more comprehensive and concerned which areas we should focus on, and we did not get into it in detail. But it is clear that cooperation with Turkey sometimes came in, because it is an important part of the whole situation. It was mentioned on and off. It is simply to be noted that it has not worked the way it was supposed to. It has begun but so far not at all to the extent that we had hoped. One issue that is now being discussed with Turkey is how to take this forward so that it actually works. We will see to it that we receive those whom we have said we will receive. It has not worked well enough, but just lie on and make it work.
