i-a0433060ec350a69-5	Mr President, I would like to Erik Andersson has asked me how many new arrivals have come out at Swedish workplaces through the 100-club and how I follow up on the initiative at the 100-club. Since the government took office, labour market developments have been strong. Employment has increased by 120 000 people. More than half of these were born abroad. Despite the good development of the labour market, one of our greatest societal challenges is to better exploit newcomers' knowledge and experience. The current situation requires the government, authorities and companies to take new steps to identify opportunities for more new arrivals to enter the labour market. Everyone needs to be helped together to get more new arrivals to work. The government has taken several initiatives to improve the ability of newcomers to establish themselves in the labour market. One of these is the initiative Sweden together, of which the 100-club is part. The actions offered are, for example, internships, entry-level jobs, labour market training and new start-up jobs. The aim of the efforts is to introduce jobseekers to the Swedish labour market. Companies are also focused on finding future labour through cooperation. By mid-October this year 24 declarations of intent had been made between the company and Arbetsförmedlingen within the framework of the 100-club. The letter of intent states that each company must be prepared to receive at least 100 persons over a three-year period. In addition to the 24 companies, there are now discussions with six more companies that have shown interest in joining the 100-club. The Arbetsförmedlingen informs that they have conducted a survey of the companies that have joined the 100-club. Until 31 August, at least 713 jobseekers had received an introduction to the Swedish labour market from the 17 companies that responded to the survey. The survey also shows that the will of companies is greater. The companies included in the data base are willing to receive 4 000 new arrivals over a three-year period. The employment agency monitors the results of the 100-club twice a year through surveys to participating companies.
i-a0433060ec350a69-12	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Government for its answer. When the 100-club was launched hundreds of thousands of refugees came to Sweden. The whole system was collapsing. The government took action, but far too late. The Moderates pushed the government, which was very passive. We were not told anything, but it was completely silent on the part of the government. A lot of pressure came from several quarters. Social Secretary could not work in a good and legally secure way, and the housing situation was unsustainable with people sleeping in receptions and in the overcrowded premises of the Migration Board. It was a chaotic situation. Too late came the famous press conference with the Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister of the Green Party. At that time, it was recognised that it was intended to reduce the number of refugees, and that it would introduce identity checks, restrictions on family migration and temporary residence permits as a general rule. It was done after tremendous pressure from the Alliance, mainly from the Moderates. It turned out to be working. From about 160 000 refugees, we are now at a more manageable level. Many of these are going to work. Long before this crisis, the government believed that the crisis could be resolved by Sweden together. Authorities and companies were invited to cope with the refugee crisis with, among other things, jobs. It was a national collection. The answer was the 100-club. The government with the Prime Minister as the front figure launched the 100-club. It was a measure which, in principle, already existed but which was relaunched. It hasn't been very successful. The companies that joined would get a cream file into the Public Employment Service – but only the larger companies. You'd be willing to accept 100 new arrivals in three years. The real job creators – the small business community – are not mentioned. They do not exist at all in Sweden of Social Democracy. Four out of five jobs are emerging in small businesses. 99.9% of all companies in Sweden are small or medium-sized enterprises. Only 0.1% of all companies have more than 250 employees. It is small businesses that support the country and create jobs. Social democracy has always had a preference for large enterprises. We're talking about the state and capital making up the playing field. Large companies provide strong trade unions. Especially if it is a question of LO, there will also be an entry into the social democracy. It's like the circle would be closed. The cream file would be a special line into Arbetsförmedlingen. It is a departure from the principle that everyone should have an equivalent service. I tried it myself to call Arbetsförmedlingen and announce that I was interested in the 100-club. The first answer I got when I called Arbetsförmedlingen was: "I replied, "the 100-club, which the Prime Minister launched. How do you mean now? I got an answer. After a long wait on the phone, I got the answer that I would fill out a form, and then the Arbetsförmedlingen would return. Of course, it is always possible to discuss whether there should be special cream files in Sweden. But such a large and prestigious initiative on the part of the government that has not reached out to the organization that will implement it all shows a lack of leadership and poor leadership.
i-a0433060ec350a69-22	Mr President, I would like to Erik Andersson uses his time of debate to generalise the government's policy and ambition to solve difficult challenges together. I want to defend it. Sweden is facing, and is in the midst of, an enormous challenge. 163 000 asylum seekers arrived in Sweden last year. It was an untenable situation. The government acted. Today fewer asylum seekers come, but Sweden is still facing major challenges with many new arrivals going to the labour market. Erik Andersson knows, like me, that if we succeed in this, we can make Sweden much stronger, but it takes a lot of effort to succeed. It is particularly important, in the government's opinion, that Sweden works together. That's why I've put a lot of energy into meeting entrepreneurs, for example the tour together with Welcome Talent, the Chambers of Commerce and Linkedin. We are doing this together with both small and large companies. The 100-club is aimed at large companies. In the case of small businesses, there is already a very successful project with the Entrepreneurs called Job Seekers. It has been so successful that it has been permanent. The work continues exactly that way. This will require action by companies and non-profit associations, by individuals and volunteers, by the municipalities and by the state as well as by the parties. Sweden faces a major challenge, but there is also a great opportunity. If we are to succeed with it, many will need to cooperate. There's something I'm proud of us doing. As far as the 100-club is concerned, it is gratifying that we are up to a thousand internships. More specifically, 987 people have come out in practice. 30% of them have already obtained a job through their internship. I'm glad to hear that. It's a high number for that kind of practice. This morning we could hear on the radio that internships for new arrivals in government agencies are also going well and increasing. We will have to do even more, but Sweden is well on its way. A lot of powers are there, and I'm happy about that.
i-a0433060ec350a69-29	Mr President, I would like to It is good that the Government recognises that there are major challenges. So far, we have heard that the Government is satisfied with the situation as it is. Let me get back to the 100-club. The fact that it is a reform that has not really been successful is not only due to a lack of information but also because it is very complicated. Instead of making entrepreneurship and wage labour more profitable, various measures are chosen, which are far too numerous in this country. It's just too complicated. What was the result of the venture at the 100-club, in terms of permanent employment and in view of the fact that the government brought together the entire Swedish Government and the big companies? The result was 282 jobs. Of such a large collection it has become 282 jobs. You might wonder if it's the right money to use. In order to be considered at all for the 100-club, it is necessary to have a residence permit as a job seeker. But what is done in anticipation of it, before you get a decision whether you can stay in Sweden or not? Do you learn Swedish? Do you get social orientation? Or is it just a long wait for these people? The Migration Agreement contained a number of different measures to be implemented. The only thing that has been implemented is what I know the instruction law. Everything else – relief in the PBL, that one would get social orientation in asylum homes and more – shines with their absence. We agree that the best way to get into Swedish society is to work. You learn the language and the standards that apply here. But there's another component that I touched just now, and it's housing. These two belong together – no job, no place to live. What is the government doing on this issue? How would it be if the government could also take a strong stance on housing, that is, a national collection for more housing to be built? I have not heard a single word from the government on the housing issue, and that is the very basis. The dwelling is important. If you don't have a job, you won't get a place to live, and basically vice versa. It is necessary to review all existing regulations and make it possible to build even if there is some swampy land nearby. There are no answers here, but the government is satisfied and passive in its actions. Another thing I find strange is the RUT reform. It's not the one that's strange, but the government's handling of the RUT reform is. The RUT was halved. But it is a reform that has created jobs – many jobs. The Moderates have realised this and want to triple RUT while the government has, as I said, halved it all. It has created great uncertainty throughout the industry. One can think of it this way: Why does a change that only gives 90 million dollars to the Treasury? The half-life paid only $90 million to the Treasury. Was it necessary to implement that reform and make all businesses on the market uncertain? If you compare 2015 and 2016, you can see that the number of RUT companies has decreased by 14 per cent. I do not think that is good for Sweden.
i-a0433060ec350a69-36	Mr President, I would like to This interpellation debate was about questions that Erik Andersson put to me: how many places have been added through the 100-club and how I follow up on this initiative. I've answered those questions. I note that Erik Andersson would rather discuss housing policy and fiscal policy. I would like to refer Erik Andersson to interpellations on the specific areas to the ministers concerned. Let me say, however, that the memory seems to be very short with Erik Andersson. It has been six months since the government invited a national collection on housing policy. We invited very wide-ranging talks across the block to achieve what was the government's aim: joint efforts to overcome the very big problems that have been building up over several years, not least during the old government's time, in the area of housing policy. I can only say that the bourgeois parties chose to leave those talks.
i-a0433060ec350a69-38	Mr President, I would like to It is of course the case that different issues belong together. It is clear – I believe – that the Government also wants more people to be employed in companies and not only through activity through action. That's a temporary solution. Hopefully, these measures will lead to permanent employment. That's the point, isn't it? That is why I believe, Mr President, that the issues are connected. If you take measures that make it less profitable to work, it is clear that there will be no more jobs. If you take measures that make it difficult to run companies in Sweden, it is clear that there will be no more companies. The same applies to the halving of the RUT deduction. But the Government is right that unemployment is falling. It is not surprising; it is natural when you have a good economy. Unfortunately, however, this does not apply to everyone. We'll have more long-term unemployed. We get more foreign born enrolled at Arbetsförmedlingen than domestic born. That's where you're supposed to go. That's where you put the stakes so these people get real jobs. In light of that, I don't think the 100-club is the answer to how people are going to get real jobs given that the national collection has only meant 282 jobs. That's a terrible number. It may also be because it is very difficult to get this kind of support employment. I think we need to think again about how to make things easier. Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Government for the debate and wish her a pleasant day.
i-a0433060ec350a69-42	Mr President, I would like to I can wish Erik Andersson a nice day despite the bad weather. You have to hope that you can survive despite that. Erik Andersson claims there will be no more jobs. The truth is, there will be a record number of jobs. Sweden is growing so creaks. We have more than 100,000 vacancies that are not being filled today. This is because the unemployed have the wrong or low skills or that they are newly arrived in Sweden and have not yet entered the Swedish labour market. It is not a lack of growth of new jobs, but there has been a lack of effort for many years to enable the unemployed to take up the job vacancies. An important part is that new arrivals get the opportunity to get out at a Swedish workplace, learn how a Swedish workplace works, learn Swedish at the workplace and that way go on to either an education to a profession that they think fits or directly to an employment. That is why we are making efforts to get out in private companies. There the result is quite good, let me say – 30% of those who come out in practice get a job. It is a good distribution of an internship compared to many other parts of the practice. We heard good news on the radio this morning: It works very well with new arrivals out on a internship in government agencies. The most extensive work is carried out with SMEs. That's what happens everywhere; that's where the majority of all internships and employments take place, and that's what Arbetsförmedlingen works with all the time. The new arrivals are entered in the start-up assignment. Since I took office, the proportion of the start-up assignment going on to work or studies has increased. I still think the level is too low, but it's going up. There will be more people coming to work and to study, despite the fact that the number of people present in the start-up assignment is increasing and has almost doubled. Mr President, I would like to It goes without saying that we have to do a lot more. However, many things are also under way, and in the case of traineeships, in fact, it is moving in the right direction.
i-a0433060ec350a69-50	Mr President, I would like to Katarina Brännström has asked me when I intend to simplify wage subsidies. Lotta Finstorp has asked me whether the government intends to continue pursuing such a policy that leads to three out of four state-subsidised jobs going to men and what measures I intend to take to ensure that more of the state-subsidised jobs go to women. The development of the Swedish economy is strong, and the demand for labour is good. The strong demand for labour may also benefit people who are far removed from the labour market. Since the government took office, employment has increased by 120 000 people, while unemployment has fallen, not least among young people, whose unemployment is the lowest in 13 years. While demand for labour is strong, unemployment is high in some groups, especially among adults with short education and persons who have been in Sweden for a short time. It is of great importance that employment support in labour market policy is accurate and effective. For people who are unemployed or who for other reasons have been outside the labour market for a long period of time, subsidised employment can break unemployment and make it possible to make a living through work and pay. It also provides opportunities for new work experience for the individual and an opportunity to show the employer their skills and abilities. Within the Government Office there is a general effort to simplify employment support and make it more effective and accurate. Among other things, changes in new start-up jobs and additional services have been announced in the budget proposal for 2017. However, the Government considers that there is a further need to review the support and make it more effective. An investigation at the Ministry of Labour has therefore been set up to review subsidised employment. The aim of the review is to make the system more transparent through a change in the design and harmonisation of the aid elements in which it is assessed as possible and effective. Of course, this work should also include a gender perspective. It is true that men are more involved in subsidised employment than women. In 2015, the share of men taking part in new start-up jobs was almost twice as high as that of women. This pattern also permeates special employment support and entry-level jobs. On the other hand, we see another pattern for extra services and trainee jobs, where gender distribution is reversed. The Government believes that labour market policy must contribute more to gender equality and counter a gender-disaggregated labour market, including by increasing women's employment and participation rates. The Public Employment Service has therefore been tasked with developing a plan for how the authorities intend to develop work on gender mainstreaming in order to contribute to the achievement of gender equality policy objectives. The assignment will be reported in 2018. In addition, 2015 the Employment Service's mandate regarding gender equality was clarified. The Authority shall design its activities to promote gender equality and to combat gender segregation in the labour market. It is, of course, urgent that both women and men should benefit from effective measures to establish themselves in the labour market. In 2014, Arbetsförmedlingen started work to develop the working method within the establishment assignment. The new approach has proven to lead to greater job focus in newly arrived women's establishment plans. The Government believes that development work should contribute to increased equivalence and effectiveness in the efforts in which both women and men participate.
i-a0433060ec350a69-59	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Minister for his reply, although it does not contain a concrete answer to my question, which was: when will the proposal for simplified wage support come? The background to my interpellation is that not only employers but also employment intermediaries feel that wage support is too many and too complicated and that it is difficult to keep track of what applies in different situations. I agree with the Minister that wage subsidies are of great importance for getting more people into work, and in many cases perhaps even necessary for those who have been unemployed for a long time. Unfortunately, the flora of various employment subsidies has grown; they are today far too many, despite the government's promises. Even Arbetsförmedlingen has been active and made proposals to the government that wage subsidies should be combined into one. I have been able to read in the media on several occasions that the Minister for Labour and Establishment has repeatedly expressed a desire for simplification, but nothing has yet come. On the contrary, we see new wage subsidies from the government, in all goodness. They want to create more jobs in the form of trainee places, extra services, fast track and emergency work. There are criticisms of this, including from the Labour Market Policy Council, which says that wage subsidies are too many and too complicated. IFAU also says that it criticises the government for not having taken up the simplification of wage subsidies. In reply to me, the Minister writes that there is a review of wage subsidies at the Ministry, including for start-ups and extra posts, and that this is included in the 2017 budget. Maybe I haven't looked enough, but under Category 14, I only found a memo on pay support for people with disabilities. That's very good, but the problem is bigger than that. The answer also states that there is a further need to review wage subsidies, and a new investigation has been set up. My question, however, is: how far has the investigation come, and when will the proposal for simplification come? Mr President, I would like to More and more people born abroad end up in an endless line of unemployment; 2 000 more than last year are in this long unemployment. Today, the unemployment rate for this group is just over 22%. This is particularly true of those with low levels of education, just as the Minister writes in his reply. This is a major challenge and a major problem. We must also ensure that an employment agency is much more active in getting more sectors to receive people with different kinds of support. I think the information is very important here, but the key is actually also the simplified support. It is also important to simplify the management of employers around wage support. At the same time, I know that we need to check that rogue entrepreneurs do not exploit the system and only bring in people with support. At the beginning of the year, we Moderates proposed that all wage subsidies be merged into one. The starting point was the start-up jobs introduced by the Alliance, with a double deduction for the employer's contribution. The Public Employment Service was in favour of this, and the Minister promised it would be done. Now we're at the end of the year. Quite a long time has passed, but we do not see any proposals. In fact, we do not see any proposals from the Minister or the Ministry to our committee, and one might wonder what is happening and what is being focused on. Simplification of wage subsidies would probably make it easier to get more people into work, and it should be the government's priority to focus on all those who are unable to enter the labour market.
i-a0433060ec350a69-69	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. In today's Sweden with e n feminist government, only one in four government-subsidised jobs goes to a woman. The newly arrived women simply have to stand back when they enter the labour market. Of course, it is most difficult for those furthest from the labour market from the outset. Nearly half of those who received a residence permit in 2015 were women. It is most common for new arrivals to get entry-level jobs and start-up jobs, and here the state accounts for large parts of the salary. In total, only one out of every four of these state-subsidised jobs went to a woman, despite the fact that 46 per cent of those of working age who were granted a residence permit last year were women. As pressure on the Public Employment Service increases, women seem to have to stand back even more. The reason I wrote this interpellation was that I saw a feature at SVT where they visited an employment agency in the Stockholm area and interviewed employment intermediaries there about the difference between newly arrived men's and women's participation in the labour market. The fact that three out of four jobs go to men can look even worse in other parts of the country if deep dives are made at regional level. I have not been able to do that, but the employment intermediary also said that there were huge differences in the country. The mediator described frustratedly that only 15 percent of those who entered the current part of Stockholm in August this year were women. The same was true for fresh start jobs. Not having a job to go to makes integration difficult, and women are in danger of becoming socially isolated. I know we share that picture and that concern. The SVT feature also interviewed Thikra Hasan, who is chairman of the Iraqi Women's and Children's Association. She believes that one reason why newly arrived women have a weak representation in the labour market is that they cannot take all the jobs. She believes that it can be difficult for many Arab-speaking women to enter the Swedish labour market. Here in Sweden, paternity leave is normal, but among Arab men, not many people want to take paternity leave and take care of their children. So she feels that it could be an aggravating factor when women are going to the labour market. She also believes that women from the Arab world cannot take any job. In those parts of the world, female painters are not so common, she cites as examples. The employer says that some efforts are being made to get women into training for bus drivers, for example, because many bus drivers are known to be missing. However, most efforts focus on male-dominated occupations. One profession that many women are interested in is child care workers. However, according to the interviewer, it is difficult to get such training started, and there I have a question for the Minister. I thought it sounded strange, because I, who come from Sörmland, know that there are many nurseries in the country where newly arrived women come in. So I'm sure it's different in the country, too. The person who was interviewed, however, believes that when it comes to very expensive trainings such as mechanics, machine drivers and bus drivers, there seems to be a great deal of resources, but not when it comes to child-careers, for example. I would like the Minister to comment on this.
i-a0433060ec350a69-80	Mr President, I would like to I'll try to stick to the subject this time. This with female and male measures at Arbetsförmedlingen and who gets the most jobs is a problem that is much bigger than that it can be corrected through a new checklist for Arbetsförmedlingen to get women into entry jobs. The problem is bigger than that. It's about standards and values. I have visited an alienation area myself. During that visit, I was struck by women and men sitting in different rooms. This was a measure funded by the Employment Service, i.e. by the state, but it was an organisation that tried to get people into employment and possibly into jobs. Should we have it in Sweden that women sit in one room and men in another? That is where the basic problem lies. On the part of society, we must show forcefully that we cannot do so, and we should have done so a long time ago. If you're going to change such a culture, you have to do it from the start. If you come to Sweden, one of the world's most equal countries, from a country that is perhaps not at all equal, you must know what applies here. This is to be obtained directly from contact with the Finnish Immigration Service. It is therefore important to get social orientation from the beginning and to know what laws and rules we have here. This is not just about the staff at Arbetsförmedlingen having received a new checklist for more women to be considered. The basic problem is another one. Unfortunately, this in turn will create an alienation.
i-a0433060ec350a69-85	Mr President, I would like to These are very important issues. Let me begin with Lotta Finstorp's question about the large gender gap in efforts to get to work. This is something I take very seriously. I'm not happy with the progress. I said earlier that the proportion of the start-up assignment going on to work or studies has increased in the last two years, but the increase is for men, hardly women. This is a very serious development, and we have to face it with a number of different actions. One of these is, of course, to review how the various employment subsidies work. We note that new start-up jobs, which are the most common form of newcomers, mainly go to men, while the new additional services, which are not yet so many, seem to have a completely different gender distribution. I will come back to this later. The design of the aid may also affect how it is suited for different activities and for women and men. Let me also mention the issue of parental leave. When people who have fled hell and lived under very uncertain conditions finally get a residence permit in a safe and secure country like Sweden they dare to have the children they want. It is deeply human that they want it, and of course they should. But it also has the effect that many women begin their time in Sweden with parental leave. It is a challenge to ensure that parental leave does not become a trap that prevents them from entering the labour market. An investigator has recently submitted a proposal to the Minister for Social Security regarding changes in parental insurance for children who already exist when the family comes here and to limit the withdrawal of parental insurance for children who are over two years old when they come to Sweden. I think it is a good proposal, but of course it should be dealt with and prepared before it becomes a reality. But we may also need to look at other parts. Should you, for example, make it easier to participate in Swedish education and other things during the time you are on parental leave, in order not to lose the contact that you might have had time to build up? There are many things that need to be done in this. I am very concerned about the great difference that exists. I will not accept that it continues to look this way. This also concerns the important issue raised by Katarina Brännström, namely the design of wage subsidies. There is a great need to simplify wage support. They need to get smaller and easier. I think we are in complete agreement on this. I'll tell you the truth, though, it's been harder than I thought. We have received a proposal from Arbetsförmedlingen to simplify matters. But this also means, for example, that new start jobs disappear, and new start jobs are something that many employers appreciate. I have noted that the Moderates have put forward a proposal that is a simplification, but that proposal means that almost everything becomes a new start job. New start jobs are the form of support that has the greatest problems with deadweight costs, and there is also a gender breakdown there. So it's a little harder than I thought. I can reply a little more clearly now: I have appointed a special investigator within the Ministry of Labour, who has a special mandate with a directive to review and simplify wage subsidies that will be completed by August next year.
i-a0433060ec350a69-94	Mr President, I would like to It is pleasing that the Minister for Employment understands the problem and how difficult this is. It's sounded a little different in the past – it's sounded like everything would be fixed and as if it was quite simple. I welcome the fact that the Minister says that it is more difficult than one might think to make these changes, and it is more difficult than one might think to get many of these people into jobs at all. Now we see that long-term unemployment is growing, and those of us who stand here also know who is coming into this group. It is new arrivals and low-skilled, which it is very difficult to get an employer to take an interest in at all. I'm thinking about how to look at wage subsidies and how they can change over time. Unemployment does not always look the same. When we took office ten years ago, very many young people were unemployed. It was people who were long-term sick. There was another problem. Then perhaps a certain form of wage support was needed. Today, something else is needed. I think it is a good thing that this type of support is constantly being reviewed. We should also be aware that subsidised employment is always at risk of crowding out other jobs. Those who receive the subsidies may take the job from someone who could have received it without subsidies. We know that there is a risk, and we need to find a balance, so that we do not, with these costs, get jobs that would have come anyway. At the same time, we know that there is much in labour market policy that is not working. Labour market training, especially those not specifically targeted at a particular profession, often leads to people ending up in even longer unemployment. It's hard to get jobs for the low-skilled. It is difficult to get jobs for those who do not know the Swedish language or have not been into the Swedish labour market. I welcome the fact that the Minister now acknowledges this. In the start-up assignment – this is about those who have come to Sweden in the last two years – the number has increased. It is now 23 000. It's a huge challenge! We see that they cannot get jobs today, when there is a boom and unemployment is falling. What, then, will happen to that group when the economic cycle turns downwards? We all know that will happen. It's going up, and it's going down. All the employers I have spoken to have said that they would be willing to accept someone, as long as it would be less complicated. That's how we have to make it happen. As far as I am concerned, I could imagine that employers' contributions were simply abolished and, perhaps, taxes were reduced rather than subsidies. Then you come out of this with simpler solutions. If we are not able to do this now, we will be standing here in a few years' time with an even bigger problem. We also need to get more sectors interested. Today, it is mostly taxi, retail, hotel and restaurant. It's pretty simple jobs, if we can call them that. We need to bring industry, government activities and municipal activities in a much better way than we do today. Too few people take responsibility. We shouldn't blame them. We in this House must ensure that the rules are so simple that there is an interest. You don't hire someone just because you're a good person. You hire someone because you see that you can benefit from that employment in the future.
i-a0433060ec350a69-102	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for a shared view of the problem of an unequal labour market for new arrivals! This is extremely worrying. The Minister raised this point by saying that you might be able to stay in, for example, your SFI training when you have a child. You are happy to have children when you can draw a sigh of relief and can think: Now we can plan for a family here in Sweden. Many newly arrived women give birth. A while ago I made a study visit to Flen municipality at an establishment company. There was a kind of open preschool for new arrivals with very small babies. It was women who were academics, such as dentists and doctors, and who needed to work with their professional Swedish. They were very worried about interrupting it. That's why they had organized a very good business where they could bring their really small babies. I think we could look further at whether this could be made a little wider in the country. The Minister said in his reply and also now in a speech that the gender balance is reversed in terms of extra services and trainee jobs. There are therefore more women who receive these measures. But it is mainly about contact occupations, that is, traditional women's occupations. My question is this: is it desirable to consolidate a gender-disaggregated labour market? I've been looking at a government investigation that was conducted in 2012, which is very topical today as well. It is entitled With the right to participate – newly arrived women and relatives in the labour market. As I said, it is particularly topical today. The study points to several factors that make it difficult for newcomers to benefit from support for entry into the labour market. The study states that women and men are not offered interventions based on individual needs. There is no interaction between the receiving actors and there is no relevant action for short-term graduates. The frustration described in the investigation knows all long-term unemployed. But if you are also new arrivals in a new country, frustration becomes even greater if you do not get a job or enter the labour market after a long time. It's not a new problem. It is just that many more have now arrived, which makes the unequal labour market look like it does. Now Arbetsförmedlingen will start with a new way of working. You're supposed to map from a checklist, as the minister said. There is something that surprises me: Could it be possible that the Public Employment Service should only now map the individuals on an individual level and in an equivalent way? I've thought you've been doing that all along. But new tools are being developed. Some offices have had it as a project, and now it's permanent. That's good. I very much hope that this will lead to more women entering the labour market with the state-subsidised measures. But the problem still remains. I wonder if the Minister could answer my question. Now checklists are being made to review equally what people have in their luggage, what their education is and what their experience is. But in what way will the gap be narrowed just because an equivalent assessment is made? This is about both men and women. In what way is there a gender equality parameter in the new model?
i-a0433060ec350a69-110	Mr President, I would like to We have now heard that three out of four measures go to men. This feminist government does not deliver in Sweden. It's just like the snow clearance in Stockholm, which is called feminist: it doesn't work either. The basic problem is also: How can you find these women and support them, so that they come to Arbetsförmedlingen at all? I guess you should think about that, too. Does the Government have any answers to that? How can you get them to Arbetsförmedlingen, so that they can find out what opportunities there are, what opportunities there are to get to work and what opportunities there are to learn the language? For us Moderates, Mr President, the important thing is not where you come from, but where you are going. In fact, in Sweden everyone can become what they want. We have a system where it's possible. The American dream is not in America. It is here in Sweden. We have an education system that means that everyone can learn and become just what they want. There should be no obstacles to this, such as limitations due to poor values. Therefore, I think that the Government should tell us how to do so that all women can come to their own without, for example, being limited by outdated values or cultures.
i-a0433060ec350a69-113	Mr President, I would like to According to Statistics Sweden, the definition of long-term unemployed is that it has been unemployed for six months. According to Arbetsförmedlingen, the definition is that you have been unemployed for 12 months. Then you'll be classified as long-term unemployed. When you enter the establishment assignment, it is normal that you have an establishment plan that is 24 months. This means that very many of the 60 000 people currently present in the start-up assignment will be classified as unemployed during their start-up period. It is built into the statistics, so to speak. My focus is to ensure that we get an increasing share of work and studies after that two-year period. When I took office, it was 27 - 28 percent. Last year we reached 31 percent. I hope that this year we will increase this further. We must work to ensure that more and more people are able to enter the labour market during the two-year period, although it is of course more difficult when there are very many at once. I would like to comment on labour market training, which Katarina Brännström mentions. There was a dramatic change in labour market training in 2007. After a situation in which about 70 per cent of those attending labour market training received a job, there was a dramatic decrease over six months down to 30 per cent. This means that for a few years we have been at a level where labour market training has no effect. It is therefore as likely to find a job without labour market training as with labour market training. That is totally unacceptable. Now this government is changing what the previous government caused in terms of labour market training. Now the share of people getting work after labour market training is increasing, but more remains to be done in this area. I fully share the view that there is a need to change wage subsidies. That's what we're doing, too. We sharpen new start jobs and target them more to those who are far from the labour market in a situation where we have a good economic situation, and we have removed the inefficient reduction in employers' contributions for young people. Lotta Finstorp raises very important issues. It is clear that, especially for women, the combination of parenthood and entry into the labour market is a particular challenge – this has also been the case in Sweden. There, parental insurance is an important issue. Swedish parental insurance has been built up to provide an incentive to first acquire a job and an income and then start a family. It's worked. It has been an important tool that has helped us to have a high employment rate among women. Very many young women begin their adult life by training and working. Then they form a family, and then it's easier to come back. But here are the people who come to Sweden, who have fled from war and who have lived in hell and under uncertain conditions. When they finally get ground under their feet, get a residence permit and can live in a safe country, there is a dampened will in many to have children, start a family or have a larger family. It's deeply human to want it. But it also means that you start your adult life in Sweden with parenting and not with work. It affects women harder than men, and this has been the case in Sweden before we had parental insurance. How we are going to do this is a particular challenge. I really believe that what Lotta Finstorp mentioned about open preschool and flexible forms of Swedish education are good ways forward, which we should go. Of course, we should not strengthen a gender-disaggregated labour market. That is why Arbetsförmedlingen has regained the mission it had previously but that the old government removed, namely that Arbetsförmedlingen should counteract a gender-disaggregated labour market. That's a mission you've got again. Lotta Finstorp also mentioned the changes that need to be made in the start-up assignment. I will come back to that in my next speech, Mr President.
i-a0433060ec350a69-123	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for a good debate. But the question remains: how will the government cope with the challenge of an increasing number of long-term unemployed? That is a bigger problem; the Minister has already acknowledged that. Experts also condemn both trainee services and additional services as solutions to this problem. The 5,000 modern standby jobs do not receive a higher grade, for example, from Lars Calmfors, who is chairman of the Labour Market Economic Council. There are others who say the same thing. A whole palette of new proposals is needed, but the government does not come up with anything – not a single bill. Now we're in a boom. What is happening, and what is the government prepared to do when we enter a recession? It looks rather bleak. I understand that it is a little more difficult than was thought, but there must be new proposals on how to cope with this large group. Otherwise, they won't stand a chance. If they have been unemployed for a number of years, no one is interested in them. Among other things, we are talking about lower entry wages, and we are talking about different forms, a palette, of proposals. We do not see that the government is on the track. Now there will be simplification proposals by August. This is welcome, but, as I said, it is more necessary for us to meet the challenge. The Minister for Labour said that labour market training was ineffective during our time. They're still ineffective. Research shows that they do not provide much more jobs. There you also need to do things. Employment services need to be reformed. There are quite a few major challenges ahead of the Minister, and we would welcome some proposals in a direction that shows that these long-term unemployed can get jobs and training.
i-a0433060ec350a69-127	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for a good and important debate! In the recent research report The Gender Employment Gap from Eurofound, the main objective is to demonstrate the importance of reforms that increase women's employment rates. Sweden is very good in percentage terms, but we can get even better. We women who have been lucky enough to be born in Sweden have a high level of employment, while new arrivals do not enter the labour market to the same extent. It's a big worry. Both the national economy and the individual economy benefit from a labour market where there is a gender balance. It is therefore both a social economy and an individual's economy. The report from Eurofound shows that for women themselves, greater participation in the labour market means better financial security and social inclusion. It has also been calculated that Sweden would earn 57 billion by having a totally equal labour market. Maybe it's a carrot for the minister! The state inquiry from 2012 that I repeated earlier, With the right to participate – New arrivals of women and relatives in the labour market, addresses this with strengthened incentives for mothers of young children, as stated in the investigation. That is exactly what we talked about earlier in our posts: to try to find a good open business or some way that does not mean that you need to cancel your SFI, your introductory training and so on. Employment as a woman is one way to enter the labour market and thereby contribute to greater equality. There is, of course, a certain responsibility of its own. What is the Minister's view that society can impose on the individual?
i-a0433060ec350a69-130	Mr President, I would like to Lotta Finstorp said earlier that she was surprised at what had not already happened in the start-up assignment. So was I when I stepped into this responsibility mission. I was surprised that they did not have a systematic working method throughout the work and that they had establishment slots for everyone and the same action for everyone despite the fact that these people obviously have completely different needs and conditions. They must therefore also be dealt with individually and not at all in the same way. The establishment mission today is a complicated and rather bureaucratic system. We are now working and have put forward proposals for simplification, which are out for consultation. The proposals also enable us to make the same demands on new arrivals in the start-up assignment as we do on all the other unemployed. That is also the answer to Lotta Finstorp's question: I believe that we must be able to make clear demands in the start-up mission, just as we do on other unemployed people. For example, you have to attend a certain level of education, take a certain job or take part in a particular measure. If you do not want to do so, it will also have consequences for the compensation. I think it is reasonable for us to make the same demands. Proposals are therefore being referred, and we expect to be able to present them. I can assure Lotta Finstorp that it is a strong carrot for me to achieve a totally equal labour market. We have an enormous amount to gain from it. Sweden is ahead of many other countries also when it comes to women born abroad. Foreign born women in Sweden have a higher employment rate than the EU average despite the fact that the composition of foreign born in Sweden is largely based on refugees and relatives of refugees, while other countries have a higher proportion of labour immigrants. And yet we're above the average. That doesn't mean we don't have much left to do, but some things we're also doing right. After all, I would like to say to Katarina Brännström: If you want to reduce wages, you can choose another government. We stand up for the Swedish model and wages that you can live on.
i-a0433060ec350a69-135	Mr President, I would like to Jan Ericson has asked the Minister of Finance how she and the Government believe that the contributions to the municipalities can and should be used, what needs she believes the promised SEK 10 billion should cover and how she intends to ensure that positions in the state budget are given a clear statement of intent. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. In order to create long-term planning conditions for municipalities and county councils, the government announced in April that it intended to propose an additional SEK 10 billion per year to the municipal sector for 2017 and beyond. The supplement must be distributed with a uniform amount per inhabitant through the allocation for municipal economic equalisation, and with a distribution key taking into account the number of asylum seekers and new arrivals in each municipality and county council. Proposals for this have since been presented in the 2017 budget proposal. The budget proposal shows that for 2017, SEK 3 billion is proposed, which is allocated via the grant for municipal finance equalisation and SEK 7 billion via a new grant: Support due to the refugee situation. The purpose of the grant for municipal economic equalisation is to give municipalities and county councils good and equal economic conditions. Changes in the level of funding are distributed between municipalities and county councils with a uniform amount per inhabitant. The levelling-up does not therefore depend on the level of appropriations. According to the proposed purpose of the new grant Support for the refugee situation is stated that it may be used for state grants to municipalities and county councils. It also shows that the allocation will take into account the number of asylum seekers and new arrivals in each municipality and county council. It is reasonable to assume that a large part of the addition of SEK 10 billion will be used in the activities that the municipalities and county councils invest most resources in, such as education, social care and health care. However, I would like to point out that the funds, including the proposed contribution, paid out from both appropriations are not earmarked but general, which means that it is up to each municipality and county council to determine how they are used in the best way. The form of government states that the Swedish National Board is implemented through the municipal self-government, among other things. This means that municipalities and county councils, through political decisions and priorities, decide how to achieve the national goals set by the Riksdag, taking into account local and regional conditions. This means that the state in its governance of municipalities and county councils must give them room for manoeuvre for their own priorities. In other words, it is a question of having confidence in municipalities and county councils.
i-a0433060ec350a69-141	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for his answer, although I can see that he cannot really give a clear answer to my question. Basically, our parties are committed to the principle of municipal self-government and that each municipality as a starting point should be allowed to decide for itself how to dispose of increased state subsidies, although occasionally there may be reason to provide clearly targeted state subsidies, when the state wants to indicate extra clearly an increase in resources to a specific area. I share the view of the Government that municipalities should have great freedom to deal with the 10 billion they received under the Migration Agreement between the Alliance and the Government. But the problem I point to is quite another one. It is a question of various ministers and ministers in the public debate using these 10 billion, over and over again, as a solution to all the problems and all the shortages of resources. Municipal self-government is suddenly blown away, and every minister and minister believes that the 10 billion should be used for his or her particular area of responsibility. I have listened with interest to various TV spots ever since we made the decision on the 10 billion. I have heard ministers and ministers tell me that the money will be used to increase teacher density, smaller student groups in school, shorter care queues, more staff in care for the elderly, resource enhancement in healthcare, broadband expansion, rural development, construction and infrastructure, in addition to covering the additional costs of migration. As soon as a minister or a minister today receives criticism of the lack of resources in his area of responsibility, it is proud to declare that it has indeed contributed 10 billion to the municipalities, which is a great deal of money precisely for the specific area that this issue concerns. But the same 10 billion can actually only be used once. This is where my little introduction to the pig Sarimner comes into the discussion. According to legend, the pig Sarimner was a pig that you could slaughter and eat every night. The morning after it came back to life and could be slaughtered again the next night. I believe that I and the Government can agree that this legend is not a good model when it comes to the finances of the state and municipalities. The ministers and ministers of the government cannot, of course, mortgage the 10 billion as many times as they have already done. One cannot promise improvements and efforts in almost all areas without sending money, and only invoke the 10 billion. First of all, I would like to ask the Government whether he sees no problem with his fellow governments acting in this way. Mr President, I would like to When it comes to strengthening the finances of municipalities, there are not many options. One way, of course, is to constantly increase municipal tax to pay all major municipal commitments. It is a dangerous road, which also hits those with lower incomes hardest. Another way is that municipalities become more efficient and better at prioritising. We cannot constantly have new commitments without, at the same time, giving priority to other less important ones. These things are based on purely municipal decisions. However, if the state wants to contribute to improving the finances of municipalities in the long term, there are only two ways. It is, of course, a matter of providing additional state aid if necessary, and I welcome, as I said, the EUR 10 billion per year that we have agreed to manage migration costs. On the moderate side, however, we do not believe that this is enough. We therefore add 50% more to the municipalities in our budget over the next three years than the government does. The bulk of this money is general state subsidies. But we also provide special targeted grants to the school. We can do this at the same time as, unlike the government, we deliver a budget in balance. However, increased state subsidies can never solve the problems alone. The most important thing in the long term is that the state pursues a policy that enables municipalities to operate in an economy with strong growth across the country. Then it is not good enough with anti-business proposals which make it more difficult and expensive to hire, which make it more expensive with energy and transport and which raise taxes and increase bureaucracy. We must improve the conditions for entrepreneurs rather than impair them.
i-a0433060ec350a69-152	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Jan Ericson, for this interpellation! Thank you, too, for having a tone against the local government sector that is different from some members of parliament, who, in recent months and this year in this House, have questioned local government, mocked the local government sector and shown a rejection of the people who are working hard in the local government sector and who are making difficult decisions based on the challenges we have in today's Sweden. Jan Ericson gives the impression that this government is doing everything badly and that the Moderates are doing everything well. Had there been moderate government in this country, the municipalities would have received even more money and everything would have been fine, but now it is only deterioration. I wish the reality were so simple that you could give simple answers and say: by doing so we will solve the problems of the local government sector. But the challenges facing Swedish welfare, and thus the Swedish local government sector, are so complex that enormous efforts are needed in all policy areas. In order for municipalities to have good and equal conditions, so that they can cope with good welfare throughout our country, we need to show a greater degree of trust in the local government sector. Then we cannot continue with targeted state subsidies and with detailed management of the local government sector we can reduce municipal room for manoeuvre. That is why the government has announced that we are now investing much more in the general system. That is why the 10 billion was put into the general system. That is also why moderate councillors from different parts of our country raised their voices against the moderate party leadership when the Moderates decided not to start from the general system but to continue to regulate the municipal sector in detail with targeted state subsidies. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish municipal sector has serious challenges. This government has decided to take the measures we can to improve the efficiency of the local government sector and to bring about the difficult but necessary structural changes needed to ensure the equivalence of the welfare of our country. What, then, is the moderate answer? When we deal with the regional issue, which is about health care, the answer is: Push this question! It's not time to grab it. When we get to grips with the cost adjustment, we don't see any commitment from the moderate direction. And I understand that moderate councillors around the country are frustrated by this lack of commitment of the Moderates in the Riksdag regarding the conditions for Swedish municipalities and county councils. It is a completely different discussion and quite different tone when you meet the moderate local government politicians with the challenges they face. There are not the partisan perspectives on Swedish welfare policy – these are practical challenges that municipalities face. Finally, this government respects local self-government, so when it comes to how these funds should be used, we respect how people have voted locally and regionally in municipal and county elections. Based on regional and local needs, this money is distributed, and it is elected municipal and county council politicians who decide on how to use these funds, based on the local and regional will of the people.
i-a0433060ec350a69-161	Mr President, I would like to It was a thorough review of the importance of municipal self-government, which I said in my introduction that I support. So do the Moderates. But that was not an answer to my question: if it is the municipal representatives who will decide how to use this money, why is the government minister sitting on television promising this money to all kinds of other things that the state is responsible for instead of letting the money be used by the municipalities as it was originally intended? This is where the Minister makes a cobbler. I have never claimed that the Moderates would do everything right and that the government would do everything wrong. We have clearly not done everything right during our reign, but we certainly cannot say that the government is doing everything right today either. We can certainly agree that enormous efforts are needed in the current situation in Sweden. It has been a rather large vacuum from the government, but unfortunately also from representatives of my own party. With regard to targeted general state subsidies, it is only to be noted that the outrage alleged to be with moderate representatives in the municipalities is probably a slight misconception on the part of the Government, because it was because there was a picture in the budget that we should give only targeted state subsidies. But the truth is that we give as much general state subsidies as the government does, and also targeted state subsidies to the school in particular. It is therefore a small myth that the Government is engaged in here. When I talk to moderate municipal politicians, they are most upset about the large debt that the Migration Agency has to the municipalities. It was 20 billion when I put this question to Morgan Johansson, and then he claimed that it was only 16 billion at the moment. But there is still a lot of money – money that the Migration Agency owes the Swedish municipalities for migration measures but that it does not pay to the municipalities. It is therefore more money than the extra 10 billion that the municipalities will receive in the coming year. This is very serious. I called for a solution to this and recommended some form of a conto solution, i.e. paying out the money first, reviewing the documents afterwards and, if necessary, demanding back the money. This debt creates a huge hole in the municipal budgets, and it is very worrying. This is what the municipal representatives are most upset about today, not that the Moderates want to give more money than the government. Back to the basic question. It is possible to discuss state subsidies across borders, but we can never resolve the financial situation of municipalities simply by increasing state subsidies. The money has to come from somewhere, too. As I concluded my last speech: when the government pursues an anti-business policy such as it does today, it knocks away the bones of the local government sector. We know that it is companies and their employees who, with their tax money, create all the resources for our well-being, for our pensions and for the financing of the entire public sector. If you keep hitting the private business sector with your political proposals, there will be less money for the local government sector. In its eagerness to increase taxation and cater to the left-wing falang in its parties with purely anti-business proposals, the government seems to miss out on the fact that this directly leads to the municipalities getting worse finances. SKL is today very concerned that negative developments are being seen for the local government sector in the future. The Government and the Government will never be able to resolve this with state subsidies. There is no way to spend so much money in government subsidies. Does the Government know and realise that it is the private companies and their employees who, with their tax money, create the resources for the entire Swedish welfare sector and the entire Swedish pension system?
i-a0433060ec350a69-173	Mr President, I would like to Let me once again express my satisfaction that Jan Ericson has a commitment to the conditions of the local government sector. He also seems to have a dialogue with representatives of the municipal sector and the Swedish Municipalities and County Council. I am pleased because we need more dialogue between Parliament and the local government sector so that the decisions taken in this House also take into account the needs and challenges of the local government sector. The relationship between public welfare – and the commitment of the public sector – and the growth and development of private business is two-sided. We need companies that grow, that export goods and services, that employ new employees and that enable the financing of welfare. Companies need a well-functioning and efficient public sector where we use our tax funds as efficiently as possible to ensure good and equal welfare throughout our country. Companies require that we have well-functioning communications and a security system that provides security for entrepreneurs and their employees in the event of illness and unemployment. The companies demand that we have schools that ensure a good supply of competence in Swedish business and that we have a higher education that is jointly funded and that we can manage in a very tough international competition. It is an interaction between the private and the public. It is even more important that the public sector works with efficiency improvements and continuous structural changes. Here the government has engaged in several processes in which the previous government unfortunately did not engage. We have started work on the reform of trust. Here it is a matter of ensuring that the relationship between the state and municipalities and county councils is characterized to a greater extent by trust. It is about reducing the detailed management of municipalities and county councils. It is about getting an overall picture of the effects of the government governance of the local government sector. It is about eliminating unjustified time thieves who steal time from the municipal sector's employees. It is about removing an administrative burden that has become too heavy in our schools, which are managed by the municipalities. These processes are underway. Statskontoret has developed important data that can be used to change the government's and the state's governance of the municipalities. It is an initiative welcomed by the local government sector. At the same time, we have announced that we are reviewing targeted state subsidies. We have targeted state subsidies in our country that hardly promotes efficiency in the municipal sector but binds the municipalities and imposes an administrative burden. Sometimes even reporting at personal identity number level is required. We cannot have that, so now we are looking at what targeted state subsidies can be simplified. Above all, we have decided that, as we increase resources in the local government sector with new additions, this is mainly within the framework of the general system. A few weeks ago, the government also set up an investigation to look at the cost compensation. It is about getting an effective and modern model for cost equalisation between municipalities and county councils, so that we can ensure equivalence in our country. Something that concerns us and that should worry all politicians in Sweden is the growing regional divide and that our society is split apart. The Government and the Riksdag must therefore do everything we can to give all municipalities, wherever they are in the country, the best possible conditions.
i-a0433060ec350a69-186	Mr President, I would like to It is good that the Government mentions a number of measures to reduce red tape in municipalities. We had many such projects during the time of the Alliance as well. The problem is that even if a government removes some laws and regulations, it adds about twice as many new ones. The net is always negative for some strange reason, and it seems to be something that is in the nature of politics. I think we need to be a little humble about this, because there are so many requests from a government to constantly add new rules and regulations. It is good that the Government recognises the importance of entrepreneurship for welfare. I share this view. Of course, it is an exchange, but we will never escape the fact that all the welfare we want to offer is financed by private sector taxes. Then it is strange that the government is pursuing such an extremely negative policy in terms of entrepreneurship, and business confidence in the government is at a bottom level. Historically, moderate-governed alliance governments have been the best for the local government sector. During the years that the Alliance ruled Sweden, we had a balance between costs and tax revenues. The years before the Alliance, 2002-2006, costs in the local government sector were much higher than the tax base. The results were also much worse. During the S-government between 2000 and 2004, there was a strong deficit in the local government sector. In 2007 – 2015, when the Alliance ruled with its budgets, the municipalities had stable results. Even during the crisis years, we had better stability in the local government sector in Sweden than we had during the boom in the early 2000s when the Social Democrats ruled. The history thus suggests that the Alliance is better at managing the local government's financial situation. I hope that the Government will take this on board and, above all, that the pig Sarimner does not run Swedish politics.
i-a0433060ec350a69-192	Mr President, I would like to I thank Jan Ericson for the debate. I can guarantee Jan Ericson that the good initiatives, projects and processes started in the bourgeois years continue. However, there were many shortcomings that we had to tackle. One such great shortcoming was that we did not have an overall picture of the effects of government and parliament's governance of the local government sector. Another shortcoming was that the administrative burden on municipalities has grown enormously in recent decades. Above all, it is evident in our schools. Those who pay the price for this growing administrative burden are our teachers and other professional groups in the public sector. Their room for manoeuvre has been reduced. We do not let the professionals be pros in today's Sweden. That is why it is so important for the government to address these issues. Unlike Jan Ericson, I cannot guarantee that everything we do will solve all the problems. It is very complex, and we will need to have a clearer self-critical input into the issues of governance of the local government sector. The previous government did not do everything wrong, and we are probably not doing everything right. However, it is important that we recognise that it is municipal self-government and the need for local and regional solutions and adjustments to different conditions that enable Sweden to have a good and equal welfare in the future. I thank you for the debate and look forward to further discussion on the conditions for municipalities.
i-a0433060ec350a69-198	Mr President, I would like to Michael Svensson has asked me how I define surplus profits and on what facts I have based my position that they amounted to SEK 15 billion. It is true that I wrote in Svenska Dagbladet that over-profits in welfare during the period 2005 – 2013 amounted to almost SEK 15 billion. It is clear in the article that I refer to a background report to the Welfare Investigation. Over-profit is defined in the report as the part of the operating profit that exceeds the market capital cost for the welfare industry. In the base report, the market capital cost for the welfare industry is estimated at approximately 10 per cent. Against this background, the total over- and under-profits for 2005 to 2013 are calculated. The total surplus is SEK 20.3 billion. The total under-profit for the same period is SEK 5.4 billion. The sum of over- and under-profits for companies in the welfare sector is therefore SEK 14.9 billion. Michael Svensson raises an important issue when he puts the excess profits in relation to profitability measures, such as profit margin and operating margin. I agree with Michael Svensson's description that, on average, the profit margins or operating margins in welfare do not amount to 50%. Neither have I or anyone else claimed that. According to SCB, the average operating margin in the welfare sector was approximately 5 per cent in 2013. However, as capital needs are low in the welfare sector, the average return on capital is very good, as the estimates of surplus profits show.
i-a0433060ec350a69-202	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for allowing me to enter the debate! It sounds like winnings, or excess profits used here, are something bad. I had a discussion last night with my 11 - year - old son because he wondered what I would do at work today. We talked about profits and how important it is in a company to have a good economy so that you do not endanger work and finances for yourself and your employees. It is also good to be able to save for something you plan to do or buy. He said: Just like I do in my account, that's good, right, Mom? Yes, Mr President, it is just like in his account, and that is quite good. A good company in the welfare sector, or in any industry, needs to have a long-term economic perspective. The profit is not the goal, but the profit is the receipt of a good business. In companies, profit is a security for development and stability. Those who want to ban profits also say no to companies being allowed to grow and inhibit development power. I mean, it's going to be crazy with a profit cap. If you as an entrepreneur deliver high quality and still have money left, there must be thousands of other entrepreneurs who want to learn from you and your company. I think you might have to learn from this company. If you measure quality instead and achieve goals or more and still have a penny over, there must be a lot of other companies and municipal activities that can be more efficient. Mr President, I would like to Sixty per cent of health and social care enterprises are run by small businesses, most of which are women – women who in this case see it as their life's task to strengthen welfare. It happens through long working days where the reward is the smile from the person you meet rather than the money in the account. However, a penny in the account could generate that you might be able to hire another person. In addition, equity is often very low in many small businesses. The proposal does not include any possibility of obtaining a reasonable financial compensation for the significant risk-taking of start-ups. The focus should be on quality in health care, education and long-term care, not on the last line of a financial statement. The proposal will reduce, if not even stifle, the supply and choice of health care providers in the country, to the benefit of both quality and those in need of care. Mr President, I would like to I find it extremely strange that this proposal comes from a government that has declared it feminist. How, I wonder? Why is it okay to build a hospital and make a profit? Why is it okay to sell the planks to the hospital and make a profit? Why is it okay to sell books, copiers, diapers and anything to schools and hospitals and make a profit? You can sell most of it to companies in health care and in welfare and make a profit, but those who work with our children, the elderly and the sick on a daily basis want to suffocate. Why do the Social Democrats want to punish precisely the industry where female entrepreneurship is large?
i-a0433060ec350a69-210	Mr President, I would like to I thank Alexandra Anstrell for the opportunity to discuss this issue. I admit it. I admit that I and the government see problems with profits in welfare and in our schools. I admit that it is very problematic for us that we are in a position where our tax money, which is to be used for Swedish school and Swedish school children, ends up in tax havens far beyond our borders. I admit that it is very problematic from our perspective that our tax money, which will go to Swedish schools, is used by commercial companies to expand preschool and school in Norway. Yes, Mr President, it is problematic. We are the only country in Europe and the West that has allowed commercial, profit-making companies into the publicly funded school. We are the only country in the West and Europe to allow companies to transfer funds from the publicly funded school to dividends. Mr President, I would like to I have to say that this is an issue that should bring together the entire Swedish Parliament. The question is how to use our tax money. It is not mine or Alexandra Anstrell's money we are talking about, but we are talking about Swedish taxpayers' money, which they have had to pay for us to be able to finance the Swedish school, elderly care and health care. But at present this money is disappearing. They leak out of welfare and school and end up somewhere else. We do not have the right to levy taxes and then allow leakage from tax-funded welfare. That is why I describe this leakage as a theft from the Swedish people, just as it is a theft from the Swedish people when public activities are not carried out effectively. We have an obligation to ensure that each chandelier is used for what it is intended for. We cannot ensure this with the current regulatory framework. It is now possible for companies that take part of public funds to carry out public welfare activities to reduce staffing, reduce quality and have lower wages for those who do the job, to maximize profits. That should not be allowed, and we should set a limit to this. It should not be a controversial issue. Mr President, I would like to I would like to remind Alexandra Anstrell that the Moderates' sister party in Norway is against profit in school. The Moderates' sister party in Denmark is against profit in school. That is the case in Finland, the United Kingdom and Germany. No other country has allowed the experiment of profit hunting in school. We have done so, and we can say that Swedish schools do not feel better today.
i-a0433060ec350a69-217	Mr President, I would like to We have a lot of challenges, not least in Swedish schools. But I think it's wrong to attack what works. If I can get high quality care and avoid standing in line at the same price as I can get worse care and stand in line for, then of course I choose the fast, good way to get care. So we are talking about quality, because it is quality that makes a difference. The price tag is set, for example in the municipal school and in the private school of the same municipality, according to the cost of municipal activities. Wouldn't it be better to focus on quality instead of painting a large number of entrepreneurs in Sweden as greedy and saying that they are putting money away in the Caribbean? Mr President, I would like to The quality of Swedish welfare needs to be increased. Private companies contribute to this. The latest examples of this can be found, for example, in school and care for the elderly. A recent study of the externally corrected PISA tests shows that free schools perform on average 14 points better – about three months of studies – than municipal schools. As far as care for the elderly is concerned, the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare's recent unitary survey shows that private-run retirement homes show better quality results in terms of 18 out of 22 indicators. Why should we attack what works? The lowest level of quality must be up throughout the country. We can achieve this together with entrepreneurs and other actors working in health care, care and school by seeing and learning from each other and letting quality be the key. The future also highlights major challenges with, for example, an increased proportion of older people in the population in need of care and care. In order to cope with welfare growth, both quality improvements and improved resource utilisation are needed. Then we can make a difference. Then I wonder again: why do the Social Democrats want to make this a money issue, in which they paint entrepreneurs who are working as greedy rather than talking about what it is about, namely quality? Introduce clear quality requirements and inspections and ensure that failure to achieve the objectives set will have consequences. We need better quality in welfare. We don't have to suffocate entrepreneurs.
i-a0433060ec350a69-223	Mr President, I would like to No one is attacking welfare entrepreneurs who are working hard. They are not even affected by the proposal under discussion which we will be discussing. The proposal is that if you go into welfare and invest capital to improve welfare, you should also be entitled to a reasonable return. This is not a controversial proposal. That is how it is in the rest of Europe. But what we say no to is the fact that we have US venture capital companies that go to Swedish school to take Swedish tax money, which is to be used for Swedish teachers, as a dividend to the owners. That's what we say no to. We want a long-term responsible and serious entrepreneur in Swedish welfare, who uses the tax money for what they are intended for. If entrepreneurs have entered a capital, they shall also have a reasonable return on that capital. But we need to get rid of those players who are looking for fast money and who are entering these businesses in order to maximise profits. Swedish school is not just any market. It's not a market. Swedish school should focus on quality and the needs that students have. Swedish school will focus on how we raise knowledge results in Sweden, so that we can manage in the competition that we have in our world. Swedish elderly care should focus on improving quality by increasing staffing and reducing the burden on women who work in elderly care. Then it should not be allowed to reduce staffing and lower wage costs in order to maximise profits. But it's allowed today. We see that there are actually a lot of companies out there that maximize their profits by having as bad conditions as possible for their employees. That shouldn't be allowed. Serious companies that do well and deliver quality in welfare are welcome and should be welcome, and we shall have a strategic partnership with these companies. But those who today are allowed to reduce the quality and impair the employees in order to maximise profits should not be in Swedish welfare. Mr President, I would like to We cannot just talk about quality in general without ensuring that the rules ensure high quality and fair conditions for those who are toiling in welfare. Not only can we generally talk about quality in school without taking hold of the prize hunt in the Swedish school that led to us having upper secondary schools that went bankrupt and students who were outside the door and wanted to come in but were met with notes about bankruptcy. At the same time, these schools had large dividends to the owners taken from our tax money to be used for school. This is not happening in any other European country, but it is happening in Sweden. Should we allow this to continue in our great country? Or should we stand up for the principle that should not be controversial, namely that Swedish tax money should be used for Swedish welfare and stay there and not leave our country and end up in tax havens? Should this not be a principle that even the Moderates support?
i-a0433060ec350a69-232	Mr President, I would like to We fully agree that Swedish schools should devote themselves to knowledge, and it feels good. But when 93% of the free school players actually have only one or two schools and only eight actors have more than ten schools, I think that Minister Shekarabi gives an incredibly false picture when he stands in this House talking about how all the money from welfare flows out to the Caribbean and elsewhere. I think it's boring. I also think that we should ensure the rules, but the rules do not have to mean the financial rules. It is absolutely more important to talk about the qualitative rules. What goals should we have in Swedish school, for elderly care and so on, and how do we get there? And what happens if we don't get there? Then we are talking about something that can actually lead to enormous improvements in quality. Then we need to learn from each other, and then we need to learn from independent actors and from skilled municipal actors. This is the only way we can get better, not by suffocating entrepreneurs with strange economic experiments.
i-a0433060ec350a69-234	Mr President, I would like to I thank Alexandra Anstrell for this debate. Mr President, I would like to I think we need to ask a very fundamental question, namely: why do eight out of ten Swedes think that we should limit the benefits of welfare? I could be more specific: how is it that 78 per cent of bourgeois voters want to stop or limit profits in welfare? The answer is simple: They see reality. They face reality when they meet stressed teachers who are getting increasingly difficult in their work situation because it is being pulled down on the staff. They see reality and are concerned about the quality of care for the elderly and the fact that quite so many, both public and private, have too little staffing in the care of the elderly. Too many of those who work in the care of the elderly have poor conditions with shared tours and dream of a full-time job. And they have low wages. This situation is not improved by commercialisation and the pursuit of profits, but vice versa. Those who pay the price for profit-hunting and commercialisation in welfare are the women, the nurses, the teachers and all other occupational groups who are toiling in welfare. The money is not being spent sufficiently on them, but disappears as profits. I am convinced that what the Moderates are now doing is still good. They begin, at least in debate articles, to problematize welfare gains. That's a good step. But this must lead to the Moderates also taking a stand for regulatory changes that put Swedish welfare and the needs of Swedish users first.
